<doc id="13888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13888" title="Liver">
Liver

The liver is an organ in the abdomen. It is part of the gastrointestinal system. Sometimes people use "hepar- or hepat-" as a prefix when they talk about the liver.
The liver does many important things in the body:
There are many different liver diseases. Liver disease can make someone very sick because of all the important work the liver does. People who have bad liver disease usually die unless they can get a liver transplant. This is when the liver from someone who has just died is put in another person by surgery. Such surgeries are usually technically challenging but can be life-saving.
The symptoms of liver disease happen because the liver does not do the work it should. 
The liver cannot metabolize toxins and waste so these bad things stay in the blood longer. One thing that builds up is a substance called bilirubin. When red blood cells die, the hemoglobin in them leaks into the blood. The hemoglobin becomes bilirubin (a yellow substance that makes bile yellow.) The liver takes the bilirubin out of the blood and puts it into the bile. The bile goes into the intestines and then goes out with the waste from your body. If the liver is hurt, it does not remove the bilirubin, so the bilirubin stays in the body. This makes the person's body look yellow and is known as jaundice. So yellow eyes and yellow skin are symptoms of liver disease.
Other symptoms of liver disease are:
Hepatitis is when liver cells get "inflamed" (sick.) This can be from virus infections. This can be from toxins or poisons. (The most common toxin to cause hepatitis is "alcohol".) This can be from genetic disease. This can be from autoimmune diseases when the body's immune system hurts itself.
Cirrhosis is caused by death of liver cells that happens again and again. When the cells die, scar tissue forms. This scar tissue damages the structure of the liver. This makes the liver not work as well. But it also makes the pressure in the veins that go to the liver very high. This high pressure makes "esophageal varices". The most common reason for cirrhosis in the world is hepatitis B virus infection.
Some diseases cause bad things to build up in the liver. Hemochromatosis causes extra iron to build up in the liver. Wilson's disease causes extra copper to build up in the liver. Both of these diseases hurt the cells and can cause very bad liver disease that kills people.
You can also get cancer of your liver. This can be metastatic cancer that came from some other place in your body. The liver is a common place to get metastases because it takes bad things out of the blood. So it takes cancer cells out of the blood and they grow in the liver. Cancer can also grow from the liver. If it grows from the liver it is called "hepatocellular carcinoma" (liver cell cancer) if it is from liver cells. Most hepatocellular carcinoma is from cirrhosis. If it is from the cells that line the bile ducts in the liver, it is called "cholangiocarcinoma".
Some liver diseases can be treated easily with medicine. Hemochromatosis is treated by taking blood from people every 2 months.
Some liver viruses can be stopped before they start. Two types of viral hepatitis can be stopped with an immunization. Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B can be prevented with a total of five shots in a person's life. 
Some liver diseases can only be treated with liver transplant.

</doc>
<doc id="13889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13889" title="Clot">
Clot

A clot is a semi-solid substance that blood forms, especially when it is in air. When a person bleeds, the blood turns into a clot at the injury.
A blood clot is also called a "thrombus". The process is called "coagulation".
If a person gets a cut on their body, that person may bleed. To stop the bleeding, the human body does several things. First, the brain orders the liver to produce chemicals that will help the clot to form. When the chemicals released by the liver arrive at the injury, the coagulation begins. In the mean time, the brain also lessens the blood flow near the injury (by tightening the veins and arteries in that area), so that not as much blood is lost. 
There is a limit to how quickly a clot can form. If the cut is very deep and the person bleeds too much, a clot may not be able to form and a lot of blood may be lost.
Coagulation begins almost instantly after an injury to the blood vessel has damaged the endothelium lining the vessel. When blood is exposed to proteins such as tissue factor it starts changes to blood platelets and the plasma protein fibrinogen, which is a clotting factor. Platelets immediately form a plug at the site of injury. Proteins in the blood plasma, called "coagulation factors" or "clotting factors", respond in a complex cascade to form fibrin strands. These strengthen the platelet plug.
Coagulation is highly conserved throughout biology; that means its genetics is almost the same in all mammal species. In all mammals, coagulation involves both a cellular (platelet) and a protein (coagulation factor) component. The system in humans has been the most extensively researched and is the best understood.
Fibrin is a white insoluble fibrous protein formed by the action of thrombin on fibrinogen when blood clots. it forms a network that traps red cells and platelets.

</doc>
<doc id="13890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13890" title="Neck (disambiguation)">
Neck (disambiguation)

Neck can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="13907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13907" title="Coachella Valley">
Coachella Valley

The Coachella Valley is a desert valley in the Colorado Desert of Southern California. It is famous as a resort destination and an agricultural region.
The cities of the Coachella Valley from west to east are:
Many people visit the area during tourist season, which is from September to June. It has a hot desert climate (BWh in the Koeppen climate classification) Winter in the Coachella Valley is warm. Summer is very hot, with temperatures over 100 degrees Fahrenheit/40 degrees Centigrade. Although the area is a desert, there is lots of water both under the ground and in aqueducts from the Colorado River. The weather is so similar to that in the Middle East that the area grows more than 95% of the nation's crop of dates. A grapefruit called the "Coachella Grapefruit" was first grown there.
One of the world's greatest engineering feats is in Palm Springs. The Palm Springs Aerial Tramway brings visitors from the floor of the valley to the top of Mount San Jacinto, 8516 feet (3000 metres) up.

</doc>
<doc id="13908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13908" title="Derivative works">
Derivative works

Derivative work is a phrase used in copyright law. It is a piece of work ( for example: a novel, a song or a painting) that is based on what someone else created.
Copyright law says that if someone writes a book, draws a picture, or writes a song, then it belongs to them. Other people are not allowed to copy it unless the person who created it says that they can. This is important because it means the person who created the work can sell what they created and get money. 
A derivative work is one that is based on something else. If a person watches a movie, and then writes a story about the people in the movie, that story is a derivative work. If after hearing a song, someone sings the same tune with different words, the song they sung is a derivative work. 
In the law, if someone else has a copyright on something, no one is allowed to create a derivative work unless they say it is allowed. So if someone watches a movie, they are not allowed to write a story about the people in the movie unless the people who made the movie give them permission. 
This only applies to the things that are known about by the person creating the work. If a movie is made, but they do not go and see the movie, and then they write a book that has the same story as the movie, that is not a derivative work.

</doc>
<doc id="13909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13909" title="Rugby football">
Rugby football

Rugby football is a sport that people play around the world. Many people play rugby in the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Italy, France, South Africa, Argentina, Japan, USA, Canada the Pacific Islands and some 100+ other countries. It is the World's premier oval ball football and is usually just called "rugby".
Rugby football is named after Rugby School, the school in England where it was developed. Legend has it that one day in 1823, a senior boy called William Webb Ellis elected to run with the ball rather than retiring to kick it as was the normal mode of play in Rugby School football matches. "Running in" was not considered quite the done thing then but was later formalised in the laws of Rugby Football (first published in 1846). Association Football was not formalised until 1863 and even then allowed handling of the ball, but not catching it and running with it. In the mid 1860's an attempt was made to provide one set of laws for all football but there were irreconcilable differences, mainly concerning "hacking" (dispossessing an opponent of the ball by kicking him in the shins). The "hackers" went on to eventually play rugby football even though hacking was barred a few years later. The "anti-hackers" went on to form Association Football, eventually banning any handling. 
There are two types of rugby, called rugby union and rugby league. There are many similarities between the two types of rugby, but they have developed different sets of rules over time. The split between the two types occurred because of a disagreement about the way players were treated when they were injured during a game. 
Rugby union is the most popular form of rugby, and it is the national sport in New Zealand, Wales, Fiji, Samoa, Tonga and Madagascar. Rugby league is played by many people in the UK (especially in northern England), Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea. In most other places, the word "rugby" refers to rugby union. 
Rugby football is played on a field by two teams of 15 people. The objective of the game is to obtain more points than the opposing team within 80 minutes of playing time. Points are gained through scoring tries or kicking goals. 
At each end of the playing field there is a field goal made out of poles, shaped like the letter H in English. There is also an area called the in-goal. A goal is scored when a player kicks the ball through the top of the H of the other team's goal. 
Play starts when a player from one team kicks the ball from the halfway line towards the opposing team's field goal. Play continues until a try is scored, the ball crosses the side line or dead ball line, or an infringement occurs. The ball can be moved up the field either by carrying or kicking it. The ball can be passed between team members, but it cannot be passed to team members who are closer to the opposing team's goal than the person who is currently carrying the ball. 
Players score a "try" if they manage to touch the ball to the ground on or beyond the other team's in-goal. After a try, the team that scored the try then has an opportunity to kick a goal. This is known as a "conversion kick". A goal that is scored from a conversion kick is worth two points in addition to the points of a try. A try is worth five points in rugby union, and four points in rugby league. After a team scores points, play restarts with the non-scoring team kicking the ball from the halfway line toward the opposing team's field goal. 
Players tackle members of the other team to prevent the opposing team from scoring. Tackling in rugby means grabbing the other person and either stopping them from moving or making them fall on the ground. The main rule for tackling in rugby is that there should be no contact with the neck. Only players carrying the ball can be tackled. Once a tackle is completed, the opposition can compete for the ball.
The Rugby World Cup is a championship of rugby union teams from countries all over the world. The Rugby World Cup is held every four years, and will next be held in 2019, in Japan.
There is also the Rugby League World Cup, which is made up of member nations of the Rugby League International Federation (RLIF). The tournament has an irregular schedule. The next tournament will be in 2017, and will be hosted by Australia, New Zealand, and Papua New Guinea.

</doc>
<doc id="13913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13913" title="Kidney">
Kidney

Kidneys are two organs in the abdomen of vertebrates that are shaped like beans. They make urine (the yellow waste water that comes out of the urethra.) They are part of the urinary system. When medical professionals discuss the kidneys, they typically refer to the word "renal". For example, "renal failure" is when the kidneys are sick and do not work. 
The prefix "nephro-" is also used in words to mean "kidneys". For example, a "nephrologist" is a doctor who studies kidneys.
The kidney makes hormones. The two most important ones that it makes are erythropoetin and renin.
Erythropoetin is made by the kidneys if there is less oxygen in the kidney. Erythropoetin tells the bone marrow to make more red blood cells. So this means there will be more oxygen carried in the blood.
Renin is made by the kidney if there is low blood pressure, low volume of blood, or too low salts in the blood. Renin makes the blood vessels smaller and tells the adrenal gland to make aldosterone (which tells the kidneys to save salts). It also makes a person feel thirsty. All of this makes the blood pressure go up.
The kidney's most important work is keeping homeostasis. Homeostasis means that the body keeps a stable environment inside itself. The body needs to have the consistent and proper amount of water, salt, and acid in the blood. The kidney keeps these things constant.
If there is too much water, the kidney puts more water in the urine. If there is not enough water, the kidney uses less water in the urine.This is why people make less urine when they are dehydrated.
There are many types of kidney diseases. A kidney disease makes the kidneys unable to work perfectly but they do work in part. People can have mild kidney failure and have no symptoms. As long as it does not become worse, people may not even know they have it. "Severe" kidney failure means "very" bad failure. The kidneys do not work very much at all. People with severe kidney failure "always" have symptoms. They may need special care from doctors. 
The main kinds of kidney diseases are:
If a person's kidneys do not work properly, they are very sick. If they have severe kidney failure, they cannot live unless they have a replacement for their kidneys.
There are two ways to replace the kidneys: dialysis and transplantation.
Dialysis is when doctors use a machine and medicines to do the work of the kidneys. There are two kinds of dialysis: hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis.
Peritoneal dialysis is when doctors put a plastic tube into the person's abdomen. Every day the person fills the abdomen with fluid. The extra salts, waste, and water that the body does not need goes into the fluid. Then the fluid comes out and takes the wastes with it. This does part of the job that kidneys do.
Hemodialysis is when doctors take blood from a person, clean the blood with a special kind of filter, called a" haemodialyser," and put it back in the person. When the blood is cleaned; water, salts and wastes are taken out of it. This must be done 2–4 times every week (usually 3 times.) It takes 2–4 hours to do this each time.
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not perfect. They do some of the work of the kidney, but it is not as good as a real kidney. So people who need dialysis are not as healthy. They must take medicines. For example, in kidney failure, the kidneys do not make any erythropoetin. Doctors have to give people erythropoetin so they make enough red blood cells.
A better way to do the kidneys' work is to give the person another kidney. This is called a kidney transplant. Kidney transplants are the most common type of organ transplant. It is the most common because we have two kidneys, but only need one kidney to live. People who are alive can donate a kidney to another person.
Even transplanted kidneys are not the same as kidneys people were born with. A person who gets a renal transplant must take strong medicines to stop their body from attacking the new kidney. Sometimes, after years, the transplanted kidney stops working. But sometimes a patient can get a new transplanted kidney after the first one stops working.
It was widely believed in Europe that the conscience was actually located in the kidneys. This idea was taken from the Hebrew Bible. In modern times, medical scientists have shown kidneys do not have this kind of psychological role. 

</doc>
<doc id="13915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13915" title="Prefix">
Prefix

A prefix is a part of a word or a word, within a word. It is put at the start of another word to make a different meaning. It can also mean a number that is put in at the start to show which number something is in a group. It is a type of affix.
Strictly speaking these constructions do not use prefixes, but make compound nouns (in other cases also compound adjectives).
The following examples illustrate real prefixes.
Often people want to use a prefix to mean "not". There are many prefixes that mean "not".
Other examples of prefixes:
Scientists and doctors use prefixes in many words.
Sometimes people make up words by adding a prefix. These words are not in a dictionary. But if people use these words enough, sometimes they go into dictionaries.
For example, we can make the word "unsimple", which splits up into "not simple". This is not a word in a dictionary.
Compare to suffix. Suffixes are letters put at the end of a word to change its meaning.

</doc>
<doc id="13920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13920" title="UNESCO">
UNESCO

UNESCO is the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (. It is an agency of the United Nations (UN). 
UNESCO says its purpose, as defined just after the end of World War II, is "to build the defenses of peace in the minds of men and women". It does this by helping nations work together, through education for all, science, and culture. This is supposed to help other nations follow the rule of law and human rights. It also helps promote some freedoms which are in the UN Charter.
UNESCO has 195 Member countries. It recently added Palestine in November 2011. Along with Palestine, eight other states became members.
UNESCO tries to achieve what it wants to do through six programs: education, natural sciences, social and human sciences, culture, and communication and information. Some projects sponsored by UNESCO are literacy, technical, and teacher-training programmes. UNESCO also decides what will become World Heritage Sites. A World Heritage Site is an important, special interesting or beautiful place. If a place is a World Heritage Site, the place can not be destroyed, as it can give useful information for the future. The Uluru, for example, gives a lot of information on the culture of Aborigines. UNESCO is also a member of the United Nations Development Group. and works for Millennium Development Goals.

</doc>
<doc id="13925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13925" title="Human rights">
Human rights

In law, human rights is the idea that all people should have rights:
Today, the principles are protected as legal rights in national and international law.
They are seen as "universal," which means they are meant for everyone, no matter what their race, religion, ethnicity, nationality, age, sex (also women's rights), political beliefs (or any other kind of beliefs), intelligence, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity are.
Every person has all of these rights, it is not possible to only grant some of them:
The idea of human rights originated from ideas found in religion and philosophy in Western Europe. The modern Western idea of human rights started in the European Enlightenment. In the 16th century, some people started suggesting that everyone had the religious and political right to choose their religion and their leaders. This sort of thinking was important in the English Civil War. After the war, the philosopher John Locke argued that people should have these rights; he was one of the first people to call them "human rights." These ideas were also important in the American revolution and the French revolution in the 18th century.
In the 19th century, John Stuart Mill was an important philosopher who also thought about human rights. He said that people should be able to control their own bodies and minds. He talked about three special ideas:
Hegel was a philosopher who talked about the idea of free will. He also talked about what makes a person free: that a person has to have certain relations with other people to have true freedom. A person has to be able to:
Because people believe that human rights are important, countries make laws to protect them. These laws say that governments cannot take away people's basic rights. They make sure people who take away other people's rights are punished.
Some major political organizations have made statements that promote human rights. These are not laws, but they affect us anyway. If groups or countries do not follow these statements, others will condemn them (say that they are "very" bad); and then people may not talk with them, do business with them, or help them.
Some of the important places that human rights laws are written is in constitutions. The United States Constitution and Constitution of France are two of the oldest set of laws based on human rights.
In 1948 the United Nations made the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is a widely respected document that says what the United Nations believes are human rights. It is not a law, but is the basis on which two important agreements are written:
These are United Nations human rights "Covenants": agreements between people or countries. The countries who sign these two covenants agree to follow them.
In addition to those Declaration and Covenants, there are many treaties and documents made by United Nations and other international organizations. Those treaties and documents are called "International human rights law".
Not everyone agrees on what the basic human rights are. It is very clear that few countries permit all these rights. Also, there are countries in which the rights are not illegal, but nothing is done to promote them. Here is a list of some of the most recognized rights:
Abuse means to intentionally harm a person or people physically, mentally, emotionally, or verbally once or many times. Human rights abuse follows along similarly, also keeping in count the universal rights. Human rights abuse happens when a person is hurt in a way that violates (goes against) his/her human rights. Human rights abuses are also often called "human rights violations".
Many people, groups, and countries think protecting human rights is very important. But not everyone in the world believes in human rights. If people who do not believe in human rights have political power they can hurt many people. Even if these people have no political power, they can be violent to other people. There are many people who work to protect everyone's human rights; some of these are government groups, and some are not with any government. They are sometimes called "human rights organizations". Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are examples of human rights organizations.

</doc>
<doc id="13926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13926" title="Nationality">
Nationality

The nationality of a person is that person's legal relationship with a state, for example a Swedish person's legal relationship with the kingdom of Sweden. Nationality is not identical to citizenship but in the majority of states most of the population are also citizens. Dual nationality means that the person has a legal relationship with two different states at the same time, for example the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. The rights and duties of individual people and the states they belong to vary from country to country.

</doc>
<doc id="13933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13933" title="Race">
Race

Race has many meanings in English. It can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="13938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13938" title="Medical ethics">
Medical ethics

Medical ethics is the set of ethical rules that doctors follow. These ideas tell doctors how they should treat patients.
The earliest set of ethical ideas in medicine was the "Hippocratic oath". (An oath is a special promise.) It was supposed to be written by Hippocrates but probably was not written by him.
There are 6 major principles (important ideas):
Here are some kinds of medical ethics questions:

</doc>
<doc id="13939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13939" title="Sperm">
Sperm

Sperm are the male reproductive cells. Most animals and plants use sperm to reproduce. They have different ways of making and releasing the sperm. In all cases the sperm meets with the egg of the female and grow into a new organism.
The name sperm is taken from the Greek word "sperma" meaning "seed".
An animal sperm cell is capable of movement, as it has to get to the uterus to meet with the ovum. Animal sperm cells (including humans) have small 'head' and a long tail called a "flagellum". The flagellum acts like a motor to propel the sperm cell through the female reproductive system. 
Human sperm is made in the testicles of a man. Human sperm contains 23 chromosomes. A human needs 46 chromosomes, so a sperm cell is called a "haploid" as it only has half. The other half is contained within the ovum or egg of a female. During sex, semen is shot out of the man's penis during ejaculation.
Semen carries the sperm into the woman's vagina and down to the ovum in the uterus. During ejaculation millions of sperm cells are released, but only one hundred or so reach the egg.
The egg can merge with one sperm cell that reaches it. Because it now has 46 chromosomes, it is called a "diploid", like ordinary cells of the body. This diploid is called a zygote, and it can grow into a fetus and eventually a baby.
Some plants such as ferns and mosses have sperm that move. Flowering plant sperm cells cannot move by themselves. The flowering plant sperm cells are contained within pollen grains.
Thus, they rely on "transportation" to take their sperm cells to other plants. For example, a bee lands on a plant to collect the nectar. Some pollen will get stuck to the bee. The bee moves on to another plant and the pollen falls onto that plant. The sperm is moved down a "pollen tube" until it reaches the ovule at the bottom of the flower.

</doc>
<doc id="13940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13940" title="Semen">
Semen

Semen () is the fluid that comes out from the end of a man's penis when he has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement) and ejaculates. It is usually a white or yellowish, sticky substance made up of sperm (male cells for sexual reproduction) floating in a fluid called seminal plasma that has water and different chemicals in it. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen.
Some scientists think that semen that is taken into a woman's body causes her not to feel depressed or sad. On the other hand, if semen touches another person's body, it can pass on sexually transmitted infections (STIs). In a few cases, it can also make the other person's immune system weaker, or cause the person to have an allergic reaction. The risks of these health problems happening can be reduced if the man wears a condom when having sex.
Many cultures around the world once thought or still think that semen has special or even magical qualities. Showing semen in forms of popular culture such as art and movies has for a long time been taboo, that is, not generally accepted by society. However, since the late 20th century, artists and moviemakers have done so more often.
The English word "semen" comes from the Latin word "sēmen", which means "seed". In fact, "seed" was an old-fashioned name for semen. The Latin word "sēmen" itself came from another Latin word, "serěre", which means "to plant (a plant into the ground) or to sow (seeds in the earth)". It was once thought that semen was like a seed that grew into a baby after being "planted" inside a woman's body.
Another name for semen is "ejaculate". Some slang words for semen are "cream", "cum", "jism", "jizz", "load", "spooge", "spunk","nut","wad".
Semen is the fluid that comes out from the end of a man's penis when he has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement) and ejaculates. It is usually white, but may also be slightly grey or yellow. If there is blood in the semen, it can look pink or reddish. This is a condition called hematospermia, and may be because of some blockage, inflammation, infection or injury to some part of the male sex organs, such as the urethra, epididymis, prostate or testicles. A doctor should be seen if the pink or reddish colour does not go away after a few days.
Men ejaculate different amounts of semen. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen. More semen usually comes out if a man has not ejaculated for many days, or if he has been stimulated (made sexually excited) for a long time. Older men make less semen. If a man ejaculates an unusually small amount of semen, this is a medical condition called hypospermia.
After a man has ejaculated, semen first becomes slightly thick and sticky, and may feel a bit like jelly and clump together in globs. Scientists think that semen does this so that if the man has had sex with a woman and has ejaculated inside her vagina, the semen stays in her vagina for longer and does not leak out. Between five and 40 minutes after this, semen becomes more liquid and watery. This probably allows the sperm in the semen to move through the vagina and into the woman's uterus and Fallopian tubes to try and fertilize an ovum (egg cell). If semen is ejaculated outside the body, after becoming watery it eventually dries up.
Semen is made up of sperm (male cells for sexual reproduction) floating in a fluid called seminal plasma. Sperm, also called spermatozoa, are made by a man's testicles and mature (grow up) in the epididymis. The fluids in seminal plasma come from different glands in the man's body: the seminal vesicles, prostate and bulbourethral glands (also called the Cowper's glands). (Glands are special organs in the body that make chemicals.) The table below shows the substances that make up semen and the glands that produce them:
Seminal plasma protects and provides food for sperm as they travel inside a woman's body. The inside of a woman'a vagina does not suit sperm cells as it is acidic. To protect the sperm from the acid, seminal plasma is alkaline. A woman's immune system also tries to kill organisms (living things) that are not part of her body. Seminal plasma has chemicals called prostaglandins in it to stop the woman's body from killing the sperm.
Semen that does not have any germs in it (see below) is not harmful if it is swallowed, for example after a person has had oral sex with a man and the man ejaculates in that person's mouth.
"Semen quality" refers to how well the sperm in a man's semen can fertilize a woman's ova. The better a man's semen quality is, the better chances he has to make a woman pregnant. A 1992 World Health Organization book said that an ejaculation of normal human semen has:
The number of sperm in an ejaculation of semen depends on many things. There may be more sperm if:
If there are an unusually low number of sperm in an ejaculation, this is called oligospermia. If there are no sperm at all, this is called azoospermia. A man with oligospermia or azoospermia is usually infertile, and cannot or finds it very hard to make a woman pregnant by having sex with her.
Studies seem to say that semen is an anti-depressant. This means that it causes women not to feel depressed or sad. The studies found that when men had sex with women without using condoms, and the men's semen was taken into the women's vaginas, the women had better moods and felt happier. Scientists do not yet know if the same thing happens when semen is swallowed after oral sex, but some of them think it may.
If a man has a sexually transmitted infection or STI (an infection that is passed from one person to another by sex), the germs that cause the disease can appear in his semen. If the person that the man has sex with touches the semen, he or she can become infected by the germs and pick up the disease. AIDS, chlamydia, gonorrhea, hepatitis B, herpes and syphillis are examples of STIs. One of the ways for a man to lower the chance of passing on an STI to his sexual partner is to wear a condom on his penis when having sex.
Some scientists think that parts of semen, such as sperm and seminal plasma, can make another person's immune system weaker. Experiments show that when substances in a man's semen enter another person's body, that person's body makes antibodies. Antibodies are large Y-shaped proteins used by the body's immune system to stop foreign objects from harming the body. However, the antibodies made in response to substances in semen attack one of the body's own cells, called T lymphocytes. This weakens the body's immune system.
In a very small number of cases, people have experienced allergic reactions when they touched semen. This is called human seminal plasma hypersensitivity. The symptoms (signs of the medical problem) can either be near the part of the body which touched the semen, or all over the body. They may include itching of the vagina, redness, swelling or blisters within 30 minutes of contact. They may also include itching and hives (large, red, itchy patches) all over the body, and even difficulty breathing.
The best way to test for human seminal plasma hypersensitivity is for a man to use a condom when having sex. When a condom is used, after ejaculation the man's semen stays inside the condom and does not touch the body of the person he is having sex with. If the man's sexual partner usually has allergic symptoms to semen but does not have any when a condom is used, this may show that his partner's body is extra-sensitive to semen. A person can often get over a mild semen allergy by coming into contact with semen often. If the allergic reaction is very bad, the person should see a doctor, especially if she is a woman trying to get pregnant. In such cases, it may be necessary for the woman to have a baby through artificial insemination. This is a medical way of fertilizing a woman's ova using a man's sperm without the man and the woman having sexual intercourse.
Many cultures around the world once thought or still think that semen has special or even magical qualities. Some examples are set out below:
Displaying semen in forms of popular culture such as art and movies has for a long time been taboo, that is, not generally accepted by society. However, since the late 20th century artists and moviemakers have done so more often.
The American photographer Andres Serrano sometimes takes photographs of body fluids and displays them as artworks. One example is "Blood and Semen II" (1990), which is a picture of blood and semen mixed together. Some people are shocked by such pictures and think it is wrong of him to make them, while others think that as an artist he is free to create such works. Another of Serrano's pictures, "Blood and Semen III", was featured on the cover of the 1996 music album "Load" by the American heavy metal band Metallica.
The United Kingdom-based artists Gilbert Proesch and George Passmore, better known as Gilbert and George, have also used semen and other body fluids to create artworks.
Apart from pornographic movies showing people having sex, semen is usually not shown in movies as many people think that doing so is obscene (not decent). However, some movies that have shown semen are the American comedy movies "There's Something about Mary" (1998), "American Pie" (1999), "Scary Movie" (2000) and "Scary Movie 2" (2001). In the Spanish movie "Y tu mamá también" ("And Your Mother Too", 2001), there is a scene where two high-school boys who are friends lie on diving boards over a swimming pool and masturbate (make themselves sexually excited). Semen is later shown floating on the water. Such movies are usually not thought to be suitable for children to watch.

</doc>
<doc id="13945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13945" title="Bilbao">
Bilbao

Bilbao is a city in the Basque Country, in the North of Spain. There are 350,000 people living in Bilbao. 
In Bilbao is the Nervión river, which ends in the Bay of Biscay. Bilbao has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
Bilbao was an industrial city, but today it is a tourist city. There are many things to see in Bilbao:

</doc>
<doc id="13950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13950" title="Middle school">
Middle school

In the United States, a middle school is a school between elementary school (grades 1-4, 1-5 or 1-6) and high school (grades 9-12 or 10-12). Depending on location, middle school contains grades 6-8, 7-8, or 7-9. Middle school is also sometimes called an intermediate school, junior high school or just "junior high".
The school day is often very different in elementary, middle, and high schools. Unlike elementary schools, where students often stay with one or two teachers for most of the school day, middle school is usually the first time in which students change teachers after each class of usually about one hour. Students often study 6 to 8 subjects. They will be taught by a different teacher for each subject.
The change from a one teacher-all subjects way of teaching helps create more independence for the pupil. They no longer have the guidance of just one main teacher. Also, students will often have more of a choice in what classes they take. This is mainly in dealing with subjects which are taken in addition the basic subjects such as mathematics, English, history and general science.
In general, middle school acts as a transition between the elementary school structure where most people are all treated the same and the high school structure were most people are treated as individuals. However, some critics see middle schools as having gone "soft," overemphasizing self-esteem building at the expense of academic rigor.

</doc>
<doc id="13951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13951" title="List of Disney animated movies">
List of Disney animated movies

Below is a list of animated movies from Walt Disney Pictures/The Walt Disney Company. For a list of live-action movies from the company, see List of Disney movies.
The following is a list of the fifty-eight movies which are said to be the Walt Disney Feature Animation (WDFA) canon. They are also known as the Walt Disney Animated Classics. The canon includes animated movies that were or are being produced entirely by WDFA. Movies which are not part of the canon are movies which include both animation and live-action, spin-offs from Disney television programs, the direct-to-video movies produced by the DisneyToons studio in Australia (some of which received theatrical releases), or the Pixar movies (which Disney "presents" but does not produce). WDFA once announced that "Home on the Range" (released April 2, 2004) would be its final traditionally animated movie. They also said that from "Chicken Little" (released November 4, 2005) onwards, all future WDFA movies will be computer animated. However, this changed in July 2006 when a new traditionally animated movie, "The Princess and the Frog", was revealed to be in development.
These movies use Live-action with animation. They are not considered a part of the official canon.
Notes:

</doc>
<doc id="13952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13952" title="List of Disney movies">
List of Disney movies

This is a list of movies produced by Disney and its current label, Walt Disney Pictures. 
Movies not produced by Walt Disney Pictures are not on this list, even if they distributed it. This list also does not include movies labeled, produced or distributed by other Disney imprints or subsidiaries, and does not include any direct-to-video releases or theatrical re-releases.
This list is not for movies produced by Disneynature, and Touchstone Pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="13953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13953" title="Ku Klux Klan">
Ku Klux Klan

The Ku Klux Klan is a hate group. It was started in the southern United States on 3 March 1865. Most of its hate has been towards African-Americans, but it has also attacked Catholics, Jews and immigrants. It has sought to keep something called "white power", often through very violent acts such as killing people. The first Ku Klux Klan broke up and does not exist anymore. However, other groups with the same name and the same ideas have been created.
The Ku Klux Klan (acronym KKK) is an organization which was started in the South of the United States in 1865. This was after the American Civil War. It was to resist the Reconstruction of the United States. 
During this time, there were troops based in the ex-Confederacy states. The Klan was scared that the population in the South could lose their democratic rights. Also the Klan members believed that African Americans were inferior to (less than) white people. The Klan acted against black people. Republicans were also targets of attacks by the Klan. 
The methods of acting against people were often the same: the Klan members tried to frighten the people that the Klan wanted to go out of town. The KKK tried to scare people by burning crosses or by threatening them. If people did not react, the Klan sometimes killed them. The growing violence which was promoted by the KKK led to many lynchings (giving a person an unfair trial and killing them, often by hanging by the neck). The KKK was "prohibited" (made against the law) in 1871. After 1871, many KKK members were imprisoned (put in Prison). However, the Klan had achieved many of its original goals. For example, the occupation troops were moved out of the Southern states, to the West. The KKK affected many African Americans throughout the last century.
In 1915, William J. Simmons started the Ku Klux Klan for a second time. Most of the rituals and traditions of the “old” Ku Klux Klan were kept. Any white Protestant man could join the KKK. The KKK still attacked African Americans, but they also attacked Jews and Catholics this time. 
In 1920, growing economic problems in rural areas caused the Klan to grow again. The KKK strongly argued for “white supremacy”. “White supremacy” says that people who are white (from European origins) are better than other racial groups and must rule them. 
The Klan killed many blacks. These were not legal executions because there were no trials. Many people now call these acts a kind of terrorism, because the KKK used fear to control African Americans and take away their political rights.
In the middle of the 20’s the Klan got smaller due to bad leaders and too much violence.
After the Second World War, the Klan closed again because it owed more money than it could pay.
In 1954, the United States Supreme Court (the highest court in the US) made an important decision. The case was "Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas". The court "ruled" (decided) that it was un-Constitutional to have different schools for black and white children. When this ruling passed, many independent groups using the Ku Klux Klan name attacked African Americans.
In the summer of 1964, Edgar Killen killed three African Americans that participated in the civil rights movement. Killen was a member of the Ku Klux Klan. There was an early trial in 1967, but in this trial there was an all-white jury and so Killen was set free. In 1988 a movie called "Mississippi Burning" was made which talked about the events of this case. In 2005 there was another trial. Killen (now 80 years old) was sentenced to prison for 160 years.
In 2011 they were estimated to be perhaps as many as 5,000 members.

</doc>
<doc id="13958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13958" title="Brown v. Board of Education">
Brown v. Board of Education

Brown versus Board of Education (1954) (full name Oliver Brown, et al. v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas) was a Landmark decision by the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1950 in Topeka, Kansas, a black third-grade girl named Linda Brown had to walk more than a mile through a railroad switchyard to get to her segregated school for black children. However, there was an elementary school for white children less than seven blocks away. At that time, many schools in the United States were segregated. Black children and white children were not allowed to go to the same schools.
Her father, Oliver Brown, tried to get Linda into the white school, but the principal of the school refused. Twelve more black parents joined Oliver Brown in trying to get their children into the white elementary school. The two schools were supposed to be "separate but equal." However, they were not.
In 1951, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) helped the parents file a class action lawsuit. In 1896, the Supreme Court had ruled in "Plessy v. Ferguson" that segregation was legal, as long as separate places for blacks and whites were "separate but equal." The NAACP's lawyers argued that the white and black schools in Topeka were not "separate but equal."
The case eventually went all the way to the Supreme Court. After years of work, in 1954, Thurgood Marshall and a team of other NAACP lawyers won the case. It was named "Brown" because she was alphabetically the first name on the list of plaintiffs.
The Supreme Court has nine justices. The vote on Brown "v. Board of Education" was unanimous, meaning that all nine justices voted the same way. One of the judges, Robert Jackson, had recently had a heart attack and was not supposed to come back to court until the next month. However, he came to the court when the judges read their decision, possibly to show that every one of the judges agreed.
The ruling in the case was written by Earl Warren, who was Chief Justice. He said "“separate educational facilities are inherently unequal."" This decision made the racial segregation of schools against the law in every US state.
Some states did not obey this court decision at first. It was not until the early 1970s that all United States public schools were integrated (the opposite of segregated). Integrating America's schools required many state and Supreme Court decisions to force schools to integrate.
These links may not be in simple English:

</doc>
<doc id="13960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13960" title="Well">
Well

A well is a hole that is dug into the Earth to get water (or crude oil or natural gas). A qanat is an ancient complex water well system used in the Middle East. Wells can be as simple as a hole that a bucket on a rope can be lowered into, or very complex with pipes and high-powered pumps to get the water out. Most cities that are not close to fresh water lakes or rivers get their water from wells.
It is important to be careful what rubbish is put into the ground near a well. If something toxic is put in the ground, it could end up in the water from the well and make people sick.
Water is a problem for many African countries. Many charities are helping to build wells in local villages to help stop lengthy travel to distant water supply.
A well only works if underneath there is an aquifer which feeds it.

</doc>
<doc id="13963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13963" title="Honey">
Honey

Honey is a food made by honeybees from nectar. Then they put the honey into a honeycomb, which for them is a storage unit. Honey is sweet and can be used instead of sugar. It is a supersaturated liquid. As the temperature drops, glucose comes out of solution. Then it is a semi-solid rather than a liquid.
Honey is first mentioned in the Book of Exodus, and is often linked with pleasant and comfortable things. "Land of Milk and honey".
It is also referenced in the Qur'an, with similar associations to good and evil.
Much like wine, there are several kinds of honey with different tastes, colors and textures. Some common types are got from bees who use the clover flower's pollen. It is thick and has a medium color. It tends to form crystals or grains more quickly when exposed to air. Acacia flowers make another common variety.
Honey from bees using flowers from oleanders, rhododendrons, some laurels, and azaleas may cause honey intoxication. Symptoms include dizziness, weakness, sweating, nausea, and vomiting. 
Expert beekeepers solve this problem by moving their hives to areas where the right flowers are available. Bees like to get their nectar locally, and do not go more than two miles from the hive.
Honey tastes quite different according to which flowers were used by the bees. Key things are its fragrance (smell), taste and how clear it is; also the absence of bad qualities.

</doc>
<doc id="13964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13964" title="Sweet">
Sweet

Sweet can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="13965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13965" title="Cracker">
Cracker

A cracker is a thin and crispy piece of baked bread. Crackers can be eaten by themselves, but they can also be eaten with things on them called toppings. Common toppings include cheese, peanut butter, and sliced meats. Crackers are most often eaten as a snack, or crumbled into soup.
It was 1792 when Theodore Pearson of Newburyport, Massachusetts, made a cracker-like bread that was made from only water and flour which he called "Pearson's Pilot Bread." This was the first cracker bakery in the United States, and made crackers for more than a century.

</doc>
<doc id="13966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13966" title="Surgery">
Surgery

Surgery is an operation that involves a doctor. The doctor helps his patients by taking out, changing or fixing parts of the human body. Doctors who do surgeries are called surgeons. Many surgeons are experts in certain areas; for example, a surgeon that operates on bones is called an orthopaedic surgeon.
Surgery (operations) can be very simple, like taking a tooth out. Surgery can also be very complicated, like surgery to remove a cancerous tumor.
Operating rooms have to be very clean places. The doctors and nurses go to great lengths to keep the room clean where the surgery is done. Regular cleaning of the room and its tools is done to keep everything clean and germ-free.
Everyone in the operating room must wear special clothes, hats, shoes, gowns, gloves and masks that are clean and germ free. The only people allowed in the operating rooms are the doctors and nurses as well as the patient too.
When people have operations they are normally put to sleep with anaesthesia. When the patients are asleep, they cannot feel anything.
In recent years, many patients that cannot get the required surgery in their own country, or find the costs too high, travel to another country for medical care. This is called medical tourism.

</doc>
<doc id="13967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13967" title="Pizza">
Pizza

Pizza is a type of food that was created in Italy. It is made by putting "Toppings" (such as cheese, sausages, pepperoni, vegetables, tomatoes, spices and herbs) over a piece of bread covered with sauce; most often tomato, but sometimes butter-based sauces are used. (The piece of bread is usually called a "pizza crust".) Almost any kind of topping can be put over a pizza. The toppings people use are different in different parts of the world. Pizza comes from Italy, from Neapolitan cuisine, but has become popular in many parts of the world.
The origin of the word "Pizza" is uncertain. The food was invented in Naples about 200 years ago. It is the name for a special type of flatbread, made with special dough. The pizza enjoyed a second birth as it was taken to the United States in the later 19th century.
Flatbreads like the focaccia from Liguria have been known for a very long time. Pizzas need to be baked at temperatures of 200250 °C. Hardly any household oven could reach such temperatures at the time. Because of this, the pizza was made at home, and then given to the town bakery to bake. In June 1889, the Neapolitan chef Raffaele Esposito created the "Margherita" in honour of Queen Margherita, and was the first pizza to include cheese.
Pizza was brought to the United States with Italian immigrants in the late nineteenth century; and first appeared in areas where Italian immigrants concentrated. The country's first pizzeria, Lombardi's, opened in 1905. Veterans returning from World War II's Italian Campaign were a ready market for pizza. Since then pizza consumption has exploded in the U.S. Pizza chains such as Domino's, Pizza Hut, and Papa John's, have outlets all over the nation. Thirteen percent of the U.S. population eats pizza on any given day.
In the 20th century, pizza has become an international food and the toppings may be quite different in accordance with local tastes. These pizzas consist of the same basic design but include many choice of ingredients, such as anchovies, egg, pineapple, banana, coconut, sauerkraut, eggplant, kimchi, lamb, couscous, chicken, fish, and shellfish, meats prepared in styles such as Moroccan lamb, shawarma or chicken tikka masala, and non-traditional spices such as curry and Thai sweet chili. Pizzas can also be made without meat for vegetarians, and without cheese for vegans.
Neapolitan pizza ("pizza Napoletana"). Authentic Neapolitan pizzas are made with local ingredients like San Marzano tomatoes, which grow on the volcanic plains to the south of Mount Vesuvius and Mozzarella di Bufala Campana, made with the milk from water buffalo raised in the marshlands of Campania and Lazio in a semi-wild state (this mozzarella is protected by its own European law). The genuine Neapolitan pizza dough consists of Italian flour, natural Neapolitan yeast or brewer's yeast, salt and water.The dough must be kneaded by hand or with a low-speed mixer. After the rising process, the dough must be formed by hand without the help of a rolling pin or other mechanical device, and may be no more than 3 mm (1/8 in) thick.Pizza is cooked in a oven.When cooked, it should be crispy, tender and fragrant. Neapolitan pizza has gained the status of "guaranteed traditional specialty" in Italy. This admits only three official variants: Pizza marinara, which is made with tomato, garlic, oregano and extra virgin olive oil (although most Neapolitan pizzerias also add basil to the marinara), Pizza Margherita, made with tomato,mozzarella, basil and extra virgin olive oil, and Pizza Margherita DOC made with tomato, buffalo mozzarella from Campania in fillets, basil and extra virgin olive oil.
Lazio style: Pizza in Lazio (Rome), as well as in many other parts of Italy is available in 2 different "flavors": 1) In take-away shops so-called "Pizza Rustica" or "Pizza a Taglio". Pizza is cooked in long, rectangular baking pans and relatively thick (1–2 cm). The crust similar to that of an English muffin and mostly cooked in an electric oven. When purchased, it is usually cut with scissors or knife and priced by weight. 2) In Pizza Restaurants (Pizzerias) it is served in a dish in its traditional round shape.
Other types of Lazio-style pizza include:
Sicilian-style pizza has its toppings baked directly into the crust. 
Pizza Hut's Sicilian Pizza, introduced in 1994, is not an authentic example of the style as only garlic, basil, and oregano are mixed into the crust,it's sold in the restaurant chain "Pizza Hut".
White pizza ("pizza bianca") uses no tomato sauce, often substituting pesto or dairy products such as sour cream. Most commonly, especially on the East Coast of the United States, the toppings consist only of mozzarella and ricotta cheese drizzled with olive oil and basil and garlic. In Rome, the term "pizza bianca" refers to a type of bread topped only with olive oil.
Antica Pizzeria Port'Alba, the first pizzeria in Italy, started making pizzas in 1738 and still serves pizza today.
Some global pizza franchises are Pizza Hut, Domino's Pizza, Cici's Pizza, Papa John's and Little Caesars.
Frozen pizza is pizza that has been prepared beforehand, and is then deep-frozen, to be distributed in supermarkets. It is among the most successful and popular types of convenience food. 
Macaulay Culkin started a band that makes songs about pizza in 2012 called The Pizza Underground. The frontman of Personal & the Pizzas, Personal, said to EMusic that they are going to kill The Pizza Underground.

</doc>
<doc id="13968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13968" title="Pepperoni">
Pepperoni

Pepperoni is a meat food that is sometimes sliced thin and put on pizza. It is a kind of salami, which can be quite spicy. It comes from the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="13969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13969" title="Conception">
Conception

Conception has different meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="13970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13970" title="Abdomen">
Abdomen

The abdomen is the part of the body that is between the chest and the thigh. It contains (has in it) the abdominal muscles and many organs. Some of the organs in the abdomen are:

</doc>
<doc id="13971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13971" title="Heaven">
Heaven

Heaven is a concept of the afterlife (what happens after you die) in many religions. Some people who believe in heaven say that it is a place that is perfect. They believe heaven is where people will go after they die if they have been good. Some people also believe in Hell, which is a place where people will go when they die, if they have been bad. They believe hell is a punishment for being bad. Ideas of Heaven and Hell are not the same in all religions.
According to the Bible, there are different meanings for the word:
The Bible does not have a lot to say about what it looks like. The apostle Paul tells about a vision he had of being taken up to "the third heaven," where he saw and heard things too wonderful to describe. But, much of what Christians believe Heaven to be like comes from the vision that John saw in a vision while praying, including:
Catholics believe Mary is the Queen of Heaven, officially defined by Pope Pius XII in 1954. However many Protestants see this as not in the Bible.
According to the Quran and Hadith, Heaven is a place of reward for those believers who accept the true faith and practices the teaching of Prophet Muhammad. The eternal life will be perfect, with thousands of types of food and clothing more beautiful than humans could ever imagine. There will also be no sad feelings, stress or pain and related problems of life.
Baha'is believe that Heaven or (hell) being specific places as symbolic. The Aqdas, the holy book of Baha'is, along with other Baha'i books, describe heaven as a "spiritual condition" where being close to God is called heaven. Hell is seen as being separated from God. Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, said that the afterlife is beyond human understanding.
Summerland is the name given by Wiccans and other Pagan (old European religions) to their belief of afterlife (life after death).

</doc>
<doc id="13972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13972" title="Button">
Button

A button can have three meanings.

</doc>
<doc id="13974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13974" title="Multiprocessing">
Multiprocessing

Multiprocessing is the use of two or more central processing units (CPUs) within a single computer system. The CPUs do not have to be the same. Systems that treat all CPUs equally are called symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) systems.

</doc>
<doc id="13975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13975" title="Multitasking">
Multitasking

Multitasking means that a computer can run more than one item of software at the same time. It can also refer to a person who is working on more than one task at the same time (for instance, talking on the telephone while filing papers).
Computers with only one Central Processing Unit can only appear to run more than one program. Computer scientists solve the problem that a CPU can only do one thing at a time by programming it so that it switches rapidly between tasks. This happens so rapidly that it appears that the computer is running more than one program at once. This action is often controlled by the Operating System controlling the hardware of the system.
The more things the computer has to do at once, the more time it has to spend deciding which to give more time to, and the less time each one receives. This tends to make the computer perform its tasks more slowly, unless it uses a multi-core processor.

</doc>
<doc id="13976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13976" title="Multithreading">
Multithreading

Multithreading means that a computer can work on different parts of the same program at the same time. This usually allows the program to run faster.

</doc>
<doc id="13977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13977" title="Fertilization">
Fertilization

Fertilization (British English spelling: fertilisation) is what happens when a female's ovum (or "egg") joins together with a male's sperm and they form a zygote. Fertilization is also called "conception". Biologists call a fertilized egg a zygote. A zygote grows into an embryo.
Fertilization is important in animals including humans and birds, in plants, fungi, protists, in fact all eukaryotes. Fertilization makes a cell with twice as many chromosomes. The eukaryote life cycle must also include meiosis which divides the chromosome number in half.
In animals, there are two types of fertilisation, internal and external. Internal fertilisation happens in the female body. External fertilisation happens outside of the body. Mammals, birds, and reptiles use internal fertilisation. Amphibians and most fish use external fertilisation. Some animals with internal fertilization give birth to live offspring. Others such as birds, most reptiles, and some mammals such as the Platypus, lay eggs.
In humans, the zygote becomes an embryo when it reaches three weeks of age. It is called an embryo from 3–8 weeks (the "embryonic period"). After 8 weeks, it is called a fetus. If it continues to grow normally, it is called a baby as soon as it is born.

</doc>
<doc id="13981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13981" title="Decision">
Decision

Decision can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="13982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13982" title="Whiteboard">
Whiteboard

A whiteboard, also called a markerboard, is a drawing surface on which markings made with markers are visible. It is used as a surface to write on. Whiteboards are often used to help teach. Special markers are used that can be erased. Whiteboards usually have a shiny surface. Before there were whiteboards, people used blackboards. Chalk is used to write on blackboards. Now, there is another improvement, people are now using electronic whiteboards, where it is controlled by a computer - this is sometimes called an interactive whiteboard (IWB). These were particularly popular in English schools in the 2000s.

</doc>
<doc id="13983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13983" title="Chemist">
Chemist

A chemist is a scientist who studies chemistry. In England can also mean a pharmacist (person who dispenses medicines that doctors prescribe for people). Chemistry is the study of elements, atoms, molecules, and how they react together. Chemists research and test medicines, explosives, and a lot of other things. Chemistry is a very important science because it is how we got almost all of the newer, more powerful medicines.

</doc>
<doc id="13984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13984" title="Biologist">
Biologist

A biologist is a scientist who studies biology. Biologists study living organisms.
There are many different kinds of biologists. Some of these include:
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="13986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13986" title="Testicular cancer">
Testicular cancer

Testicular cancer is cancer in one or both testicles, a part of the male reproductive system. In the United States, about 8,000 to 9,000 people are diagnosed with the cancer every year. Every male has a 1 in 250 (four tenths of one percent, or 0.4%) chance of being diagnosed with it. It is most common among males aged 15-40 years. Testicular cancer has one of the highest cure rates of all cancers; more than 90%. This is most often achieved by removing one or both testicles. Even in the small number of cases where the cancer has spread widely, chemotherapy offers a cure rate of at least 50%.
Because testicular cancer is curable (stage I can have a success rate of >95%) when detected early, experts recommend regular monthly testicular self-examination after a hot shower or bath, when the scrotum is looser. Men are advised to feel each testicle, feeling for pea-shaped lumps.
Symptoms of testicular cancer include one or more of the following:
How bad the cancer is and whether it is present at all is often discovered through ultrasound of the testicles, x-rays, and/or CT scans. Blood tests are also used to identify and measure tumour markers that are only in a person's blood if they have testicular cancer. Biopsies should not be performed because it increases the risk of migrating cancer cells into the scrotum.

</doc>
<doc id="13987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13987" title="Future">
Future

The future is something that has not happened yet. Once that something has happened, it is called the past. If it is happening now, it is called the present.
Movies, television shows and books that tell made-up stories about the future are often called science fiction, but there is also science fiction which takes place in the past, and fiction that takes place in the future but is not science fiction.

</doc>
<doc id="13988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13988" title="Fetus">
Fetus

A fetus or foetus is the stage that an organism goes through before it is born as a baby. A fetus in humans talks about the stage (time of development) after the embryonic stage, which is the third to eighth week of development after fertilization. The "fetal" stage is 8 weeks until birth.

</doc>
<doc id="13989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13989" title="Past">
Past

The past is something that has already happened. If something has not happened yet, it is called the future.
Professors and researchers that study the events of the past, and try to explain why these events happened are called history professors or historians.
Many books, movies, and television shows tell made-up stories about the past. These are called historical fiction. Some books, movies, and television shows from a style called science fiction or fantasy tell made-up stories about being able to travel through time back to the past.

</doc>
<doc id="13990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13990" title="Particle">
Particle

Particles are tiny bits of matter that make up everything in the universe. In particle physics, an elementary particle is a particle which cannot be split up into smaller pieces.
There are many different types of particles, with different particle sizes and properties.
"Macroscopic particles" are particles that are larger than atoms or molecules. They have volume and shape. Powder and dust are some examples of macroscopic particles.
Atoms and molecules are called "microscopic particles".
Nanoparticles could also be included.
"Subatomic particles" are particles that are smaller than atoms. The proton, the neutron, and the electron are subatomic particles. These are the particles which make atoms. The proton has a positive charge (a + charge). The neutron has a neutral charge. The electron has a negative charge (a - charge), and it is the smallest of these three particles. In atoms, there is a small nucleus in the center, which is where the protons and neutrons are, and electrons orbit the nucleus.
Protons and neutrons are made up of quarks. Quarks are subatomic particles, but they are also elementary particles because we do not know if they are made up of even smaller particles. There are six different types of quarks. These are the up quark, the down quark, the strange quark, the charm quark, the bottom quark, and the top quark. A neutron is made of two down quarks and one up quark. The proton is made up of two up quarks and one down quark.

</doc>
<doc id="13993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13993" title="Ellen DeGeneres">
Ellen DeGeneres

Ellen DeGeneres (born January 26, 1958) is an American stand-up comedian, television host and actress. She is the host of the talk show "The Ellen DeGeneres Show". She starred in two television sitcoms, "Ellen" from 1994 to 1998 and "The Ellen Show" from 2001 to 2002. She is a very generous person when it comes to giveaways on her talk show "The Ellen DeGeneres Show." She is also an inspiration to people to become more open-minded to different types of human sexuality. Amen to Ellen DeGeneres she opened minds through humor also.
During the fourth season of "Ellen" in 1997, DeGeneres came out publicly as a lesbian in an appearance on "The Oprah Winfrey Show". Since 2004, DeGeneres has been in a relationship with Australian actress Portia de Rossi. They were married on August 16, 2008.
DeGeneres was born and raised in Metairie, Louisiana. She is the daughter of Elizabeth Jane "Betty" Pfeffer DeGeneres, a speech therapist, and Elliott Everett DeGeneres, an insurance agent. She has one brother, Vance, a musician and producer. She is of French, English, German, and Irish ancestry. She was raised as a Christian Scientist until age 13. In 1973, her parents filed for separation and were divorced the following year. Shortly after, Ellen's mother married Roy Gruessendorf, a salesman. Betty Jane and Ellen moved with Gruessendorf from the New Orleans area to Atlanta, Texas. Vance stayed with his father.
DeGeneres graduated from Atlanta High School in May 1976, after completing her first years of high school at Grace King High School in Metairie, Louisiana. She moved back to New Orleans to attend the University of New Orleans, where she majored in communication studies. After one semester, she left school to do clerical work in a law firm with a cousin, Laura Gillen. She also held a job selling clothes at the chain store the Merry-Go-Round at the Lakeside Shopping Center.
Her early jobs included working at J. C. Penney, being a waitress at TGI Friday's and another restaurant, a house painter, a hostess, and a bartender. She relates much of her childhood and career experiences in her comedic work.
On a February 9, 2011, episode of "The Ellen DeGeneres Show", DeGeneres told her studio audience via a letter from the New England Historic Genealogical Society that she is Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge's 15th cousin via their shared common ancestor Thomas Fairfax. Madonna is DeGeneres' eleventh cousin.
In 2007, "Forbes" estimated DeGeneres's net worth at US$65 million.
She is a fan of the National Football League, and has shown particular support for the New Orleans Saints and the Green Bay Packers. In 2011, she attended a Saints practice dressed as Packers Hall of Famer Don Hutson.
In November 2011, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton named her a Special Envoy for Global AIDS Awareness.
DeGeneres' selfie, which she took at the 86th Academy Awards in 2014 with actors such as Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie, Bradley Cooper, Jared Leto, and Lupita Nyong'o, became the most retweeted image ever on Twitter, with over 3 million retweets.

</doc>
<doc id="13994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13994" title="Rosie O'Donnell">
Rosie O'Donnell

Roseann "Rosie" O'Donnell (born March 21, 1962) is an American television host, comedienne, actress, and author. She gained exposure by appearing on "Star Search", a talent show.
Her talk show, "The Rosie O'Donnell Show", began in 1996 and ran until 2002. She briefly hosted a primetime talk show on the Oprah Winfrey Network called "The Rosie Show" from 2011 until 2012.
O'Donnell won an Emmy Award in 1999. She is openly lesbian and has been married twice. She has adopted five children.
O'Donnell was the host of the show "The View" on ABC from 2006-2007, when she was replaced by Whoopi Goldberg. She returned to "The View" in 2014 for a few months.

</doc>
<doc id="13996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13996" title="Ass">
Ass

Ass can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="13997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13997" title="Tissue">
Tissue

Tissues form part of an organ. Tissues are groups of cells that work together to do a job in the body. They are a group of cells having the same origin, structure and function. The cells look the same or almost the same. The work the cells do is also the same or almost the same. Kinds include muscles, nerves, and connective tissues.
Organs are made up of more than one kind of tissue. The heart is an organ. It is made up of different tissues. It has muscle tissue called myocardium. It has connective tissue on the inside (endocardium), and on the outside (pericardium). The heart has valves that make sure the blood goes the right way through the heart. So the heart is an organ made from several tissues. 
The study of the structure of tissues under a microscope is called histology.

</doc>
<doc id="13998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13998" title="Cock">
Cock

Cock can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="13999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13999" title="Shit">
Shit

Shit is a slang term for feces. Shit is a swear word (an offensive, rude, or impolite word) to most English speakers.
It can also mean things other than feces, depending on the conversation. It can be used as an angry shout. It can sometimes be an adjective or verb. The term bullshit, a variant of the word shit, is a slang term that means nonsense.

</doc>
<doc id="14000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000" title="Piss">
Piss

Piss or pissed are slang words for:

</doc>
<doc id="14001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14001" title="Cunt">
Cunt

Cunt is an abusive word that is used against people as an insult. It can also be slang for the vagina or vulva.
Unlike many words of profanity that came from Anglo-Saxon, this word came from a Latin one ("cuneus", meaning a wedge shape). After the Norman invasion of England, it replaced the native word for vagina, mægþblæd.

</doc>
<doc id="14002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14002" title="Dick">
Dick

Dick could mean:
People named Dick:
Dick's could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="14003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14003" title="Nut">
Nut

Nut or nuts can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="14005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005" title="Bitch">
Bitch

Bitch can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="14008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14008" title="Ball and chain">
Ball and chain

A ball and chain is a device historically worn by prisoners. It consists of a heavy iron ball attached to the prisoner's ankle with a chain and shackle. It stops the prisoner from running away.
The ball and chain was mainly used in the British Empire and its penal colonies. It was used from the 17th century until as late as the mid 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="14009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14009" title="Cum">
Cum

Cum can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="14010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14010" title="Faggot (food)">
Faggot (food)

A faggot is a kind of meatball, a traditional dish in the UK, especially the southwest of England, Wales, and the Black Country. It is made from meat off-cuts and offal, especially pork. A faggot is usually made from pig heart, liver and fatty belly meat or bacon minced together, with herbs for flavouring and sometimes breadcrumbs. The mixture is shaped in the hand into balls, wrapped round with caul (a membrane from the pig's abdomen), and baked. A similar dish, "almôndega", is traditional in Portugal.

</doc>
<doc id="14011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14011" title="Llanfairpwllgwyngyll">
Llanfairpwllgwyngyll

Llanfairpwllgwyngyll or Llanfair Pwllgwyngyll is a village on the island of Anglesey in Wales, Britain. It is in the Guinness Book of Records for being the place with the longest name in Britain. The village is also known as Llanfair PG or Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch.
The name means "St Mary's church in the hollow of the white hazel near to the fierce whirlpool of St Tysilio of the red cave" in Welsh. It was invented in the 1860s by a local tailor to make the village famous for having the railway station with the longest name.
English speakers (pronounce ch as in "Loch-Ness") saying "Thlan-vire-poothl-gwin-githl-go-ger-i-chwen-drob-oothl-landus-ilio-goh-goh-goch" will sound close to how it is meant to sound although the double L sound is difficult to recreate.
A recording of a person saying the name properly can be heard by listening to this sound file on the village website.

</doc>
<doc id="14012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14012" title="Pneumoconiosis">
Pneumoconiosis

Pneumoconiosis is a form of occupational lung disease that is not infective. It is a progressive (gets worse with time) degenerative disorder. It is caused by air pollution in the form of tiny particles. It was common among coal miners, who inhaled coal dust regularly.
Another type of pneumoconiosis is 'asbestosis', caused by inhaling asbestos fibres. A third type is caused by inhaling very small silica particles, called 'silicosis'. All forms of pneuomoconiosis shorten life, and have no cure.
Indications:
Pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis is a lung disease caused by the breathing-in of very small particles of sand or quartz dust found in volcanoes. It was first seen in the Oxford English Dictionary, in 1936. It is "an artificial long word", invented by in 1935 by Everett Smith, president of the National Puzzlers' League (N.P.L.), at its annual meeting. 

</doc>
<doc id="14013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14013" title="Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu">
Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu

Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu (or Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu) is the Maori name of a hill in New Zealand. The short form Taumata is used in everyday talk. The hill is 305 meters high.
It has eighty-five letters in its name. It is one of the longest place names in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="14021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14021" title="Something Awful">
Something Awful

Something Awful is a comedy anime website and anime forums. People have to pay anime money to join the anime forums to talk with other anime people around the anime world. It currently costs $9.95 (Anime Dollars) to join. You must be very polite and anime on these forums, because the anime people are sensitive. They say that paying anime money makes anime people behave more anime politely, because if you don't behave anime nice they take away your anime account and you lose your anime money. [1]
Something Awful was started by Richard "Lowtax" Kyanka, an anime, in 1999.
In March, 2008 Richard "Lowtax" Kyanka left forums management to Kevin "Fragmaster" Bowen, in order to focus on operating the main site.

</doc>
<doc id="14025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14025" title="Fark.com">
Fark.com

Fark is a comedy website and forums.
Fark was started by Drew Curtis in 1999 as a weblog where users post current news articles and other information. Then other users make comments on these articles. There are two classes of users; users with free subscriptions are able to post comments in the forums and submit new articles. There is also a subscription service called TotalFark that grants access to more news stories. Regular subscribers are known as Farkers and paying subscribers are often called TotalFarkers or TFers.
Fark is what's known as a news aggregator. The page is divided into several tabs, "Not News", "Sports", "Business", "Geek", "Showbiz", "Politics", "Music", and "Video" Users submit stories that are relevant to each tab, and staffers and subscribers decide which ones are posted. Once a story is posted, a corresponding forum thread is created where any subscriber can comment on the story.

</doc>
<doc id="14029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14029" title="Menstruation">
Menstruation

Menstruation or "menses" is when a female has blood come out of her vagina for 2–7 days every month. A slang word for menses is a "period".
Inside the thick part of the uterus are blood vessels and other nutrients that a baby will need to grow. If an ovum in the uterus gets fertilized, it sticks to the wall of the uterus and starts to grow. However, if the ovum is not fertilized, it does not stick. The uterus then gets rid of the ovum and the extra tissue by releasing it from the body. The tissue and blood flows out of the uterus through the vagina. This is called menstruation or having a period. The bleeding normally lasts about 3-5 days, though some girls may bleed longer or have a bit of bleeding between periods. The uterus then starts preparing for another ovum. For most girls, the time between their periods is about one month. For about 2 years after menstruation starts, the time between periods is not always the same. Some girls may skip a month, or have 2 periods close to each other. It is also normal to have cramps (rather painful squeezing feelings) or to feel bloated (swollen up) in the abdomen at periods. When many girls start having periods, they begin using sanitary napkins or tampons to soak up the blood and tissue. A sanitary napkin is a piece of material that absorbs (takes in) liquids which is worn between the vulva and underpants. A tampon is a stick of absorbent material that is placed in the vagina.
Before women begin their menses, there is cloudy white liquid-like fluid that comes out of the vaginal wall and eventually leaks on to their underwear. A girl begins this cycle about a year before the actual menstruating happens. When the liquid turns a deep brownish colour, the leaking starts to become often. After the leaking stops, which is within a year of it first happening then she begins to menstruate for 3–5 days. Once the experience becomes normal and adjusts to the body function, then she will leak about 2–7 days.
Most women menstruate for 3–5 days every month. However, anywhere from 2–7 days is normal. The amount of blood lost is normally about 50ml. Women usually use a pad or a tampon to keep the blood from staining their undergarments.
Menopause is menstruation stopping at the age of around 45-70, which is caused by hormones. Symptoms include irritability, heat, vaginal burning and/or discomfort, and vaginal dryness. A slang word for it is called "the change". Most women must take a few months to adjust to the dryness. After they stop their period they can no longer produce babies.
The fluid that comes out looks like blood, but it is more than just blood. It also has endometrial tissue. This is the tissue that lines the inside of the uterus (womb).
Menses happens in the first days of the menstrual cycle. This is the changes that happen in a woman's body every month. These changes are started by changes in hormone levels in the blood. These changes also cause a woman to ovulate and make an ovum (also called "egg"). Menstruation usually starts around the age of 11, even as early as 9 years old, and ends when the woman is too old to have children. However, some women can still have children from the age of 50-70.
Some women have pain in the low part of the abdomen when they menstruate, known as cramps. The hormones that are produced before and during a period can also make a woman feel moody, or just strange. This is called premenstrual syndrome or PMS. A women can feel bloated or swollen and have long cramps. Some women have extremely bad reactions to menstruation and may even feel suicidal. This is called premenstrual dysphoric disorder, or PMDD.
Most women use something to absorb or catch their menses. There are a number of different methods available. The most common used way to absorb the menses is using menstrual cup, sanitary napkins, tampons and padded underwear. Some women use sea sponges, towels and other reusable absorbing items.
In addition to products to contain the menstrual flow, pharmaceutical companies likewise provide products — commonly non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) — to relieve menstrual cramps. Some herbs, such as dong quai, raspberry leaf and crampbark, are also claimed to relieve menstrual pain, however there is no documented scientific evidence.

</doc>
<doc id="14031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14031" title="Period">
Period

Period means different things.

</doc>
<doc id="14037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14037" title="Corinthian-Casuals F.C.">
Corinthian-Casuals F.C.

The Corinthian Casuals are a football team in Tolworth, Surrey, England. They play in the Isthmian League Division One South.

</doc>
<doc id="14047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14047" title="Nightclub">
Nightclub

A nightclub is a type of theatre or bar or club where there are shows, singers and dance girls. Examples of this are the "Folies Bergère" in Paris, the "Tropicana" in Havana and the "Cotton Club" in Harlem, Manhattan.
Also the name is used for places where adults socialize and meet others and drink alcoholic beverages, like wine, beer, and mixed drinks.
Most nightclubs are only open in the evening and in the night. Some are open during the day, but in these cases, the facility usually provides a different service, such as a restaurant service.
Nightclubs, in the original sense, put on shows which people watched sitting in chairs, often at a table where food and drink was served.
Today, the word is used for venues with a dance floor and a DJ playing pop, rock, and dance music recordings. Some nightclubs have entertainment such as pop bands, rock bands, or comedians. Some nightclubs have a quieter lounge area with couches, sofas, and low tables, so that people can talk together.
They mostly have burgers and wings for the people at the party
Some nightclubs also serve a small selection of food, usually snacks or finger food. Nightclubs often have a much wider selection of alcoholic drinks than pubs (pubs specialize in beer and ale). Most nightclubs sell a number of different brands of spirits, liquers, wine, sherry, Some nightclubs have a large selection of expensive brands of alcohol (these are called "premium" brands).
The bartenders (also called "barmen" or "barmaids") at nightclubs often make a much larger variety of mixed drinks than pubs. Mixed drinks and cocktails are alcoholic drinks that consist of one or more types of alcohol (e.g., rum, vodka, whiskey, etc.) mixed with flavorings such as orange juice, cream, chocolate syrup, or soda. Many mixed drinks also include ice, crushed ice, or sliced lemon or lime. 
Some well-known mixed drinks include the martini, the "Rum and Coke", and the "screwdriver" (orange juice mixed with vodka).
Nightclubs hire a variety of staff to do different jobs. Bartenders (also called "barmen" or "barmaids") at nightclubs serve alcohol and mix drinks. Some nightclubs hire servers to bring drinks to people who are sitting at tables or in chairs. Some nightclubs also hire people to take away empty bottles and glasses. 
Security in nightclubs is provided by door staff, often called "bouncers". Door staff check the identification of people entering the nightclub, to ensure that people that are too young to drink do not enter the club. Door staff also prevent drunk or aggressive people from entering the nightclub. They also escort people out of the club if they are too drunk, fighting, or taking drugs. Door staff may also call the police if they cannot deal with a situation.
Nightclubs that serve food have cooks, dishwashers, and servers to prepare, cook, and serve the food. Nightclubs also have coat check employees who hang up the patron's coats, sound technicians to maintain the sound system (the CD players, amplifiers, and speakers), and cleaners (to sweep the floors and clean the bathrooms). Some large nightclubs may hire DJs to work in the club every week as employees. 
DJs, bands, comedians who entertain patrons during the evening are usually not usually employees of the nightclub. Instead, the nightclub signs a contract with these entertainers, in which the entertainer promises to come to the club on a specified night, in return for a sum of money.

</doc>
<doc id="14048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14048" title="Freezing">
Freezing

Freezing is the process when a liquid turns into a solid. Freezing occurs when heat is lost from an object, which causes the molecules to slow down and form tighter bonds. One example of freezing is when water turns into ice. Freezing is the opposite of melting, and two steps away from evaporation. Freezing occurs at below 0 degrees Celsius with water, while some other liquids become a solid at higher or lower temperatures.

</doc>
<doc id="14049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14049" title="Precious metal">
Precious metal

A precious metal is a type of metal that is worth a lot of money compared to most other metals. Some precious metals are gold, silver, and platinum. Many pieces of jewelry are made out of precious metals.
The precious metal worth the most amount of money for the same mass is Rhodium.

</doc>
<doc id="14050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14050" title="Jewellery">
Jewellery

Jewellery (or jewelry) refers to any clothing accessory that is worn as a decoration. 
In itself, jewellery has no other purpose than to look attractive. However, it is often added to items that have a practical function. Items such as belts and handbags are mainly accessories but may be decorated. A broach, often worn to keep a cloak closed, could be highly decorated with jewels.
Necklaces, finger rings and earrings are the most usual kinds of jewellery.
Humans have made jewelry for a long time. There are many forms of jewelry worn for traditional, social or religious reasons. Jewelry can come in many forms, worn on any part of the body or clothing. Jewelry most often are rings, chains, bead strings, pendants and piercings, worn around or on different body parts.
Jewelry can be made from any material. The first jewelry was made from bone, animal teeth, wood or stone. Jewelry often uses gemstones and precious metals.
"Fashion jewelry" or "costume jewelry" is jewelry that is worn just for fashion, and is not made of expensive materials.

</doc>
<doc id="14051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14051" title="Potassium">
Potassium

Potassium is a chemical element in the periodic table. It has the symbol K. This symbol is taken from the Latin word "kalium". Potassium's atomic number is 19. It has 19 protons and electrons. Potassium is not found as an element in nature, because it is so reactive.
Potassium has two stable isotopes, with 20 or 22 neutrons. Its atomic mass is 39.098. The unstable isotope with 21 neutrons is one of the most common radioactive materials.
Potassium is a soft gray metal. It can be cut easily with a knife. Its melting point is 63 degrees celsius (145.4 degrees Fahrenheit). It melts at a very low temperature. It is an alkali metal. It is the second lightest metal, after lithium. 
Potassium reacts in many chemical reactions similar to sodium and other alkali metals. It tarnishes in air to produce a whitish oxidized layer on the surface. This is why it is stored in oil. It also reacts very fast with water, which is another reason for its storage in oil. The hydrogen produced during its reaction with water can burst into flames when a large amount of potassium is added to water. Potassium hydroxide is also produced. Potassium also burns in air easily, to make the peroxide or the superoxide.
Potassium compounds are only in one oxidation state: +1. Potassium ions are colorless and similar to sodium ions. Potassium chloride can be used as a substitute for table salt. Potassium hydroxide is used in the electrolyte of alkaline cells. Most potassium compounds are nontoxic. If they are toxic, it is because of the anion. Potassium chromate is colored because of the chromate, not the potassium. Potassium chromate is toxic because of the chromate, not the potassium.
The word potassium comes from the word "potash". Potash is a mixture of potassium carbonate and potassium hydroxide that has been used for a very long time. In past centuries potash was made from ashes in pots. It is used to make fertilizer, soap, and glass.
Potassium does not occur in nature because it is too reactive. It is found in minerals, though. It is extracted from them by electrolysis of potassium hydroxide or potassium chloride. The potassium hydroxide or potassium chloride has to be melted at a very high temperature.
Potassium metal is used to absorb water from solvents. It is also used in some scientific instruments.
Potassium compounds are used in soap, fertilizer, explosives, and matches.
Potassium ions are very important to organisms. That is why fertilizers have potassium compounds in them. The ions send messages from cells to other cells. It helps biological membranes "depolarize". This means go from a negative to a positive electrical charge. This is needed for muscles to "contract" (get shorter and move things.) It is needed for the heart to "beat" (push blood through blood vessels.) If the potassium level in the blood is too high or too low it can cause death because the heart stops. A few good sources of potassium are bananas, apricots and raisins.
Potassium metal is very dangerous and can form an explosive coating if it is kept in air. It also reacts violently with water, spewing corrosive liquid all over. Potassium compounds are not normally dangerous, unless they contain a toxic anion like chromate or chlorate.

</doc>
<doc id="14055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14055" title="The Simpsons">
The Simpsons

The Simpsons is a cartoon set in America. It is an adult animated sitcom created by Matt Groening for the Fox Broadcasting Company. The show started on December 17, 1989 and so far over 578 episodes have aired in 27 seasons. As of today, the show is in its 27th season, which started on September 27, 2015. As a full-length movie, "The Simpsons Movie", was released on July 27, 2007 as a celebration of the franchise. It is aimed at the whole family.
The comedy takes place in the fake (make-believe) town of Springfield, although it is speculated that this town may correspond to the real-life cities of Springfield, Oregon (a city near where Groening grew up) or Springfield, Virginia. Bart's name is an anagram of Brat. His full name is Bartholomew Jojo Simpson.
The television show "The Simpsons" was originally shown as short shows on "The Tracey Ullman Show". Fox then decided to give them their own show in 1989.
Many episodes begin with a scene of Springfield Elementary School, where Bart Simpson is shown writing lines on a chalkboard as punishment for being bad. For example, in one episode, Bart writes, "I will not conduct my own fire drills." The line is supposed to be humourous. Not every episode has a new one and sometimes the chalkboard gag may be cut because there is not enough time. 
In the opening, all the Simpsons come home to the family. After Homer Simpson is almost or is hit by Marge's car, they all go into the living room, where something comical happens again. These are called "couch gags". On one couch gag Homer Simpson walked onto the screen like James Bond and shot the camera. Sometimes if an episode is a short one, then the couch gag will be very long. A couple of couch gags have been over one minute long.
At the end of the show, the credits are shown. Sometimes they might be changed. In one episode, the ending showed Homer reading from a document about Dateline. In another episode, where all of the character sung in song, the character Snake kept firing his gun in order to make the music that was playing stop.
A film based on the show, "The Simpsons Movie", was released in 2007, specifically on the day that it was released.It included the character Spider Pig as Homer's new pet after rescuing him from a chain restaurant, Krusty Burger. 

</doc>
<doc id="14056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14056" title="Teresa Heinz">
Teresa Heinz

Teresa Heinz Kerry (born October 5, 1938) is a Portuguese-American businesswoman and philanthropist. She was born in Maputo, Mozambique to Portuguese parents. She is the wife of United States Senator John Kerry. She was previously married to former U.S. sentator H. John Heinz III, until his death. She is a naturalized American citizen. She has breast cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="14057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14057" title="Museum">
Museum

A museum is a building which is open to the public. It is also the institution where things are collected and then shown to people.
The word, museum, originates Musa which are the goddesses of literature, art, and science who appear in Greek mythology.
According to the International Council of Museums (ICOM), the definition of museums has changed over time. 
The oldest museum structure in the world is the "Shōsō-in" in Nara, Japan.
Today's museums are non-profit, permanent institutions in the service of society and its development.
A museum acquires, conserves, researches, communicates and exhibits the and the heritage of humanity and the environment.
Museums exist for the purposes of education, study and enjoyment.
Some museums have things that visitors can do.
Museums can be about different things such as art, national history, natural history, or science. People go to museums sometimes to learn, or to simply have fun. 
Museums with live animals are called zoos.

</doc>
<doc id="14058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14058" title="Camera">
Camera

A camera is a device that takes pictures (photographs). It uses film or electronics to make a picture of something. A lens makes the image that the film or electronics "sees".
A camera that takes one picture at a time is sometimes called a "still camera". A camera that can take many pictures in a row is called a "movie camera". A camera that can take videos is called a "video camera" or a "camcorder". A Camera on a phone is called a "Camera Phone"
All cameras are basically a box that light can not get into until a photo is taken. There is a hole on one side of the camera where the light can get in through the lens, and this is called the aperture. On the other side is a special material that can record the image that comes through the aperture. This material is the film in a film camera or electronic sensor in a digital camera. Finally, there is also the shutter, which stops light from getting in until a photo is taken.
When a photo is taken, the shutter moves out of the way. This lets light come in through the aperture and make a picture on the film or electronic sensor. In many cameras, the size of the aperture can be changed to let in more light or less light. The amount of time that the shutter lets light through can be changed as well. This also lets in more light or less light. Most of the time, electronics inside the camera control these, but in some cameras the person taking the picture can change them as well.
A ciné camera or movie camera takes a rapid sequence of photographs on image sensor or strips of film. Unlike a still camera the ciné camera takes a series of images, each one is called a "frame". The frames are later played back in a ciné projector at a specific speed, called the "frame rate" (number of frames per second). While viewing, a person's eyes and brain merge the separate pictures to create the illusion of motion. The first ciné camera was built around 1888. By 1890 several types were being made. The standard film size for ciné cameras was quickly established as 35mm film. This remained in use until transition to digital cinematography.
A professional video camera (often called a television camera) is a high-end device for creating electronic moving images. Their use includes music videos, movies, corporate and educational videos.

</doc>
<doc id="14059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14059" title="News">
News

News is when people talk about current events (things that are happening right now). News can be given in newspapers, television, magazines, or radio. There are several news channels on cable television that give news all day long, such as Fox News and CNN. There are several news magazines, such as "Time", "The Economist", and "Newsweek". A newsman is a person who helps out with the news. For example, Brian Gotter is a newsman.

</doc>
<doc id="14061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14061" title="Export">
Export

An export is a product that is sold to people outside of the country in which the product was made. Canada exports maple syrup to the United States and to many other countries. Tropical areas like the countries in the Caribbean send sugar cane to other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="14062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14062" title="Observatory">
Observatory

An observatory is a place for making observations. Usually it means a building that holds one or many big telescopes. Observatories are used by astronomers to look at the sky. Modern observatories are usually high up on mountains or hills, because they need clear and clean air to be able to see properly. The higher you go, the clearer, dryer and cleaner the air gets. Observatories also have to be away from places that have lots of light pollution, like cities. Too much light can make it so that the astronomers cannot see out of the telescope very well.

</doc>
<doc id="14066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14066" title="Epidemic">
Epidemic

An epidemic is a disease that spreads over a large area and affects many people at the same time. Epidemics are when a disease spreads from person to person faster than doctors can control. If the disease spreads over the whole world, sometimes it is called a pandemic.
Such diseases must be treated quickly and properly otherwise they can infect people on large scale and pose a danger to the world. It is very important that timely vaccination and treatment is provided. The study of epidemics is part of epidemiology.

</doc>
<doc id="14073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14073" title="George of the Jungle">
George of the Jungle

George of the Jungle is an animated television series created by Jay Ward Productions in the late 1960s as a parody (pretending to be but in a way that makes fun of) of Tarzan. In 1997, it was made into a live-action movie by Disney, with Brendan Fraser as the main character. There was a sequel George of the Jungle 2 released direct-to-video in 2003. There was and is a video game based on the film which was and is 2D Platformer game "George of the Jungle" by Ignition Entertainment/Crave in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="14075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14075" title="Westminster Abbey">
Westminster Abbey

Westminster Abbey is a large and famous Anglican church in Westminster, London. It is the shrine of Edward the Confessor and the burial place of many kings and queens. Since it was built it has been the place where the coronations of Kings and Queens of England have been held. The present structure dates from 1245, when it was started by Henry III.
The status of the Abbey is that of a Royal Peculiar. This means it is place of worship that falls directly under the jurisdiction of the British monarch, rather than under a bishop. The concept dates from Anglo-Saxon times, when a church could ally itself with the monarch and therefore not be subject to the bishop of the area. Technically speaking, it is not a cathedral, though it is regarded as one in practice.
One of the most famous tombs at Westminster Abbey is that of the Unknown Warrior.
Westminster Abbey and its small parish church, St Margaret's, form a UNESCO World Heritage site, which also includes Westminster Palace.
Since the coronations in 1066 of both King Harold and William the Conqueror, coronations of English and British monarchs were held in the Abbey. Henry III was unable to be crowned in London when he first came to the throne because the French prince Louis (later Louis VIII) had taken control of the city. So the king was crowned in Gloucester Cathedral, but this coronation was deemed by the Pope to be improper, and a further coronation was held in the Abbey on 17 May 1220. The Archbishop of Canterbury is the cleric in the coronation ceremony.
King Edward's Chair (or St Edward's Chair), is the throne on which British sovereigns sit when the crown is put on their heads. It is kept in the Abbey, and has been used at every coronation since 1308. From 1301 to 1996 (except for 1950 when it was briefly stolen by Scottish nationalists), the chair also housed the Stone of Scone upon which the kings of Scotland are crowned. Although the Stone is now kept in Scotland, at future coronations the Stone will be returned briefy to St Edward's Chair for the moment of coronation.
Until the 19th century, Westminster was the third seat of learning in England, after Oxford and Cambridge. It was here that the first third of the King James Bible Old Testament and the last half of the New Testament were translated. The New English Bible was also put together here in the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="14076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14076" title="The Eagles">
The Eagles

The Eagles are an American rock band. They formed in Los Angeles, California in 1971. They are known worldwide for their hit song, Hotel California. They presently (2006) hold the record for most albums sold, with their "Greatest Hits, Volume I".

</doc>
<doc id="14079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14079" title="Himalayas">
Himalayas

The Himalayas are a mountain range in South Asia, the highest in the world. 
The west end is in Pakistan. They run through Jammu and Kashmir, into the Republic of India's Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal states, Nepal, and the Kingdoms of Sikkim, and Bhutan. They end in the south of China's Tibetan Autonomous Region. 
The 15 highest mountains in the world are in the Himalayas. The main ones are the Mount Everest, K2, Annapurna, and Nanga Parbat. Mount Everest is the highest mountain on the face of the Earth. Mount Everest is 8,849 meters. There are over 100 mountains. Of the fifteen highest mountain peaks in the World, nine of them are in the Nepali Himalayas.
The word "Himalaya" means "House of Snow" in Sanskrit, an old Indian language. The Himalayas are so high that they kept the Indian and Chinese people separate from each other most of the time. In fact, India is a peninsula that is cut off from the rest of Asia by the mountains. India is often called a sub-continent because it is larger and more isolated than other peninsulas. 
North of the Himalayas is the Tibetan Plateau. It is called “the roof of the world”. However, the Tibetan Plateau is very dry because the plateau and the mountains act as a gigantic rain shadow. The rain falls instead on the south side of the mountains. This has greatly influenced the climate of the Indian subcontinent. Not only does it block the extremely cold winter winds blowing from Central Asia from entering Subcontinent, it also forces the Bay of Bengal Monsoon branch to shed its moisture along NE and Northern Indian States, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh.
Geologically, the origin of the Himalayas is the impact of the Indian tectonic plate. This travels northward at 15 cm per year, and joined the Eurasian continent about 40-50 million years ago. The formation of the Himalayas resulted in the lighter rock of the seabeds of that time being lifted up into mountains. An often-cited fact used to illustrate this process is that the summit of Mount Everest is made of marine limestone.
The Indian plate is still moving north at 67 mm per year. Over the next 10 million years it will travel about 1,500 km into Asia. About 20 mm per year of the India-Asia convergence is absorbed by thrusting along the Himalaya southern front. This leads to the Himalayas rising by about 5 mm per year, making them geologically active. The movement of the Indian plate into the Asian plate also leads to earthquakes from time to time.
The Himalayas are very popular for tourists because it has a lot of wildlife. The types of plants and trees, which are common in the place, are Oak, Pine, Fir, Rhododendron, Birch, Juniper, and Deodar. Common animals, which are seen mostly in the different parts of the Himalayas, are snow leopards, blue sheep, musk deer, tigers, elephants, wild boar, and crocodiles. Even endangered species of animals and plants are also found there. In the north part of the Himalayas where the temperature falls below freezing point, animals cannot survive well. However, those who adapted can survive. During the cold winters most of the animals migrate to the lower regions of the Himalayas while others like the brown bear hibernate instead. The Yak is mostly seen in the cold desert. They are like wild ox and they are the largest animals in this region. In regions of Ladakh animals like Nyan, the wild and the most largest sheep are found.
Some of the major places for wildlife attractions in the Himalayas are:
The five main rivers of the Himalayas are the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, and Satluj. The rivers are the main source of human and animal life in those areas.

</doc>
<doc id="14116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14116" title="Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport">
Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport

The BEST or the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport is Mumbai's public transport service and electricity provider. The government owned organisation, which was set up in 1873, operates one of India's largest bus fleets. Originally setup as a tramway company, it branched out into supplying electricity to the city in 1905, and later into operating buses in 1926. The BEST is run by the city's municipality as an autonomous body. 
The bus transport service covers almost the entire city and extends its operations outside city limits. In addition to buses, it also operates a ferry service. The electricity division of the organisation is also one of the few electricity departments in India to garner an annual net profit. Until 1995, BEST stood for Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport. After the name of the city was formally changed from Bombay to Mumbai, this was also reflected with the adjustment to Brihanmumbai, which means "Greater Mumbai".

</doc>
<doc id="14117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14117" title="Gelderland">
Gelderland

Gelderland is a province in the east of the Netherlands. The capital city is Arnhem, but Nijmegen and Apeldoorn are bigger. Other important cities are Zutphen, Doetinchem, Harderwijk and Tiel.
It is surrounded by the provinces of Limburg, North Brabant, South Holland, Utrecht, Flevoland and Overijssel and the German federal state North Rhine-Westphalia. 
The most important rivers are the Rhine ("Rijn"), the Waal, the IJssel and the Maas (border with North Brabant). The border with Flevoland is formed by the so-called "randmeer" ("border lake") of the Flevopolder. 
In the 11th century, Guelders was a county. It was called "Gelre" in Dutch and "Geldern" in German. In 1339, it became a duchy. At first, it existed of the surroundings of the city of Geldern (now in Germany). By the end of the 14th century, it included most of the modern province of Gelderland and parts of the province of Limburg and of the German District of Cleves. It became part of the Habsburg Netherlands in 1543, one of the Seventeen Provinces.
At this moment (2005), these are the municipalities in Gelderland:
Aalten | Apeldoorn | Arnhem | Barneveld | Berkelland | Beuningen | Bronckhorst | Brummen | Buren | Culemborg | Doesburg | Doetinchem | Druten | Duiven | Ede | Elburg | Epe | Ermelo | Geldermalsen | Groenlo | Groesbeek | Harderwijk | Hattem | Heerde | Heumen | Lingewaal | Lingewaard | Lochem | Maasdriel | Millingen aan de Rijn | Montferland | Neder-Betuwe | Neerijnen | Nijkerk | Nijmegen | Nunspeet | Oldebroek | Oude IJsselstreek | Overbetuwe | Putten | Renkum | Rheden | Rijnwaarden | Rozendaal | Scherpenzeel | Tiel | Ubbergen | Voorst | Wageningen | West Maas en Waal | Westervoort | Wijchen | 
Winterswijk | Zaltbommel | Zevenaar | Zutphen

</doc>
<doc id="14127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14127" title="Canvas">
Canvas

Canvas is a thick material usually made of woven cotton. It is used for tents and sails on boats and other places where a sturdy material would be good. It is similar to the material in blue jeans. It is often a white or pale tan color. It can also be used for painting or even making shoes.

</doc>
<doc id="14130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14130" title="Large format lens">
Large format lens

A Large format lens is a lens that can be used on a large format camera. These cameras usually cover an area of 4x5 inches or more. The picture taken is then recorded on photographic film, or as a digital image.

</doc>
<doc id="14132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14132" title="Ramones">
Ramones

The Ramones were an American punk rock group who formed in New York City in 1974 and broke up in 1996. All the members of the group had stage names which replaced their real last names with "Ramone." They were one of the first punk bands. Some others were The Clash, Sex Pistols, and The Damned. Three of the four founding members of the Ramones died within eight years of the band breaking up.
The original lineup was made up of Joey on drums, Johnny on guitar and Dee Dee on bass and vocals. Tommy was their manager. Then Dee Dee said he was unable to sing while playing bass, so Tommy got Joey to sing and then played drums himself, leaving Dee Dee to backup sing. Later, Tommy left the band and was replaced on drums by a new member, Marky. Eventually Marky was fired and then replaced by another drummer, Richie. After that, Dee Dee left the band to produce his own rap album. C.J. joined the band as their new bassist.
Their first album "Ramones" is now a classic of early punk rock. The songs are short, the melodies simple and the text is often made up of 2 or three phrases only. Their live concerts were legendary, extremely loud and very short. They played song after song, only interrupted by Dee Dee's (and later, C.J.'s) shouts of "one, two, three, four!".
The Ramones never had big commercial success. Among their best-known songs today are "Blitzkrieg Bop" and "I Wanna Be Sedated." Now they are seen as one of the most important punk rock bands. Several rock bands, including Nirvana and Green Day were influenced by the Ramones.

</doc>
<doc id="14133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14133" title="Olivia Newton-John">
Olivia Newton-John

Olivia Newton-John (born 26 September 1948) is an Anglo-Australian singer and actress. Her first successful song was "Let Me Be There". The song made the top 10 on the U.S. pop chart. She has since won four Grammy Awards. Her first big acting role was in Grease. It became the most successful movie of 1978.
Newton-John was born in Cambridge, England. Her father was Welsh. Her mother was from Berlin, the daughter of Max Born. Newton-John is the youngest of three children. In 1954, her family moved to Australia. At age 12, she won a contest at school with girl group "Sol Four". When she was 17 years old, she had her first appearance in a movie, "Funny Things Happen Down Under" (1965), where she sang "Christmas Time Down Under". Shortly after she was in a talent contest and won first prize, a trip to England. She got a record deal on Decca Records and released her first single, "Till You Say You'll Be Mine", in 1966.
Newton-John stayed in England and recorded a cover of the Bob Dylan song, "If Not For You". It was the song which first caused her to be well known. She released her first solo album, "If Not For You", in 1971. In 1973, her career began to do well. Her first successful song was "Let Me Be There". The song made the top 10 on the US pop chart. It also earned her a Grammy Award for Best Country Female. More successful songs followed: "If You Love Me Let Me Know," "I Honestly Love You", "Have You Never Been Mellow", "Please Mr. Please" and many more. 
Her first big acting role was with John Travolta in Grease. It became the most successful movie of 1978.
Olivia has lived in California for decades. She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. She had breast cancer in 1992, and recovered. She has been married twice. She has a daughter by her first husband.
She is also an activist for environmental and animal rights issues.

</doc>
<doc id="14134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14134" title="Kansas (band)">
Kansas (band)

Kansas is an American rock band. They formed in Topeka, Kansas in 1970. They are best known for songs including "Carry on Wayward Son" and "Dust in The Wind".

</doc>
<doc id="14135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14135" title="Styx (band)">
Styx (band)

Styx was an American rock band. They were one of the most popular groups of the 1970s and early 1980s. They formed in Chicago in 1972. They were the first band to have four platinum albums in a row. They continued playing after reuniting in 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="14136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14136" title="Jethro Tull (band)">
Jethro Tull (band)

Jethro Tull is a rock band. They formed in Blackpool, England in 1967. The singer and leader is Ian Anderson. He also plays flute. This band was highly successful and sung songs such as "Aqualung", "Locomotive Breath", "Living in the Past" and "Thick as a Brick".

</doc>
<doc id="14139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14139" title="Turtle">
Turtle

Turtles are the reptile order Testudines. They have a special bony or cartilaginous shell developed from their ribs that acts as a shield. 
The order Testudines includes both living and extinct species. The earliest fossil turtles date from about 220 million years ago. So turtles are one of the oldest surviving reptile groups and a more ancient group than lizards, snakes and crocodiles. 
Turtle have been very successful, and have an almost world-wide distribution. But, of the many species alive today, some are highly endangered.
Although the word turtle is widely used to describe all members of the order Testudines, it is also common to see certain members described as terrapins, tortoises or sea turtles, as well. How these names are used, if at all, depends on the type of English.
To avoid confusion, the word "chelonian" is popular among some who work with these animals, as a catch-all name. Unfortunately, "Chelonia" is the name of a particular genus of turtles, so this conflicts with its use as a general catch-all term for the order Testudines.
Although many turtles spend much of their lives underwater, all turtles and tortoises breathe air, and must surface at regular intervals to refill their lungs. They can also spend much of their lives on dry land. 
Aquatic respiration in Australian freshwater turtles is being studied. Some species have large cloacal cavities that are lined with many finger-like projections. These projections, called papillae, have a rich blood supply, and increase the surface area. The turtles can take up dissolved oxygen from the water using these papillae, in much the same way that fish use gills to respire.
Turtles lay eggs, like other reptiles, which are slightly soft and leathery. The eggs of the largest species are spherical, while the eggs of the rest are elongated. Sea turtles lay their eggs on dry, sandy beaches. Turtles can take many years to reach breeding age, and in many cases breed every few years rather than annually. 
In some species, there is temperature-dependent sex determination. Temperature determines whether an egg develops into a male or a female: a higher temperature causes a female, a lower temperature causes a male. Large numbers of eggs are deposited in holes dug into mud or sand. They are then covered and left to incubate by themselves. When the turtles hatch, they squirm their way to the surface and head toward the water. No turtle mother cares for its young.
Researchers have recently discovered a turtle’s organs do not gradually break down or become less efficient over time, unlike most other animals. It was found that the liver, lungs, and kidneys of a centenarian turtle are almost identical with that of its young counterpart. This has inspired genetic researchers to begin examining the turtle genome for longevity genes.
Turtles are divided into two groups, according to how they evolved a solution to the problem of withdrawing their necks into their shells: the Cryptodira, which can draw their necks in while contracting it under their spine; and the Pleurodira, which contract their necks to the side. This important adaptation evolved twice from ancestral turtles which did not have this ability.
Turtles have a hard beak. Turtles use their jaws to cut and chew food. Instead of teeth, the upper and lower jaws of the turtle are covered by horny ridges. Carnivorous turtles usually have knife-sharp ridges for slicing through their prey. Herbivorous turtles have serrated-edged ridges that help them cut through tough plants. Turtles use their tongues to swallow food, but they cannot, unlike most reptiles, stick out their tongues to catch food.
The upper shell of the turtle is called the carapace. The lower shell that encases the belly is called the plastron. The carapace and plastron are joined together on the turtle's sides by bony structures called "bridges". 
The inner layer of a turtle's shell is made up of about 60 bones. It include parts of the backbone and the ribs, meaning the turtle cannot crawl out of its shell. In most turtles, the outer layer of the shell is covered by horny scales called scutes that are part of its outer skin, or epidermis. Scutes are made up of a fibrous protein called keratin that also makes up the scales of other reptiles. These scutes overlap the seams between the shell bones and add strength to the shell. Some turtles do not have horny scutes. For example, the leatherback sea turtle and the soft-shelled turtles have shells covered with leathery skin instead.
The largest chelonian is a marine turtle, the great leatherback sea turtle, which reaches a shell length of 200 cm (80 inches) and can reach a weight of over 900 kg (2,000 lb, or 1 short ton). Freshwater turtles are generally smaller, but with the largest species, the Asian softshell turtle "Pelochelys cantorii", a few individuals have been reported to measure up to 200 cm or 80 in (Das, 1991). This dwarfs even the better-known alligator snapping turtle, the largest chelonian in North America, which attains a shell length of up to 80 cm (31½ in) and a weight of about 60 kg (170 lb).
The lagest fossil turtle, "Archelon", was more than twice the length of the leatherback, at up to 4.5 metres.
The first fossil proto-turtles come from Upper Triassic of the Mesozoic era, about 220 million years ago. Their shell evolved from bony extensions of their backbones and broad ribs that expanded and grew together to form a complete shell. It offered protection at every stage of its evolution, even when the bony component of the shell was not complete. This proved a long-lasting adaptation, and the group as a whole has survived many changes in the seas, and several extinction events.
Fossils of the freshwater "Odontochelys semitestacea" or "half-shelled turtle with teeth", from the later Triassic, have been found in southwest China. "Odontochelys" displays a complete bony plastron and an incomplete carapace, similar to an early stage of turtle embryonic development. By the Upper Jurassic, turtles had radiated widely, and their fossil history becomes easier to read.
Their exact ancestry has been a puzzle. Early amniotes had no openings in the skull behind the eyes. Openings developed in both Sauropsid and Synapsid skulls. They made the skull lighter, gave attachment points for muscles, and gave room for muscle bulges. But turtles do not have these skull openings. They were called 'anapsids', meaning 'no openings'.
Eventually it was suggested that turtles evolved from sauropsids which had skull openings, but turtles lost them as part of their evolution towards heavy defensive armour. All molecular studies have strongly upheld the placement of turtles within diapsids; some place turtles within Archosauria, or as a sister group to extant archosaurs.
The earliest known fully shelled turtles are the late Triassic "Odontochelys", "Chinlechelys" and "Proganochelys". The first-named genus was aquatic, but the second was probably terrestrial. They already had many advanced turtle traits, and thus probably had many millions of years of preceding turtle evolution and species in their ancestry. They did lack the ability to pull their heads into their shell (and they had a long neck), and ("Odontochelys") had a long, spiked tail ending in a club, a body form similar to that of ankylosaurs, resulting from convergent evolution.
Turtles are divided into two extant suborders, the Cryptodira and the Pleurodira. The Cryptodira is the larger of the two groups and includes all the marine turtles, the terrestrial tortoises, and many of the freshwater turtles. The Pleurodira are sometimes known as the side-necked turtles, a reference to the way they withdraw their heads into their shells. This smaller group consists primarily of various freshwater turtles.

</doc>
<doc id="14143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14143" title="Rage Against the Machine">
Rage Against the Machine

Rage Against the Machine, sometimes known as RATM or Rage, is a rock band from Los Angeles, California. Rage Against the Machine are known for their mixing of funk, hip-hop, metal and rock music as well as their openly left wing politics. The band members have been the same since they started in 1991. The band members are rapper Zack de la Rocha, guitarist Tom Morello, bass player Tim Commerford and drummer Brad Wilk. Morello, Commerford and Wilk were also in Audioslave with Chris Cornell.
RATM released their debut album in 1992. It was called "Rage Against the Machine". The album sold a lot of copies and reached number 40 on the Billboard top 200 music chart. The band did not do another album until "Evil Empire" in 1996. The bands third album "The Battle of Los Angeles" was released in 1999 and shortly after in 2000 the band released a covers album, "Renegades".

</doc>
<doc id="14151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14151" title="Product (mathematics)">
Product (mathematics)

In mathematics, a product is a number or a quantity obtained by multiplying two or more numbers together. For example: 4 × 7 = 28 Here, the number 28 is called the product of 4 and 7. The product of 6 and 4 will be 24, because 6 × 4 = 24.
A short notation for long multiplication expressions is the product notation. It uses the capital Greek letter pi: formula_1. This works the same as the Sigma notation.
From the above equation we can see that "any" number with an exponent can be represented by a product, though it normally is not desirable.
Unlike summation, the sums of two terms cannot be separated into different sums. That is,
This can be thought of in terms of polynomials: you normally cannot separate terms inside them before they are raised to an exponent!
The product of powers with the same base can be written as an exponential of the sum of the powers' exponents:

</doc>
<doc id="14155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14155" title="Universal Declaration of Human Rights">
Universal Declaration of Human Rights

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a "declaration" (something said in an important way) by the United Nations General Assembly. It talks about basic human rights -- rights that all people have just because they are human. It was "adopted" (agreed to) by the United Nations General Assembly on December 10, 1948.
The UDHR (initialism for Universal Declaration of Human Rights) is translated into over 300 languages. This is more languages than any other document, according to the Guinness Book of World Records.
The UDHR may be broken into 30 parts or "articles". Each article says one idea about human rights. Most people think these are the most important ideas:
The United Nations Human Development Report (UNHDR) has been criticised by different people. Mainly Islamic countries have pointed out that its understanding is mainly that of Christians or Jews. Muslims could not implement certain parts of the declaration, without trespassing Islamic law. On 30 June 2000, Muslim nations that are members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference officially resolved to support the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam, an alternative document that says people have "freedom and right to a dignified life in accordance with the Islamic Shari’ah".
Certain Libertarians have stated that some of the positive rights must be implemented by force: Few people will study for years, to become a doctor, if they cannot charge a fee for treating patients; but that patients expect to be treated for free.

</doc>
<doc id="14162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14162" title="Dolphin">
Dolphin

Dolphins are mammals in the order Cetacea. They are part of the toothed whales. Generally, they are among the smaller whales. Most live in salt water oceans, but some live in rivers there are oceanic dolphins and river dolphins. Dolphins are from 1.5 to 4 metres (4.5 ft to 13 ft) long. The Killer whale is the largest of the group, and can be about .
The name 'dolphin' comes from the Ancient Greek δελφίς ("delphis") meaning "with a womb", because it was first thought to be a fish with a womb. It is now known to be a mammal, and quite an intelligent mammal. Dolphins breathe air. A dolphin's nose is on top of its head so the dolphin can easily breathe on the surface of the water. The skin of a dolphin has no scales. It is soft and smooth. However, it is very firm, due to how much muscle they have. Dolphins use echolocation to find their food.
Dolphins swim in 'pods'; a very large pod is called a "herd". They are very social and help each other fight off predators. Dolphins have fought off sharks in this way. They can kill large sharks by them over and over again with their snouts and heads. They look after the young when the mothers that need to leave their calves to hunt for food. The young need to breathe more often than the adults, and the food may be in deeper waters.
Oceanic dolphins are marine animals living in the sea. They live in all of the oceans.
Three of the four species of river dolphins live in fresh water rivers. The La Plata Dolphin lives in saltwater estuaries and the ocean. Water pollution and the loss of habitat are a threat to some dolphins, especially those living in rivers and estuaries.
Dolphins do not sleep in a normal way. They have two sides of their brain, which they use to sleep. One side sleeps, while the other side stays awake. They will keep one eye open to watch for predators while they sleep.
Dolphins (and other cetaceans) sleep in the water. There is danger from sharks. While sleeping in water, the animals go through different stages of sleep. They do some behaviours during sleep: they come to the surface occasionally to breathe, and they have an eye open most of the time. The details vary in different species or groups. Predator detection is the obvious function of this behaviour. Similar adaptations are found in pinnipeds like seals.
The brain of a dolphin is like a human brain in size and development. Dolphins have reasonable eyesight. They can watch a thing in the water, and they can see colors, too. They can also see in dark places. 
A dolphin's hearing is better than their sight. There are small holes behind the eyes, and they are the ears of a dolphin. Dolphins can hear a sound underwater. They can know the direction of the sound very well.
Dolphins have long played a role in human culture. Dolphins are common in Greek mythology and there are many coins from ancient Greece which feature a man or boy or deity riding on the back of a dolphin. The Ancient Greeks welcomed dolphins; spotting dolphins riding in a ship’s wake was considered a good omen. In Hindu mythology, the Ganges River Dolphin is associated with Ganga, the deity of the Ganges river.
Dolphin meat is eaten in a few countries, including Japan and Peru (where it is referred to as "chancho marino", or "sea pork"). Japan may be the best-known and most controversial example, but eating dolphin is not that common.
Dolphin therapy is sometimes used for people with mental or physical handicaps. It involves contact with trained dolphins. It is not agreed whether this is any better than the usual treatments.
Scientists continue to study dolphin therapy.
"Some examples:"

</doc>
<doc id="14166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14166" title="Guinea">
Guinea

Guinea, or the Republic of Guinea (), is an independent nation in western Africa. They speak French. It's a member of Economic Community of West African States.
Guinea is divided into 8 regions and then divided even further into 33 prefectures. The capital of Guinea, Conakry, is a special area.
The following are the biggest cities in Guinea, by population:
The following is a list of notable people from Guinea:

</doc>
<doc id="14167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14167" title="Pig">
Pig

Pigs are mammals in the genus Sus. They include the domestic pig and its ancestor, the common Eurasian wild boar ("Sus scrofa"), and other species. Pigs are in the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates. 
Related, but outside the genus, are the babirusa and the warthog. Pigs, like all suids, are native to the Old World. Juvenile pigs are known as piglets. Pigs are omnivores and are highly social and intelligent animals.
Domestic pigs are eaten as food called pork or bacon. The Jewish and Muslim religions, and some Christian denominations, believe eating pork is wrong. It is, however quite healthy food for humans. Pig farmers take care that the animals do not get diseases or parasites which might harm humans.
Domestic pigs are often pink, but small pigs kept as pets ("pot-bellied pigs") are often other colors. Pigs often roll in mud to protect themselves from sunlight. Many people think that pigs are dirty and smell. In fact, they roll around in the mud to keep bugs and ticks away from their skin. This also helps to keep their skin moist and lower their body temperature on hot days. They are omnivores, which means they eat anything that comes in their way. 
Pigs are intelligent animals. They can be taught to dance, hunt for truffles, race, pull carts and sniff out landmines. They can even be taught to play video games.
Pigs need a warm, clean area under a roof to sleep, and they should not be crowded. They need to be checked for sickness regularly. Stress can make them get sick with rabies more easily.
Pigs need lots of water. Over half their body weight is made up of water. Pigs should be given all the feed they will eat, which is usually 4 to 5 pounds a day for adult pigs. Corn is a good food for pigs, but they should also have protein supplements as well.
Pigs are often found on farms throughout the world and can be popular pets. A new breed of micro pigs has become very popular but often piglets are misold as micro pigs and then grow to be too big. In places pigs are mass farmed to produce the best animal for meat. These meat farms are often overcrowded with pigs and conditions are really bad.You can find pigs in farms. Some pigs are wild and some are live on a farm.

</doc>
<doc id="14168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14168" title="Wheat">
Wheat

Wheat (species of "Triticum") is a cereal grain that people can eat. It is a kind of grass whose fruit is a "head of wheat" with edible seeds. It was first grown in the Levant, a region of the Near East. Now it is cultivated worldwide. 
World trade in wheat is greater than for all other crops combined. Globally, wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food. It has a higher protein content than other major cereals such as maize (corn) or rice. In terms of total production, it is second to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize (maize is used more for animal feeds).
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization. It was one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale, and its seeds could be stored for long periods in a dry climate. Wheat helped the growth of city-states in the Fertile Crescent, including the Babylonian and Assyrian empires. 
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened, flat and steamed breads, biscuits, cookies, cakes, breakfast cereal, pasta, noodles, couscous. It can also be fermented to make beer, alcohol, vodka, or biofuel. 
An allergy to wheat can cause coeliac disease, which makes the sufferer have diarrhoea if they eat any food containing wheat.
The wheat plant has long, slender leaves, stems that are hollow in most types of wheat plants, and heads that have many kinds of flowers, from 20 to 100. The flowers are grouped together in spikelets. Each spikelet has two to six flowers. In most spikelets, two or three of the flowers become fertilized, and this makes them produce the grains used for food.
All cultivated wheats have more than one normal diploid set of chromosomes. The increases in chromosome sets occurs naturally at a low rate. Because they have more chromosomes, their ears of wheat are larger. All man did was to select the plants with extra fat ears of wheat when they occurred. Now a whole range of cultivated wheats are available. These are just a few:
Hexaploid species (six sets of chromosomes)
Tetraploid species (four sets)
Diploid species (normal two sets of chromosomes)
Emmer wheat ("Triticum dicoccum"), or 'hulled wheat', is a type of "awned" wheat. It was one of the first crops domesticated in the Near East. It was widely cultivated in the ancient world, but is now a relict crop in mountainous regions of Europe and Asia.
In the wild, the awns of emmer wheat spikelets help them dig into the soil. With humidity in the night, the awns of the spikelet become erect and draw together, and in the process push the grain into the soil. During the day, the humidity drops and the awns slacken back again. During the course of days and nights, the awns' pumping movements drill the spikelet as much as an inch into the soil.
Einkorn wheat is one of the earliest cultivated forms of wheat, ("Triticum monococcum"). Grains of wild einkorn have been found in Paleolithic sites of the Fertile Crescent. It was first domesticated about 7500 BC (~9000 years ago), in the early Neolithic period. Evidence from DNA suggests einkorn was domesticated in southeast Turkey, where a number of early farming villages have been found. Its cultivation decreased in the Bronze Age, and today it is a relic crop that is rarely planted. It has found a new market as a health food. It is still used for bulgur (cracked wheat) or as animal feed, in mountainous areas of France, Morocco, former Yugoslavia, Turkey and other countries. It often survives on poor soils where other species of wheat fail.
Einkorn was domesticated at the same time as emmer wheat, but was not so important.

</doc>
<doc id="14169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14169" title="Taliban">
Taliban

The Taliban is an Islamic militant group operating in Afghanistan and western Pakistan. In the late 1990s it made a government, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. It was formed in 1994 in southern Afghanistan and was helped by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. 
The Taliban governed Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. During this time, its leaders put in place the strictest forms of Sharia law ever seen in the Muslim world. Much criticism of the Taliban came from important Muslim scholars. For example, if a thief was caught stealing something the Taliban would cut-off one of his hands so that he does not use it to steal again, no matter what it was that he stole. Many criminals were put to death fast and without a fair trial. Anyone who refused to follow the law was considered a non-Muslim enemy. Every male had to go to mosque for prayer (except Afghan non-Muslims) during praying times, which is 5 times daily. The Taliban became known around the world for their very bad treatment of women. 
After the September 11 attacks in 2001, the United States invaded Afghanistan. The Taliban had been giving al-Qaeda a safe base from which to operate. The U.S. government said that Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda members did the attacks in New York and Washington, but the Taliban asked the U.S. for proof of this before it would arrest them. The aim of the invasion was to remove the Taliban government from power, destroy al-Qaeda and capture bin Laden. The Taliban is still fighting the Afghan and Pakistani governments in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="14170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14170" title="Screw">
Screw

A screw is a sharp piece of threaded metal similar to a nail. Unlike a nail, a screw has spiral grooves down its spike. A screw is pressed down against wood and turned with a screwdriver. The grooves cut into the wood. This prevents the screw from falling out, as a nail might. Screws can be made of steel, iron, brass, bronze, plastic, etc.
There are also machine screws and self-tapping screws. Machine screws are bolts which have screw threads. The threads matched with nuts with female threads. 
Screw threads are measured either in millimeters or in numbers. They are used in furniture, doors, appliances, etc.
Screwing is the neatest way of holding together two materials. If no glue is involved, then the screwing can be dismantled. 
These are three different types of screw. 
Do not place screws in line as this weakens the wood. 
Use the right size screwdriver for the screw head. A screwdriver that is too slim can damage the slot, too wide can tear the materials. Screw threads in both wood and metal can become stripped, resulting in loss of holding power, and can also be difficult to remove.

</doc>
<doc id="14171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14171" title="Tajikistan">
Tajikistan

Tajikistan is a country in South-central Asia. It was previously part of the Soviet Union. Tajikistan is a republic. The capital city is Dushanbe. The official language is Tajik,which is a dialect of Farsi (Persian). 
Tajikistan is a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the CIS. Tajikistan is eighth in size of CIS countries.
Tajikistan is one of the new countries in South-central Asia. It is west of China, north of Afghanistan and Pakistan, that is separated by a narrow 14 km strip of Tajik claimed land known as the Wakhan Corridor in the Pamirs, east of Uzbekistan and south of Kyrgyzstan. 
Tajikistan is landlocked in the middle of the continent of Asia.
Its total area is only about . It is slightly smaller than Wisconsin, USA. Tajikistan’s borders total to long.
The climate has hot summers and mild winters. 
Almost all of the country (85 percent) is mountainous with river-valleys running across, however high altitude mountains of Pomir are in the eastern part of the country, (which is the west end of the Himalayas). The climate there is semiarid to polar. The mountains cover an area of about . There are other countries within the mountain range. The mountains are between high.
Karakul lake is located within a meteorite crater, which would have formed about 25 million years ago, or less than 5 million years ago.
The land that is now Tajikistan has been lived in since 4,000 BC. It has been under the rule of various empires throughout history, mostly the Persian Empires. 
In the year 800, Islam came to Tajikistan. 
In 1868, Tajikistan became a Russian Colony. It later became a part of the Soviet Union .
On 9 September 1991, after long periods of mass protests against Soviet Government, the Parliament of Tajikistan declared independence from Soviet Union, and held first presidential elections. 
Rahmon Nabiev, who ran the country during Soviet Union in the late 1970s and early 1980s, become its president. He was unable to bring any much needed reforms to the country, and so there were protests in the capital city, Dushanbe. 
The government responded by organising a pro-government demonstration, mainly made of old Communist Party members and people from the southeast of the country brought to the city. Anti-government protests did not stop, so the government gave weapons to the pro-government demonstrator. Then the Opposition armed themselves.
After this bloody civil war broke out. In which all of the new democratic parties, political organisations and movements together with the political Islamic movements created an alliance, opposing the old communist government and southerners.
After the September 11, 2001 attacks, many American and French Soldiers came into the country.
Tajikistan is divided into 4 provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="14172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14172" title="Fear">
Fear

Fear is an emotion much like anxiety. A person who fears something does not want it to happen, because they think something bad will happen to them if it does. Fear is the body's way of protecting itself from doing things that may be dangerous. For example, if one has a fear of jumping off a cliff, he/she will not do it. This saves one from death. In this case, fear is a good thing but in others, it can be bad. An example of fear being bad is if it stops one from doing something important, like going to see a doctor.

</doc>
<doc id="14173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14173" title="Tongue">
Tongue

The tongue is the fleshy muscle inside the mouth. A tongue lets us taste because the top of the tongue is made mostly of taste buds. It also helps the process of mastication by mixing food with saliva. It is very flexible, so it also helps us eat and talk. The tongue is the strongest muscle in the human body. 
Some people can roll their tongue into a tube. The reason why some people are able to and some are not is because of genetic inheritance, meaning that it is based on whether their parents are able to do it. Many schools use tongue rolling as an example of a genetic trait.
People who can roll their tongue can sometimes make a high pitched sound by blowing through their rolled tongue.

</doc>
<doc id="14174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14174" title="Titanium">
Titanium

Titanium is a very strong metal. It is chemical element number 22 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Ti", and it is used in making the strongest and lightest parts of modern fighter jet planes. It does not corrode, including resistance to sea water and chlorine. However, it can burn at high temperatures, and titanium dust is extremely flammable. It has 22 electrons, 22 protons and 26 neutrons.

</doc>
<doc id="14175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14175" title="Hebrew language">
Hebrew language

The Hebrew language is a Semitic language. It is the language of the Jews. The Academy of the Hebrew Language is the main institution of the Hebrew language.
The language was spoken by Israelites a long time ago - during the time of the Bible. After Judah was conquered by Babylonia, the Jews were taken captive to Babylon and started speaking Aramaic. Hebrew was no longer used as much in day-to-day life, but it was still known by Jews who studied religious books. 
In the 20th century, many Jews decided to make Hebrew into a spoken language again. It became the language of the new country of Israel in 1948. People in Israel came from many places, and decided to learn Hebrew, the language of their common ancestors, so they could all speak one language. However, Modern Hebrew is quite different from Biblical Hebrew, with a lot of simplified grammar and loanwords from other languages, especially English.
In order to read the Bible in its original language, one must learn Biblical Hebrew, Biblical Aramaic and Koine Greek.
Hebrew is a lot like the Arabic language. Hebrew words are made by combining a root with a pattern. In Israeli Hebrew, some words are translated from European languages like English, French, German, and Russian. Many words from the Old Testament were given new meanings in Israeli Hebrew. People learning Hebrew need to study the grammar first in order to read correctly without vowels. In Israeli Hebrew, there is no verb "to be" in the present tense, only in the future and the past tenses. In Biblical Hebrew, there are no tenses but only two "aspects": "imperfect" and "perfect". The "imperfect" is something like the future and the present tenses. The "perfect" is something like the past tense. "Mishnaic Hebrew" is the Hebrew spoken as well as Judeo-Aramaic in the time of Jesus and in the time of the Bar-Kokhba revolt (2nd century AD), until the Byzantine Empire of Justinian (6th century AD).
The Hebrew alphabet has been adapted to write Yiddish, another of the Jewish languages. But Yiddish sounds different from Hebrew as it comes from the same family as German.
The Hebrew alphabet has 22 letters. Five of these letters change when they are at the end of a word. The Hebrew language is read from right to left. The Hebrew alphabet is an "abjad" which means that only the consonants are written out and the reader must supply the vowels himself. Since this is pretty difficult, the vowels can be marked as dots called "niqqud" (plural "niqqudim"). In Modern Hebrew, some letters can denote vowels. These are called "matres lectionis" (mothers of the reading) as they help the reading a lot.

</doc>
<doc id="14179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14179" title="Joan of Arc">
Joan of Arc

Saint Joan of Arc or The Maid of Orléans (Jeanne d'Arc, c.1412 – 30 May 1431) is a national heroine of France. She is also a Catholic saint. She was a peasant girl born in the east of France. Joan said that she had visions from God. In these visions, she said, God told her to take back her homeland from English rule late in the Hundred Years' War. Many quick victories made her famous.
Joan of Arc has remained an important figure in Western civilization. Famous writers like Shakespeare, Tchaikovsky, Mark Twain, and Voltaire wrote about her. She occurs in video games, television, movies, songs, and dances.
When Joan of Arc was put on trial, she said no to the customary courtroom rules about a witness's oath. She said she would not answer every question about her visions. She complained that the normal witness oath would not be right because she had an oath that she had given to the king. It is not known how much the record which reports this has been changed by dishonest court officials or her possible lies to protect state secrets. Some historians simply say that her belief in her duty was more important than where the visions came from.
Most people say that she was healthy and that she was not crazy. Recently, people have tried to explain her visions through things like epilepsy, migraine, tuberculosis, and schizophrenia. None of these guesses have been greatly supported. This is because, even though seeing visions can be through different diseases, other facts of Joan's life do not agree with these ideas. Two experts who studied a teberculoma hypothesis in the medical journal "Neuropsychobiology "said: "It is difficult to draw final conclusions, but it would seem unlikely that widespread tuberculosis, a serious disease, was present in this 'patient' whose life-style and activities would surely have been impossible had such a serious disease been present." Ralph Hoffman, professor of psychology at Yale University, points out that visions, like ""hearing voices"" are not always signs of mental illness. He says that her religious inspiration was possibly a reason. However, he does not say any other reasons.
Actually, the court of Charles VII was concerned about her mental health.
The Church said Joan should be killed for wearing men's clothes even after being warned not to. Joan agreed to wear women's clothes. She wore male clothes again. This might have been to protect herself from being attacked. It could also have been, as Jean Massieu said, because her dress had been stolen and she was left with nothing else to wear.
People say she was burned on a stake on 30 May 1431. After she died, the English showed people her burnt body so no one could say she had escaped alive. Then they burned the body two times again to turn it into ashes. They put what was left of her in the Seine. The executioner, Geoffroy Therage, later said that he "...greatly feared to be damned."

</doc>
<doc id="14181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14181" title="James Kopp">
James Kopp

James Charles Kopp (born August 2, 1954) is an American criminal. He was found guilty in 2005 for shooting Dr. Barnett Slepian to death in 1988. Kopp said the reason he shot the doctor was that he was against the abortions that the doctor did.
On October 23, 1998, Slepian, his wife, and their four children came home from synagogue (Jewish church). Kopp waited outside the home with a rifle. He shot Slepian in the back through a window while Slepian was in the kitchen. Slepian's wife and son Andrew were standing in the same room with him.

</doc>
<doc id="14182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14182" title="Millet">
Millet

Millet is a type of grain that is eaten. There are many types of millet.
Millets is fairly good nutrition. It includes three grams of protein per half serving and one gram of fiber per half serving. Six-tenths of a miligram is the amount of iron in each half serving of millet.
Millets also have high fiber content, and poor digestibility of nutrients. This limits their value in nutrition and makes them rather less acceptable to consumers.

</doc>
<doc id="14183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14183" title="The Flowers of Romance">
The Flowers of Romance

The Flowers of Romance might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="14185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14185" title="Sonic the Hedgehog">
Sonic the Hedgehog

Sonic the Hedgehog is a video game character. He is a 15-16-year old blue hedgehog who can run at the speed of sound. By curling into a ball and spinning quickly, he can do a helpful "Spin Attack" which he uses to defeat the bad guys and save the day. Because he is very fast, he hates waiting, and he can be a bit rude, but he does care about his friends and really hates evil. He has been in many games made by the company Sega, but also in television series, books and comics (published in America by Archie Comics). He has many friends, including Miles "Tails" Prower, a two-tailed fox that can fly by spinning his tails very quickly or Knuckles the Echidna (who is strong, and has been in Sonic games since "Sonic the Hedgehog 3"). With them, he fights against Doctor Eggman, an evil scientist who tries to take over the world. Doctor Eggman was also called Doctor Robotnik in America for some time until it was changed to Eggman to match what he was called in Japan.
Sonic is the mascot of Sega, which created it in the early 1990s. At first, Sega wanted Doctor Eggman to be their mascot, and a good guy. But, the people in Sega liked the new idea of making a blue hedgehog as the mascot. Doctor Eggman settled as the bad guy instead.
Here is a list of some games Sonic is in:
He appeared in his own made-for-video movie in 1999.
In most of the cartoons from the 1990s his voice was provided by Jaleel White (who was best known at the time for his role as Steve Urkel on the television show "Family Matters") and in later cartoons his voice was provided by Jason Griffith. Sonic also stars in his latest cartoon from Japan. It is called "Sonic X", although Sonic X has ended.
Here is a list of cartoons Sonic is in:
Archie Comics in America has been making comics with Sonic as the main character. He is also shown with famous characters like Knuckles and Tails, but with also a few new ones. Some of the characters are not in any Sonic games, but some are in a very old cartoon, "Sonic the Hedgehog SatAM", made by DiC in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="14186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14186" title="Hedgehog">
Hedgehog

A hedgehog, also called a hedgepig and furze-pig, is a small mammal. It has spines on its back. There are hedgehogs in Europe, Asia, Africa, and New Zealand. When attacked or threatened, it curls up. Hedgehogs eat insects, snails, frogs and toads, snakes, bird eggs, carrion, mushrooms, berries, melons and watermelons. Sometimes, hedgehogs will search for earthworms, after rainstorms.
Hedgehogs have long spines, or quills, made of keratin. They do not come off easily, unlike porcupines, but in baby hedgehogs, the baby quills drop off and are replaced with adult quills. This is called "quilling". When they are very stressed or sick, their quills can fall off, too. Their quills are not poisonous.
Some people keep hedgehogs as pets. African Pygmy hedgehogs are the most common type that are kept as pets. They live 2-4 years in captivity. 

</doc>
<doc id="14187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14187" title="Final Fantasy">
Final Fantasy

The first game was published in 1987. The game was a success. It had sequels. The video game has since branched into other Video game genres. Some of these genres are tactical role-playing, action role-playing, massively multiplayer online role-playing, racing, third-person shooter, fighting, and rhythm.
Most "Final Fantasy" games are independent stories. They have different settings and main characters. Recurring elements include plot themes, character names, and game mechanics. Plots center on a group of heroes fighting evil and exploring their internal struggles and relationships. Character names are borrowed from history, languages, and mythologies of many cultures.
The series is a commercial and critical success. It is Square Enix's best selling video game franchise. It sold more than units. It is one of the best-selling video game franchises. It was awarded a star on the Walk of Game in 2006. It has seven Guinness World Records in the "Guinness World Records Gamer's Edition 2008". Final Fantasy is known for its innovation, visuals, and music. It includes full motion videos, photo-realistic character models, and orchestra music by Nobuo Uematsu. 
There are two main types of "Final Fantasy" game: the main series, where the games are just numbered with Roman numbers, and several related games and spinoffs. Each of the games in the main series have very little to do with each other, with its own setting, story, and characters. Some exceptions include "Final Fantasy X" and "X-2", the sequel, or "Final Fantasy XIII" and "Final Fantasy XIII-2" and "Lightning Returns". But the games are connected through the gameplay, themes, and 'style'. Newer sequels and prequels are "Final Fantasy X-2" and the "Compilation of Final Fantasy VII" games and films.
Since 1987, more than seventeen games have been released. The series started on Nintendo Entertainment System, but today most "Final Fantasy" games are made for the Sony PlayStation or PlayStation 2. Games have also been released for the Nintendo Game Boy and GameCube. "Final Fantasy VII" is generally regarded as one of the pinnacle achievements of gaming. A must-play for any gamer.
In 2001, Columbia Pictures made a CGI movie called "".
While it is not actually a "Final Fantasy" game, one game called "Final Fantasy Adventure" was released in America for the Nintendo Game Boy. The game was actually a prequel to the SNES game "Secret of Mana", but was released in the United States with the name "Final Fantasy" to boost sales. In 2003 it was remade for the Game Boy Advance with the title "Sword of Mana". In Japan, the Mana series is called "Seiken Densetsu", which means "Legend of the Sword." There are three games in the series, but only the first two, "Secret of Mana" and "Sword of Mana", have been released in the United States.
In "Final Fantasy", players control a group of characters. They go through the game's story by exploring the game world and defeating enemies. Enemies are found randomly. This changed in "Final Fantasy XI" and "Final Fantasy XII". The player gives combat orders. These orders are "Fight", "Magic", and "Item". The orders are given to individual characters through a menu. This menu appears when in battles.
The games have used different battle systems. Before "Final Fantasy XI", battles were turn-based. The main characters and bad characters were on different sides of the battlefield. "Final Fantasy IV" introduced the "Active Time Battle" (ATB) system. It made better the turn-based system with a time-keeping system. This system was designed by Hiroyuki Ito. It gave a feeling of urgency and excitement to the fights. It required the player to act before an enemy attacks. It was used until "Final Fantasy X". This game had the "Conditional Turn-Based" (CTB) system. This new system returned to the old turn-based system. 
Magic is common in the game. The way characters get magic depends on the game. It is generally divided into classes organized by color: "White magic" focuses on spells that heal teammates; "Black magic" focuses on hurting enemies; "Red magic" is a combination of white and black magic, "Blue magic" copies enemy attacks; and "Green magic" focuses on applying status effects to teammates or enemies.
There are other types of magic like "Time magic". This magic focuses on time, space, and gravity; "Summoning magic" brings legendary creatures to help in battle. This magic has appeared since "Final Fantasy III". Summoned creatures are called names like "Espers" or "Eidolons". They are inspired by mythologies from Arabic, Hindu, Norse, and Greek cultures. 
Different means of transportation have appeared through the series. The most common is the airship. There are also chocobos for travelling short distances. Others include sea and land vehicles. Following "Final Fantasy VII", more modern and futuristic vehicles have appeared.
For Nintendo Entertainment System:
For Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES):
For Sony PlayStation:
For Sony PlayStation 2:
For PlayStation 3:
For Xbox 360:
For Nintendo Gameboy:
For Nintendo Gameboy Advance
For Nintendo GameCube:
For Nintendo Wii:
For Nintendo DS:
For PlayStation Portable:
For PC:
A list of upcoming "Final Fantasy" games. 

</doc>
<doc id="14188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14188" title="Georges Brassens">
Georges Brassens

Georges Brassens (October 22, 1921 - October 29, 1981) was a French singer and songwriter. He sang "La mauvaise réputation" (the bad reputation) and "Le gorille" (the gorilla).

</doc>
<doc id="14189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14189" title="Display resolution">
Display resolution

Resolution is what can qualify a monitor in computer science. It is the number of pixels displayed on a given surface.
For example: a "640 by 480 display", which has 640 pixels from side to side and 480 from top to bottom (as in a VGA display), and therefore has a total number of 640 × 480 = 307,200 pixels or 0.3 megapixels, is what is meant by 640 × 480 display resolution.

</doc>
<doc id="14190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190" title="Cervix">
Cervix

The cervix is the part of the uterus which protrudes into the vaginal canal. Its function is like that of a gate to the uterus, or womb, where the fetus develops during a pregnancy. It also allows menstrual blood to escape the uterus during the normal reproductive cycle of the female, and allows sperm to access the uterus to fertilize an ovum, or egg.

</doc>
<doc id="14191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14191" title="Bullet">
Bullet

Bullets are small metal objects fired from guns. Many kinds of bullets are made from lead covered with copper. They are put into a package called a cartridge. The cartridge is put into a gun. The bullet is at the front of the cartridge (number 1 in the picture). The bullet is pushed out of the gun by hot gases at a high pressure. A powder called gunpowder (number 3 in the picture) is put inside the case (number 2). A small explosion from the primer (number 5 in the picture) lights the gunpowder. The gunpowder burns very fast. It makes hot gases. The hot gases are at a high pressure. The high pressure pushes the bullet out of the gun barrel at a high speed. 
Bullets are weapons. Soldiers and police use them. They are used for self-defense. They are used for hunting animals for food or as a sport. They are used for shooting targets. There are many kinds of bullets. Each gun takes a certain size, or caliber, of bullet. Rifles and handguns use different kinds of bullets and sometimes a gun uses more than one kind of bullet.
Bullet designs have to solve two main problems. A bullet must fit tightly in the gun's bore (inside of the barrel). If it does not fit tightly, gas from the burning gunpowder leaks past the bullet and does not help push it out. The bullet must also fit tightly against the rifling (spiral grooves cut into the barrel), but not so tightly that it causes damage. Bullets must have this tight fit without causing too much friction. Bullets must be made to a high standard. Poorly made bullets may not be accurate. Poorly made bullets can damage the gun or hurt the person using the gun. The way the bullet behaves in the barrel is called 'internal ballistics'.
The laws of physics can be used to understand how a bullet moves after it leaves the barrel. The way the bullet behaves after it leaves the barrel is called 'external ballistics'. The main factors affecting the aerodynamics of a bullet in flight are the bullet's shape and the rotation from the rifling of the gun barrel. Spinning helps stabilize the bullet gyroscopically and aerodynamically (spinning keeps it on track). Any small differences in the shape of the bullet are mostly canceled as it spins. The first guns did not have rifling. With smoothbore firearms (no rifling), a round bullet was best because it was the same in any position. But these bullets were not very stable. They were also not very accurate. Still, the round shape of bullets did not change very much for hundreds of years.
Bullet design also affects what happens when a bullet hits an object. The way a bullet behaves when it hits a target is called 'terminal ballistics.' The make-up and density of the target material, the angle at which the bullet hits, and the speed and design of the bullet itself are all factors. Bullets are usually made to go into a target, change shape, and/or break apart. For a given material and bullet, the speed of the bullet is the main factor determining what happens.
Making bullets go faster increases the kinetic energy even more. This effect is big, so people have tried (and succeeded) to make bullets that go faster and weigh less. Modern firearms take much lighter bullets and shoot them much faster than was the case in World War I. This makes the firearms better in two ways. The magazine (which holds the cartridges in the gun before they are fired) holds more of the smaller, lighter bullets. Also, the higher speed causes much more damage than the old-style bullets.
 Rifles are used for target shooting and killing. A rifle bullet can be described by its accuracy, penetration, shape, size, and mass (weight). There are many different kinds of rifle bullets.
The Full Metal Jacket (FMJ) is a type of bullet commonly used by the military. A lead center (core) is surrounded by a strong metal coating (jacket). This jacket is usually made of a copper alloy, but sometimes it is made of steel. The FMJ does not spread out when it hits a target. It goes deep into its target and is a general-purpose bullet. The FMJ is not recommended for hunting. It is mostly for target shooting and military use.
The Jacketed Hollow Point (JHP) has a lead center (core) with lead showing at the tip. It also has a strong metal coating (jacket). The center of the tip has a hole in it (hollow point). This design makes the tip of the JHP quickly start to spread out (expand) when it hits a target. The hollow point bullet in a rifle can be as small as a pin. When the hollow point is this small, the bullet will go faster and still spread out when it hits a living target. In some hollow point rifle bullets, the front may spread out to two times as wide as the bullet was when it started. It is a good hunting bullet because the energy in the bullet is transferred to the target at a known depth. The jacketed hollow point tends to be accurate and is sturdy.
The plastic tipped bullet is a hollow point bullet. The hollow point is filled with a hard, pointed plastic tip. It is used because it can go further than the JHP and does not curve as much. The plastic tipped bullet also spreads out or breaks into pieces when it hits the target.
A solid copper bullet is a bullet that has no lead core or other elements than copper. This bullet expands into a flower shape when it hits a target, because copper bullets are usually hollow point. The copper bullet contains no lead, so it is also better for the environment. In rifles, it is widely used for hunting and other sports.
A frangible bullet will break into many pieces upon contact with any material harder than itself. This bullet is used for safety while shooting. It has little impact on the environment. It also makes the objects behind the intended target a little safer.
Handguns are mostly used for sport target shooting or self-defense. Police use the pistol because they can easily carry it and have it ready to use.
Pistol bullets have some of the same names as rifle bullets, such as full metal jacket (FMJ) or jacketed hollow point (JHP). For example, there are hollow point pistol bullets that also spread out a lot when they hit a target. However, in a pistol bullet, the hollow point can be much larger. The hollow point causes the pistol bullet to slow down faster due to air resistance. However, a pistol bullet does not have to travel as far as a rifle bullet. The hollow point in a pistol bullet can be almost as wide as the bullet. When a hollow point pistol bullet hits a target, it almost completely flattens itself. A solid copper pistol bullet is usually hollow point, and is mainly used for self-defense and/or target shooting.
A flat nosed bullet is mostly used in handguns, although there are also some rifle bullets called flat nosed. The flat nose on a pistol bullet can be as wide as the bullet. The "flat nose" on a rifle bullet may be much smaller. The flat nosed bullet tends to have a low ballistic coefficient. This means that it slows down faster than pointed bullets. Flat nosed bullets are sometimes used to prevent the explosion of the next cartridge in a magazine when the gun recoils. Flat nosed bullets also spread out quickly when they hit a target. This makes them useful for fighting at close range when the bullet should not hit what is behind the target. After hitting the target, it becomes almost inside out.
A frangible pistol bullet will break apart on contact. It is usually made of a copper jacket over pieces of either round or twisted lead pieces that are glued together. The glue breaks apart when the bullet hits the target. The pieces spread out. This creates a larger surface area. This kind of bullet cannot go deep into a target. It is safer to use when it is important not to hit anything on the other side of the target.

</doc>
<doc id="14192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14192" title="Frankfort, Kentucky">
Frankfort, Kentucky

Frankfort is the capital city of the U.S. state of Kentucky. It has been the state capital since December 8, 1792. It is the county seat of Franklin County, and has been since 1795.
Frankfort is beside the Kentucky River. This is how the city earned its name, because the land was owned by pioneer Stephen Frank. First called "Frank's Ford", the name was soon shortened to Frankfort.
Within a century the population of Frankfort grew from 9,487 in 1900, to 27,741 in 2000. The members of the city commission and the mayor are elected by the citizens.
The mayor of Frankfort in 2008 is Gippy Graham.

</doc>
<doc id="14193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14193" title="Shahrukh Khan">
Shahrukh Khan

Abdullah Al-Burih (earlier born 2 November 1965) is a Bollywood Indian actor. He was born in New Delhi, his grandparents having moved there from Afghanistan and Peshawar. He started his career appearing on television in the late 1980s. He is Muslim and studied at a Muslim school. He is married to Gauri, a Hindu and has three children; Aryan, Suhana and AbRam. He also has a sister named Shehnaz Lalarukh. He has a master's degree. He is one of the biggest star in not just Bollywood, but also around the world. He is also the second richest actor in the world, after Jerry Sienfeld.

</doc>
<doc id="14195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14195" title="Masashi Tashiro">
Masashi Tashiro

Masashi Tashiro (田代まさし, born August 31, 1956 in Saga Prefecture) is a former Japanese television performer and member of Japanese musical group Rats & Star. He was brought up in Shinjuku, Tokyo. On December 21, 2001, Tashiro was the first Japanese person chosen by the American magazine "Time" as "Person of the Year".
Tashiro was fired from the entertainment world in 2001 because of scandals. 

</doc>
<doc id="14199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14199" title="New Orleans">
New Orleans

New Orleans is a city in the state of Louisiana in the United States. It is the largest city in Louisiana, and the 51st-largest city in the U.S. It is the capital of Orleans Parish. It was named in honour of the French Duke of Orléans (then Regent of France). 
The city was first built by the French before it became a territory of the United States when President Thomas Jefferson bought the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. It was built at the mouth of the Mississippi River. It has been one of the World's greatest seaport cities for many years. All the land is low, originally just a short vertical distance above sea level. In the last three hundred years, the city has sunk slowly into the marshy soil. Large portions of New Orleans are now below sea level. A system of many pumps, dikes, sea walls, and levees were built. 
The Battle of New Orleans was fought here in 1815. The capture of New Orleans in 1863 was an important step in the defeat of the Confederacy in the American Civil War
Over half of the grain that is sent by ship to other countries, comes first by barge through the Port of New Orleans. The grains are grown in the farming states bordering the Mississippi River, the Missouri River, and Ohio Rivers. Much of the crude oil that is made into gasoline and diesel fuel is brought to New Orleans for oil refinery and distribution to other parts of the United States by barge or oil pipeline. Also, there are many oil well platforms nearby, in the Gulf of Mexico.
On August 29, 2005, New Orleans was affected by Hurricane Katrina which flooded most of the city when the cities levees broke. The special systems built to protect this under water city failed in several ways. Water came over the dikes, seawalls, and levees at six places. The engines on the pumps failed as the water rose above them. It is estimated that more than three quarters (3/4) of New Orleans was under water in early September of 2005. The very deep water caused failure of sewer, phone, electric and fresh water systems. Many people drowned. Many homes were completely covered with water. Many important records, some from the French period of the 18th century were destroyed.
For years, many people believed that a flood in New Orleans would happen. A very serious flood happened several hundred miles upstream, on the Mississippi delta, when heavy rains fell in 1927. The hardships from that flood led many people to move away. Many moved to Chicago.
After Hurricane Katrina, many people who lived in the flooded city moved to other places in the US. Many people were afraid to move back. Their jobs and homes were gone and their possessions were lost. The people who could move back spread to many other states. Texas received the most flood victims. Many volunteers and charities are helping the flood victims to relocate to new homes and, at the same time, repair homes and services in this city. Several years after Katrina, New Orleans still had much fewer people than it did before the hurricane.

</doc>
<doc id="14201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14201" title="Mamluk">
Mamluk

Mamluks are members of a military caste that controlled Egypt from 1254 to 1811. The caste was first made up of slaves.

</doc>
<doc id="14204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14204" title="Laurent Clerc">
Laurent Clerc

Laurent Clerc (born Louis Laurent Marie Clerc December 26, 1785 in France - July 18, 1869) co-founded the first school for the deaf (people who cannot hear) in the United States.
Deaf people in America respected Clerc and call him the "Father of the Deaf" because he founded the first school for the deaf in America in Hartford, Connecticut. Clerc and Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet founded that school on April 15, 1817 in an old hotel. The school moved to its present location in 1821 and is now named The American School for the Deaf. The American School for the Deaf is the oldest school for the deaf in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="14207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14207" title="Ivory">
Ivory

Ivory is a hard white material made from the tusks and teeth of animals such as elephants, hippopotamuses and walruses. Ivory is now very rare and expensive since there are restrictions on hunting elephants for ivory. There are also laws against the trade of ivory. Some countries (including Zimbabwe and South Africa) argue that these laws should be removed or changed, to allow them to sell some ivory. 
Ivory has been used to make piano keys, billiard balls, handles and small ornaments. Ivory has been used in artworks, such as carvings, since ancient times. 

</doc>
<doc id="14212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14212" title="Political subdivisions of Brazil">
Political subdivisions of Brazil

Brazil is subdivided into 26 states and 1 Federal District (the capital city Brasília).

</doc>
<doc id="14213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14213" title="Vice president">
Vice president

A vice president is someone who helps a president conduct his or her duties. A vice president also takes over if a president is not available. In business and in government a vice president (VP) is below a president in rank. Vice is comes from Latin meaning 'in place of'. In British English a vice president in business is called a director. In some countries, a vice president is called a "deputy president".

</doc>
<doc id="14214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14214" title="Triple jump">
Triple jump

The triple jump (also known in certain countries as a triple hop, step and jump or hop, skip and jump) is a athletics event. It has been a part of the World Championships since 1995. The event consists of someone running up to a line, jumping and landing on the same foot (a hop), jumping onto the other foot (a skip) and then jumping into a shallow pit of sand. The winner is the person whose final jump lands the farthest from the line they started jumping at. It is a common game played on playgrounds.

</doc>
<doc id="14218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218" title="Texas hold 'em">
Texas hold 'em

Texas hold'em is a popular version of the card game poker. 
Before any cards are dealt, two players to the left of the dealer make bets which are called the "Small Blind" and "Big Blind". These forced bets must be at least matched by the other players in order to keep their hands. The big blind is twice as much as the small blind. If the big blind was $1000, then it is said that the blinds are 500 and 1000. This money is put into a place in the center of the table that is called the "pot"
Each player is given two cards face down. These are called the player's "Hole Cards" or what the player has "in the hole". Once all the players have their hole cards, the betting starts. The player to the left of the Big Blind player starts the betting. The lowest amount that can be bet is the amount of the big blind. Players can bet more than the minimum. This is called "Raising". The amount a player can raise is determined by the type of the game being played (see below) If a player raises, the amount he raised the bet to is the new minimum. Each player in turn may either "Call" (pay the current bet amount), Raise, or "Fold" (quit the hand). This action keeps going around the table until each player has called or folded his hand.
After the first turn of betting is over, the dealer lays three cards face up on the table. This is called the "Flop". These three cards are "community cards". This means they are used by every player in the game along with the two hole cards each player has. After the flop, another turn of betting takes place. There is no starting bet in this turn (no blinds) unless a player makes a bet. Players may "Check" or bet nothing if no player before them in the turn has bet. If everyone checks, or if a player bets and all the others call or fold, then the round of betting is over.
Next the dealer lays another community card face up. This card is called "the turn" (or 4th Street). Another series of betting comes after this. This betting is the same as after the Flop.
Finally the dealer lays the last community card known as "the river" (or 5th Street). This card is again followed by a turn of betting, calling and folding by the players. 
With the five community cards and their two hole cards, each player makes the best 5 card poker hand he can. The player with the best poker hand wins the round and the pot. If two or more players have the same hand, those players split the pot evenly. If one person bets and all other players have folded, the hand ends then and that player wins.
Texas Hold'em can be played several ways, including Limit, Pot Limit and No Limit games. The version of the game usually is the maximum a player can raise at any one time.
Limit games have a set amount that a player can raise at any time. If a game has a $10 limit, then a raise must be exactly $10. If more than one person raises, each one can only raise $10 more than the last raise. Typically, there is a "cap" of 3 raises per round. Also, when playing limit, the bet and raise amount will usually double for the turn and river betting rounds.
In a 4 player game, Player A bets $10. Player B raises $10 (puts in $20 total), Player C calls Player B (puts in $20). Player D at this point can either fold, pay $20 (call player B) or raise $10 to a total of $30. Player A would go next and either call (paying the difference between his $10 bet and the current bet). This would continue until all players either call or fold.
In Pot Limit games, the most a player can bet or raise is the total amount in the pot. With each bet or raise, the amount in the pot gets larger. This allows for larger raises. 
In Spread Limit games, there is both a minimum and a maximum raise specified. For example, one could play $5–$50 spread limit. The big blind would be $5 and the minimum raise would be $5 and the maximum raise would be $50.
In No Limit, there is not a limit of how much can be bet at any time. That is, it is just like Spread Limit, but with no maximum. A player can bet up to all money as he has. If a player bets all of his money, he is said to be "All In". If a player bets more money than another player has, the second player can call by going All In. If only those two players stay in the hand (all other players fold), the first player takes back any money that is over the amount the player going All In has. At this point, all betting stops and the dealer deals out the rest of the cards.
If a player goes All In and two or more players are still betting, the other betters can raise each other until they both call (or one of them also goes All In). A "side pot" is made in this case. It is the difference between the final bet and the first person's All In. Only the two players were not All In can win this pot. If the All In player wins the hand, he wins the main pot (his money plus an equal amount from each other player) and which ever of the other two players had the better hand wins the side pot. In an eight player game, it is possible to have several side pots with several people being All In at the same time. If there are not two player left who can bet, betting stops and all players turn their hands over. 
Player A bets $5000. Player B only has $3000. He goes All In. Player C Raises $2000 (puts in a total of $7000). Player A calls (puts in $2000). At this point, the main pot is worth $9000 ($3000 from each player). The side pot is worth $8000 ($7000 – $3000 from Players A and B)
If player A or C wins, he wins both the main pot and the side pot ($17,000) and Player B is out of the game since he is out of money. If player B wins, he wins the main pot and the side pot goes to which ever player has the best hand between players A and C.
Tournaments are what people often see when poker is shown on television. When a player enters a tournament, he pays an entry fee called the "buy-in." Most of his buy-in is placed with other player's money in the prize pool. Usually, a small portion of the buy-in is kept by the tournament officials for their expenses (and profit). The player is given a table and seat assignment, and a certain number of chips - the same amount as every other player. Unlike normal chips, these tournament chips have no cash value (though they often are referred to with dollar amounts). Players must continue to play until they run out of chips. The tournament continues until one player has accumulated all of the chips. The order in which people lose all their chips (or "bust out"), is their finishing order. That is, the last player to bust out is the second-place finisher. The prize pool is divided amongst a fraction of the top finishers (usually about 10%). The first place winner usually gets a much larger share, with the prizes diminishing until the prize pool is empty. The player who was the last player to finish without winning any prize is said to have finished "on the bubble."
As players bust out of the tournament, the average player's chip stack gets larger. In order to insure that the blinds do not become insignificant in the face of the growth in chip stacks, tournaments are played in timed "rounds." At the beginning of each round typically the blinds increase. Every few rounds there will be a short break between rounds. For tournaments that last longer than a day, there will be a last level for the day, and the tournament will resume the next day.
Most tournaments only allow a player to buy-in and receive chips once, at the beginning. These are called "freeze out" tournaments. Some tournaments allow players to buy-in more than once for the first few levels of the tournament. These players are said to "re-buy" and the money they use to re-buy goes into the prize pool with the rest of the buy-ins.

</doc>
<doc id="14220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14220" title="Creationism">
Creationism

Creationism is the belief that the universe was created in the way described in religious books. According to Genesis, God directly created life from the nothingness that was before, by fixing the chaos that was. Other religions have different Creation myths. The first approach is known as creatio ex nihilo, which is the Latin name for "creation from nothing". 
The idea that God created the world has been taught for thousands of years by writers such as Augustine of Hippo.
Creationism as it is known today started in the 19th century by fundamentalist Protestants who were opposed to the theories that scientists began to put forward about geology and evolution. 
In the 20th century, creationist movements also started in Islam and Judaism.
Creationists usually do not believe that all of today's living things came about from simple organisms changing or evolving slowly over time. They believe that life was created much as it is today, and that one form of life cannot change into another. While biologists and paleontologists say that fossils (the remains of living things that died long ago) are different from the life we see today, and can be put into order to show changes over time, Creationists argue that life was created during a short time in its current form. They point to the Flood of Noah to account for most rock formations and most fossils.
Young Earth Creationism is the belief that God created the earth roughly 6,000 or 10,000 years ago as told in Genesis. Young Earth Creationists believe that God created the world in six days (with God resting on the seventh) as the Book of Genesis says. Young Earth Creationism says that Noah's flood is important to creationism. They argue that "the first buried fossils of each group are complete and complex (complicated), strong support for the biblical concept (idea) that each kind of life was created well designed to multiply after its own kind." They think that the Bible is literally true (see Biblical inerrancy). Some people say a problem with this is that fossils appear in layers called strata. 
If fossils were of animals drowned in the flood scientists think they would be mixed together. Christian creationists say this happened because of the Noahic Flood, and point to fossils of animals that died quickly. They offer many defenses. Some of these are:1. Fossils that were buried quickly, as in Lagerstätten. One fossil Creationists talk about is where on fish is eating another fish when it was buried.2. Polystrate fossils are fossils that go through multiple rock layers. Christians say this can't happen if the rock layers were formed quickly3. Bent rock layers are rock layers that are bent in a way that Christians say can not happen over millions of years. Christians say there are a lot of these.Other creationists believe God created everything between 13,000 and 14,000 million years ago. This is called Old Earth Creationism. 
Creationists point to the perfection of Earth's size, shape, and distance as designed by God, and Earth's "im"perfections as proofs that the Earth is dirtied by humans' sin. 
The term creationism can be used with more than one meaning. 
Liberal Christians do not believe in Biblical inerrancy and say God used evolution to create mankind and other life. This idea is called theistic evolution.
Islamic creationism is the belief that the universe (including humanity) was directly created by Allah as in the Qur'an. Currently, Islam takes religious texts literally. Many scholars say that Genesis is a corrupted version of God's message. 
There is also a creation myth in the Qu'ran, but it is more vague than Genesis. This allows for more interpretation. Several liberal movements within Islam generally accept the scientific positions on the age of the earth, the age of the universe and evolution.
Islam also has its own form of Theistic evolution, which says that mainstream scientific analysis of the origin of the universe is supported by the Qur'an. Many liberal Muslims believe in evolutionary creationism.
Khalid Anees, president of the Islamic Society of Britain attended a conference called 'Creationism: Science and Faith in Schools'. During that conference, he made points including the following: There is no contradiction between what is revealed in the Koran and natural selection and survival of the fittest. However, some Muslims, such as Adnan Oktar, do not agree that one species can develop from another. Other Muslims do believe that one species can develop from another. 
But there is also a growing movement of Islamic creationism. Like the movement in Christianity, Islamic creationists are concerned that the findings of evolutionary theory might contradict what is written in the Qu'ran. 
There are several verses in the Qur'an which some modern writers have interpreted as being compatible with the expansion of the universe, Big Bang and Big Crunch theories:
"Do not the Unbelievers see that the skies (space) and the earth were joined together, then We clove them asunder and We created every living thing out of the water. Will they not then believe?"
"Then turned He to the sky (space) when it was smoke, and said unto it and unto the earth: Come both of you, willingly or loth. They said: We come, obedient."
"And it is We Who have constructed the sky (space) with might, and it is We Who are steadily expanding it."
"On the day when We will roll up the sky (space) like the rolling up of the scroll for writings, as We originated the first creation, (so) We shall reproduce it; a promise (binding on Us); surely We will bring it about."
The Bahá'í Faith considers the creation narratives in previous Abrahamic religions to be symbolic and not literal. Bahá'í Faith also accepts that the Earth is ancient. Baha'ullah existed at the same time as Charles Darwin, so was aware of Darwin's works.
Religious communities in the United States encourage the inclusion of supernatural explanations of the origins
of both life and the universe as a whole.
Evolution was not included in school textbooks until the 1960s.
In 1987, the United States Supreme Court decided creationism was not scientific, and
should not be taught in public schools.

</doc>
<doc id="14223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14223" title="Flute">
Flute

The Flute is a musical instrument. A person who plays a flute is called a "flautist".
There are many kinds of flutes. The most common concert flute is on C tuning. In addition, there are other flutes like piccolos, alto flutes, and bass flutes.
Flutes have changed over time. The first flute was a primitive one called a "Renaissance flute". In Baroque music 'flute' means recorder, so flute was called "traverso" in order not to confuse them. A Bavarian flute maker named Boehm reformed past flute largely to enlarge the volume and improve the way of using the chromatic scale. Later improvements created the modern flute.
There is a large repertoire of music for the flute. Baroque composers used them in their orchestras, usually in pairs, and composed concertos, chamber music and solo music for them. This has continued to the present day. Orchestras have at least 2 flutes each, sometimes three or four. Sometimes there is 1 piccolo which plays an octave higher, or an alto flute which plays a fifth lower than the flute.
The flute sounds very bright and cheerful playing high notes. Please listen, for example, to the "Badinerie" from Bach's "Orchestral Suite no 2". It can also sound very thoughtful or sad when playing in its lowest register. A good example is the opening of Debussy's "Prélude à l'après midi d'un faune".
Flutes can give microtonal music by using special fingering. Flute has many variation of the sound.
Flute is one of the woodwind instruments, but flute is made of metal. It was made of wood a long ago, and it doesn't need lip's vibration like brass instruments. Flute players hold it flat, and make a sound by blowing their breath over the edge of the hole of flute's head. It sounds thanks to the vibration of air. Although, flutes need the second most amount of air for an instrument, next to the tuba. Flautists can change the pitch by pushing buttons or changing the direction of the breath. These buttons are called keys. The breath also can change the tone or the volume. The sound of flute is high, so composers often express it as a bird. And a flute matches with many instrument like violin and piano. Flute is a key instrument in many ensembles.
There are many kinds of flute, so the material also varies. Most flutes are made of silver. Gold, platinum, and wood are also used. The price of flute depends on the material, but there are many different playing situations, so not only expensive flutes are useful.
The oldest kind of side-blown flute was made in India. 
In India, a flute called bansuri is used. It has no keys and is often made of bamboo or cane.
In China, a simple flute is used, which has no keys. The Chinese flute sometimes has a thin piece of paper over one hole, which adds a bright raspiness to the sound.
There are other kinds of flute that are played by blowing into the end, like a recorder. Some of these are tin whistle, flageolet, tabor pipe, and ocarina.
In Japan there is a kind of flute called a "shakuhachi", which is made from the bottom of a bamboo plant. It is blown at the end, but is not like the recorder because it does not have an opening that guides the air across a hole that makes the sound.
In South America, there is a flute called a "quena" that makes its sound the same way as the "shakuhachi".
The Pan pipes are a form of flute with no holes. It has more than one pipe connected together, with the bottom closed. The player blows across the top of one of the pipes to make a note. The pipes are in different sizes, so that each one makes a different note. They are named after Pan, who played this instrument in Greek myth.
There are flutes in many cultures. The flute has been described as "a musical weed which springs up everywhere".
The band Jethro Tull was founded by a flute player (Ian Anderson) and it can be heard in many songs. One of which is the hit Locomotive Breath.

</doc>
<doc id="14225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14225" title="Staind">
Staind

Staind is an American rock band from Massachusetts, United States. The band was started in 1994. Its first album, "Tormented" was released in 1996. Staind's newest album, "The Illusion of Progress" was released on August 19, 2008. Some of its biggest hits have been "Outside", "It's Been Awhile", and "So Far Away".
In 2013, They announced that they were going on hiatus but were not breaking up.

</doc>
<doc id="14226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14226" title="Ocarina">
Ocarina

An ocarina is a kind of flute that is not made out of a tube. Because the ocarina is in a round or box-like shape, its sound is a little different from other flutes.
The ten-hole ocarina was first made by Giuseppe Donati, in Italy, in 1853. Instruments like the ocarina had been made for hundreds of years before that in South America, China, and Africa. In Europe, a form called the gemshorn was made in the 16th century. The gemshorn was made from an animal horn.
In the 19th century, groups of ocarina players, with different sized ocarinas, played classical and folk music. Italian ocarinas became known throughout the world, because of this.
In the United States the ocarina was called the sweet potato, because its shape is like a sweet potato.
In 1928, the Japanese began making ocarinas. They added two small holes to the old kind of ocarinas. Japanese 12-hole ocarinas can play a larger scale than 10-hole ocarinas.
In the 1960s, the English ocarina was invented. It has four finger holes, and may have one or two thumb holes. English ocarinas are made in many shapes.

</doc>
<doc id="14228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14228" title="Clarinet">
Clarinet

The clarinet is a woodwind instrument.
The clarinet has one reed. The reed is made of bamboo or plastic. The reed is attached to the mouthpiece with a clamp called a "ligature", which is usually made out of metal. Blowing through the mouthpiece makes the reed vibrate, and therefore makes the noise. The body of the clarinet is a cylindrical tube with holes. The holes are covered by the fingers to make musical notes. There are also buttons pressed by the fingers which allow pads over holes to open or close so all notes of the chromatic scale can be played.
One kind of keyed clarinet is called the Albert . Another kind is called the system. The Boehm clarinet is much used by classical orchestras and by jazz musicians. In North America and other Western countries, the most popular clarinet is the clarinet pitched in B flat. This means that if a clarinet player plays a note that is written as a C, it sounds like a B flat on a piano. The B flat clarinet is used in concert, marching, and school bands. Musicians in orchestras also play the A-clarinet (a semitone lower), the sopranino E flat clarinet (a fourth higher) and the Bass_clarinet in B flat (sounding an octave lower). 
A beginner clarinet player usually can play a note within the first minutes of a lesson. Making a sound with the clarinet is easier than making a sound with many other wind instruments. Most instrumental music teachers consider it to be a good instrument for young players as soon as the lower adult teeth have grown. The fingering system is very similar to the flute and the saxophone, so changing from playing the clarinet to one of these instruments is not too difficult after the student is comfortable playing the clarinet and has reached a certain level.
A famous piece that features a clarinet is Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Clarinet Concerto, which has the clarinet playing the melody with the rest of the orchestra playing along. Written in 1791, it is often considered the first great composition for the instrument. 

</doc>
<doc id="14230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14230" title="16th century">
16th century

The 16th century is the century from 1501 to 1600. In this century, many Europeans visited or moved to the newly-found Americas and some also searched for new routes to Asia. There was much change in Europe, such as the Protestant Reformation.
Note: years before or after the 16th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="14231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14231" title="Lute">
Lute

The lute is a kind of musical instrument with strings.
The first lutes were brought to Spain by the Moors. Others may have been brought to Europe from Arabic lands. The lute is one of the ancestors of the classical guitar.
A lute has an oval-shaped back, made of strips of wood. It has a flat front, with a neck attached to it. Early lutes had four strings or eight sets of two strings. Beneath these strings, there were strings tied to the neck, where the player pressed down to make the notes. These strings were called frets.
The front part of the body is made of a flat piece of wood, and known as the sound board. It has a beautifully carved hole in the center which is called the rose.
The lute was at first played by strumming or plucking with a pick. Later they were played with the fingers alone.
During the Renaissance, bigger lutes were designed. Most lutes at this time had seven or eight sets of strings. New kinds of lutes were invented. One new kind of lute made in the Renaissance was the theorbo. Another kind was the archlute.
In European classical music the lute was changed into the harpsichord and the mandolin.
Today there are kinds of lute still being played in Greece, Turkey, and in Arabic-speaking countries. The Renaissance lute is also played today, in western countries, as well as a German lute that is played the same way as a guitar.

</doc>
<doc id="14232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14232" title="Independence Day (United States)">
Independence Day (United States)

In the United States, Independence Day, commonly known as the Fourth of July or the Fourth, is a holiday commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain. On Independence Day there are many events such as fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, picnics, concerts, baseball games, political speeches and ceremonies, and various other public and private events. These events celebrate the history, government, and traditions of the United States.
Independence Day, the only holiday that celebrates the United States, is a national holiday marked by patriotic displays. Similar to other summer-themed events, Independence Day celebrations often take place outdoors. Independence Day is a federal holiday, so all non-essential federal institutions (like the postal service and federal courts) are closed on that day. Many politicians make it a point on this day to appear at a public event to praise the nation's heritage, laws, history, society, and people.
Families often celebrate Independence Day by having or going to a picnic or barbecue, and take advantage of the day off and in some years, long weekend to gather with relatives and friends. People may also do fun and relaxing hobbies like any other day off such as swimming, fishing, boating, sunbathing, playing sports, or just kicking back and relaxing. Many stores are open on the fourth so people may go shopping. In the evening, people may launch their own fireworks. Decorations (e.g., streamers, balloons, and clothing) are generally colored red, white, and blue, the colors of the American flag. Parades often are in the morning, while fireworks displays occur in the evening at such places as parks, fairgrounds, or town squares.

</doc>
<doc id="14233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14233" title="Microsoft Office">
Microsoft Office

Microsoft Office or Microsoft Office System is a collection of computer programs made by Microsoft. The programs are created for all users. There are different versions of the software for home users and for business users. Some versions may offer more programs, and some versions cost less than others, but none are for free. The current version is Microsoft Office 2016 (Windows) and Microsoft Office for Mac 2016 (Mac).
The versions available are made up of some or all or more of the following programs:
There are a lot of other programs which are competitors to Microsoft Office.
Microsoft Office 365 is a new way of sharing Microsoft Office documents with people from your organization or between your computers, syncing to the cloud. In order to sync to the cloud, you need a Microsoft account. 
Actual versions include:
You can get a free trial of Office for 30 months.

</doc>
<doc id="14235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14235" title="Afrikaans">
Afrikaans

Afrikaans is a West Germanic language mainly spoken in South Africa and Namibia. It was originally the dialect that developed among the Afrikaner Protestant settlers, the unfree workers, and slaves brought to the Cape area in southwestern South Africa by the Dutch East India Company ( - VOC) between 1652 and 1705. Most of these first settlers were from the United Provinces (now Netherlands), though there were also many from Germany, some from France, a few from Scotland, and various other countries. The unfree workers and slaves were Malays, and Malagasy in addition to the native Khoi and Bushmen.
Research by J. A. Heese says that until 1807, 36.8% of the ancestors of the White Afrikaans speaking population were Dutch, 35% were German, 14.6% were French and 7.2% non-white (of African and/or Asian origins). 
Heese's figures are questioned by other researchers, however, and especially the non-white component quoted by Heese is very much in doubt.
A sizeable minority of those who spoke Afrikaans as a first language were not white. The dialect became known as "Cape Dutch". Later, Afrikaans was sometimes called "African Dutch" or "Kitchen Dutch". Afrikaans was considered a Dutch dialect until the early 20th century, when it began to be widely known as a different language. The name "Afrikaans" is simply the Dutch word for "African", and the language is the African form of Dutch.

</doc>
<doc id="14237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14237" title="Leonard Bernstein">
Leonard Bernstein

Leonard Bernstein (August 25, 1918 – October 14, 1990) was an American composer and conductor. He was born Louis Bernstein in Lawrence, Massachusetts to Ukrainian Jewish parents. He is best known for conducting the New York Philharmonic and composing "West Side Story" and "Candide".
Bernstein was bisexual. He was a heavy smoker who had emphysema. He died of a heart attack in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="14239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14239" title="Afrikaans Language Monument">
Afrikaans Language Monument

The Afrikaans Language Monument () is the only monument in the world dedicated to a language. It is on a hill overlooking the Teachers' Training College in Paarl, Western Cape Province, South Africa. Completed in 1975, it was built to celebrate the 100 years birthday of Afrikaans being declared as a different language from Dutch.
The monument is made of tapering structures of a convex and concave nature. They show the influences of different languages and cultures on Afrikaans itself. They are also a symbol of political developments in South Africa, as follows:
On a large inscription at the entrance, two quotes from important Afrikaans poets are written.
The phrase ""DIT IS ONS ERNS"" ("we are earnest [about this]", or "this is our earnestness") is inscribed on the pathway leading up to the monument.

</doc>
<doc id="14264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14264" title="DC Comics">
DC Comics

DC Comics (founded in 1934 as National Allied Publications) is an American comic book company. It is owned by Time Warner. DC comics, short for "Detective Comics", is best well known for making "superhero" comic books. DC Comics are very famous in the modern art subject Graphics. 
Some of their characters include:

</doc>
<doc id="14265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14265" title="Wonder Woman">
Wonder Woman

Wonder Woman is a superhero, who appears in DC Comics. She is the first and most famous female superheroes. William Moulton Marston created her and her first publication was in 1941. He was a psychologist who believed that women could be as strong and powerful as men. His wife, Elizabeth helped to create Wonder Woman.
In the comic book, Wonder Woman's real name is Diana Prince and is the daughter of Queen Hippolyta, ruler of the Amazons (a race of Amazonian female immortals from Greek mythology). She is founded by Steve Trevor, a US Air Force pilot, and taken to the United States, where she becomes the superhero Wonder Woman. She has a magic lasso and unbreakable gauntlets which deflect penetrable weapons, both of which help in fighting villains. She has the power of super speed, strength, and she can fly.
Gadgets:
Powers:
Wonder Woman had also appeared in animated cartoons and in a live-action television program in the 1970s with actress Lynda Carter. The series made the character very famous.
In January 2001, producer Joel Silver asked Todd Alcott to write a "Wonder Woman" screenplay. Early rumours listed actresses such as Mariah Carey, Sandra Bullock, and Catherine Zeta-Jones to play the role of Wonder Woman. Leonard Goldberg, speaking in a May 2001 interview, named Sandra Bullock as a strong candidate for the project. Bullock said that she was asked to play the role. Lucy Lawless and Chyna both were interested in it. The screenplay then went through many versions written by many different writers. By August 2003, Levens was replaced by screenwriter Laeta Kalogridis.
In March 2005, Warner Bros. said that Joss Whedon would write and direct the movie version of "Wonder Woman." Because Whedon was directing "Serenity" at the time and needed time to learn Wonder Woman's background, he did not start writing until late 2005. Silver wanted to movie "Wonder Woman" in Australia once the script was finished. In May 2005, Whedon said that he would not cast Wonder Woman until he finished the script. Charisma Carpenter and Morena Baccarin said they were interested in the role. 
In February 2007, Whedon left the project. He said there were problems with differences about the script between the studio and himself. Whedon said that since he was not doing the "Wonder Woman" project, he would focus on making his movie "Goners".
Gal Gadot is set to play Wonder Woman in the upcoming 2016 action movie "".

</doc>
<doc id="14266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14266" title="Bob Saget">
Bob Saget

Bob Saget (born May 17, 1956) is an American comedian and actor. He is best known for his appearances on television as Danny Tanner on "Full House" and the original host of "America's Funniest Home Videos".

</doc>
<doc id="14268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14268" title="Wilmington">
Wilmington

Wilmington is the name of many places:

</doc>
<doc id="14269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14269" title="Phil Collins">
Phil Collins

Philip David Charles "Phil" Collins (born 30 January 1951) is an English singer, drummer and actor. He was born in Chiswick, Hounslow, Middlesex. He plays with the band Genesis. He is very well known for his career away from the band, as a solo singer. His most well known album is "No Jacket Required", which has sold over ten million copies in the United States. One of his most well known songs is "In the Air Tonight", which had a long running false rumour that it was about a drowning that Collins had witnessed. Collins starred in the movie "Buster" (1988).
Collins won the Academy Award for Best Original Song and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song for "You'll Be in My Heart". That song was in the movie "Tarzan".

</doc>
<doc id="14270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14270" title="Badfinger">
Badfinger

Badfinger was a British rock group. They were first called The Iveys, but renamed themselves after a song title, "Badfinger Boogie", the original title of "With a Little Help From My Friends". The band's members were Peter Ham, Tom Evans, Mike Gibbins and Joey Molland. Badfinger recorded for Apple Records, which was a record label started by The Beatles, Warner Brothers, Elektra Records, and Radio Records.
Their first hit record was "Come And Get It", which was written by Paul McCartney. It appeared in a movie, "The Magic Christian". The band followed McCartney's demo closely to make the record. The finished record sounded like a Beatles song. Later they made records that sounded different, and showed the band's own style. Todd Rundgren was the producer of some of their recordings.
Badfinger's other hit records included "No Matter What", "Day After Day", and "Baby Blue". Later they left Apple Records and recorded for Warner Bros. Ham and Evans were the band's main songwriters. One of their songs, "Without You", was recorded by the band, but was not a hit. A later cover version by singer Harry Nilsson became an international hit, and was the first of many such versions. Many recording artists have sung "Without You", including Mariah Carey.
In 1970 Badfinger made an agreement with an American businessman called Stan Polley who promised to help them earn more money. But instead of helping them, Polley kept their money "away" from them in an account and refused to tell them how to get it out. He also behaved dishonestly toward Warner Bros. Because of his dishonesty, the band's sixth album was removed from shops after being available for only seven weeks, and Warner Bros. refused to release their seventh album. As a result, the band did not earn any money for their hard work, which made Pete Ham feel very depressed. Feeling that he could not be a good husband or father without any money, Ham committed suicide by hanging himself in 1975.
Evans and Molland decided they still wanted to work together. Mike Gibbins, the drummer, wanted to as well, but could not. They found two more musicians to take the place of Ham and Gibbins, and recorded a new album called "Airwaves". They had only one very small hit, but continued to tour. They released another record called "Say No More". This record had cover art by artist Peter Max.
Tom Evans had problems like Ham's, and killed himself (eight years after Ham) in the same way.

</doc>
<doc id="14285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285" title="United Nations Security Council">
United Nations Security Council

The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is one of six main parts of the United Nations. The Security Council deals with maintaining peace and security between nations. 
There are 15 members of the UNSC but only five are permanent members. They are:
The ten temporary seats are held for two years with member states (countries) voted in by the United Nations General Assembly on a regional basis. The Presidency of the Security Council (i.e. the leadership) is rotated alphabetically each month.
As of 2014, the 10 temporary members are:
If a country has behaved in a way seen as bad, the member countries of UNSC can make a ruling, known as a United Nations Security Council Resolution. All five of the permanent member countries must either agree to this ruling or at least not vote against it; if any of them do, it is said to have been "vetoed" and does not come into effect. This Resolution may call for UN members to take certain actions to punish the country, called "sanctions". An example is that the UNSC had long banned all imports of nuclear material to Iran as they felt Iran was going to make nuclear weapons. These sanctions resulted in rules which made it much harder for Iran to do business with people in the rest of the world. These actions made life harder in Iran, both for its government and regular people as well. Most people think that is why Iran was willing to promise to change how it used nuclear material in order to end these rules. The Permanent Members of the Security Council worked together in ending this problem; Germany has also conferenced with the permanent UN Security Council members about this issue. 
The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is the most powerful part of the United Nations. The Security Council deals with maintaining peace and security between nations. For members of the UN to engage in war or major military activity against another country or a large armed group outside of their own country they are supposed to have the agreement of the Security Council to do so but recent history shows that this rule is often not closely followed by everyone. All members of the UN retain the right to "self-defense"; they can engage in actions to defend their people and land whenever this becomes necessary but are then expected to refer the matter to the Security Council as soon as they can.

</doc>
<doc id="14316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14316" title="High jump">
High jump

The high jump is a track and field athletics event. Without the aid of any devices, athletes jump over a horizontal bar placed at measured heights. The high jump was first practised in England in the 19th century. It became an Olympic sport in 1896 for men and in 1928 for women. The rules that were made in 1865 still exist today. Thus, every athlete has three attempts on every height. The athletes are allowed to touch the bar but they must not knock it down.
The women's world record of 2.09 metres is held by Stefka Kostadinova. It was set in 1987. There is a technique called the Fosbury flop and scissor kick.

</doc>
<doc id="14317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14317" title="Manhattan">
Manhattan

Manhattan is a borough, one of the five which make up New York City. It is the center of the New York Metropolitan Area and the smallest borough. It is the most densely populated borough. Manhattan Island is most of the borough of Manhattan. The Marble Hill neighborhood is legally part of the borough but is attached to the mainland United States (by way of the Bronx), and there are several smaller Islands.
The Dutch bought it from the Native Americans and called it New Amsterdam, then the English took it over and changed the name to New York. The name "Manhattan" comes from the Munsi language of the Lenni Lenape meaning "island of many hills". Other theories say that it comes from one of three Munsi words. "Manahactanienk" meaning "place of inebriation". Other possibilities are "manahatouh" meaning "a place where wood is available for making bows and arrows" and "menatay" meaning simply "the island." 
Manhattan is an important commercial, financial, and cultural center of both the United States and the 
world. Most major radio, television, and telecommunications companies in the United States are based there, as well as many news, magazine, book, and other media publishers. Manhattan has many famous landmarks, tourist attractions, museums, and universities. It also has the headquarters of the United Nations.
Before colonization, the Lenape Indians lived in the area that is now called Manhattan. In 1524, Lenape people in canoes met Giovanni da Verrazzano, the first European explorer to pass New York Harbor, although he may not have entered the harbor past the Narrows. Henry Hudson, an Englishman who worked for the Dutch East India Company, made the first map of the area.
In the 1620s, the first large European colony was started in New Netherland, when the Dutch began trading fur on Governors Island. In 1625, the Dutch chose Manhattan Island to build Fort Amsterdam, a citadel for the protection of the new arrivals. It would later be called New Amsterdam (Dutch: "Nieuw Amsterdam"). The creation of New Amsterdam was recognized as the birth of New York City.
On May 24, 1626, Manhattan was bought from the Native Americans living on the island. The price was trading goods worth 60 guilders, which was worth about 24 dollars at the time. The currency calculations from the International Institute of Social History in Amsterdam say that 60 guilders in the 1620s cost around $1000 now.
In 1647, Peter Stuyvesant became the last Dutch Director General of the colony. New Amsterdam was considered an official city on 3 February 1653. In 1664, the British conquered New Netherland and renamed it "New York" after the English King James II, then known as Duke of York and Albany. Stuyvesant and his council made a deal with the British where New Netherlanders were promised liberties, including freedom of religion, under British rule. In August 1673, the Dutch took control of the island again, calling the city "New Orange" (Dutch: "Nieuwe Oranje"). The Dutch lost control of New Netherland forever to the English in November 1674 by treaty.
Manhattan was the center of many campaigns, battles and meetings during the American Revolution. In 1765, all of the colonies worked together for a unified political aim when the Stamp Act Congress (meeting) of representatives from across the Thirteen Colonies was held in New York City to write The Declaration of Rights and Grievances.
The Sons of Liberty, a Boston based group, were part of a long-term battle with British authorities over liberty poles that were sometimes raised by the Sons of Liberty and cut down by the British. The disputes ended when the revolutionary New York Provincial Congress took power in 1775.
Manhattan was the center of a series of large battles in the early American Revolutionary War. These battles were called the New York Campaign, where British forces and colonists fought for control of New York City and the state of New Jersey. The rebel Continental Army, led by George Washington, had to leave Manhattan after losing the Battle of Fort Washington on 16 November 1776. Shortly after, Manhattan was greatly damaged by the Great Fire of New York in 1776.
Victory gave the British control of the area. They used the city as the center for political and military activities for the rest of the war. Loyalists from elsewhere came to the city as refugees from the Rebels and to join the war.
Years later, Washington came back to Manhattan with his army. On Evacuation Day, the last British occupation forces left the city on 25 November 1783. On 30 April, 1789, Washington was inaugurated (officially became) the first president of the United States and took his oath of office at Federal Hall on Wall Street.
In the early 19th century, Manhattan grew in population and economically. Another great fire in 1835 destroyed much of the city but it was soon rebuilt. Because of the Great Irish Famine, a lot of Irish people emigrated (left their country) to live in New York; they made up for 25% of Manhattan's population at the time. Many of the Irish people lived in a part of the Lower East Side known as the Bowery or in another section called Five Points.
After the Civil War, many immigrants of Italian, Polish and Jewish backgrounds came to Manhattan and lived in tenements in a part of the city called the Lower East Side. Over a million people lived in the area at one point.
An Irish political machine called Tammany Hall was very important to New York City during the Gilded Age. With the support of mostly Irish immigrants, it grew as a political machine. The support helped win the election for the first Tammany mayor, Fernando Wood, in 1854. Central Park, which opened to the public in 1858, became the first landscaped park in any American city and the country's first public park.
The rate of immigration from Europe shot up after the Civil War, and New York became the most popular state for immigrants in the United States. Because of this, the French built and gave New York the Statue of Liberty on October 28, 1886. Soon after, the boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn were combined into one city.
In the beginning of the 20th century, many new things were built in the city, like skyscrapers and the New York City Subway. The first subway transit center, the Interborough Rapid Transit or "IRT", opened to the public in 1904. The installation of the Subway helped tie the new city together, as did new bridges to Brooklyn. In the 1920s, many African-Americans came to live in Manhattan during the Great Migration from the American South, and the Harlem Renaissance. New York City became the most populous city (city with the most people) in the world in 1925, overtaking London, which had held the title for a century.
Between World War I and World War II, reformist Fiorello La Guardia was elected as the new mayor in 1933 and took office in 1934, marking the fall of Tammany Hall after 80 years of dominating politics in New York City. Once the city's demographics were steadier, labor unionization provided protection and affluence to the working class. Despite the Great Depression, some of the world's tallest skyscrapers of the time were built in Manhattan during the 1930s, including many Art Deco masterpieces that are still part of the city's skyline today. The most well-known structures are Empire State Building, the Chrysler Building, and the GE Building.
Following the end of World War II, a lot of veterans came home to the United States. This led to the development of private communities that were intended to be sold or rented out to returning soldiers, resulting in an economic boom. An example of one of the communities built to attract veterans looking for homes is Stuyvesant Town—Peter Cooper Village, which opened in 1947. In 1951, the United Nations relocated from its first headquarters in Queens, to the East Side of Manhattan.
Population and industry began to decline in the 1960s. The Stonewall riots were a series of violent demonstrations by members of the gay community. By the 1970s, the city had gained a reputation as a graffiti-covered, crime-ridden relic of history. In 1975, the city government went bankrupt (ran out of money), and its pleas for financial help were rejected at first. On 30 October 1975, the New York Daily News reported the event with the headline as "Ford to City: Drop Dead". The city received a federal loan and debt restructuring. After the economic downfall and recovery, New York State kept a close watch on New York City's economy.
In the 1980s, Wall Street was revived from its slump, and the city reclaimed its role at the center of the worldwide financial industry. During this time, Manhattan was also at the heart of the AIDS crisis, with Greenwich Village being a major center of the epidemic. "Gay Men's Health Crisis" (GMHC) and "AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power" (ACT UP) were organizations that were started because of the crisis. Their purpose was to advocate on behalf of those AIDs victims.
Crime rates began to drop greatly in the 1990s. Murder rates were 537 in 2008 compared to 2,245 in 1990. The crack epidemic and its associated drug-related violence had died down, and was under great control by the city. Many people who had moved out of the city came back because the city once again became the destination of immigrants from around the world, joining with low interest rates and Wall Street bonuses to fuel the growth of the real estate market.

</doc>
<doc id="14318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14318" title="The Bronx">
The Bronx

The Bronx is the northern part of New York City, United States. The name came from Bronck's Farms, owned by a settler called Jonas Bronck. The Bronx River flows south out of Yonkers and Mount Vernon, New York, through the middle of The Bronx, and into Long Island Sound. The Bronx was once the southern part of Westchester County, New York. The New York Yankees baseball team plays there.

</doc>
<doc id="14319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14319" title="Bob Denver">
Bob Denver

Bob Denver (January 9, 1935 – September 2, 2005) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles as Gilligan on the 1960s television series "Gilligan's Island" and Maynard G. Krebs on the earlier "Many Loves of Dobie Gillis". He appeared on many other shows including "The Good Guys", "Dusty's Trail", and "Far-Out Space Nuts", but these could not match his success as Gilligan. In 1998, he was arrested for marijuana possession and in 2005, he underwent heart surgery. After that he learned he had cancer. Before he became an actor, Denver worked as a mailman and a high school teacher.

</doc>
<doc id="14321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14321" title="1100">
1100

Note that 1100 is the last year of the 11th century. 1101 is the first year of the 12th century.

</doc>
<doc id="14322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14322" title="Monk">
Monk

A monk is a man who devoted part or all of his life to a religion. The word comes from Ancient Greek, and can be translated as "solitary". In Greek, the word can be used for men and women alike, but in English,a woman who does the same is called a nun. Monks practice asceticism. They either live alone, or together with other monks who share the same ideals. Monks can be found in different religions, most often in Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Jainism and Taoism. 
The monks who live on their own are usually called hermits, those living with other monks do so in monasteries. Nuns living together do so in a convent. 
Some laws monks might choose to obey:

</doc>
<doc id="14323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14323" title="Dream Theater">
Dream Theater

Dream Theater (often called "DT" for short) is a progressive metal and progressive rock band formed in the mid-1980s in the United States.
The band was founded by John Myung, John Petrucci and Mike Portnoy. Myung and Petrucci are the only original members that are still in the band today. They changed their singer twice in the late 1980s when Chris Collins was replaced by Charles Dominici in 1987. Dominici left the band only three years later, in 1990, and James LaBrie joined and stayed until today. Dream Theater's keyboardist also changed three times. Kevin Moore played with the band from 1986 until 1995 when he left and Derek Sherinan took his position until 1999. Jordan Rudess is Dream Theater's Keyboardist now. He is known for his excellent technique and compositional skills. In September 2010, drummer Mike Portnoy left Dream Theater.
The members of Dream Theater are known for having excellent playing technique of their instruments, and for their songwriting. Their music is very complex and the songs are often long, their longest being "Six Degrees of Inner Turbulence" at 42 minutes in length.
Their songs contain a lot of instrumental sections, in which no vocals are heard and only the instruments play (these parts are called "instrumental passages") and also many solos. Another feature of their music is that during each song, the speed often changes, and occasionally style changes too.
They once said that other bands have trouble making long songs. They said they have trouble making "short" songs. Most of Dream Theater's music is very difficult to play because of the high speed it has to be played with and the complex rhythm.

</doc>
<doc id="14332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14332" title="Triangle">
Triangle

A triangle is a shape or area, or a specific part of two dimension space. It has three straight sides and three vertices. The three angles of a triangle always add up to 180° (180 degrees). It is the polygon with the least possible number of sides.
Triangles can be grouped according to how long their sides are:
Triangles can also be grouped by their angles:
Triangles are extremely useful. Measuring objects using triangles is called trigonometry. Some people have spent their entire lives studying triangles for use in trigonometry.
Modern computers usually use triangles to make more complex graphic images or shapes.

</doc>
<doc id="14346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14346" title="Feminism">
Feminism

Feminism is a social and political movement. Feminism is about changing the way that people see male and female rights, and campaigning for equal ones. Somebody who follows feminism is called a feminist.
There are many different types of feminism:
There are also many other types of feminism.
There have been women who have been involved in politics throughout history. 
Esther, Lady Godiva, Queen Elizabeth, Catherine the Great, and Joan of Arc. 
Starting in 1960, there have been many women elected to high positions of power, such as prime minister. Sirimavo Bandaranaike was the first, followed by Indira Gandhi, Golda Meir, Elisabeth Domitien and Margaret Thatcher. Dame Eugenia Charles lasted nearly 15 years in the post, a record.
Feminism started with the idea that human rights should be given to women. This idea was put forward by some philosophers in the 18th and 19th centuries such as Mary Wollstonecraft and John Stuart Mill. Later feminists in the early 20th century also said that women should be allowed to vote in a democracy. Many women felt very strongly that they should be allowed to vote and there were many protests. These women were called Suffragettes. This is because they were fighting for Universal suffrage which means everybody is able to vote. The Suffragettes staged many protests for their rights. Some women even committed suicide to show how wrong it was that they could not take part in politics. After women received the vote, feminism worked to make all of society more equal for women.
Not all female politicians have been welcomed by feminists, with Margaret Thatcher, Sarah Palin and Michele Bachmann being clear examples.
There are reasons why some people do not like feminism:
There are also many other types of anti-feminism.
Writers such as Camille Paglia, Christina Hoff Sommers, Jean Bethke Elshtain, Elizabeth Fox-Genovese and Daphne Patai oppose some forms of feminism, though they identify as feminists. They argue, for example, that feminism often promotes misandry (hatred of men) and the elevation of women's interests above men's, and criticize radical feminist positions as harmful to both men and women. Daphne Patai and Noretta Koertge argue that the term "anti-feminist" is used to silence academic debate about feminism.

</doc>
<doc id="14352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14352" title="Eivør Pálsdóttir">
Eivør Pálsdóttir

Eivør Pálsdóttir (born 21 July 1983 in Syðrugøta, Faroe Islands) is a Faroese singer and composer. She sings in Faroese, but also in English, Icelandic, Swedish and Danish. 
Eivør Pálsdóttir is one of the most well-known singers from the Faroe Islands.
"Krakan", her second solo album, won the nomination for an Icelandic Music Award in three categories. Eivor won Best Singer and Best Performer in Iceland in 2003. 

</doc>
<doc id="14355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14355" title="Hippopotamus">
Hippopotamus

The hippopotamus ("Hippopotamus amphibius"), or hippo, ancient Greek for "river horse" ("Ιπποπόταμος"), is a large mammal in Africa that usually eats plants. It is one of only two species in the family Hippopotamidae that are still alive. The other is the Pygmy Hippopotamus. The hippopotamus is the third largest land animal (the elephant is the largest, and the White Rhinoceros is the second largest). It is also the heaviest artiodactyl, even though it is much shorter than the giraffe. 
The hippopotamus is semi-aquatic. This means that even though it usually lives on the land, it spends a great amount of time in rivers and lakes where males lead groups of 5 to 30 females and young. In the daytime, they keep cool by staying in the water or mud. They give birth to baby hippos in the water, too. At dusk, they come out to graze on grass. Hippopotamuses rest together in the water, but they like to graze by themselves.
The hippopotamus has a torso that is shaped like a barrel, a very big mouth and teeth, an almost hairless body, short legs and great size. It is the third largest land mammal, judging by its weight, which is between between 1½ and 3 tonnes. The white rhinoceros weighs 1½ to 3½ tonnes, and the three species of elephant weigh 3 to 9 tonnes. Even though it has short, fat legs, it can run more quickly than a human. Some hippos have run at 30 km/h (19 mph) for short distances. The hippopotamus is one of the fiercest animals in the world. It is often called one of the most dangerous animals in Africa. There are about 125,000 to 150,000 hippos in Sub-Saharan Africa. Zambia (40,000) and Tanzania (20,000 – 30,000) have the most hippos. They are threatened because they are losing their habitats and being poached for their meat and ivory teeth.
The word "hippopotamus" comes from the ancient Greek , "hippopotamos", from , "hippos", "horse", and , "potamos", which means "river". So, "hippopotamus" means "horse of the river". More than one hippopotamus are called "hippopotami", and 'hippopotamuses', or 'hippos' is also used. Hippopotamusi are social. About 30 hippos live together in groups. A male hippopotamus is known as a bull. A female hippopotamus is called a cow, and a baby hippo is called a calf. The species is also known as the common hippopotamus or the Nile hippopotamus.
Hippopotami are the fourth largest mammals in the world (after whales, elephants, and rhinoceroses). The Egyptian hippopotamus is smaller than the others. They can live in the water or on land. They can walk or even run along the bottom of a river.
Because hippos are so large, it is difficult to weigh them in the wild. Most adult male hippos weigh between . Females hippos are smaller, and usually weigh between . Older males can get even bigger. They are at least and sometimes even weigh .
Male hippos seem to keep on growing for their whole lives. Females hippos, though, become heaviest when they are about 25 years old.
Hippos have big and heavy bodies, dark gray skin, and short legs. A hippo's main defence is their extremely strong mouth. They can grow to be 15 feet long and weigh 3,000 pounds.
Hippopotami are herbivores which live in groups. Despite being semiaquatic and having webbed feet, an adult hippo is not a particularly good swimmer nor can it float. It is rarely found in deep water; when it is, the animal moves by porpoise-like leaps from the bottom. They usually stay in the mud and water during the day and come out to eat grass or leaves at night. Though they are bulky animals, hippopotami can gallop at 30 km/h (19 mph) on land but normally trot.
Many hippos lived in North Africa and Europe until about 30,000 years ago. They used to be common in Egypt's Nile region from long ago, though they are not there now. Pliny the Elder writes that, in his time, the best place in Egypt for finding this animal was in the Saite nome. The animal could still be found around there after the Arab Conquest in 639. Hippos are still found in the rivers and lakes of Uganda, Sudan, Somalia, Kenya, northern Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ethiopia, west through Ghana to Gambia, and also in Southern Africa (Botswana, Republic of South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia). Some hippos also live in Tanzania and Mozambique. They like to live in places with water that is not too deep.
Hippos are very aggressive towards humans, whom they commonly attack whether in boats or on land with no apparent provocation. This aggression by the hippopotamus is caused by humans coming too close to their children. Hippopotami are very protective of their young and they often fear that humans pose a large threat to their young. They are widely considered to be one of the most dangerous large animals in Africa.
The earliest proof that humans were involved with hippos comes from butchery cut marks on hippo bones at Bouri Formation from around 160,000 years ago. Later rock paintings and engravings showing hippos being hunted. They have been found in the mountains of the central Sahara from 4,000–5,000 years ago near Djanet. Ancient Egyptians also knew much about hippos. They knew the hippo was a fierce, wild animal that lived in the Nile. In Egyptian mythology, Tawaret, a goddess of protection in pregnancy and childbirth, had the head of a hippo. This was because ancient Egyptians saw how protective female hippopotami could be about their young.

</doc>
<doc id="14356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14356" title="Prefecture">
Prefecture

A prefecture is a word used by countries such as Greece and Japan (called "νομός", "nomós" in Greece and called 県 "ken" in Japan). It is a smaller part of a country with its own government. It is a kind of local government.
It is like an American state or a British county.
In France, it is the head of the department ("see" Prefectures in France "for more detail").

</doc>
<doc id="14361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14361" title="2010">
2010

2010 (MMX) was a common year starting on Friday in the Gregorian calendar. It was also the 1st year of the 2010s.
The United Nations designated 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity and International Year of Youth.
There are many debates over how the years are spoken. The year 2010 can be spoken as "twenty-ten" or "two thousand (and) ten".

</doc>
<doc id="14366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14366" title="Eris (dwarf planet)">
Eris (dwarf planet)

Eris is a dwarf planet and a trans-Neptunian object (TNO). Eris is the second-largest dwarf planet known in the Solar System. It is a "scattered disc object" and it is in the Kuiper belt, farther out than Pluto. It is also called a "plutoid" because the IAU decided to rename all trans-Neptunian dwarf planets as plutoids. Eris orbits the sun once every 557 Earth years and it has an elliptical orbit, inclined at an angle of 44° between the plane of the orbit of the planet and the ecliptic, which is the plane containing Earth's orbital path. Eris has one moon called Dysnomia.
Eris was discovered by Michael E. Brown, Chad Trujillo and David Rabinowitz on January 5, 2005, when they were having a close look at some images of the outer Solar System taken in 2003.
Eris was originally called "Xena", after the main character of the television series "". However, there is a rule stating that all objects orbiting outside Neptune’s orbit have to be named after a creation of mythology. Therefore, it was officially named Eris on September 13, 2006. Eris is named after the goddess of strife, discord, contention and rivalry in Greek mythology.
Eris has one moon called Dysnomia. It was discovered on September 10, 2005. Dysnomia was originally nicknamed "Gabrielle", after a character from the television series "Xena: Warrior Princess", like Eris. However, like Eris, it could not be called this. Dysnomia was named after the daughter of Eris, in Greek mythology. Dysnomia is the goddess (or spirit) of lawlessness and poor civil constitution.
Media reports have argued that Eris is the tenth planet, along with astronomers and NASA scientists. However, the definition of a planet was changed in August 2006. Under the new specifications, Eris, along with Pluto, was lowered in status to a dwarf planet.
Scientists are continuing to find out more about Eris and its moon, and to look for any more moons and rings.

</doc>
<doc id="14377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14377" title="Operation Overlord">
Operation Overlord

Operation Overlord was the 1944 campaign for the invasion of continental Europe in World War II. It was fought by the Allied forces against German forces. The most critical part was the Normandy invasion, which was to get the Allied armies onto the continent of Europe. It was critical because it could not have failed, and heavy casualties were expected. It was, however, successful. The Battle of Normandy raged until German forces retreated across the Seine on 30 August 1944. This marked the close of Operation Overlord.
It was the largest invasion by sea in history. Almost three million troops crossing the English Channel from England to Normandy in then German-occupied France. 
The main Allied forces came from the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada, but another nine nations sent units, the rest being Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Greece, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and Poland.
Allied troops made many practice landings to understand how to do it.
Maps of Normandy beaches were created. The planners knew heavy tanks and transport could not travel on the beaches, which had soft peat underneath them. Detailed maps of the area were required. Where peat had to be travelled on, the plan was to lay down matting.
On 7 April and 15 May, Bernard Montgomery presented his plan for the invasion. He planned a ninety day battle, ending when all the forces reached the Seine. The plan was for the Allies to capture Caen.
The goal for the first 40 days was to capture Caen and Cherbourg (especially Cherbourg, for its deep-water port). Then Brittany and its Atlantic ports would be captured. Next, the Allies would go 125 miles (190 km) to the southwest of Paris. The Allies would then control the land between the rivers Loire in the south and Seine in the northeast.
Meanwhile the Allies made great efforts to make the Germans think the invasion would happen elsewhere.
The Allies developed new technology for Overlord. The "mulberry", a mobile concrete harbor, allowed the Allies to supply their soldiers on the beach without capturing one of the heavily defended Channel ports. Major-General Percy Hobart, a military engineer, designed modified Sherman and Churchill tanks.
In the months leading up to the invasion, the Allies worked at military deception. Operation Bodyguard made the Germans think that areas other than northern France would be attacked. In the weeks leading up to the invasion, the Allies tried to make the Germans think that the main invasion would take place at the Pas de Calais and in Norway.
German coastal defences were stretched thin in 1944. Once Normandy had been chosen as the site of the invasion, it was decided to attempt to deceive the Germans into thinking it was a diversion and that the true invasion was to be elsewhere.
The deception was an industry in itself. It included dummy messages, dummy tanks in places near Dover and the south coast of England, using double agents to spread false information, dummy radio messages, and so on.
The deception was highly successful. It led Hitler to delay sending reinforcements from the Pas de Calais region for nearly seven weeks (the original plan had specified 14 days). In his memoirs, General Omar Bradley called "Bodyguard" the "single biggest hoax of the war".
Allied forces rehearsed their roles for D-Day months before the invasion. On 28 April 1944, in south Devon on the British coast, 946 American soldiers and sailors were killed when German torpedo boats attacked one of these landing exercises, Exercise Tiger.
The security of D-Day was supported by stopping unplanned news from getting out of Britain. Travel to and from the Republic of Ireland was banned, and movements near the coasts was not allowed. The German embassies and consulates in neutral countries were given false information.
All the same, there were several leaks prior to or on D-Day. Through the Cicero affair, the Germans obtained documents containing references to Overlord, but these documents lacked detail. Another leak was General Charles de Gaulle's radio message after D-Day. He stated that this invasion was the real invasion. This had the potential to ruin the Allied trick operations Fortitude North and Fortitude South. Eisenhower referred to the landings as the initial invasion. The Germans did not believe de Gaulle and waited too long to move in extra troops against the Allies.
The British did an airborne assault on the River Orne. The British goal was to capture the Orne River bridges to prevent German armor from using them and to prevent retreating Germans from blowing them up. This way, they could be used by Allied armor and vehicles. 
The British sea attack units would attack through Sword and Gold Beaches. The United States had an airborne division and land units, which were to take Omaha Beach, the Pointe du Hoc and Utah Beach. The Canadians would work with British units to attack Sword Beach. The British and Canadians had separate beaches, Gold Beach and Juno Beach, respectively.
The Invasion Fleet was made upfrom eight navies made up of warships and submarines, split into the Western Naval Task Force (Rear-Admiral Alan G Kirk) and the Eastern Naval Task Force (Rear-Admiral Sir Philip Vian). The fleet was led by Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay.
The Allies assigned codenames to the various operations involved in the invasion. "Overlord" was the name for the landing on the Continent. Getting a secure hold on the area was codenamed "Neptune". It began on D-Day (6 June 1944) and ended on 30 June 1944. By this time, the Allies had control in Normandy. Operation "Overlord" also began on D-Day, and continued until Allied forces crossed the river Seine on 19 August 1944.
Through most of 1942 and 1943, the Germans thought successful Allied invasion in the west would not happen. Preparations were limited to building fortifications at the major ports. The number of military forces in Nazi Germany reached its peak during 1944 with 59 divisions in France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Field Marshal Erwin Rommel was in charge of the wall. He knew that the beaches between were barely defended, and the Allies could land there and capture the ports from the land. He improved the defences of the entire coastline. Steel obstacles were put on beaches, concrete bunkers and pillboxes constructed, and low-lying areas were flooded. Pointed stakes were set up on likely landing grounds to make it hard for the Allies to do airborne landings. The Germans fortified the foreshore area as part of their Atlantic Wall defences (including tank turrets and barbed wire). 
These projects were not finished, especially in the Normandy sector. Allied bombing of the French railway system made it hard to move materials, and the Germans were convinced by the Allied tricks that the landings would take place in the Pas de Calais.
The sector which was attacked was guarded by four divisions, of which the 352nd and 91st were of high quality. The other defending troops included Germans who were not fit for active duty on the Eastern Front, conscripted Poles and former Soviet prisoners-of-war who had agreed to fight for the Germans. These units had German leaders.
Rommel's defensive measures were made difficult by arguments over how to use armoured forces. Von Geyr and Rommel disagreed over the how to use Panzer divisions.
Rommel thought armoured formations be close to the coast, to attack while the invaders were weak. Von Geyr said they should instead be put around Paris and used in a big group when the Germans knew which beach was being invaded. Hitler made a compromise solution. 
Rommel was given only three tank divisions, one of which was close enough to the Normandy beaches to fight on the first day. The other mechanized divisions were put under the control of the German Armed Forces HQ (OKW) and were placed across France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
The opportunity for launching an invasion was limited to only a few days in each month, because a full moon was needed. This would provide light for the aircraft pilots and create a spring tide. Eisenhower had picked 5 June as the date for the assault. However, on 4 June, conditions were unsuitable for a landing. High winds and heavy seas made it impossible to launch landing craft. Low clouds would prevent aircraft finding their targets. 
Meteorologists predicted an improvement in the weather for 6 June. At a meeting on 5 June, Eisenhower and his senior commanders discussed the situation. Eisenhower decided to launch the invasion that night. Had Eisenhower delayed the invasion, the only option was to go two weeks later. This would have been during stormy weather.
To make it hard for the Germans to launch attacks during the sea attack phase, airborne operations were used to capture bridges and road crossings. The airborne landings behind the beaches were also designed to help the soldiers landing on beaches and destroy German coastal defense artillery. 
On Sword Beach, the regular British infantry came ashore with few casualties. They had advanced about by the end of the day but did not get as far as Montgomery had wanted. Caen was still held by Germans by the end of D-Day and would remain so until Operation Charnwood on 9 July.
The Canadian forces that landed on Juno Beach had a difficult battle. German concrete fortifications and a sea wall twice as high as at Omaha Beach made it very difficult to attack. Juno was the second most heavily defended beach on D-Day, next to Omaha. Canadians were off the beach within hours and advancing inland. They were the only units to reach their D-Day goals, although most units fell back a few kilometres to make stronger defensive positions.
At Gold Beach, there were many dead and wounded because the Germans had strongly fortified a village on the beach. The 50th (Northumbrian) Infantry Division advanced almost to Bayeux by the end of the day. When commando units captured the Port-en-Bessin, the Allies could use their PLUTO pipeline to bring in fuel. 
The Americans who landed on Omaha Beach faced the veteran German 352nd Infantry Division, one of the best trained groups on the beaches. Furthermore, Omaha was the most heavily fortified beach. Commanders considered abandoning the beach but small units of infantry got past the coastal defences. By the end of day two areas had been captured. The control over the beach expanded over the following days and the D-Day goals were accomplished by D+3.
At Pointe du Hoc, the 2nd Ranger battalion had to climb the cliffs. While they climbed, the enemy shot at them and dropped grenades. They used ropes and ladders to climb up and then destroy the guns. 
The beach fortifications were important targets since a single artillery observer could have directed fire on the U.S. beaches. The Rangers captured the fortifications. They then had to fight for 2 days to hold the location, losing more than 60 percent of their men.
The number of dead and wounded on Utah Beach, the westernmost landing zone, were the lightest of any beach. Only 197 out of the 23,000 troops that landed were killed or wounded. The 4th Infantry Division troops that landed on the beach was able to move inland by early afternoon, linking up with the 101st Airborne Division.
Once the beaches were controlled, the Mulberry Harbours were set up around 9 June. One was constructed at Arromanches by British forces, the other at Omaha Beach by American forces. Severe storms on 19 June caused problems with the landing of supplies and destroyed the Omaha harbour. The Arromanches harbour was able to supply around 9,000 tons daily until the end of August 1944, by which time the port of Cherbourg had been captured by the Allies.
The German 21st Panzer division attacked between Sword and Juno beaches and nearly reached the Channel. Allied anti-tank gunners made them pull back before the end of 6 June.
The Allied invasion plans had called for the capture of Carentan, St. Lô, Caen and Bayeux on the first day. The plan was to link all the beaches except Utah and Sword (the last linked with paratroopers) and a front line from the beaches. None of these goals had been achieved. The number of dead and wounded had not been as heavy as some had feared (around 10,000 compared to the 20,000 Churchill had estimated) and the bridges had survived the German attacks.
In the western part of the invasion area, US troops were to occupy the Cotentin Peninsula, especially Cherbourg. This would provide the Allies with a deep water harbour. The land behind Utah and Omaha was banks and hedgerows that tanks, gunfire and vision could not get through. This made them ideal defensive positions. 
The U.S. infantry made slow progress and had many dead and wounded as they moved towards Cherbourg. The airborne troops were used to help with the advance. The far side of the peninsula was reached on 18 June. Hitler told German forces not to retreat to the strong Atlantic Wall fortifications in Cherbourg. The Cherbourg commander, Lieutenant General von Schlieben, surrendered on 26 June. Before surrendering he had most of the facilities destroyed, making the harbour inoperable until the middle of August, by which time the combat front had moved so far east that it was less helpful.
While the Americans headed for Cherbourg, a unit of troops led by the British moved towards Caen. Montgomery made many attrition warfare attacks. The first was Operation Perch, which moved south from Bayeux to Villers-Bocage where the armour could capture Caen. It was halted at the Battle of Villers-Bocage. Caen was bombed and then occupied north of the River Orne in Operation Charnwood from 7 July until 9 July. An attack in the Caen area followed with all three British armoured divisions, codenamed "Operation Goodwood" from 18 July until 21 July. It captured the high ground south of Caen. The rest of the city was captured by Canadian forces during Operation Atlantic. A further operation, Operation Spring, from 25 July until 28 July, by the Canadians secured limited land south of the city, but with many dead and wounded.
Montgomery's plan included keeping the Germans in the eastern part of the invasion area, while protecting Cobra's position. By the end of Goodwood, the Germans had used the last of their reserve divisions; there were six and a half Panzer divisions against the British and Canadian forces compared to one and a half facing the United States armies. 
"Operation Cobra" was launched on 25 July by the U.S. First Army. It was successful. The VIII Corps entered Coutances at the western end of the Cotentin Peninsula on 28 July, after breaking through the German lines.
On 1 August, VIII Corps became part of Lieutenant General George S. Patton's Third Army. On 4 August, Montgomery changed the invasion plan by sending a corps to occupy Brittany and push the German troops around the ports, while the rest of the Third Army continued east. Because of the large number of German forces south of Caen, Montgomery moved the British armor west and launched Operation Bluecoat from 30 July until 7 August to add to the attacks from the United States armies. This pushed the German forces to the west, allowing the launch of Operation Totalize south from Caen on 7 August.
By the beginning of August, more German reserves became available. The German forces were being encircled and the German High Command wanted these reserves to help with a retreat to the Seine. Hitler demanded an attack at Mortain on 7 August. The attack was pushed back by the Allies, who again had advance warning from Ultra code breaking. The original Allied plan was for encircling the Germans as far as the Loire valley. Bradley realized that many of the German forces in Normandy were not able to move by this stage and he got Montgomery's approval by telephone on 8 August for to encircle German forces. This was left to Patton to do. He moved nearly unopposed through Normandy. The Germans were left in near Chambois. Strong German defense and the sending of some American troops for a attack by Patton towards the Seine at Mantes prevented the Germans from being trapped until 21 August. On this date, 50,000 German troops were trapped. 
Whether this could have been done earlier with more prisoners taken has been debated.
The liberation of Paris followed shortly afterwards. The French Resistance in Paris rose attacked the Germans on 19 August. The French 2nd Armoured Division under General Philippe Leclerc, along with the U.S. 4th Infantry Division accepted the surrender of the German forces there and liberated Paris on 25 August.
Operations continued in the British and Canadian sector until the end of the month. On 25 August, the 2nd U.S. Armored Division fought its way into Elbeuf, making contact with both British and Canadian armoured divisions there. The 2nd Canadian Infantry Division advanced into the Forêt de la Londe, on the morning of 27 August. The area was strongly held and the 4th and 6th Canadian brigades had large numbers of dead and wounded over three days as the Germans defended their position. The Germans pulled back on the 29th, withdrawing over the Seine on the 30th.
On the 30th the 3rd Canadian Infantry Division crossed the Seine near Elbeuf and entered Rouen to a happy welcome.
The campaign in Normandy is considered by historians to end either at midnight on 24 July 1944 (the start of "Operation Cobra" on the American front), 25 August 1944 (the liberation of Paris), or 30 August 1944, the date the last German unit retreated across the River Seine. 
The original "Overlord" plan was for a ninety-day campaign in Normandy with the ultimate goal of reaching the Seine; this goal was met early. American forces were fighting in Brittany as anticipated by General Montgomery during the latter weeks of the campaign. Historians consider the Normandy campaign to have ended with the massive breakout of "Operation Cobra".
The US official history describes the fighting beginning on 25 July as the "Northern France" campaign, and includes the fighting to close the Falaise Gap, which the British/Canadians/Poles consider to be part of the Battle of Normandy. Volume I of the Official History of the Canadian Army in the Second World War by C.P. Stacey, published in 1955, as well as the Canadian Army's official Historical Summary of the Second World War, published in 1948, define the Battle of Normandy as lasting from 6 June 1944 to 1 September 1944. The definition of the Battle of Normandy is also evident in another publication by the Army's Historical Section entitled "Canada's Battle in Normandy".
There were reports of Eisenhower requesting Montgomery's replacement in July. The lack of forward progress was caused by the rough land. However, as at the battle of El Alamein, Montgomery kept to his original attrition warfare strategy, reaching the objectives within his original ninety day target.
Victory in Normandy was followed by a pursuit to the French border in short order. Germany was forced once again to reinforce the Western Front with manpower and resources from the Soviet and Italian fronts.
By September, Allied forces of seven field armies (two of which came through southern France in Operation Dragoon) were approaching the German frontier. The Allied battle plan was good, drawing on the strengths of both Britain and the United States. German leadership was often faulty, despite good fighting by German units. 
In a larger context the Normandy landings helped the Soviets on the Eastern front, who were facing most of the German forces. It shortened of the conflict there.
Victory in Normandy stemmed from several factors. The Allies had more weapons and equipment. They also had new inventions like the PLUTO pipelines and Mulberry harbours. These helped the flow of troops, equipment, fuel and ammunition. Movement of cargo over the open beaches went better than expected,even after the destruction of the U.S. Mulberry in the channel storm in mid-June. 
By the end of July 1944, one million American, British, Canadian, French, and Polish troops, hundreds of thousands of vehicles, and a lot of supplies were ashore in Normandy. Artillery ammunition and other items were plentiful. This was impressive considering they did not hold a port until Cherbourg fell. 
By the time of the Normany breakout the Allies also had superiority in numbers of troops (approximately 3.5:1) and armored vehicles (approximately 4:1) which helped overcome the natural advantages the rough land gave to the German defenders.
Allied intelligence and counterintelligence efforts were successful. The Operation Fortitude trick plan before the invasion kept German attention focused on the Pas-de-Calais. High-quality German forces were kept in this area, away from Normandy, until July. Prior to the invasion, few German reconnaissance flights took place over Britain, and those that did saw only the fake camps. Ultra decoding of German Enigma (machine) communications had been helpful as well, exposing German plans.
Lack of an organized strategy hurt the German defence. German leadership was split between Field Marshals von Rundstedt and Rommel. Von Rundstedt wanted to keep the powerful units in reserve, to do a powerful counterattack once the allied landing started. Rommel wanted to stop the allies at the beach. He tried to locate units so that they could attack quickly. 
While Rommel's plan was good, the reserve strategy was not good because units could not move during the day due to allied air strikes. In the end, following a mix of the two strategies was a disaster. The beach defences were overcome and the counterattacks were not strong enough. 
German commanders at all levels failed to react to the attack quickly. Communication problems added to the problems caused by Allied air and naval firepower. Local commanders did not lead an aggressive defence on the beach. The German High Command focused on the Calais area, and von Rundstedt was not permitted to use the armored reserve. 
When it was finally released late in the day, success was more difficult. Although the 21st Panzer Division, had attacked earlier, it faced strong opposition that had been allowed to build at the beaches. Overall, despite steadily growing considerable Allied material superiority, the Germans slowed the Allies advance for nearly two months, aided by the rough land.
Although there were several disputes among the Allied commanders, their plans were decided by the main commanders. By contrast, the senior German leaders always had interference by Hitler, who did not know local conditions. 
Field Marshals von Rundstedt and Rommel repeatedly asked Hitler for more freedom to change plans but were refused. Von Rundstedt was removed from his command on 29 June after he told Field Marshal Keitel, the Chief of Staff at OKW (Hitler's Armed Forces HQ), to make peace. Rommel was severely injured by Allied aircraft on 16 July. 
Field Marshal von Kluge, who took over the posts held by both von Rundstedt and Rommel, was linked with some of the military plotters against Hitler, and he would not argue with Hitler for fear of arrest. As a result, the German armies in Normandy were pushed by Hitler to counterattack rather than retreat after the American breakthrough. Kluge was relieved of command on 15 August and killed himself. The more independent Field Marshal Walter Model then took command.

</doc>
<doc id="14380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14380" title="Mike Tyson">
Mike Tyson

Michael Gerard Tyson (June 30, 1966) is an American retired boxer. He held the heavyweight championship.
Mike Tyson became a professional boxer in 1985 and won a heavyweight title from Trevor Berbick in 1986. He was the youngest man to win a heavyweight title belt. He became recognized as the undisputed champion when he beat Michael Spinks in 1988. He lost his title to Buster Douglas in 1990. Tyson won his first 19 professional bouts by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. 
He was convicted of rape in 1992 and served three years in jail. When he was released he started boxing again and won a few heavyweight titles. Evander Holyfield was the first fighter to beat him in his return. Tyson also fought Lennox Lewis, who beat him, too. He retired from boxing in 2005.
Mike Tyson refereed one match at WrestleMania 14 and later on wrestled in a tag-team match on WWE Raw where he betrayed his partner, Chris Jericho. For these efforts, he was inducted in the WWE Hall of Fame in 2012. He has his a video game called Mike Tyson's Punch Out! named after him. He is one of the most famous people of all time

</doc>
<doc id="14382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14382" title="Cleveland, Ohio">
Cleveland, Ohio

Cleveland is a city in northern Ohio, US. It is home to over 400,000 people. It was named for General Moses Cleaveland in 1796, but a mistake in a local newspaper left out the first "a" in its name, which is why it is spelt like it is today. Its metropolitan area makes it the largest urban division in the state.
Cleveland is home to the Cleveland Orchestra.
Professional sports teams that make their home in or near Cleveland include the Cleveland Indians, who play baseball; the Cleveland Browns, who play football; and the Cleveland Cavaliers, who play basketball. Both the Indians and the Cavaliers have their games at the Gateway District in Downtown while the Browns have a stadium on the shores of Lake Erie. The city also hosted the Cleveland Grand Prix IndyCar race until 2008.
During the 19th century Cleveland's location at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River and Great Lakes port helped make it an important industrial center of the United States.
Cleveland is home to the Great Lakes Brewing Company. 
Cleveland reached its peak in the 1930s-1950s when it was a center of manufacturing and industry, but deindustrialization caused a decline in the city after that. Cleveland had a major revival in the 1980s and 1990s: The Playhouse Square theaters were restored, new skyscrapers like the BP Building and the Key Tower were built, new stadiums were built, and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame was opened on the lakefront. After a smaller decline in the 2000s, Cleveland has begun to make another comeback. 

</doc>
<doc id="14383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14383" title="Lexus">
Lexus

Lexus is a luxury car line produced by the Toyota company. Its worldwide motto is ""The Pursuit of Perfection"" Its slogan in the United States is ""The Passionate Pursuit of Perfection"".
This brand of vehicle is newer than others. It was founded in 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="14384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14384" title="Against">
Against

Against can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="14385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14385" title="Dentition">
Dentition

Dentition is the development of teeth and where the teeth are in the mouth. Almost all mammals have up to four different types of teeth: incisors, canines, premolars, and molars. Animals that have different types of teeth are called "heterodont". If they do not, they are called "homodont".
In mammals, the young have a set of primary teeth (milk teeth) that fall out after a few years. When they fall out, adult teeth grow in. Animals that have milk teeth and adult teeth are called diphyodont.
Dentition is important in archaeology. Dentition is used to study human migration. Tooth enamel contains trace elements which show where they grew.

</doc>
<doc id="14388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14388" title="Plectrum">
Plectrum

A plectrum or pick is a small object used to play certain types of string instruments. The plectrum is held in the hand and used to pluck a string. This makes a hard, metallic, "twangy" sound. The instruments most commonly plucked include the guitar, lute and mandolin. The strings of a harpsichord are also plucked, although the plectra in this instrument are called "jacks". They pluck the string when the player presses a key down.

</doc>
<doc id="14391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14391" title="Danny Barker">
Danny Barker

Danny Barker (January 13, 1909 – March 13, 1994) was a New Orleans jazz singer-songwriter and musician.

</doc>
<doc id="14392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14392" title="Charlie Christian">
Charlie Christian

Charles Henry "Charlie" Christian (July 29, 1916 – March 2, 1942) was an American jazz guitarist. Christian is best known as one of the first famous guitarists to play the electric guitar. He is also remembered as one of the first musicians to help create the styles of jazz music known as ""bebop"" and ""cool jazz.""
Christian first gained fame as a member of the Benny Goodman Orchestra. He played with Goodman from August 1939 to June 1941. He was very good at playing many notes up and down on a sinle guitar string. By playing his guitar through an amplifier his guitar solos made the guitar very loud in the band.
Christian died in March 1942 when he was only 26 years old. He had been sick with tuberculosis for several years before he died.
Even though he was jazz guitarist who died before the music style rock and roll was started, he was still a large influence on rock and roll musicians. It was because of this that in 1990 Charlie Christian was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame even though he had never played rock and roll music.
Charles Henry Christian was raised in Oklahoma City in the American state of Oklahoma. In 2006 Oklahoma City renamed a street to ""Charlie Christian Avenue."" There is also a yearly jazz music festival in Oklahoma City which is named after Charlie Christian.

</doc>
<doc id="14393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14393" title="Franco Cerri">
Franco Cerri

Franco Cerri (born January 29, 1926) is an Italian jazz guitar player.
Cerri is currently considered the most authoritative Italian guitarist in the jazz field, and his innate sympathy has meant that many viewers, seeing its shares on TV (especially in the 60s), come close to jazz, and studying guitar.
Much appreciated at the international level, has worked with notable musicians such as Django Reinhardt, Gorni Kramer, Chet Baker, Gerry Mulligan, Billie Holiday, Stéphane Grappelli, Lee Konitz, Dizzy Gillespie, Tullio De Piscopo, Pino Presti, Jean-Luc Ponty.

</doc>
<doc id="14394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14394" title="Eddie Condon">
Eddie Condon

Albert Edwin "Eddie" Condon (November 16, 1904 – August 4, 1973) was a Chicago jazz/big band rhythm guitarist.

</doc>
<doc id="14395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14395" title="Al Di Meola">
Al Di Meola

Al DiMeola (born July 22, 1954) is a Jazz fusion guitarist. He was born in Jersey City, New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="14396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14396" title="White House">
White House

The White House is the home and main workplace of the President of the United States. The house was designed by Irish-born James Hoban. It is at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C.. The building was built between 1792 and 1800 of white-painted sandstone from Aquia Creek in Virginia. It was designed in the Neoclassical style. It has been the home of every U.S. President since John Adams. When Thomas Jefferson moved into the house in 1801, he (with architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe) expanded the building outward. They made two colonnades that were meant to hide stables and storage. It was originally called the Executive Mansion before being renamed the White House by President Theodore Roosevelt.
In 1814, during the War of 1812, the mansion was set on fire by the British Army in the Burning of Washington. The fire destroyed the inside of the house and charred much of the outside. Reconstruction began almost immediately. President James Monroe moved into the partially reconstructed house in October 1817. Construction continued with the addition of the South Portico in 1824 and the North in 1829. 
Because of crowding within the executive mansion itself, President Theodore Roosevelt had all work offices moved to the newly constructed West Wing in 1901. Eight years later, President William Howard Taft expanded the West Wing and created the first Oval Office. This was eventually moved as the section was expanded. The third-floor attic was changed into living quarters in 1927. A newly built East Wing was used as a reception area for social events. Jefferson's colonnades connected the new wings. East Wing changes were completed in 1946. These changes made more office space. By 1948, the house's load-bearing exterior walls and internal wood beams were found to be close to failure. Under Harry S. Truman, the interior rooms were completely taken apart and a new internal load-bearing steel frame was built inside the walls. Once this work was done, the interior rooms were rebuilt.
Today, the White House Complex includes the Executive Residence, West Wing, Cabinet Room, Roosevelt Room, East Wing, and the Old Executive Office Building, a separate building west of the West Wing, which houses the executive offices of the President and Vice President.
The White House is made up of six stories— the two story basement, The Ground Floor, The State Floor, The Second Floor and The Third Floor.The term "White House" is regularly used as a metonym for the Executive Office of the President of the United States and for the president's administration and advisers in general. The property is owned by the National Park Service and is part of the President's Park. In 2007, it was ranked second on the American Institute of Architects list of "America's Favorite Architecture."

</doc>
<doc id="14398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14398" title="George Carlin">
George Carlin

George Denis Patrick Carlin (May 12, 1937 – June 22, 2008) was an American Stand-up comedian, writer, social critic, actor, author, comedian and satirist. 
Carlin was born and raised in Manhattan, New York City. He was known for his "seven dirty words" routine. The routine was about seven words people shouldn't say in the media. (The list was ironically used by many radio stations, as a guide to what kind of language was not allowed.) Comedy Central called Carlin one of the greatest stand-up comedians. 
Carlin acted in movies including "Jersey Girl", "Dogma", "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure" (and its sequel), "Scary Movie 3", and Disney's "Tarzan 2". He also narrated the children's television series "Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends" from 1991 to 1995 (Actor Alec Baldwin later took over the role in 1998), and Portrayed Mr. Conductor on "Shining Time Station".
Carlin had a history of heart problems. He had several heart attacks. He died of heart failure in Santa Monica, California at age 71.
Carlin married Brenda Hosbrook on June 3, 1961, together they have a daughter named Kelly. They remained married until her death in 1997, just a few day's before Carlin's 60th birthday. Carlin then married Sally Wade on June 24, 1998, the married lasted until Carlin's death in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="14400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14400" title="Portuguese language">
Portuguese language

The Portuguese language is one of the of Romance languages (languages which came from the Latin language). The Portuguese word "". It was originally a dialect of Spanish in the Kingdom of Galicia.
The Portuguese language is the third most spoken western language (after English and Spanish). There are about 240 million native speakers, including the people of Portugal, Brazil, and Cape Verde (Cabo Verde). It is also the official language of Guinea-Bissau, Angola, Mozambique (Moçambique), and São Tomé and Príncipe. The African countries were Portuguese colonies with many different native languages. They have kept Portuguese as a "lingua franca".
As Portuguese and Spanish are both Romance languages, they have a lot of things in common, but they are not the same. For example: "I opened the window very fast so as to have dinner" translates as "Abri a janela muito rápido para jantar" in Portuguese and "Abrí la ventana muy pronto para cenar" in Spanish. Usually a Portuguese speaker can understand a Spanish speaker; on the other hand, it is rarer that a Spanish speaker understands a Portuguese speaker. Although the Portuguese written language seems similar to Spanish, most spoken Portuguese does not. At times, it may even sound more like French, due to both languages using vowels where air passes through the nose in the nasal cavities. For example, the first three letters of "bom día" (good morning) sound very much like the first three letters of the same idea in French: "bonjour". The vowel "o" here is called a "nasal vowel"; its symbol in the IPA is "õ". Overall, Portuguese is not any more similar to English than Spanish.
The places where people speak Portuguese as the first language are Angola, Brazil (Brazil has 81% of the speakers)Cape Verde, East Timor, Guinea Bissau, Macau, Mozambique, Portugal, São Tomé and Príncipe and in the cities of Goa, Daman and Diu (India).
Portuguese and English have words that mean the same thing and look similar as well. This is because these words came from the same languages (for example Latin, Greek or French).
Some English words come from Portuguese, for example tank (tanque), cacao (cacau) and marmalade (marmelada from ”marmelo” = quince).
The Portuguese word "parentes" is similar to the English word "parents", but it means "relatives", while the Portuguese word to mean "parents" is "pais".
Portuguese is the official language of all countries of the CPLP (Comunidade dos Países de Língua Portuguesa, "Community of Portuguese Language Countries"). The Portuguese-speaking countries have more than 240 million people across the world.
The CPLP was formed in 1996 with seven countries: Portugal, Brazil, Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and São Tomé and Príncipe. East Timor joined in 2002. 
The CPLP nations speak Portuguese with different accents. In some regions of Brazil the pronoun 'tu' (meaning 'you', but only used when speaking to family and friends) is not used as much as in Portugal. Also regional slang can be found in different areas. The Portuguese Orthographic Agreement of 1990 (Acordo Ortográfico de 1990) tries to smooth over those differences.

</doc>
<doc id="14402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14402" title="Hurricane Katrina">
Hurricane Katrina

Hurricane Katrina was the eleventh tropical storm, fifth hurricane, and the second Category 5 hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm formed over the Bahamas on August 23, where it moved east and hit Florida as a Category 1 hurricane two days later. Katrina then crossed over Florida and strengthened into a Category 5 hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico. The storm then hit Louisiana and Mississippi on the morning of August 29. The leftovers of Katrina then died out over the Great Lakes on August 31.
The damage Katrina brought was so bad that 80% of New Orleans was flooded when the levees to the city broke. Most of the people killed by Katrina were thought to have died from drowning. Because of Katrina's effect on the US, the hurricane was known to be one of the most deadly hurricanes in US history.
Hurricane Katrina began as Tropical Depression Twelve over the southeastern Bahamas on August 23, 2005. The depression later strengthened into a tropical storm on the morning of August 24 where the storm was also named "Katrina." Katrina continued to move into Florida, and became a Category 1 hurricane only two hours before it made landfall around Hallandale Beach on the morning of August 25. The storm weakened over land, but became a hurricane again while entering the Gulf of Mexico.
Katrina began to gain strength very quickly after entering the Gulf, partly because of the storm moving over to the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. On August 27, Hurricane Katrina reached Category 3 strength on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, becoming the third major hurricane of the season. An "eyewall replacement cycle" once made Katrina stop becoming stronger for a short moment, but made Katrina to become nearly twice as large in the end.
Katrina again began to quickly strengthen, reaching Category 5 strength on the morning of August 28 and reached its strongest point with maximum sustained winds of 175 mph (280 km/h) and a minimum central pressure of 902 mbar. Katrina's minimal pressure measurement made it the fourth most powerful Atlantic hurricane on record at the time, only to be beaten by Hurricanes Rita and Wilma later in the season. In addition, Katrina was also the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Gulf of Mexico at the time (a record also later broken by Rita).
Katrina made its second landfall on August 29 as a Category 4 hurricane with sustained winds of 125 mph (205 km/h) near St. Bernard, Louisiana. At landfall, hurricane-force winds reached outward 120 miles (190 km) from the center and the storm's central pressure was 920 mbar. After moving over southeastern Louisiana, it made its third landfall over New Orleans, Louisiana and the levees were not made to withstand that much water and ended up collapsing leading to massive flooding. Katrina kept its hurricane strength well into Mississippi, but began to weaken later, finally losing hurricane strength more than 150 miles (240 km) inland near Meridian, Mississippi. Katrina weakened to a tropical depression near Clarksville, Tennessee, but its remains were last seen around the eastern Great Lakes on August 31 when it died. The leftover extratropical cyclone moved quickly to the northeast and affected Ontario and Quebec.
American movie maker Spike Lee made a HBO documentary "When The Levees Broke" that shows the extensive damage in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. The documentary suggests that the damage caused was due to the inability of the levees to weather the storm or a probable sabotage. The documentary also suggests that the federal government did a poor job of disaster management. Resources arrived after several days. Most of the people who died did so from drowning.
The name Katrina was retired for the record breaking damage, the deaths, and the economic impact. This means that it will not be used as a name for any new storms in the future. A new name, Katia, replaced it for 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="14404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14404" title="Carlos Fuentes">
Carlos Fuentes

Carlos Fuentes (11 November 1928 - 15 May 2012) was a Mexican novelist, essayist and screenwriter. He was born in Panama City, Panama. He died in Mexico City, Mexico from a haemorrhage.

</doc>
<doc id="14408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14408" title="Bass guitar">
Bass guitar

A bass guitar (also called an "electric bass" or "bass") is a string instrument which is related to the electric guitar. The bass guitar is shaped like an electric guitar, except that it is longer than an electric guitar. The electric bass has many of the same parts as an electric guitar. However, the bass guitar produces lower tones than the electric guitar. 
The bass guitar is used to play low musical sounds called "bass lines" in many styles of music such as rock, pop, country, jazz fusion and many more.
The bass guitar was first made in the 1930s by inventor Paul Tutmarc from Seattle, Washington. However, very few musicians were interested in the instrument that Tutmarc made. The need for a new instrument developed in the 1950s. At that time, the double bass was the main bass instrument in jazz, blues, folk, early rock music and bluegrass. The problem was that the double bass was big, heavy, hard to carry around, hard to play precise notes on, and it was hard to make it louder with a bass amplifier. Musicians wanted a smaller instrument that weighed less and was easier to play and amplify. Inventors tried to think of ways of building a smaller and lighter bass instrument. One of these inventors was a man named Leo Fender in the United States. Leo Fender developed a bass guitar in the 1950s using the ideas developed by Tutmarc. 
Leo Fender used many parts for the bass guitar that are similar to the parts of an electric guitar. Leo Fender called the instrument the "Fender Precision Bass". He used the word "Precision" in the name because his instrument had metal frets on the neck. The double bass did not have frets on its neck. The frets on the bass guitar made it easier for musicians to play precise notes. The bass guitar developed by Leo Fender became very popular. In the 2000s, many bass guitars are still designed to look like his Fender Precision Bass.
Bass guitars are normally made out of wood. Bass guitars have a few main pieces such as a body, neck, fingerboard, frets, and strings. The body is made out of wood. A wooden neck is glued or bolted onto the body. A wooden fingerboard is then glued onto the neck. Then, thin metal strips called frets are glued onto the fingerboard. Frets are placed at specific locations along the fretboard, with each fret representing one half step in the Western tonal scale.
At the bottom of the body is an assembly called the bridge, a large metal assembly into which one end of the strings are fitted. On some designs, the strings are fasted through the back of the body into the bridge; on others, the strings fit into the front side of the bridge. Inside the body is a cavity that contains the electrical components of the bass. The bridge often has adjustments that allow the height of the strings to be changed. In addition to the bridge, the other components found on the body include one or more pickups and various knobs or switches that control the sound of the bass.
The pickups are magnetic devices that sit below the strings. As the strings vibrate, an electrical signal is produced which is routed via an instrument cable to an amplifier. Pickups are either "passive", which means they send the signal with no additional amplification, or "active", which process the signal through a pre-amplifier. Some basses feature pickups that can be set to passive or active mode. Basses that have two pickups (generally referred to as bridge and neck pickups) often have a switch that enables the player to select neck-only, bridge-only, or a blended signal. Each pickup may have different tonal qualities that results from its placement relative to the bridge and its components.
At the other end of the fretboard from the body sits the headstock, which generally holds the tuners that permit the player to adjust the tuning of the strings. At the very end the fretboard, where the strings pass from the fretboard to the tuners, we find the nut, a piece made of metal or plastic, with grooves to hold the strings off the fretboard.
Inside most fretboards is a long metal rod, called a trussrod, that is used to adjust the tension on the neck. It is generally desirably to have the neck bowed slightly concave, so that the strings will clear all frets without "buzzing." The amount of bow, along with adjustments made on the bridge, will determine the height of the strings along the fretboard. 
The scale of an electric bass - the length of the strings from the nut to the bridge - is generally 34 inches (84 centimeters), although shorter and longer basses are produced. In earlier decades, short-scale basses were more common, since many designers adapted guitar parts for early models. Because in some styles of music, such as heavy metal, the strings are tuned down, longer scaled basses are sometimes favored for such styles, since string tension is higher. 
Standard bass guitars have four metal strings, but models with five, six or eight strings are also made. The strings themselves are manufactured in different ways and with different materials to change their tonal qualities.
In the 1960s and 1970s some musicians took the frets off their bass guitars: taking the frets off a bass guitar changes the sound of the bass, particularly as the player slides their fingers along the strings. A bass guitar without frets is called a fretless bass guitar, and are favored by some bassists: for instance, Pino Palladino, whose performance on the fretless bass during the 1980s made him a highly desirable session player backing high profile musicians like Eric Clapton and David Gilmour. While fretless basses are common with jazz and jazz fusion, bassists from other genres use fretless basses, such as metal bassist Steve DiGiorgio and Colin Edwin of modern/progressive rock band [Porcupine Tree].
The standard design for the electric bass guitar has four strings, generally tuned E, A, D and G (low to high). It is not uncommon for players to tune strings to a lower pitch, particularly in styles, such as heavy metal, that favor deeper sounds. Five string basses add a lower string, usually tuned to B, while six-string-basses add a higher string tuned to C. In standard tunings, each string is tuned a perfect fourth interval above the next lower string (e.g. E to A). 
Sounds are produced from the strings in a number of ways. The most common form of playing is called fingerstyle, in which the player plucks the fingers upwards with the ends of the fingers. It is common to use the index and middle fingers as the plucking fingers, but players may use more fingers or even employ their thumb to pluck downwards. Other finger-based techniques include slap-and-pop, in which the player strikes the lower-pitched strings firmly with their thumb, and pulls higher-pitched strings upwards and lets them snap against the fretboard, and tapping, in which the player hammers downward with their fingertips on the fretboard.
Picks made of metal or plastic may also be used, and yield a sharper sound than plucking with fingers. Picking is sometimes combined with muting techniques to create distinctive sounds.
The bridge of the bass guitar may be fitted with a tremolo, which enables the player to vary the pitch of their strings while playing. 
Where the strings are struck relative to bridge changes to the tone of the sound considerably. Plucking or picking close the bridge generally produces a more muted note, while sounding the string closer to the neck produces a fuller, more resonant tone.
Bass guitars also have magnetic pickups mounted on the body underneath the strings. A musician plucks the strings with their fingers. This makes the strings vibrate. The magnetic pickups detect the vibrations. Then the vibrations from the strings are converted into an electronic signal which is sent with a metal cable to an electronic amplifier and a loudspeaker. The musician rotates a volume control knob that is located on the body of the bass to make the sound

</doc>
<doc id="14410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14410" title="Saint Anna">
Saint Anna

Saint Anna is the mother of Virgin Mary and the grandmother of Jesus. Her husband is Saint Joachim. Her name is a version of the Hebrew name Hanna. Anna means grace.
According to tradition, Joachim went to a temple to pray, but was not allowed in because he did not have a child. Anna heard, prayed, and sacrificed. She promised God that she would bring up a child in God's name. An angel came to Anna and Joachim and told them that God would grant her a baby. Anna had the baby soon after, and named the girl Mary. Anna kept her promise. When Mary was about three years old Joachim and Anna brought her up in the Second Temple.
In detail, once as Anna prayed beneath a laurel tree near her home in Galilee, an angel appeared and said to her, "Anna, the Lord hath heard thy prayer and thou shalt conceive and bring forth, and thy seed shall be spoken of in all the world." Anna replied, "As the Lord my God liveth, if I beget either male or female, I will bring it as a gift to the Lord my God; and it shall minister to Him in holy things all the days of its life " And thus Anna became the mother of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
The feast (name) day of St. Anna and St. Joachim is July 26. 

</doc>
<doc id="14411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14411" title="Nepal">
Nepal

Nepal () is a country in South Asia bordering the Republic of India and the People's Republic of China. Mount Everest, the highest mountain in the world, is found there, as well as the Himalaya Mountains. 12 of the world's 18 highest mountain peaks are in Nepal. It is also the birthplace of Buddha. It has recently become a secular country, but it used to be the only Hindu nation in the world. Nepal is a very important pilgrimage place for both Hindus and Buddhists. The population of Nepal in 2007 was almost 29 million people.
Nepali is the official language, and there are many other regional languages. English and Hindi are widely understood. The capital city of Nepal is Kathmandu which has a population of over two million people. The second largest city is Pokhara. Pokhara is a major tourist attraction of Nepal. It is rich in Natural Beauty. Pokhara includes many lakes, Phewa Tal is one of them.
The national symbols of Nepal, according to the Interim Constitution, are:
Nepal used to be an agricultural country till 1950. Since 1951 it entered the modern era and has made progress. Agriculture, however is a major economic activity, employing 80% of the population and providing 37% of GDP. Only about 20% of the total area is cultivable; another 33% is forested; most of the rest is mountainous. Rice and wheat are the main food crops. The lowland Terai region produces an agricultural surplus, part of which supplies the food-deficient hill areas.
Even though China is the 2nd largest exporter to Nepal, yet unlike India which is the largest buyer of Nepal's goods, China's imports from Nepal are zero, thus burdening Nepal's monetary stability and monetary balance. The annual monsoon rain, or lack of it, strongly influences economic growth. From 1996 to 1999, real GDP growth averaged less than 4%. The growth rate recovered in 1999, rising to 6% before slipping slightly in 2001 to 5.5%.
Modern education in Nepal began with the establishment of the first school in 1853. This school was only for the members of the ruling families and their courtiers. Schooling for the general people began only after 1951 when a popular movement ended the autocratic Rana family regime and initiated a democratic system. In the past 50 years, there has been a dramatic expansion of education facilities in the country. As a result, adult literacy (age 15+) of the country was reported to be 48.2% (female: 34.6%, male: 62.2%) in the Population Census, 2001, up from about 5% in 1952–54. Beginning from about 300 schools and two colleges with about 10,000 students in 1951, there now are 26,000 schools (including higher secondary), 415 colleges, five universities, and two academies of higher studies. Altogether 5.5 million students are enrolled in those schools and colleges who are served by more than 150,000 teachers.
Despite such examples of success, there are problems and challenges. Education management, quality, relevance, access are some of the critical issues of education in Nepal. Societal disparities based on gender, ethnicity, location, economic class, etc. are yet to be eliminated. Resource crunch has always been a problem in education. These problems have made the goal of education for all a challenge for the country.
Nepal is divided into 14 zones and 75 districts, grouped into five development regions. Each district is headed by a permanent chief district officer. The five regions and 14 zones are:

</doc>
<doc id="14412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14412" title="Zagreb">
Zagreb

Zagreb is the capital city and the largest city of the country of Croatia. It has a population of 792.000 people and its metropolitan area (Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorje County and Sisak-Moslavina County) has a population of 1.2 million (2005).
Zagreb is officially twinned with the following towns and cities:

</doc>
<doc id="14415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14415" title="Swedish">
Swedish

Swedish might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="14416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14416" title="Swedish krona">
Swedish krona

The Swedish krona is the currency of Sweden. The country of Sweden has used this money since 1873. In the English language, the Swedish krona means the Swedish Crown. The Swedish crowns consist of:
This is all the Swedish money there is.
<nowiki>*</nowiki>Not in use since:
<nowiki>**Not known when ended.</nowiki>
On December 18 2008, the Swedish Riksbank asked to phase out the 50 öre, the final öre coin, by 2010. Note, however that the öre would remain as a subdivision unit for electronic payments
Exchange rate of Swedish kronor against the Euro
The krona stand to an average of ten crowns to one euro
The Riksbank decided in 17 February 2010, to recommend the parliament to allow it to issue a 2-krona coin and a 200-krona note, the latter a new denomination for the country. However it did not recommend replacing the 20-krona note with a coin.

</doc>
<doc id="14417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417" title="Giant">
Giant

In mythology, a giant is a type of very large human-like creature. The mythology and legends of many different cultures have mythological animals or monsters that look like very big, very strong humans. One example of a giant is the "gigantes" of Greek mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="14421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14421" title="Piedmont">
Piedmont

Piedmont is a region in the northern part of Italy. The capital is Turin. Piedmont has 8 provinces within it.
In the north of Piedmont there is the country of Switzerland and the Italian region of Valle d'Aosta, in the east there are the regions of Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna, in the west there is France and in the south Liguria.
Piedmont is divided into 8 provinces:

</doc>
<doc id="14423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14423" title="Terry Fox">
Terry Fox

Terrance Stanley Fox (July 28, 1958 - June 28, 1981) was a Canadian athlete and activist. He was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He moved to Surrey, British Columbia in 1966 and to Port Coquitlam, British Columbia in 1968. He lost one of his legs due to bone cancer when he was 18. He is best known for his run, called "The Marathon of Hope", which began on April 12, 1980 in St. John's, Newfoundland, the purpose of the run was to run across Canada (with help of an artificial leg) about (the length of the average marathon, or foot race) each day. He originally wanted to run until he got to Vancouver Island on the other end of Canada. The goal was to raise 1 million Canadian dollars and later one dollar for every person in Canada to help cancer research. 
Many people supported and helped him during his run, and had a lot of faith in him, but on August 31, 1980, near the town of Thunder Bay, Ontario, Fox's cancer spread to his lungs. He had to stop running. 
Fox died on , a month before his 23rd birthday, in New Westminster, British Columbia (BC). In Canada, he is considered a hero. People still hold runs for him. Shortly before his death, he was made a Companion in the Order of Canada (the youngest person in the country to receive such an honor). In addition, there is a statue of him in Ottawa (Canada's capital city), near Parliament Hill. Several schools named after him and he has been featured on a Canadian $1 coin.

</doc>
<doc id="14424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14424" title="Rick Hansen">
Rick Hansen

Rick Hansen, CC, OBC (born August 26, 1957 in Port Alberni, British Columbia) is a Canadian athlete and activist. He was paralyzed in an accident at the age of 15. Inspired by his friend Terry Fox, who tried to run across Canada after losing a leg to cancer, he set out on a trip to travel around the world, in his wheelchair; it was called the "Man in Motion" tour. The money he raised from that tour went to help spinal cord injury research and paraplegic sports. He still works and does charity to raise money & awareness. Hansen was one of the torchbearers during the 2010 Winter Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="14432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14432" title="Fin">
Fin

A fin is a surface used to produce lift and thrust or to steer while traveling in water, air, or other fluid media. The word was first used for the limbs of fish, but it is now also used when describing other animal limbs and man-made devices.
The fins of fish are called:

</doc>
<doc id="14435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14435" title="Method">
Method

Method may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="14436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14436" title="Region">
Region

Region is a geographic term used in many ways in the different types of geography. In general, a region is a medium-scale area of land or water. It is smaller than the whole area of something (which could be, for example, the world, a nation, a mountain range, and so on). It is larger than a specific location. A region can be seen as a collection of smaller things (as in "the New England states") or as one part of a larger whole (as in "the New England region of the United States").

</doc>
<doc id="14437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14437" title="1514">
1514


</doc>
<doc id="14438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14438" title="Toothache">
Toothache

A toothache is a pain felt in a person's tooth, normally when the tooth is hurt. A tooth can be hurt by tooth decay caused by plaque or by an injury.

</doc>
<doc id="14439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14439" title="Icing">
Icing

"For the ice hockey rule, see Icing (ice hockey)."
Icing is a paste that is usually made from sugar. It is also called "frosting". It is put on cakes to add flavour. Many kinds of cake have icing, especially cakes made for special occasions like birthday cakes, wedding cakes and Christmas cake. Icing can also be a hockey term. 

</doc>
<doc id="14442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14442" title="Kurdish">
Kurdish

Kurdish might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="14443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14443" title="Romford">
Romford

Romford is a place in the east London Borough of Havering, England. It was first recorded as a town in 1153 in the "Red Book of the Exchequer". The name "Romford" means "wide ford". The stream that flows through it was only later called "the Rom River" after the town. 
In medieval times, this town was granted the right to have the only market for 6 2/3 miles around. This rule was used in the 1990s to stop a nearby suburb, Ilford, from opening a market nearby.. Romford had a brewery which now is an entertainment venue.

</doc>
<doc id="14446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14446" title="Maltose">
Maltose

Maltose (known as malt sugar) is a disaccharide (sometimes called di-glucose). It is formed from two glucose molecules joined together at carbons 1 and 4. It is found in germinating seeds such as barley as they break down their starch stores to use for food. 

</doc>
<doc id="14447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14447" title="Toolbox">
Toolbox

A toolbox or toolkit is a box where a person stores tools. You can find them where people work with tools, like houses that are being built.
Some computer programs used to make other computer programs are also called toolboxes or toolkits (this is a metaphor).

</doc>
<doc id="14449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14449" title="Stone">
Stone

A stone is a piece of rock. It is a mass of hard, compacted mineral. The word "stone" also refers to natural rock as a material, especially a building material. Natural stone used as building material include granite, marble and sandstone. Manufactured, artificial products, such as concrete or clay bricks, are not stone.
Stone takes a while to heat up, and stays hot for a while. It does not conduct electricity well
Stone was one of the first materials used to make tools and buildings. It is a very sturdy material. It is less affected by weather than wood or brick. Depending on the type of rock, stone weathers away much more slowly. A stone in the river is reshaped by the water and sediment flowing around it.
Stones can be used as primitive weapon. Person can throw it at enemy or animal, or use it to make more damage in hand to hand combat.
A stone is larger than a grain of sand, gravel or pebbles. A boulder is a very large rock or stone.

</doc>
<doc id="14450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14450" title="Hotspot (computers)">
Hotspot (computers)

A hotspot is a place where computers with the ability for wireless connections can connect to the Internet. Wi-Fi hot spots can be found in some public areas, sometimes for free. Some local libraries, coffee shops, and restaurants offer hotspots. Some passenger vehicles have a traveling hotspot for their customers. Some communication companies also offer hotspots in many different places for their customers.

</doc>
<doc id="14459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14459" title="Winnipeg">
Winnipeg

Winnipege () is the capital city of Manitoba, Canada. Winnipeg is the largest city in Manitoba. It is in the eastern prairie region of western Canada. It is often called the "Gateway to the West". Winnipeg is the seventh biggest city in Canada.
The name "Winnipeg" comes from the Cree word for "muddy waters." Winnipeg is at the place where the Red River and Assiniboine river join. That area is known as "The Forks". 
Winnipeg has four professional sports teams. The teams are the "Winnipeg Blue Bombers" who play football, the "Winnipeg Jets" who play hockey, the Winnipeg Goldeyes who play baseball and the Winnipeg Alliance FC who play soccer. Winnipeg has four universities: the University of Manitoba, the University of Winnipeg, Canadian Mennonite University and University of St. Boniface.
Winnipeg is in a very flat part of Canada. Winnipeg has four rivers in it. These rivers are the Red River, the Assiniboine River, the La Salle River, and the Seine River. Winnipeg has floods in spring a lot because it is in a very flat area that gets a lot of snow and rain. In winter, Winnipeg is cold and gets a lot of snow. The hottest day in Winnipeg was in the year 1936, when it was 42 degrees Celsius. The coldest day in Winnipeg was in the year 1879, when it was -47 degrees Celsius.
The area that we now call Winnipeg was used by First Nations people for many thousands of years before people from Europe arrived. First Nations people used this area a lot. This area was important because it is where two rivers meet. First Nations peoples often moved around using the rivers on canoes (a small boat that is powered by people with paddles).
The first person from Europe to come to this area was an officer from France in the year 1738. This area was first used as a permanent settlement (place where people live) by European people in the year 1812. Winnipeg was incorporated (officially made into a city) in the year 1873. Winnipeg became big because trains brought money and people from other places along the railroads. After World War I, Winnipeg stopped getting bigger for a long time. After World War II, Winnipeg has been getting bigger again. In the year 1972, Winnipeg got bigger by adding other small cities nearby into one big city, and the new big city was also named Winnipeg.
Winnipeg has a downtown area in the middle of the city. The downtown area has many tall buildings. Downtown is a place where there are a lot of offices and stores. All around Winnipeg's downtown are residential neighbourhoods (places where people live). 
There is a big road that goes all the way around the city. This road is called the Perimeter Highway. The two best known roads in Winnipeg are called Portage Avenue and Main Street. The place where these two roads meet is in the middle of Winnipeg's downtown area. Main Street goes from the middle of the city to the northern part of the city. Portage Avenue goes from the middle of the city to the western part of the city.
The mayor of Winnipeg makes decisions about the city in City Hall. Winnipeg's mayor is a man named Brian Bowman. City Hall is in downtown Winnipeg. 
The provincial premier is a person who makes decisions about Manitoba. Manitoba is the province that Winnipeg is in. Manitoba's provincial premier is Greg Selinger. The premier makes decisions at the legislative building. 

</doc>
<doc id="14470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14470" title="Kilobyte">
Kilobyte

A kilobyte (kB) is a number used to measure storage space on computer hard drives or computer memory. A kilobyte originally meant 1000 bytes. Over time the meaning changed and today it is often used to mean 1024 bytes. This created some confusion as a "kilo" normally means 1000. The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) now defines a kilobyte as being 1000 bytes. According to the IEC, the correct name for 1,024 bytes is a kibibyte.
One thousand kilobytes make one megabyte.

</doc>
<doc id="14471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14471" title="Byte">
Byte

A byte is a unit of measurement of the size of information on a computer or other electronic device. A single typed character (for example, 'x' or '8') measures one byte. A single byte generally holds eight bits (bits are, in turn, the smallest unit of storage on a computer, meaning what atoms mean for matter). Bytes are often represented by the letter B.
Historically, bytes have been used to encode text characters. Most of the time, this was done using eight bits per byte, but other numbers of bits were also used. To describe the byte that uses 8 bits, computer scientists talk about octet. EBCDIC is a character encoding used mainly on mainframe computers that uses 8 bits per byte, ASCII is another encoding that uses only seven bits. 
When used as a measurement, the byte is basically measuring how many numbers a computer (or electronics device) can hold. This is useful for things like RAM in a computer, or storage devices like USB drives and other types of Flash memory. Sending of data (for a modem or wi-fi) is usually measured in bits, not bytes.
One byte is usually equal to eight bits. Some very early computers had bytes with different numbers of bits. An octet is always eight bits. In modern usage, an octet and a byte are the same.
The symbol for "byte" is "B". Sometimes a lowercase "b" is used, but this use is incorrect because "b" is actually the IEEE symbol for "bit". The IEC symbol for bit is bit. For example, "MB" means "megabyte" and "Mbit" means "megabit". The difference is important because 1 megabyte (MB) is 1,000,000 bytes, and 1 megabit (Mbit) is 1,000,000 bits or 125,000 bytes. It's easy to confuse the two, but bits are much smaller than bytes, so the symbol "bit" should be used when referring to "bits" and an uppercase "B" when referring to "bytes".
For large data, byte is often used with a binary prefix:
The following terms represent even larger units of bytes, but are very rarely used:
According to the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), who sets many computer standards, these charts show how bytes should be referred to.
People who refer to 1 kilobyte as 1,024 bytes, for example, are technically incorrect; 1,024 bytes should be referred to as 1 kibibyte, according to the IEC. However, using 1024 for kilo and 1048576 for mega, etc. was widely practiced before the IEC standards were set in 1998. There is some confusion and mixing of terms in the marketplace.
When using standard metric names like "kilo-", "mega-" and "giga-", they should follow the same measure that other metric measurements use, like kilometer (1 kilometer = 1,000 meters) for example.
Since computers are very complex digital devices that are based on the binary numeral system rather than the commonly-used decimal numeral system or binary coded decimal system, there are many situations where the standard metric system does not work well, particularly with memory sizes for a computer or storage device. If a memory or storage device uses a binary number for addresses, the number of different positions to be accessed (the size of the memory) can be expressed as a power of 2, rather than a power of 10. 

</doc>
<doc id="14472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14472" title="Subatomic particle">
Subatomic particle

A subatomic particle is a particle smaller than an atom. This means it is very, very small. Like atoms and molecules, a subatomic particle is far too small to be seen with the naked eye. It is also very interesting to scientists who try to understand atoms better. The commonly studied subatomic particles are the main ones that make atoms: protons, neutrons, and electrons. The study of subatomic particles is called particle physics. 
These particles are often held together within an atom by one of the four fundamental forces (gravity, electromagnetic force, strong force, or weak force). Outside of the atom the particles often move very, very quickly- near the speed of light which is very, very fast.
Subatomic particles are divided into two groups, Baryons and Leptons.
Baryons are made of quarks while Leptons are thought to be among the smallest particles, called elementary particles. Baryons have a given Baryon number. In reactions, the Baryon number must be conserved, meaning that both the starting and ending sides of a reaction must have the same number of Baryons. Baryonic particles are made up of a combination of 3 of the six quarks, which are among the smallest particles. The six quark types are up, down (making up protons and neutrons), strange, charm, top, and bottom.
Leptons are generally much smaller than Baryons. This category includes electrons, Muons, Taus and neutrinos. Leptons are not made up of quarks and are not divisible. 
For every one of these types, there is also an antiparticle. Antiparticles have the same mass as their normal counterparts, except they have the opposite electric charge. Anti-matter and matter cannot exist near each other. Whenever matter and antimatter collide, they destroy each other with a huge release of energy equivalent to E=mc, where m is the combined mass of the particles, c is the speed of light, and E is the energy produced. These collisions often take place in large particle accelerators, where the energy can be converted the other way, into matter by the same equation. This can produce many odd, often heavy (large mass) particles that exist only for a short time.
Most of the particles discovered are created by accelerating particles and colliding them against others, creating huge showers of new subatomic particles which decay extremely quickly. However, because the particles are moving close to the speed of light, the laws of special relativity become important and time dilation occurs. This means that time passes slower for the particle, and they can travel (and be measured) over a longer distance than non-relativity science would predict.

</doc>
<doc id="14473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14473" title="Screen">
Screen

A screen can be:

</doc>
<doc id="14474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14474" title="Breathing">
Breathing

Breathing is moving air in and out of the lungs. The air going in and out is called "breath". If a person cannot breathe, they will die.
Breathing helps people do two very important things:
When a person breathes in, they bring air into their lungs. Air has oxygen in it. The oxygen goes from the lungs into the person's bloodstream. When oxygen goes into the bloodstream, extra carbon dioxide comes out and goes into the lungs. This is called gas exchange: basically, oxygen and carbon dioxide are changing places. Oxygen is now in the bloodstream, which can carry that oxygen around to every part of the body. Also, carbon dioxide is now in the lungs, where it can be breathed out.
Adults breathe about 18 times a minute, which is more than 25,000 times a day. Children breathe even faster.
A part of the brainstem called the medulla oblongata controls breathing. Groups of neurons in the medulla tell the breathing muscles when to breathe in, when to breathe faster, and when to breathe slower.
The brainstem measures how much carbon dioxide is in a person's blood. If there is too much carbon dioxide, the medulla tells the body to breathe faster. This helps the person breathe out the extra carbon dioxide. Once the amount of carbon dioxide in the blood is normal again, the medulla tells the body to breathe slower again.
The body also measures the amount of oxygen in the blood. If there is not enough oxygen in the blood, the medulla will tell the body to breathe faster, to take in more oxygen. Once there is enough oxygen in the blood, the medulla will tell the body to breathe slower again.
For a person to breathe, certain muscles have to contract (get tighter) and relax at the right times. The special groups of neurons in the medulla tell these breathing muscles when to contract (which makes a person breathe in) and when to relax (which makes a person breathe out). There are a few main groups of muscles that control breathing.
The diaphragm is the main muscle that controls breathing. It is a sheet of muscle that runs along the bottom of the rib cage. When the diaphragm is relaxed, it is shaped like a dome (like a half circle). When the medulla tells the diaphragm to make the body breathe in, the diaphragm pulls down and straightens out. This creates more room inside the chest, and more room for the lungs to fill up with air. Air comes into the lungs (this is inhalation). When it is time to breathe out, the diaphragm relaxes again and air leaves the lungs.
About 60% - 70% of a person's ability to breathe comes from the diaphragm.
The diaphragm is controlled by a special set of nerves called the phrenic nerves. The medulla tells the diaphragm when to contract by sending messages through the phrenic nerves. Because the diaphragm is so important for breathing, the phrenic nerves are very well protected in the body. They are at the very top of the spinal cord, near the neck. 
The intercostals are the muscles that run between each rib. When a person needs to breathe in, these muscles contract and pull the ribs upward. This creates more room inside the chest for the lungs to fill.
When a person is resting, the about 30% to 40% of their ability to breathe comes from the intercostal muscles.
The intercostal muscles are controlled by the intercostal nerves. The medulla tells the intercostals when to contract by sending messages through these nerves. The intercostal nerves are not as well protected as the phrenic nerves. The intercostal nerves run along the thoracic spine (which is in the upper to middle back) and connect to the intercostal muscles. This means that if a person injured their thoracic spine, they might not be able to use their intercostal muscles. They would then lose 30% to 40% of their ability to breathe. However, since the nerves that control the diaphragm are much farther up in the spine and better protected, the person would still be able to use their diaphragm to breathe. They would still have 60% to 70% of their ability to breathe.
Accessory muscles are muscles that a person uses only when they need extra help breathing. Sometimes this is normal. For example, if a person has just done a lot of exercise, they may need extra oxygen. The medulla will tell the accessory muscles to kick in, to make it easier for the person to lift their chest to create more room for the lungs to fill. The most important accessory muscles are the muscles in the chest, abdomen, and neck.
However, if a person has to use accessory muscles to breathe while they are resting, this is a sign that they are not getting the oxygen their body needs. They may need medication, extra oxygen given through a mask, or even emergency medical treatment to help them breathe normally. For example, people with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) often use an inhaler when they have trouble breathing. The inhaler puffs a medicine like albuterol down into the windpipe and into the lungs. This makes the air passages wider and helps the person breathe better than they could before.

</doc>
<doc id="14475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14475" title="Laura Bush">
Laura Bush

Laura Bush (born Laura Lane Welch on November 4, 1946 in Midland, Texas) was the First Lady (The President's Wife) of the United States from 2001 to 2009. She is the wife of George W. Bush, who was the President then. Mrs. Bush is the only child of Harold Bruce Welch (1912-1995) and Jenna Louise Hawkins(born 1919). Laura and George met and married in 1977. She is the mother of Barbara and Jenna Bush, who were born in 1981. Before she became First Lady she worked as a librarian and a school teacher in Dallas and Austin, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="14477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14477" title="Dijon">
Dijon

Dijon is a commune in France. It is the prefecture of Burgundy and the Côte-d'Or department.
Dijon began as a Roman settlement called Divio. Saint Benignus (Saint Kelly), the city's patron saint, is said to have spread Christianity to the area before being killed. It was home to the Dukes of Burgundy from the early 11th century until the late 1400s and was a place of great wealth and power and one of the great European centers of art, learning and science.
Dijon has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Köppen climate classification).
Dijon is twinned with

</doc>
<doc id="14478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14478" title="Simon Rodia">
Simon Rodia

Sabato "Simon" Rodia (1879–1965) was an Italian immigrant who lived in the United States in the district of Los Angeles, California, called Watts. Starting in 1921 and until 1954, he built the Watts Towers, from junk and things he found. Many people made fun of him and tried to vandalize (damage) the "towers". He did not like people making fun of him. In 1955 he moved away from Watts and never returned. The "towers" remained, and the site where he built them is now a national landmark.

</doc>
<doc id="14479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14479" title="Terry Southern">
Terry Southern

Terry Southern (May 1, 1924 – October 29, 1995) was an American writer. He was part of the Paris postwar literary movement in the 1950s. He was a friend to Beat writers in Greenwich Village in the 1960s. In the 1970s he made changes to the way movies were written. In the 1980s he wrote for "Saturday Night Live" and talked about screenwriting at several universities in New York.

</doc>
<doc id="14488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14488" title="1615">
1615


</doc>
<doc id="14489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14489" title="Emeril Lagasse">
Emeril Lagasse

Emeril Lagasse (born October 15, 1959) is an American celebrity chef. He is best known for his television program "Emeril Live!", which airs on the Food Network. He hosts a Cooking Channel show named "Emeril's Florida". He also has several restaurants and wrote some cookbooks. He is also famous for his catchphrases "Bam!" and "Kick it up a notch!"

</doc>
<doc id="14500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14500" title="Hurricane Rita">
Hurricane Rita

Hurricane Rita was a powerful hurricane in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. It hit the United States' Gulf Coast. At its peak intensity, it was a strong Category 5 storm with sustained winds of 175 miles per hour. It made landfall as a Category 3 storm, and caused more flooding in New Orleans, which already had weakened levees due to Hurricane Katrina. In addition, it caused massive power outages.

</doc>
<doc id="14502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14502" title="Boeing 767">
Boeing 767

The Boeing 767 is a passenger airplane manufactured by Boeing. The Boeing 767 is a large airplane; however, it is Boeing's smallest widebody (an aircraft which has two aisles), larger than the Boeing 757 but smaller than the 777. The passengers sit two across, aisle, three across, aisle, and then two across. It can seat a maximum of 375 to 410 passengers.
The first airplane, American Airlines, Flight 11 to hit the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001 was a Boeing 767.
American, United, Delta, Continental, British Airways and other airlines operate Boeing 767s. The 767 can have engines supplied by Rolls-Royce, General Electric or Pratt and Whitney. 
The Boeing 767 was produced from 1981 and remains in production today. Boeing will replace the 767 with the 787.

</doc>
<doc id="14503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14503" title="1557">
1557


</doc>
<doc id="14504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14504" title="Stephen King">
Stephen King

Stephen King (born September 21, 1947) is an American writer from Maine. He is known for writing scary books known as horror novels. His books and stories have sold more than 300 million copies. He has written more than fifty novels, two hundred short stories, and nine collections of short fiction. Many of his stories have been made into movies or television shows as well. He has written some of his books under the name "Richard Bachman" and collaborated with Peter Straub on others.
His highest rated books by readers include The Stand, It, The Shining, Misery, Salem's Lot, Duma Key, The Dead Zone, and Carrie.
King's first novel, Carrie, was published in 1974 and his most recent novel, Finders Keepers, was published on June 2nd, 2015.
Stephen King was born in Portland, Maine. His mother's name is Nellie Ruth and his father's name is Donald Edwin King.
King and his wife Tabitha own three different houses. One house is in Bangor, Maine, one is in Lovell, Maine and one in Sarasota, Florida. Stephen and Tabitha have three children and three grandchildren.

</doc>
<doc id="14506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14506" title="Baby">
Baby

A baby is a very young human who is born after a mother gives birth. A baby is called a newborn for the first 1 to 3 months of life. They are then called a child until about the age of three years old, and a preschooler between 3 years old and school.
An "infant" is a human child at the youngest stage of life. Some people say that infancy is until someone can walk, while some say infancy is the time before the age of one. An infant less than 1 month old is a "newborn". Newborns can be premature infants, post-mature infants and full term newborns. The word "infant" comes from Latin, meaning "unable to speak".
After learning to walk, infants are called toddlers, usually when they are 1-3 years old.
Sometimes, a woman may miscarry a baby and the baby (no matter what gender) is given the name stillborn or is called a miscarried child.

</doc>
<doc id="14508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14508" title="Cactus">
Cactus

A cactus is a kind of plant. They are xerophytes, specializing in hot, dry climates. Cacti are members of the plant family Cactaceae, in the order Caryophyllales. 
Cacti are native to the Americas, ranging from Patagonia in the south to parts of western Canada in the north—except for "Rhipsalis baccifera", which also grows in Africa and Sri Lanka. Many people like to grow cactus in pots or gardens. Now cacti have spread to many other parts of the world. They are part of an important food chain.
Many cacti live in dry places, such as deserts. Most cacti have and sharp thorns (stickers) and thick skin. There are many shapes and sizes of cacti. Some are short and round; others are tall and thin. Many cactus flowers are big and beautiful. Some cactus flowers bloom at night and are pollinated by moths and bats. Some cactus fruits are brightly coloured and good to eat. Goats, birds, ants, mice, bats and people eat cactus fruits. 
An adaptation is anything that helps a living thing survive and make more of its own kind. Cacti have many adaptations for living in places that are sometimes dry for a long time. At other times these places can get lots of rain.
Cacti can have many small, thin roots near the top of the soil. These roots take in water quickly after a rain. The same cactus may have one long, thick root called a taproot. The taproot grows deep in the soil. It can reach water when the soil on top is dry.
Cacti store water in thick stems. The stems are covered with tough skin, and the skin is covered with wax. The thick waxy skin slows down loss of water. The leaves of cacti are sharp spines (thorns, stickers). Many animals want the water inside the cactus, but the sharp spines and thick skin protect the cactus.
Cacti are commonly grown as houseplants. They are pretty and easy to grow. Some cacti are grown in gardens, especially in dry areas. Cactus can be used as a living fence. The wood of dead cactus is sometimes used for building.
People eat the fruit of some kinds of cactus, such as dragonfruit and prickly pear. "Dactylopius coccus" is a scale insect from which cochineal dye is got. This insect lives on cacti from the genus "Opuntia", feeding on moisture and nutrients in the cactus sap. The insect produces carminic acid, which deters predation by other insects. The carminic acid can be extracted from the insect's body and eggs to make the red dye.
The ancient Aztecs of South America held cactus to be very important. Cactus can be found in many of their sculptures and drawings. The national coat of arms of Mexico shows an eagle, a snake, and cactus.
Christopher Columbus brought the first cactus to Europe. Scientists and gardeners became very interested in cactus.
Prickly pear was taken to Australia in the 19th century for use as a natural fence and for use in the cochineal industry. The cactus spread out of control, but was controlled by the larva of a South American moth.
From the start of the 20th century interest in cactus has grown. Every year, scientists discover new kinds of cactus. A bad effect of this has been the digging up of many cacti from the wild, making some kinds endangered.
A cactus does not have leaves because it lives in dry places. Leaves transpire, and this can waste water. So, the cactus saves water by having no leaves. The green parts of the cactus are actually its stems. Because the stems are green, they do the photosynthesis for the cactus. They also grow prickly needles to protect the cactus from animals that want to eat it.
Family contains more than 100 genera. Some of them:

</doc>
<doc id="14509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14509" title="Desert">
Desert

A desert is a very dry biome.They get less than 25 cm (about 10 inches) of rainfall a year. Another source defines it as "any region that can have a moisture deficit over the course of a year. In other words, they can have less rainfall in a year than they give up through evaporation".
These kinds of areas can cover about 33% of the land on Earth. That includes much of Antarctica, where large areas get no snow at all. The largest hot desert is the Sahara desert, in northern Africa, covering 9 million square kilometers.
Deserts land surfaces are various examples are stones, sand dunes and snow. They have a wide variety of animals and plants. Deserts sometimes expand (desertification), and sometimes contract. 
Deserts are mostly found in the western part of North America, Western Asia, Central Australia, South America, and South and North Africa. Many, such as the Sahara, are very hot during the day and have cold nights, but there are also deserts such as the Atacama in South America which remain frozen day and night. 
There are hot deserts and cold deserts. Cold deserts are covered with snow or ice. Some cold deserts have a short season of above-freezing temperatures. These deserts are called tundra. An ice cap can be a cold desert that remains below freezing all year-round. 
Cold deserts can be found close to the poles. That is why they are also called polar deserts. Other regions of the world have cold deserts too, for instance high altitude areas like the Himalayas. These are called montane deserts. Antarctica is the world's largest cold desert.
Hot deserts are mostly in the subtropics. They can be covered by sand, rock, salt lakes, stony hills and even mountains. Most non-polar deserts are hot in the day and chilly at night. The temperature in the daytime can reach 50 °C or higher in the summer, and dip to 0 °C or lower at night time in the winter. 
The largest hot desert in the world is the Sahara in North Africa. It is almost as large as Europe or the United States. The Sahara desert is also the hottest desert in the world.
The driest desert in the world is the Atacama Desert in South America. The Atacama Desert had no rain for 401 years, between 1570 and 1971. This desert is caused by a cold ocean current.
People sometimes bring water from wet places to hot deserts so plants can grow. This is called irrigation.
It does rain in the desert, but not often. In the Atacama Desert it did not rain for 401 years. In other deserts it may rain every year or once every few years. When it rains in a desert, a lot of water may reach the ground in a short time. Some rain passes straight into the dry sand, but the rest may form a temporary river. Wadis, stream channels that are normally dry, can quickly fill after heavy rain, causing a flash flood.
A sandstorm or dust storm arises when wind blows loose sand and dust from a dry surface. Clouds of sand or dust are often so dense that they obscure the sun. A sandstorm can move whole sand dunes. Sandstorms are common in large, dusty deserts.
There are not many animals in the desert, but some animals are able to survive. They have different ways to survive the intense conditions of the desert. Examples of animals that live in hot deserts are lizards, small rodents, snakes, and camels. Plants and animals in hot deserts must live with very little water. 
Xerophytic plants which live in the desert have special adaptations. They may survive by growing roots that are very near the surface to absorb the rain that may fall before it evaporates. Plants such as the cactus have thick, fleshy stems that help them store water. 
Small animals such as lizards and small rodents often escape the hot rays by digging underground burrows where they live. They only come out at night to search for food. Like the plants, desert animals must live on as little water as possible. Most of the water used by these animals comes from seeds and stems that absorb and hold water. Camels survive in hot deserts by storing water in body fat in their humps. Like other desert animals, the camel loses little water in its wastes (urine and faeces).
In hot deserts you may see a mirage or "fata morgana". A mirage is a trick of the light. It may make you think that there is a pool of water in the desert, when there is really no water.

</doc>
<doc id="14510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14510" title="Dessert">
Dessert

A dessert is a type of food that is eaten after lunch or dinner. It is usually a sweet food, like ice cream, cookies, and cakes. In some countries, cheeses such as Brie cheese and fruit are served as dessert. Some desserts are decorated, like birthday cakes. Others are simple, like pudding. Many desserts are baked (cooked in an oven). Some desserts are served with whipped cream as a topping.
Baked desserts are made by putting the ingredients in a hot oven. Baked desserts include cakes and muffins (a mixture of flour, eggs, sugar, oil, baking powder, and flavorings); sweet breads such as banana bread and raisin bread (a mixture of flour, sugar, oil, baking powder, and flavorings); cookies such as chocolate chip cookies (a mixture of flour, eggs, sugar, oil, and flavorings). Puddings and custards (a mixture of milk, eggs, sugar, and flavorings) can be made in the oven, 
Fried desserts are made using a cooking process called deep frying. To deep-fry food, a large pot filled with oil is heated, and then the food is placed into the pot. Deep-fried desserts include doughnuts.
Frozen desserts are made by blending the ingredients in a freezer. Frozen desserts include ice cream (a mixture of cream, milk, sugar, and flavorings), milk shakes (a mixture of ice cream, milk, and flavorings), and sherbet (also spelled "sorbet") (a mixture of water, sugar, and flavorings).
Some desserts are made without using the oven or the freezer. Trifle is an English dessert made by soaking ladyfinger biscuits in sherry, covering them with whipped cream, and then letting it chill in the refrigerator. Some types of instant pudding and instant mousse desserts can be made without cooking; a person simply mixes the instant pudding powder with milk and chills it in the refrigerator.

</doc>
<doc id="14512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14512" title="William Henry Harrison">
William Henry Harrison

William Henry Harrison (February 9, 1773 – April 4, 1841) was the 9th President of the United States. His nickname was "Old Tippecanoe " and he was a well-respected war veteran. Harrison served the shortest term than any other United States President. His term lasted for exactly one month. 
He was elected president in 1840, and took the oath of office on March 4, 1841. His inauguration speech lasted an hour and forty minutes. William Henry Harrison caught a serious case of pneumonia, and on April 4 that same year he died. He was the first President to die in office. Harrison was the oldest president to take office at , until 1981 when Ronald Reagan was a year older than Harrison. He was the last president to be born before the United States Declaration of Independence.
His grandson was the 23rd President of the United States, Benjamin Harrison.
Harrison was born on February 9, 1773. He is the youngest of Benjamin Harrison V and Elizabeth Bassett's seven children. They lived in Berkeley Plantation at Charles City County, Virginia. He was the last president to be born as a British citizen before the American Independence. His father was a planter and a delegate to the Continental Congress (1774–1777) who signed the Declaration of Independence. He was Governor of Virginia between 1781 and 1784. His older brother Carter Bassett Harrison was elected a representative of Virginia in the United States House of Representatives.
In 1787, he attended the Presbyterian Hampden-Sydney College. He attended the school until 1790. Harrison was fluent in Latin and French.
In 1795, he met Anna Symmes. They had 10 children.
He took the oath of office in March 4, 1841 which was a cold and wet day. His inaugural address was the longest in American history.
Harrison's inaugural address was a detailed statement of the Whig agenda, mainly unclaimed honest of Jackson's and Van Buren's policies.
Harrison promised to reestablish the Bank of the United States and extend its maximum amount for credit by issuing paper currency (see Henry Clay).
On March 26, 1841, Harrison became ill with a cold. His illness was believed to have been caused by the bad weather in the inauguration.
The cold was worsened, quickly turning to pneumonia and pleurisy. He tried to rest in the White House, but could not find a quiet room because of the crowd of office seekers. His very busy social schedule made it harder for time to rest.
Harrison's doctors tried cures of applying opium, castor oil, leeches, and Virginia snakeweed. But the treatments only made Harrison worse, and he became restless.
Harrison died on his 32nd day as president on April 4, 1841 at 12:30 am of pneumonia, jaundice, and septicima. He served the shortest term of any president from March 4, 1841 to April 4, 1841, 30 days, 12 hours, and 30 mintues. He was the first president of the United States to die in office.
Harrison's funeral took place in Wesley Chapel in Cincinnati, Ohio on April 7, 1841. His original interment was in Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D.C.. He was later buried in North Bend, Ohio.

</doc>
<doc id="14515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14515" title="Viacom">
Viacom

Viacom (short for Video & Audio Communications) is an American entertainment company. It started in 1970 as Viacom International, the syndication division of CBS TV (which they once owned). In 2005, Viacom split into two companies: the original company was renamed CBS Corporation, and a new company keeping the Viacom name was created. They own Paramount Pictures, Blockbuster Entertainment, Spelling Productions, DreamWorks (DreamWorks SKG) MTV, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., Neopets, Peanuts, The Addams Family, Kids Incorporated, Blue's Clues, Nelvana, Evil Dead, Rugrats, All Grown Up!, Shrek, Hey Arnold!, Charlotte's Web and others.

</doc>
<doc id="14516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14516" title="Uniform Resource Locator">
Uniform Resource Locator

Uniform Resource Locator (URL) is another name for a web address. URLs are made of letters, numbers and other symbols in a standard form. People use them on computers by clicking a pre-prepared link or typing one into a web browser, to make the computer fetch and show some specific resource (usually a web page) from another computer (web server) on the Internet.
URLs consist of several parts:
In some cases, the URL may also contain
The URL of this page is <nowiki>http://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Uniform_Resource_Locator</nowiki>
A shorter form, called a "relative" URL, is used when a computer could correctly fill in the full ("absolute") URL from context. For example of <nowiki>/wiki/URL</nowiki> only works for a link on wikipedia to this page on wikipedia. Absolute URLs can be shared outside of computers, even with little or no explanation.
These are at the end of the domain name which has a period mark before it. At first there were six main extensions:
Today, there are many other URL extensions. These are usually either a top level domain or interest grouping. Each country has its own top level domain, for example, .ca for Canada, .us for the United States of America or .co.uk for the United Kingdom. Many countries have a government-only extension, for example the United States uses .gov or .fed.us, .gc.ca for Canada and .gov.uk for the United Kingdom. Interest group domains would include .tv (television), .pro (professionals) and .xxx (pornography). These are not used as often as the original extensions.

</doc>
<doc id="14527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14527" title="Cuckoo clock">
Cuckoo clock

A cuckoo clock is a kind of clock. Cuckoo clocks have a wooden case that looks like a small house, and there are wooden doors that open. It gets its name because at the start of every hour, the small doors on the clock open up and a little wooden bird comes out of the door. The clock then makes a noise which sounds like a bird call ( "Koo-Koo" or "cuckoo"). 
The clock makes the sound one time for each hour it is. Whether it is morning or night does not change the number of times the bird makes the sound. 
For example:

</doc>
<doc id="14528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14528" title="Labrador Retriever">
Labrador Retriever

The Labrador Retriever (or Lab and Labrador for short) is a breed of dog. It is a kind of gun dog. Labrador Retrievers are very gentle dogs with family-friendly personalities. They are the most popular breed of dogs for pets in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States. They enjoy attention and exercise with their owner. They love to run around in big, open spaces, have a natural love of bringing things back, and learn to retrieve easily. They love to be active. They like the water no matter what temperature outside as their coat protects them. They are strong swimmers as they have webbing between the toes on their paws. They have coats that can be in any of three colors: black, yellow, and brown.
This tough, hardy breed of retriever is a great choice as a family pet. They are playful, easy to train, and naturally obedient. Labrador Retrievers do require regular amounts of daily exercise and are prone to obesity. As a pet, they can be demanding of attention and are best suited in a home where they can have a daily workout. They like water and have a unique otter-like tail, which they use like a rudder when they swim.
Labradors are descended from dogs bred on the island of Newfoundland, in Canada. Its ancestor is the St. John's water dog, a breed that developed through breedings by early settlers of the island in the 16th century. These dogs were trained to bring in the fishing nets from the icy waters for the fishermen. In the early 19th century, they were brought to Poole in Great Britain. These dogs had short strong legs and were good swimmers. Their coats were thick and they had a broad tail. Englishmen had many offers to buy them from fishermen because they were so attractive. The breed was instantly successful as a gun dog. The Earl of Malmesbury was interested and amazed by these dogs, and he started breeding them. He bred them for duck shooting on his estate. He established the new breed of retrievers, which he named Labrador.

</doc>
<doc id="14529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14529" title="Margaret Thatcher">
Margaret Thatcher

Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher (her birth name was Margaret Hilda Roberts; 13 October 1925 – 8 April 2013) was the first female Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. She was prime minister from 1979 to 1990. She led the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990. She was often known by the nickname, "the Iron Lady", given to her by a Soviet journalist.
Thatcher was born Margaret Hilda Roberts in Grantham, Lincolnshire, on 13 October 1925. Her father was Alfred Roberts, originally from Northamptonshire, and her mother was Beatrice Ethel (née Stephenson) from Lincolnshire. 
She took chemistry at Somerville College, Oxford. In her final year, she studied X-ray crystallography under Dorothy Hodgkin, who later won the Nobel Prize. She was already interested in politics, and became President of the Oxford University Conservative Association in 1946. Roberts read political works such as Friedrich von Hayek's "The Road to Serfdom" (1944), which condemned economic intervention by government because it gave too much power to the state. After graduating, Roberts moved to Colchester in Essex to work as a research chemist for BX Plastics.
She entered Parliament in 1959 and became Secretary for Education in 1970.
Thatcher directed British troops in 1982 to get back the Falkland Islands from Argentina. Argentina had taken the Falklands for a short time during the Falklands War. She had the second longest single prime ministerial term in history. She married Denis Thatcher; they had twins: son Mark and daughter Carol.
She suffered from strong opposition during a miner's strike in 1984 and 1985, which took away political power from the coal miners' union. There was also controversy when she introduced a poll tax to Britain. This caused rioting across the country. The riots were one of the reasons she was replaced by John Major in 1990. In 1992, she stood down as an MP and became Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven, joining the House of Lords.
During Thatcher's years as prime minister, unemployment rose by a lot, doubling during her first term, reaching 3 million in 1982. It started to decline again only in the late 1980s, and since the mid-1990s, Britain has consistently had lower unemployment than most of continental Europe. Thatcher's supporters claim this is the result of her structural reform of the labour market, though this is disputed by opponents.
During the near end of the Cold War, Thatcher became close friends with President of the United States Ronald Reagan.
She is widely remembered in the UK for her dislike of the trade union movement. Trade unions were much more powerful in the 1970s, and Thatcher did much to reduce their influence on British industry.
Lady Thatcher is the only woman to have held the positions of Prime Minister and Conservative Party leader.
In February 1949, at a Paint Trades Federation function in Dartford, she met Denis Thatcher. They married on 13 December 1951, at Wesley's Chapel in City Road, London: the Robertses were Methodists. They had twin children, Carol and Mark, who were born on 15 August 1953, six weeks premature
Her husband Denis, died in 2003 from pancreatic cancer. She attended Ronald Reagan's funeral service in 2004. In the later years of her life, she suffered from dementia and withdrew from public engagements in 2002. In 2006, Thatcher attended the official Washington, D.C. memorial service to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the September 11 attacks on the United States. She was a guest of Vice President Dick Cheney, and met Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her visit. She also visited several times to the U.S. for ceremonies that honored Ronald Reagan.
She died from a stroke on 8 April 2013 in London, England. In line with her wishes she received a ceremonial funeral, including full military honours, with a church service at St Paul's Cathedral on 17 April. Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Phillip attended the funeral, the second time in the Queen's reign that she had attended the funeral of a former prime minister.

</doc>
<doc id="14530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14530" title="Firefighter">
Firefighter

Firefighters or firemen are people whose job is to put out fires and rescue people. In a city, the building they work in is called a "fire station", or "fire hall". Firefighters work for the "fire department".
There are firefighters in cities and towns who fight fires in houses and other buildings. These are called "structural firefighters". There are also firefighters who fight wildfires away from towns. 
In some places, they are also taught first aid and given medical training so they can help people in other ways. A paramedic or an emergency medical technician (EMT) are names for people who have first aid training and usually work on ambulances. Paramedics and EMTs in many places work for fire departments. Some work for other agencies such as ambulance companies or hospitals to ride on ambulances to transport sick and injured people. Fire engines sometimes go to medical emergencies if they are closer and can give first aid before the ambulance gets there. A fire truck usually carries the same equipment as an ambulance does. Search and rescue is also done by many fire departments.
Firefighters have vehicles they drive fires and rescue operations. If the vehicle pumps water it is called an "engine". If it does not pump water it is called a "truck". A rescue truck's main job is to responds to car wrecks, collapsed buildings, search and rescue, stuck elevators and other emergencies. If it carries the fire chief to fires, it is a fire chief car. Fire engines pump water and foam which is used to put out the fire. Fire trucks carry ladders and tools to help rescue people from burning buildings. Most engines carry first aid kits to help people who are injured or hurt. 
Firefighters must wear heavy clothing which protects them from the heat when they are fighting a fire. This is called "bunker gear" or "turnout gear".

</doc>
<doc id="14534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14534" title="Random">
Random

Random is a term used in mathematics (and less formally) to mean that there is no way to reliably predict an outcome (to know what will happen "before" it happens) or sense a pattern. Something that is chosen at random is not chosen for any conscious reason, and therefore thought to be purely by chance. An example of a random event is winning a lottery.
A computer can make lists of apparently random numbers. Humans are unable to do this, because the brain works in patterns. If someone is asked to keep saying "heads" or "tails" at random, an astute human observer or properly programmed computer might eventually be able to tell which one the person is likely to say next because the computer notices the patterns.
On a website such as English Wikipedia the user can click on "Random page" to get a random article. The chances of any one page appearing are exactly the same as for any other page.
Sometimes the word "random" is used more loosely. There are websites of random jokes, which just means: a variety of jokes about all sorts of things.
In recent years young people have started to use the word "random" even more loosely to describe anything which is rather strange or has no logic. Sentences such as "the mouldy cheese is escaping" or "I like pie and spam" might be described as "random", although this is not the proper dictionary or mathematical meaning of the word. 
There are several ways in which a process or system can be seen as "random":
The many applications of randomness have led to many different methods for generating random data. These methods may vary as to how unpredictable or statistically random they are, and how quickly they can generate random numbers.
Before there were computational random number generators, generating large amounts of sufficiently random numbers (important in statistics) required a lot of work. Results would sometimes be collected and distributed as random number tables.
Computers can make what appear to be random numbers. There are two ways to make them.
Keys for encryption must be random in order to be secure. Keys generated by a faulty random number generator have been cracked.

</doc>
<doc id="14535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14535" title="Political status of Taiwan">
Political status of Taiwan

The political status of Taiwan is a difficult situation that many people disagree about. There are two countries in the world that call themselves China. The People's Republic of China (PRC) is the country most people think of when they hear the name China. The Republic of China (ROC) also calls itself China. It is better known in most of the world as Taiwan.
Taiwan was a part of China from the late 1600s. After the First Sino-Japanese War, Taiwan and Penghu were given to Japan by China. After World War II, the Japanese on Taiwan surrendered to the Chinese. This gave Taiwan back to the Chinese. After losing a civil war in 1949, the ROC government fled to the island of Taiwan. It took control of Taiwan and several nearby islands. The PRC controlled mainland China. It also said it owns the island of Taiwan (which is also known as Taiwan province) and the other islands. The ROC said that it was the rightful government of China and it included all of China, including Taiwan and Mongolia. In 1971, the ROC lost its United Nations seat as China. The seat was given to the PRC instead. This made the PRC the rightful government of China internationally. Most countries have accepted the PRC as the leaders of China. Several countries, including the United States, have been careful to not say officially which parts of the original China are part of the PRC. 23 countries have official diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Nearly all of the other countries still have some diplomatic relations with them. The major problems are about whether Taiwan is a still part of the PRC or should be an independent country.
People who live in Taiwan have different ideas. Taiwan has not been ruled by mainland China since 1895. Today, Taiwan is a democracy. China is ruled by a communist government. The idea of freedom in communism is different than how people in a democracy think freedom should be. Few people in Taiwan want to become part of Communist China. Almost none want to give up their idea of freedom. Some people in Taiwan want Taiwan to formally become the Republic of Taiwan. Most of the people in Taiwan want to keep everything like it is now. They want to wait for the best time to become the Republic of Taiwan.
Today, most countries of the world see the PRC as China. Most countries however still have a very close economic and cultural relationship with Taiwan.
The relations between the PRC and Taiwan are tense. The PRC believes that Taiwan is a part of the PRC. The government of the PRC has said that if the people of Taiwan vote to become the Republic of Taiwan, that they will invade Taiwan and stop this from happening. In March of 2004, they passed a law that will allow China to invade Taiwan if Taiwan tries to leave the PRC and become an independent country. This law has caused problems with the people in Taiwan. It has caused even more people in Taiwan not to want to be a part of PRC China.

</doc>
<doc id="14536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14536" title="Cellular respiration">
Cellular respiration

Cellular respiration is what cells do to break up sugars into a form that the cell can use as energy. This happens in all forms of life. Cellular respiration takes in food and uses it to create ATP, a chemical which the cell uses for energy. Usually, this process uses oxygen, and is called aerobic respiration.
It has three stages known as glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and the electron transport chain. This produces ATP which supplies the energy that cells need to do work. When they don't get enough oxygen, the cells use anaerobic respiration, which doesn’t require oxygen. However, this process produces lactic acid, and is not as efficient as when oxygen is used. Aerobic respiration, the process that does use oxygen, produces much more energy and doesn’t produce lactic acid. It also produces carbon dioxide as a waste product, which then enters the circulatory system. The carbon dioxide is taken to the lungs, where it is exchanged for oxygen.
The simplified formula for aerobic cellular respiration is:
CHO + 6O → 6CO + 6HO + Energy (as ATP)
The word equation for this is:Glucose (sugar) + Oxygen → Carbon dioxide + Water + Energy (as ATP)
Aerobic cellular respiration has four stages. Each is important, and could not happen without the one before it. The steps of cellular respiration are:
In glycolysis, glucose in the cytoplasm is broken into two molecules of pyruvate. Ten enzymes are needed for the ten intermediate compounds in this process.
Biology textbooks often state that 38 ATP molecules can be made per oxidised glucose molecule during cellular respiration (2 from glycolysis, 2 from the Krebs cycle, and about 34 from the electron transport chain). However, this maximum yield is never quite reached due to losses (leaky membranes) as well as the cost of moving pyruvate and ADP into the mitochondrial matrix. Present estimates are 29 to 30 ATP per glucose.
Aerobic metabolism is about (see sentence above) 15 times more efficient than anaerobic metabolism. Anaerobic metabolism yields 2 mol ATP per 1 mol glucose. They share the initial pathway of glycolysis but aerobic metabolism continues with the Krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. The post glycolytic reactions take place in the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells, and in the cytoplasm in prokaryotic cells.
Pyruvate from glycolysis is actively pumped into mitochondria. One carbon dioxide molecule and one hydrogen molecule are removed from the pyruvate (called oxidative decarboxylation) to produce an acetyl group, which joins to an enzyme called CoA to form acetyl CoA. This is essential for the Krebs cycle.
Acetyl CoA joins with oxaloacetate to form a compound with six carbon atoms. This is the first step in the ever-repeating Krebs cycle. Because two acetyl-CoA molecules are produced from each glucose molecule, "two cycles are required per glucose molecule". Therefore, at the end of two cycles, the products are: two ATP, six NADH, two FADH, and four CO2. The ATP is a molecule which carries energy in chemical form to be used in other cell processes.
This is where most of the ATP is made. All of the hydrogen molecules which have been removed in the steps before (Krebs cycle, Link reaction) are pumped inside the mitochondria using energy that electrons release. Eventually, the electrons powering the pumping of hydrogen into the mitochondria mix with some hydrogen and oxygen to form water and the hydrogen molecules stop being pumped.
Eventually, the hydrogen flows back into the cytoplasm of the mitochondria through protein channels. As the hydrogen flows, ATP is made from ADP and phosphate ions.

</doc>
<doc id="14546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14546" title="Lesotho">
Lesotho

Lesotho is a small country in southern Africa. Its population is about 1,800,000.
The capital of Lesotho is called Maseru.
Lesotho has no coast on the sea nor on a lake. This type of country is called "landlocked", meaning it is surrounded by land. All of Lesotho's trade must either be flown in by aeroplane, or brought in by land. Lesotho position is unusual: it is completely surrounded by the country of South Africa and has no borders with any other country. This type of country is called an "enclave". Enclave countries are very rare, but Lesotho is one (there are only two other countries like this, San Marino and the Vatican City). This makes Lesotho's relationship with South Africa very important to them both.
Lesotho has many mountains and is one of the most mountainous countries in the world. All of Lesotho is at least 1,400 m above sea level. People sometimes travel there to ski in winter. The many mountains in Lesotho mean that it rains there a lot. Lesotho uses some of its water to generate electricity and sells some of the water to South Africa.
Lesotho became a country in 1818, but it was then called Basutoland. A man called Moshoeshoe brought several of the groups of people in the area together and formed a new country with him as its king. This new country came under attack from its enemies and in 1868 Moshoeshoe asked Queen Victoria of Great Britain for help. Great Britain said it would help if Lesotho became part of the British Empire.
Lesotho eventually gained its independence on 4 October 1966. Now it is a member of the British Commonwealth. King Letsie III is the ruler of Lesotho.

</doc>
<doc id="14551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14551" title="Alexander Hamilton">
Alexander Hamilton

Alexander Hamilton (born January 11, year unknown - probably 1755 or 1757–died July 12, 1804) was a statesman, politician, political theorist, and economist who was a Founding Father of the United States. He was the United States' first Secretary of the Treasury, and was known for the creation of a national bank. Born on the island of Nevis in the Caribbean, Hamilton moved to New York. When the American Revolution started, Hamilton served in the continental army and was a close aide to George Washington. After leaving the military he started a bank. He was one of the framers of the Constitution. Along with James Madison and John Jay he wrote the Federalist Papers, which supported the new Constitution.
Hamilton became the Secretary of the Treasury under George Washington and helped set up the United States' financial system. He supported a national bank and the funding of the national debt. A leader of the federalist party, he was a long time rival of Thomas Jefferson. He was killed in a duel with political rival Aaron Burr in 1804.
Today, Hamilton is usually thought of as one of the Founding Fathers of the United States and one of the most important early leaders. Hamilton appears on the United States Ten Dollar Bill.
Hamilton was not born in the United States. He was from the Caribbean island of Nevis. His father was named James Hamilton and his mother was named Rachel Fawcett Lavien. Hamilton's mother had a child from a previous marriage that she left behind when she moved to Nevis. At the time, this meant that Hamilton was illegitimate since his mother and father were not legally married. He was very sensitive about this fact.
Hamilton graduated from Columbia University, which was known then as Kings College. He wanted to go to Princeton but was not accepted.
Early in the American Revolution Hamilton was an artillery officer. Later he served on George Washington's staff. Hamilton believed by the late 1780s that the Articles of Confederation made a government that was too weak to work well, and he supported drafting a new document. He was a delegate to the Constitutional Convention, and he was a signer of the Constitution. In 1789 he was co-author of the Federalist Papers, a series of letters written by Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison under the name "Publius." They were published in newspapers in New York and supported the new Constitution. These writings are usually thought of as being one of the most important American works on politics and government. They are still widely read today.
George Washington, who became President in 1789, chose Hamilton to be the first United States Secretary of the Treasury. While in this job, he supported a national bank and invented a way to pay the debt that the country owed for the Revolutionary War. He helped start the Federalist Party. John Adams was a member, and Washington supported the party though he was not a member. After being Secretary of the Treasury he worked as a lawyer and continued to lead the Federalist Party.
Hamilton was very anti-slavery. Along with John Jay he was a leader of the New York Manumission Society. The society worked to end slavery in New York and supported manumission, which is the practice of slave owners freeing their slaves. The society would get slavery abolished in New York. Hamilton also had great respect for the small Jewish community in America and was a major supporter of religious freedom.
In 1800 Hamilton's political rival Thomas Jefferson beat the Federalist John Adams. Jefferson and Hamilton had very different ideas about the direction the new country would take, although both were important founding fathers.
Hamilton had a long-time rivalry with Jefferson's vice president Aaron Burr. Hamilton kept Burr from being re-nominated for Vice President. He also kept him from becoming Governor of New York. Burr responded by challenging Hamilton to a duel. They agreed to meet July 11, 1804 at Weehawken, New Jersey. Dueling was illegal in New York which is why they chose Weehawken. It was also the site where Philip Hamilton, Alexander Hamilton's son, had been killed in a duel three years earlier. The night before the duel, Hamilton wrote his will, letters to friends, and finally a letter to his wife. At dawn the next morning the two met at Weehawken. Without any discussion, the two men took their positions. Unusual for a duel of this kind, the two fired about 4–5 seconds apart. Who fired first is not known today. Burr's bullet struck Hamilton and knocked him down. Then Burr promptly turned and left. The bullet went through Hamilton's ribs, and damaged his lungs and liver. Hamilton was taken to a friend's house in Manhattan where his wife and children joined him. He asked two ministers to give him Communion but was refused. Finally the Episcopal Bishop Benjamin Moore gave him the sacrament. Hamilton died the next morning.
Hamilton is shown on the face of the U.S. 10 dollar bill. 
Hamilton is one of only two non-presidents honored on commonly used notes. 
Some of Hamilton's words are still quoted. For example, 
Is the focus of the 2015 Broadway Musical, 'Hamilton', written by - Lin Manuel-Miranda 

</doc>
<doc id="14568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14568" title="Köbes">
Köbes

Köbes is a word from the Rhineland from local Ripuarian and Limburgish-Bergisch languages.
It has two meanings:
A Köbes is the waiter who serves the Kölsch beer in Cologne or who serves the Alt beer of Düsseldorf and Krefeld.
One finds him only in brewery outlets and some specialized pubs.
Traditionally, a Köbes is dressed in blue, with a big leather belt and leather purse. If a guest sits down, the Köbes supplies beer, there is no order required. A Köbes continually replaces every empty glass with a full one, usually without asking. One must ask for the bill, or cover the glass, if you do not want more beer.
Expect Köbes to engage in short conversations or occasionally to tell, or make, jokes. Everyone can be subject of such jokes, the Köbes himself, his customers or other guests. If a Köbes includes them in jokes they do not hesitate to joke back on him.

</doc>
<doc id="14571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14571" title="Stop-motion">
Stop-motion

Stop motion is a way of animation which makes it look like still objects are moving. Clay animation is a good example of how stop motion is used.
Stop-motion requires any camera that can make single frames (or photos). It works by shooting a single frame, moving the object a little bit, and capturing a frame again. Cartoons use a similar way; one of the main differences is that stop motion uses real objects instead of drawn.
Tim Burton, Will Vinton and the Aardman studio have used this method in their productions.

</doc>
<doc id="14582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14582" title="D.C. United">
D.C. United

D.C. United is a Major League Soccer league soccer (or football) team that plays in Washington, D.C. in the United States. Its nickname is "the Black-and-Red".

</doc>
<doc id="14588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14588" title="Wendy Carlos">
Wendy Carlos

Wendy Carlos (born Walter Carlos, November 14, 1939) is an American composer and musician. She was born in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. She is known as one of the first people to use electric instruments to make music. In 1968, she released her music album "Switched on Bach". This album used many new electric instruments including the Moog Synthesizer. It won three Grammy Awards. She also did the music for movies. These include "A Clockwork Orange", "The Shining", and "Tron". In 1972, Carlos had a medical operation to change her body from male to female.

</doc>
<doc id="14599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14599" title="Boolean algebra">
Boolean algebra

Boolean algebra is algebra for binary (0 means false and 1 means true). It uses normal maths symbols, but it does not work in the same way. It is named after its creator George Boole.
The NOT operator is written with a bar over numbers or letters like this:
It means the output is not the input.
The AND operator is written as formula_4 like this:
The output is true only if one and the other input is true.
The OR operator is written as formula_9 like this:
One or the other input can be true for the output to be true.
One or the other input can be true to make the output true, but NOT both.
The XOR operator is written as formula_14 like this:
Different gates can be put together in different orders:
It is not the same as a NOT then an AND like this: formula_20
which is called "XOR identity table"
, if
formula_23.
or if formula_24=TRUE, TRUE.,
Augustus De Morgan found out that it is possible to change a formula_9 sign to a formula_4 sign and make or break a bar. See the 2 examples below:
"Make/break the bar and change the sign."

</doc>
<doc id="14604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14604" title="Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone">
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is the first book in the Harry Potter series, written by J.K. Rowling. It was published in 1997 and a movie version was shown in theaters in 2001. In the United States the book and movie are called "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone".
Because this is the first book about Harry Potter, the author begins by setting the scene and introducing the reader to some of the characters who will be important through the books.
In the start, Rowling describes how in an ordinary suburb, somewhere in an English town, people who are leading their ordinary lives are suddenly surprised to see witches and wizards in odd clothing riding on public buses and appearing at places where people would not expect to suddenly meet a wizard. It is clear that something unusual has happened in the world of witches and wizards, and those people, who are normally quite secret, are out and about, enjoying themselves.
In this way, Rowling introduces the two worlds of her story, the world of ordinary people, called "Muggles", and the secret world of the magic folk who usually keep to themselves. Rowling then introduces the main character, Harry Potter, a little baby boy who is left on the doorstep of his aunt and uncle by an old wizard with a long white beard.
When the reader next meets Harry, he has grown to be a boy of eleven, living unhappily with his spiteful aunt, cruel uncle and bullying cousin Dudley. Suddenly he is rescued from his misery by a huge half-giant man with a great black bushy beard and a flying motorcycle. Harry Potter is a wizard without knowing it, and the giant man, Rubeus Hagrid, has come to help him buy his books and get ready to go to school. The school sounds most exciting. It is "Hogwart's School of Witchcraft and Wizardry".
On the long train journey north, Harry Potter meets the two people who are to become his best friends, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger. Ron and Hermione have very different characters. Hermione, who comes from "Muggle" parents, is very intelligent and talented. She is such a know-it-all and so bossy that the boys do not like her at first. Ron, on the other hand, comes from an old family of wizards. He is number six in a family of seven children. He wears hand-me-down clothes and even his pet rat used to belong to his brother Percy. Ron knows all about Harry Potter.
The reason that Ron, and all the other people in the wizarding world, know all about Harry Potter is that Harry is famous, without even knowing it himself. The reason why he was left on the doorstep of his aunt and uncle is that both his parents are dead. They were murdered by an evil wizard who calls himself "Lord Voldemort". He is so evil that people are even afraid to say his name. Harry is famous because he survived the magical attack of the "He who must not be named", and since that day, Voldemort has gone into hiding.
Joanne Rowling then gives the reader a picture of the school that is to be Harry's home through seven books of the series, each one of which deals with a year in his life. The book describes the teachers, the lessons, the customs and the school sport so that it seems to be part of a real world. Even though the students learn magic and use magic, the book also describes Harry's growing up in a new and strange situation, just as any student must learn to fit in when they go to a new school among different people.
Harry soon discovers that while some magicians, such as the School Principal, Professor Albus Dumbledore, and Deputy Professor Minerva McGonagal can be kind and encouraging, others, like the sinister Professor Snape with his greasy black hair and nasty comments, are very hard to trust. One of the subjects that Harry really needs to learn is "Defense against the Dark Arts" but unfortunately, the teacher, Professor Quirrell, is such a bumbling and nervous man that he does not seem to be able to teach Harry very much at all.
As the year goes by, Harry discovers that Hogwarts has, hidden away for safety, a very precious treasure. If it were to fall into the hands of Lord Voldemort, it would be very dangerous indeed. Harry also discovers that in solving problems and overcoming difficulties, having friends with very different talents can be extremely useful.
The movie was made by Warner Brothers. It was based closely on the book. In the United States, it was called "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone". Harry Potter was played by Daniel Radcliffe. Rupert Grint played Ron Weasley, and Emma Watson played Hermione Granger.

</doc>
<doc id="14606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14606" title="Justin Timberlake">
Justin Timberlake

Justin Randall Timberlake (born January 31, 1981) is an American pop musician and actor. Timberlake first became famous when he appeared in the television series "Mickey Mouse Club" and later when he was part of the Grammy Award-winning boy band *NSYNC. He started his own career as a solo musician in 2002 and has recorded three albums, "Justified", "FutureSex/LoveSounds", and "The 20/20 Experience".
Timberlake was born in Memphis, Tennessee, to Randall Timberlake and Lynn Harless (née Bomar). Timberlake's ancestors were British. He was raised in the Baptist religion. His parents divorced in 1985. He grew up in Millington, Tennessee, a small town north of Memphis.
In 1993, Timberlake joined "The Mickey Mouse Club". The show ended in 1994. Late in 1995 Timberlake was recruited for an all-male singing group organized by boy band manager Lou Pearlman that eventually became 'N Sync.
Timberlake and JC Chasez were the two lead singers of the popular 1990s boy band 'N Sync. The group formed in 1995, started its career 1996 in Europe, and hit it big in the United States in 1998 with the US release of its debut album "*NSYNC", which sold 11 million copies. The album included a number of hit singles such as "Tearin' Up My Heart." For the next two years, encouraged by similar developments with the Backstreet Boys, 'N Sync engaged in a lengthy legal battle with manager Lou Pearlman. Eventually the band signed with Jive Records. 'N Sync released a long-awaited album, "No Strings Attached", in March 2000, which became the fastest-selling album of all time with 2.4 million copies sold in its first week and produced a #1 single, "It's Gonna Be Me". The release was followed by the band's third album, "Celebrity", which held the title of the second-fastest selling album of all time. In 2002, after the completion of a "Celebrity Tour" and the release of "Girlfriend," the third single from "Celebrity", the group decided to take time off, at which point Timberlake began work on his first solo album and the group went into a hiatus. In its lifetime, 'N Sync was internationally famous and performed at the Academy Awards, the Olympics, and the Super Bowl, as well as selling more than 50 million copies worldwide, becoming the third-best selling boy band in history.
During late 1999, Timberlake made his acting debut in the Disney Channel movie "Model Behavior", in which he played Jason Sharpe, a model who falls in love with a waitress after mistaking her for another model. It was released on March 12, 2000.
As a member of 'N Sync, Timberlake developed into a major celebrity in his own right in addition to achieving respect as a musician, since he was the writer or co-writer of all three singles from "Celebrity". The rise of his own stardom and the general decline in the popularity of boy bands led to a continuation of 'N Sync's hiatus, although the group has never officially disbanded. Band member Lance Bass has stated that he believes the group is finished, and is openly critical of Timberlake's actions in his memoir "Out of Sync". On the other hand, Chris Kirkpatrick remarked in August 2008 that the five remain friends, and he believed a reunion was possible: he repeated that opinion in October 2009. In September 2008, Bass also made conciliatory comments.
In August 2002, after months of recording "Justified", his debut solo album, Timberlake performed at the 2002 MTV Video Music Awards, where he premiered his first single, "Like I Love You," a sparse dance track produced by The Neptunes. The song reached number eleven on the "Billboard" Hot 100. Following the single, Timberlake released "Justified" on November 5, 2002. The album sold fewer copies than previous 'N Sync efforts. It debuted at number two on the "Billboard" 200 album chart, selling 439,000 copies in its first week of release. It eventually went on to sell more than three million copies in the U.S. and more than seven million copies worldwide. The album also received critical acclaim, thanks to its heavy R&B influence provided by hip-hop producers The Neptunes and Timbaland. It spun off hits throughout late 2002 and 2003, including the top ten singles "Cry Me a River" and "Rock Your Body." Timberlake supported the album by co-headlining the Justified/Stripped Tour with Christina Aguilera in the summer of 2003. At the end of the year, Timberlake recorded a song entitled "I'm Lovin' It." It was used by McDonald's as the theme to its "I'm Lovin' It" campaign. The deal with McDonald's earned Timberlake an estimated $6 million. A tour entitled Justified and Lovin' It Live was included with the deal as well. Timberlake was featured on Nelly's song, "Work It", which was remixed and included on Nelly's 2003 remix album.
In February 2004, during the halftime show of the Super Bowl XXXVIII broadcast on the CBS television network, Timberlake performed with Janet Jackson before a television audience of more than 140 million viewers. At the end of the performance, as the song drew to a close, Timberlake tore off a part of Jackson's black leather costume in a "costume reveal" meant to accompany a portion of the song lyrics. According to CBS, "both Jackson and Timberlake had confirmed they planned it 'independently and clandestinely' without informing anyone." Part of the costume detached, and Jackson's breast was briefly exposed. Timberlake apologized for the incident, stating he was "sorry that anyone was offended by the wardrobe malfunction during the halftime performance of the Super Bowl..." The phrase "wardrobe malfunction" has since been used by the media to refer to the incident and has entered pop culture. As a result of the controversy, Timberlake and Jackson were threatened with exclusion from the 2004 Grammy Awards unless they agreed to apologize on screen at the event. Timberlake attended and issued a scripted apology when accepting the first of two Grammy Awards he received that night (Best Pop Vocal Album for "Justified" and Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for "Cry Me a River"). He had also been nominated for Album of the Year for "Justified", Record of the Year for "Cry Me a River", and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration for "Where Is the Love?" with The Black Eyed Peas.
After the Super Bowl controversy, Timberlake put his recording career on hold to act in several movies, having starred in a few feature movies earlier in his music career. The first role he took during this time was as a journalist in the thriller "Edison Force", which was filmed in 2004 and received a direct-to-video release on July 18, 2006. He also appeared in the movies "Alpha Dog", "Black Snake Moan", Richard Kelly's "Southland Tales", and voiced Prince Artie Pendragon in the animated movie "Shrek the Third", released on May 18, 2007. He also appeared as a young Elton John, in the video for John's song "This Train Don't Stop There Anymore". Timberlake was considered to play the role of Roger Davis in the movie version of the rock musical "Rent", but director Chris Columbus had insisted that only the original Broadway members could convey the true meaning of "Rent".
He continued to record with other artists. After "Where Is the Love?", he again collaborated with the Black Eyed Peas on the 2005 track "My Style" from their album "Monkey Business". When recording the 2005 single "Signs" with Snoop Dogg, Timberlake discovered a throat condition. Nodules were subsequently removed from his throat in an operation that took place on May 5, 2005. He was advised not to sing or speak loudly for at least a few months. In the summer of 2005, Timberlake started his own record company, JayTee Records.
Timberlake made a cameo in the video for Nelly Furtado and Timbaland's single "Promiscuous", released on May 3, 2006.
Timberlake released his second solo album, "FutureSex/LoveSounds", on September 12, 2006. The album, which Timberlake created in 2005, debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 album chart, selling 684,000 copies its first week. It is the biggest album for pre-orders on iTunes, and beat Coldplay's record for the biggest one-week sales of a digital album. The album was produced by Timbaland and Danja (who produced a bulk of the album), will.i.am, Rick Rubin and Timberlake himself, and features guest vocals by Snoop Dogg, Three 6 Mafia, T.I. and will.i.am. A studio representative described it as being "all about sexiness" and aiming for "an adult feel".
The album's lead single, "SexyBack", was performed by Timberlake at the opening of the 2006 MTV Video Music Awards and reached number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100, where it remained for seven consecutive weeks. "My Love", the album's second single, also produced by Timbaland and featuring rapper T.I., reached number one on the Hot 100, as did third single "What Goes Around.../...Comes Around Interlude". The song is reported to have been inspired by the break-up of his childhood friend and business partner, Trace Ayala, with actress Elisha Cuthbert. In October 2006, Timberlake said that he would focus on his music career rather than his movie roles, specifying that leaving the music industry would be a "dumb thing to do at this point". He was the special guest performer at the 2006 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show for being where he sang SexyBack. In January 2007, Timberlake embarked on the FutureSex/LoveShow tour. "Summer Love/Set the Mood Prelude" was the fourth U.S. single off the album, and the next single in the UK was "LoveStoned/I Think She Knows Interlude". The song "Give It to Me", a Timbaland single on which Timberlake guests with Nelly Furtado, reached the Hot 100 number-one spot.
In February 2008, Timberlake was awarded two Grammy Awards. At the 50th Grammy Awards Ceremony, Timberlake won the "Male Pop Performance" Award for "What Goes Around...Comes Around", and the "Dance Recording" Award for "LoveStoned/I Think She Knows".
In April 2007, Timberlake was seen entering a London studio with Madonna, thus confirming rumors that he was collaborating with her. A song "4 Minutes", was first played by Timbaland at Philadelphia's Jingle Ball on December 17, 2007. When released on March 17, 2008, "4 Minutes" was revealed to be a duet between Timberlake and Madonna, with backing vocals by Timbaland. It was lead single from Madonna's eleventh studio album "Hard Candy", which featured four other song-writing collaborations with Timberlake. The single was an international hit, and topped the charts in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and reached the Top 5 in Austria, France, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand and the United States. Timberlake also appears in the music video, which was directed by Jonas & François. On March 30, 2008, Timberlake performed the song at Madonna's Hard Candy Promo Show at Roseland Ballroom in New York City. On November 6, 2008, Timberlake performed the song with Madonna on the Los Angeles stop of her Sticky & Sweet Tour.
Around June 2007 Timberlake co-wrote, produced and provided vocals for the songs "Nite Runner" and "Falling Down" for Duran Duran's album "Red Carpet Massacre", released on November 13, 2007. "Falling Down" had been released as a single in the UK on the previous day.
Also in 2007, Timberlake made an appearance on 50 Cent's third album, "Curtis". Timberlake, along with Timbaland, is featured on a track called "Ayo Technology", which was the album's fourth single. Also, another possible collaboration was to occur with Lil Wayne for his album "Tha Carter III" with Nelly Furtado and Timbaland.
With the wrapping up of the FutureSex/LoveSounds tour of Australasia and the Middle East in November 2007, Timberlake resumed his movie career. Projects underway early in 2008 were starring roles in Mike Myers' comedy "The Love Guru" (released June 20, 2008) and Mike Meredith's drama "The Open Road" (released August 28, 2009). In March 2008 it was announced that he was be an executive producer in an American adaptation of the hit Peruvian comedy "My Problem with Women" for NBC.
On November 20, 2008, "TV Guide" reported that Timberlake’s next single, "Follow My Lead", which also featured vocals by Timberlake’s protégée, former YouTube star Esmee Denters, would be available for exclusive download through MySpace. All proceeds would go to Shriners Hospitals for Children, a charity dedicated to improving pediatric care for sick children.
In 2008 a collaboration between Timberlake and T.I., "Dead and Gone" featured on T.I.'s sixth studio album, "Paper Trail", and was released as its fourth single late in 2009. In November 2008, it was confirmed that Timberlake would make a guest appearance and produce some tracks on R&B/pop singer Ciara's upcoming album "Fantasy Ride" due out May 5, 2009. Timberlake featured on Ciara's second single "Love Sex Magic", the video being shot on February 20, 2009. The single became a worldwide hit, reaching the top ten in numerous countries and peaking at number one in several countries including Taiwan, India, and Turkey. The single is now nominated for "Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals" at the 52nd Grammy Awards.
Timberlake and his production team The Y's, along with Mike Elizondo, produced and co-wrote the song "Don't Let Me Down" for Leona Lewis's second studio album, "Echo", released (in the US) on November 17, 2009.
Timberlake also co-wrote and performed on "Carry Out," the third single from Timbaland's album "Shock Value II", released on December 1, 2009.
In June 2012 Timberlake began working on a new album, "The 20/20 Experience". It was released on 19 March 2013. The album came top of the Irish charts in the first week. The single "Mirrors" was nominated for Best Pop Solo Performance at the 2014 Grammy Awards. The album also included the successful single "Suit & Tie" with rapper Jay Z.
Timberlake later released the albums "The 20/20 Experience" and "The 20/20 Experience – 2 of 2" together in the box set, "The 20/20 Experience – The Complete Experience". 
He recorded the song "Can't Stop the Feeling!" for the upcoming DreamWorks animated film, "Trolls". The song entered the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100 at number one.
Timberlake had a relationship with Britney Spears when they met at the "Mickey Mouse Club". This relationship gained high public attention. It ended suddenly in 2002 when Timberlake claimed that Spears cheated on him with choreographer Wade Robson.
Later in 2002, he dated actress-dancer Jenna Dewan and actress-singer Alyssa Milano. In April 2003, he started dating actress Cameron Diaz after they met at the Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards. There were many rumors afterwards that the two broke up. He stated on December 16, 2006 on "Saturday Night Live" that they had split up.
In 2007, it was revealed that he had a romantic relationship with actress Jessica Biel. They married in 2012. Their son, Silas Randall Timberlake, was born on April 11, 2015.
In 2008, Timberlake stated that he has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Timberlake also works in the movie industry. He is the voice of King Arthur in animated movie "Shrek the Third". He is also in the movies "Alpha Dog" and "Black Snake Moan". In 2008, he acted in movie "The Love Guru".

</doc>
<doc id="14612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14612" title="Aramaic language">
Aramaic language

Aramaic is a language that is 3000 years old, or even more. Words are made up from the 22 characters of the Aramaic alphabet. It is part of a group of languages called the Semitic languages. This group has Aramaic, Hebrew, Arabic and many other languages in it. Some old kingdoms used Aramaic language for business. Some religions use Aramaic for their meetings. Aramaic is the language of big parts of the two Bible books of Daniel and Ezra. It is the language of the Jewish Talmud. Aramaic was the language of Jesus Christ. Aramaic is spoken today by small groups of people, particularly by Assyrians.
In the 12th century BC, the first speakers of Aramaic started to make their homes in today's countries of Syria, Iraq and east Turkey. Their language became the most important language in the Middle East. Jewish speakers of Aramaic took the language with them to north Africa and Europe. Christian speakers of Aramaic took the language with them to Persia, India and even China. 
In the 7th century AD, Aramaic stopped being the most important language in the Middle East. The Arabic language became the new important language. Aramaic is still spoken by scattered communities of Jews, Mandaeans and some Christians. Small groups of people still speak Aramaic in different parts of the Middle East. The wars of the last two centuries made many Aramaic speakers leave their homes and go to live in different places around the world. Places such as the United States, France, Netherlands, Canada, and many more areas of the world. There may not be a very big presence of Aramaic around the world but in some countries there are communities that fluently speak modern Aramaic.
Aramaic is not one language without any changes. Because many different people over many centuries spoke and wrote it, there are many different dialects of Aramaic languages. These different types are called dialects, but some of them are so different that they are like different languages. The different dialects make two groups: an "Eastern" group and a "Western" group. The division between them is around the line of the river Euphrates. We also divide up the dialects by their place in time. "Old" Aramaic is the name of the oldest dialects. Only special teachers learn Old Aramaic. "Middle" Aramaic is the group of dialects that people do not speak every day, but they use them for special things like writing and religion. "Modern" Aramaic is the group of dialects that people use every day. They are living languages and are spoken by Assyrians.

</doc>
<doc id="14617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14617" title="Libya">
Libya

Libya ( ', Berber: ⵍⵉⴱⵢⴰ "Libya"), officially the State of Libya, is a country in North Africa. It is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad and Niger to the south, and Algeria and Tunisia to the west. It covers an area of almost . It is the 17th largest country in the world.
Libya's borders touch the countries of Egypt, Sudan, Chad, Algeria, Niger, and Tunisia. To its north is the Mediterranean Sea. The capital of Libya is Tripoli, which is a port on the sea. Tripoli has about one million people. Libya covers an area of about .
The highest point in Libya is Bikku Bitti 2,267 m above sea level and the lowest point is Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m at below sea level. Most of the country is flat, with large plains. Because it is so dry, only 1.03% of the land is suitable for farming.
The area around Tripoli is called "Tripolitania", and it was the most developed during the Ottoman occupation.
Cyrenaica is an area of the north east coast. It is divided from Tripolitania by the Gulf of Sirte. It was named by the Greeks who built the city of Cirene in 630 BC. The area was where many of the battles of World War II were fought. It includes the cities of Tobruk and Benghazi. Like Tripolitania, Cyrenaica was also governed by Britain after the war.
The Fezzan is an area of desert in south west Libya which the Italians made a part of Tripoli in 1912. After the war this area was governed by France, who wanted to annex to their Empire.
The population of Libya in 2011 was said to be about 6,597,960. This is not a large number for a country that has such a large area, so the population density of Libya is low. This is because much of Libya is in the Sahara Desert. Most people in Libya live in cities on the coast. People from Libya are called Libyans.
Libyans are mostly Arabs, though many are Berbers, a group which includes the nomadic Tuareg of North Africa. About 95% of Libyans are of Arab-Berber origin. Most Libyans are Sunni Muslims.
Since 2007 Libya has been divided into 22 districts.
Oil was discovered in Libya in 1958 and is about 95% of the country's export income. Oil is about 25% of Libya's GDP. Other exports include natural gas, salt, limestone and gypsum. Because so much of the country is desert, Libya has to import about 75% of its food. It does grow wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, peanuts, soybeans and many vegetables. In 1984, a pipeline was started to bring underground water from the Sahara to coastal areas for irrigation. The pipeline which will take 25 years to complete has been estimated to cost about $25 billion. It is called the Great Man-made River, and is the largest water development scheme in the world.
The money of Libya is called the Libyan dinar. It was made to take the place of the old money, the Libyan pound, in 1971. There are 1000 dirhams in a dinar. Dinar is the name of the money in many Islamic countries. The name comes from an old Roman coin, the denarius.
Libya is made up of three regions, Tripolitania, Cyrenaica, and the Fezzan. Tripolitania is the area on the north west coast, once called the Kingdom of Tripoli. It was ruled by Turks from the Ottoman Empire. The USA went to war with the Kingdom of Tripoli in 1805 over the problems of piracy in the Mediterranean. The USA had refused to pay increased "protection" money to the Turkish rulers.
Tripolitania and Cyrenaica were captured by the Italians during the Italian-Turkish War of 1911-1912. The reason for the war was to set up a colony for Italy. They said that this area was once part of the Roman Empire and belonged to Italy. The Italians were the first country to use aeroplanes to drop bombs when they attacked Tripoli in 1911.
Many thousands of Italian settlers moved to Libya to set up businesses and farms, which were going to supply food and produce for Italy and its Empire Libyans had some of their land in Cyrenaica taken from them by force and about 70,000 people died during the battles, starved, or were decimated by the terrible epidemic (called "Spanish flu") of 1918. Many thousands escaped to Egypt, but soon moved back when the new Italian governor Italo Balbo started a friendly attitude toward Arabs.
Italian Libya enjoyed in the late 1930s a huge development, with the creation of new railways, ports, hospitals, airports, roads. In those years the agricultural economy boomed, thanks to the creation of many dozens of new villages for Italian & Arab farmers. There was even an international race-car competition outside Tripoli ("Grand Prix of Tripoli" ).
The British captured Tripolitania in 1942 during World War II and ruled it until 1951.
After World War II, the regions of Libya were ruled by military governors from both Britain and France. The United Nations made Libya an independent country, the United Kingdom of Libya, in 1951. This was to be a constitutional monarchy, ruled by King Idris I and his successors. Idris (Muhammad Idris bin Muhammad al-Mahdi as-Senussi) (13 March 1890—25 May 1983) had been the Emir of Cyrenaica, but went into exile in Egypt in 1922. At the end of the war, he returned as emir, with support of Britain. He was also asked to be Emir of Tripolitania. He was able to unite the three regions and became the king of the United Kingdom of Libya on 24 December 1951. 
The problems facing Libya were huge. The country was poor, with little in the way of goods to export. Only 250,000 people could read. There were only 16 Libyan college graduates, no Libyan doctors, engineers, pharmacists, or surveyors. The United Nations estimated that 10% of the people were blind from eye diseases, especially trachoma. Idris was a religious leader did not take much interest in the affairs of government. His government was seen to be corrupt, and did nothing about an increasing rise in Arab nationalism which had brought Nasser to power in Egypt in 1952. Once oil was discovered, Libya became one of the largest oil producing countries in the world. Many Libyans felt that Cyrenaica was getting more of the oil money than the rest of the country. A lot of the money from oil was also going to overseas companies.
In the early morning of 1 September 1969, a group of military officers took over the government in a coup d'état. Colonel Muammar al-Gaddafi was named as chief of staff of the military. From 1970-1972 he served as Prime Minister. He began a political system named "The Third Universal Theory". This is a mix of socialism and Islam, based on tribal government. It was to be put in place by the Libyan people themselves in a unique form of "direct democracy." Al-Gaddafi called this "jamahiriya".
Some of his first actions were to take back control of the oil and send the remaining Italian settlers back to Italy. He also closed down the American USAF base.
In 1977 Libya became "Al-Jamahiriya al-`Arabiyah al-Libiyah ash-Sha`biyah al-Ishtirakiyah al-Uzma" . In English, the name means the "Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya".
Libya was alleged to have sponsored anti-western groups. Gaddafi openly supported independence movements like Nelson Mandela's African National Congress, Palestinian Liberation Organization, the Irish Republican Army, the Polisario Front (Western Sahara) and more. Because of this Libya's foreign relations with several western nation were negatively effected, and it would become a reason for US to bomb Libya in 1986. Gaddafi survived the bombing, the action of US was condemned by many countries and UN general assembly.
Libya had also supplied weapons and money to the Irish Republican Army during its fight with the British government in Northern Ireland. Gaddafi developed a good relationship with revolutionary Colombian Marxist–Leninist guerrilla group called FARC. Activities also included such as Libyan contribution towards Falklands War, where Gaddafi had provided 20 launchers, 60 SA-7 missiles, machine guns, mortars and mines to the Argentinian government. Libya was alleged to have role in bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 and French UTA Flight 772 in 1989, despite the investigation found no evidence which involves any Libyan role.
The United Nations put economic sanctions in place against Libya in 1992. These sanctions stopped other countries selling weapons, investing money, or even allowing their people to visit Libya. After six days when US had captured Iraq's Saddam Hussein, Gaddafi renounced Libya's weapons of mass destruction programs and welcomed international inspections to verify that he would follow through on the commitment. Gaddafi said he hopes that other nations would follow his example. UN removed the sanctions in the same year. Gaddafi solved the Lockerbie plane crash issue by paying US$2.7 billion to the families of the victims. Prime Minister of Libya Shukri Ghanem, told in the interviews that Gaddafi was "paying the price for peace" with the West, and suggested that Libya had no role in the case. United Nations observers would acknowledge such statement and cast doubt towards the whole issue.
Gaddafi also set about having normal relations with other counties. Western European leaders and many working-level and commercial delegations were able to visit the country. He made his first trip to Western Europe in 15 years when he traveled to Brussels in April 2004. He reattached the ties with Russia once again, which had remained idle since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
By 2010, Libya's Human Development Index was highest in Africa, the country ranked at #53 overall as 'High standard' on living bases. Libya remained a debt-free nation. In 2011, Human rights in Libya were praised by the U.N. Human rights council. However after civil war the human rights seems to be getting worse. On March 2013, according to the Barnabas Fund, at least 48 Christians were tortured inside Libya, one died in custody.
Every Libyan who is older than 18 can vote. This means that voting (also known as "suffrage") in Libya is "universal".
In February 2011, a civil war broke out in Libya when rebels started a rebellion against Colonel Muammar al-Gaddafi and his government. NATO intervention in the civil war was in favor of the rebels. However, some rebels had links with al-Qaeda. NATO ended its mission in October after Colonel al-Gaddafi was reported to have been killed. In the aftermath of the civil war, a low-level rebellion by al-Gaddafi loyalists continued. Armed militias have filled the gap left by left by the revolution, and disagreements and strife are ongoing.

</doc>
<doc id="14618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14618" title="Population density">
Population density

The population density of a country or city or other place is a number showing how crowded that place is. It is calculated by dividing the population by the area. For example, France has a population of 60,561,200, and an area of 551,695 square kilometres, so its population density is about 109.8 persons per square kilometre.
A number of factors can affect population density. For example, the climate. Greenland has a very low population density because it is very cold there, so not many people want to live there.
Many cities were built near rivers, because the first settlers wanted somewhere close to water to start a society, so areas around rivers often have a high population density.
Some places, such as cities, have very high population densities, so they are quite crowded. The population density of New York City is 10,292 persons per square kilometre. Other places, such as large countries, can have very low population densities. The population density of Canada is only 3.5 persons per square kilometre because it is such a big country.
The country with the highest population density in the world is Monaco, with 16,620 persons per square kilometre. The country with the lowest is Greenland, which has only 0.03 persons per square kilometre.

</doc>
<doc id="14619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14619" title="Joey">
Joey

Joey has the following meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="14621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14621" title="Saturday Night Fever">
Saturday Night Fever

Saturday Night Fever is a 1977 drama movie. It stars John Travolta as a 19 year old working-class Italian American man named Tony Manero. Manero lives with his parents and works in a dead-end job at a small hardware store. He tries to escape his problem-filled life in Brooklyn by dancing at a nightclub in New York City. The soundtrack (an album that has songs that were heard in the movie) of the movie includes music by the Bee Gees and many other artists. Both the album and movie were very popular. There are two versions of the movie: the original R-rated version and the PG-rated version which came out a year later so the movie could be popular with younger people. A sequel called "Staying Alive" was released in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="14622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14622" title="Greyhound">
Greyhound

A Greyhound is a dog breed that is skinny, has long legs, and runs faster than any other breed of dog. It is one of the oldest breeds of dogs. For centuries, people have raced them in some parts of the world. Greyhound racing is a bit like horse racing in many ways. In recent years, many Greyhounds have been mistreated or killed especially after they get too old to race, but many animal rights rescue groups try to stop that and to help them be adopted by people to keep as pets.

</doc>
<doc id="14623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14623" title="Grand unification theory">
Grand unification theory

Grand unification theory or GUT is a model that tries to describe the universe. It was formed by combining three forces - electromagnetic, weak and strong forces. These are three of the fundamental four forces of nature, which are responsible for all of the pushes and pulls in the universe. If gravity is also combined with these forces, then the GUT will become the proposed Theory of Everything.
Because GUT models have more dimensions than currently known, there has not been a single GUT. Particle accelerators, like the Large Hadron Collider have been built to test these GUTs indirectly, as it is too complex to observe effects on particles without them.
GUT was first proposed by researchers from CERN in the 1970s. The discovery of the Higgs Boson and other such recent discoveries will get scientists closer to knowing which GUT is correct, and ultimately know the Theory of Everything. This theory was given by Pakistani scientist Abdus Salam, who won a Noble Prize for it.

</doc>
<doc id="14624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14624" title="Factory">
Factory

A factory is a building where workers use machines to make things for sale. It usually means a building where companies use mass production to make different things. Many of the same thing are made in a short amount of time.
Factories during the industrial revolution had horrible working conditions.

</doc>
<doc id="14627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14627" title="United States Declaration of Independence">
United States Declaration of Independence

The United States Declaration of Independence is an important document in the history of the United States of America. It was ratified on July 4, 1776. It says that the Americans were no longer under British rule. Instead, the thirteen British colonies came together to become a new country.
Before 1776, the United States of America was not a country. The individual states were colonies of the British Empire. They were called British Colonies. This means that the King and Parliament of Great Britain ruled the Colonies.
During this time, many American people were angry at Great Britain. Many Americans did not like paying taxes to Great Britain when they did not have anyone to speak for them in Parliament. The American people wanted to be treated like British citizens. When they were not treated like citizens, they no longer felt loyal towards Great Britain. 
Responding to actions taken by Great Britain, including the Intolerable Acts, the different colonies formed a Continental Congress to make decisions for all of the colonies. They met in the American city of Philadelphia. During a meeting of the Second Continental Congress, on June 11, 1776, they chose five people to write a document that would become the Declaration of Independence. These people were:
Jefferson did most of the writing. In the Declaration, Jefferson starts by writing about people's rights, and what the government should and should not do. This part of the Declaration is called the Preamble. He then lists specific bad things that the British government did to the colonies. He says these included putting people in jail with no reason; making taxes that were too high; and not respecting people who lived in the colonies.
The Declaration then says that because of all the things that Britain had done to the colonies, the colonies would now be free, independent states.
On July 2, 1776, the Continental Congress argued about the Declaration and made some changes to it. After making changes, they approved the Declaration. They declared their independence from the British Empire that day, at the Pennsylvania State House. 
However, the Continental Congress did not officially approve the Declaration until July 4. On that day, twelve of the thirteen groups that represented the colonies approved and ordered the Declaration to be printed. (The Province of New York did not vote.) This version of the Declaration was signed only by the President of the Congress, John Hancock. 
On July 15, the New York group agreed with the rest of the colonies' groups. This meant that everyone in the Congress agreed on the Declaration.
On July 19, the Declaration's title was changed from "A Declaration of the Representatives of the United States of America in General Congress assembled" to "the unanimous declaration of the thirteen United States of America."
Overall, 56 men signed the Declaration. However, some people signed at different times. Many people signed a parchment paper copy of the Declaration on July 2. Many of these signers were not there when the original Declaration was adopted on July 4. One signer, Matthew Thornton, from the Province of New Hampshire, signed on November 4, 1776. 
The Declaration of Independence had many different effects. 
When the King of Great Britain, King George III, and Parliament heard about the Declaration, they were angry. Great Britain and the people in America had already been fighting in a war. This war is called the American Revolution. America won the war, and in 1783 Great Britain had to recognize the independence of the new country, the United States, at the Treaty of Paris.
The people of America know that the Declaration of Independence is very important. Every year on July 4, they have a holiday called 'Independence Day'. They celebrate this holiday to remember the day that the Declaration was approved, and the day that the United States of America became a its own country. They often celebrate with parades, fireworks, and songs.
The Declaration of Independence also talks about the simple ideas that the people who started the United States believed in. It says that every person in this U.S has the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It also says that the government has to listen to its own people. These things were what made America a free independent country.
The initial text says that a declaration of independence must be well-reasoned:
When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.
Basically, in Simple English, this means:
Sometimes in history, one country has to stop being connected to another country. It has to become separate and equal. This is a right that Nature and God give to every person. However, when this happens, the country should explain its reasons for separating from the other country.
The preamble of the declaration is the best-known part.
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. — That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, — That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security.
We think these truths are obvious: 
The Declaration of Independence is very old, but it still exists. The paper that Thomas Jefferson wrote on is now in the National Archives Museum near the National Mall in Washington, D.C.

</doc>
<doc id="14629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14629" title="Jordan">
Jordan

Jordan is a country in the Middle East. Its official name is "The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan".
Jordan has borders with the countries of Saudi Arabia, Israel, Syria and Iraq. It also has a very short coast on the Red Sea, and a longer coast along the Dead Sea.
Most of Jordan is desert and the country is very dry. The northwest of Jordan is its highest part, and its lowest part is the Dead Sea. This is the lowest place on the Earth that is open to the sky.
The capital of Jordan is Amman.
Jordan is divided into 12 Governorates. The governorates are divided into 54 departments or districts named Nahias.
People from Jordan are called Jordanians. Most of them speak Arabic as their first language. The population of Jordan is about 10.5 million people.
Jordan is a constitutional monarchy and has a king. The King is the head of state, but he does not have all the power in the country. King Abdullah II has been the King of Jordan since February 1999. Most Jordanians are Muslim. There are around 200-400 000 Christians.
Jordan's national meal is mansaf. The most popular sport is football.
Unlike some of the countries around it, Jordan has little petroleum and natural gas. Some of its economy comes from mining instead. Jordan is the largest producer of the mineral phosphate in the world.
The currency of Jordan is called the Jordanian dinar.

</doc>
<doc id="14653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14653" title="Prejudice">
Prejudice

When a person has prejudice, it means that they decide they like or dislike something without knowing much about it. The word comes from the Latin "pre" (before) and "judge".
The word "prejudice" is often used when people dislike another group of people that are different from them. They may decide they do not like them because of their skin colour (this is "racial prejudice"), religion (religious prejudice) or nationality. These are all serious prejudices which can lead to discrimination, hatred or even war.
Judges in a court of law should not be prejudiced when deciding whether someone is guilty. They should have an "open mind" so that they can make a fair decision. For example, if that person is the judge's friend then the judge would be prejudiced because he (or she) would not want his (or her) friend to get into trouble.
In many other situations it is important not to be prejudiced, such as serving as an adjudicator in a competition or a juror in a trial.

</doc>
<doc id="14655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14655" title="Inflation">
Inflation

Inflation means that the general level of prices is going up, the opposite of deflation. More money will need to be paid for goods (like a loaf of bread) and services (like getting a haircut at the hairdresser's). Economists measure inflation regularly to know an economy's state. Inflation changes the ratio of money towards goods or services; more money is needed to get the same amount of a good or service, or the same amount of money will get a lower amount of a good or service. Economists defined certain customer baskets to be able to measure inflation. There can be positive and negative effects of inflation. 
When the total money in an economy (the money supply) increases too rapidly, the quality of the money (the currency value) often decreases. Economists generally think that this money supply increase (monetary inflation) causes the goods/services price increase (price inflation) over a longer period. They disagree on causes over a shorter period.
The Demand-Pull inflation theory can be said simply as "too much money chasing too few goods." In other words, if the will of buying goods is growing faster than amount of goods that have been made, then prices will go up. This most likely happens in economies that are growing fast.
Whenever a product is bought or sold beyond its real price for its worth, then Inflation of money occurs.
The Cost-Push inflation theory says that when the cost of making goods (which are paid by the company) go up, they have to make prices higher to make profit out of selling that product. The higher costs of making goods can include things like workers' wages, taxes to be paid to the government or bigger costs of getting raw materials from other countries.
However, Austrian School economists think this is wrong, because if people have to pay higher prices, this just means they have less to spend on other things.
Almost everyone thinks excessive inflation is bad. Inflation affects different people in different ways. It also depends on whether inflation is expected or not. If the inflation rate is equal to what most people are expecting (anticipated inflation), then we can adjust and the cost is not as high. For example, banks can change their interest rates and workers can negotiate contracts that include automatic wage hikes as the price level goes up. 
Problems arise when there is unanticipated inflation:

</doc>
<doc id="14657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14657" title="Obsessive–compulsive disorder">
Obsessive–compulsive disorder

Obsessive–compulsive disorder (often shortened to OCD) is a mental disorder that causes repeated and unwanted thoughts and/or feelings (obsessions) and actions (compulsions). Anxiety is one of the most common symptoms and can lead the individual to believe that if a task is not completed, something bad may happen. Such a task may be washing hands five times. This belief leads to more anxiety and tension. The actions that someone takes to stop the thoughts and feelings can take more than an hour every day. OCD can limit one's ability to take part in relationships, the workplace, and in society in general. OCD affects around 1.2% of the world's population, and it affects the lives of around 15%. In the United States, about one in fifty adults has OCD.
Someone with obsessive-compulsive disorder has thoughts called obsessions. A thought that is an obsession will happen many times and is a thought that the person does not want to have. Different people will have different obsessive thoughts. Some people have obsessions about God, the Devil, or another religious figure hurting them or someone they love. Other people have obsessions about sex. They may think about things like kissing, having sex with, or touching people around them. People with OCD may worry that they will act on these thoughts.
Some people have obsessive-compulsive disorder without compulsions. This is called “primarily obsessional OCD”, or “pure-O”. It is thought that up to half of all people obsessive-compulsive disorder have primarily obsessional OCD. People with primarily obsessional OCD may have a third type of obsession is aggressive thoughts. People with aggressive thoughts may have obsessions about hurting or killing themselves or people around them. Instead of performing compulsions, people with primarily obsessional OCD may act out compulsions in their mind or avoid the things and places that cause the obsessions.
Many people with obsessive-compulsive disorder act in a certain way to stop the obsessive thought. These specific actions are known as compulsions. To someone with obsessive-compulsive disorder, doing these compulsions are a way to stop the obsessive thought. They may also think that doing the compulsion will stop something bad from happening to them or someone they care about.
Many compulsions are similar to body tics, and up to 40% of people with obsessive-compulsive disorder have a tic disorder. Some examples of compulsion include:
• Hand washing
• Cleaning themselves or things around them
• Doing something (like turning lights on and off) a certain number of times
• Putting objects in certain orders
• Counting to a certain number
• Checking that they did some action, usually checking a certain number of times
People with obsessive-compulsive disorder usually know that their compulsions do not make sense, but do them anyways to stop the feelings of panic or anxiety. People with obsessive-compulsive disorder may do their compulsions for hours every day. Their compulsions can also hurt them, such as compulsive hand washing making their hands red and cut.
The cause of obsessive-compulsive disorder is unknown. There is evidence that genes have a strong role in developing the disorder. If the disorder starts in childhood, it is more likely that other family members will have OCD than if the disorder starts in adulthood. It is thought that obsessive-compulsive disorder is the result of things humans did when they were evolving.
There are four DSM diagnostic criteria for obsessive-compulsive disorder:
1. The person has to have obsessions, compulsions, or both. The DSM defines obsessions as thoughts that happen multiple times that the person does not want. The person has to try to get rid of the thoughts. The DSM defines compulsions as actions done multiple times because of an obsession. These actions are done to reduce the stress caused by an obsession.
2. The obsessions or compulsions take a lot of time or cause lots of problems in the person’s life.
3. The symptoms are not caused by a drug or a different medical problem.
4. The problems are not closer to the problems caused other mental disorders such as an anxiety disorder or body dysmorphic disorder.
There is another mental disorder similar to obsessive-compulsive disorder called “obsessive-compulsive personality disorder” or OCPD. The difference between the two is that people with obsessive-compulsive disorder know that something is wrong and become stressed because of their obsessive thoughts. People with obsessive-compulsive personality disorder do not know that something is wrong, and they like their obsessions and compulsions.
Behavioral therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy are used to help people with obsessive-compulsive disorder. The therapy works by making people be in places where they have their obsessive thoughts. They are then made to not do their compulsion. Over time, the person becomes used to the place or things that causes them to have their obsessive thoughts. An example of this is someone who is afraid of dirt having dirt put on their hands without being able to wash it off.
The medicines that are usually used are called “selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors”, or SSRIs. These medicines work by stopping a chemical in the brain called serotonin from working. This causes the obsessive thoughts to happen less. In adults, SSRIs are used for people with moderate or severe issues. In children, SSRIs are used after or with therapy for people with severe issues.
If SSRIs do not work, it is possible for a doctor to give someone with obsessive-compulsive disorder anti-psychotic medicines. Doctors may use both medication and counseling for those with the disorder, and they find that this approach works best.
Surgery can be used to help people if other treatments do not work. In the United States, surgery is not done unless medicine and therapy have not worked multiple times. In the United Kingdom, surgery cannot be done unless cognitive behavioral therapy has not worked.
Therapy can be used to reduce the compulsions in children and young adults. Family involvement is very important in treating children. Family also gives the children positive reinforcement for children who do not follow their compulsive behaviors and find better ways to stop their obsessive thoughts.
In Europe from the 14th to 16th centuries, it was thought that people who had obsessive thoughts were possessed. They would treat these people by performing sometimes dangerous exorcisms to remove the Devil or evil spirit from the person. In the 1910s, a doctor named Sigmund Freud said that obsessive-compulsive disorder was because of fighting in someone’s head. He said that these fights start in childhood when someone gains a “touching phobia”, which fights with the natural want to touch things.
There are several movies and television shows that show people with obsessive-compulsive disorder. The movie “The Aviator” shows the life of Howard Hughes. Hughes was afraid of germs, and his obsessions and compulsions were about keeping germs away. English footballer David Beckham has talked about his obsessive-compulsive disorder. Television hosts Howie Mandel and Marc Summers have also talked about their obsessions and compulsions.

</doc>
<doc id="14701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14701" title="Industrial Revolution">
Industrial Revolution

The Industrial Revolution is the name historians have given to the period in history when there was a large and rapid change in the way things were made. This meant that instead of things being hand made in small workshops, they were made more cheaply in large quantities by machines in factories. Products being made in large quantity now meant that they were sold for less.
Many people began to move from an agricultural based life in the country to the towns where the factories offered more and better paid work.
The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain in the middle of the 18th century. In particular, the County of Shropshire was important, for it had both minerals (e.g. iron ore and coal) and transport on the River Severn. This led to the group of industries near the Ironbridge Gorge and the town of Coalbrookdale.
The revolution spread to Europe and the Americas, especially the United States, by the early 19th century. Samuel Slater, who had been an apprentice in an English cotton factory, disguised himself and came to America. He reconstructed a spinning machine from memory and built a factory of his own. 
New ideas and inventions were also taken up and used in mining, the working of metals, and in the transport of goods. Around the same time new ideas in farming were leaving some farm workers without jobs. They added to the move to the industrial towns where they sought out work in factories. 
The most important new invention of the industrial revolution was the steam engine. The steam engine, improved by James Watt around 1776 was used to power the factories and pump out the deeper mines. It was also used in railway engines. The heat from burning coal became the main source of power.
Historians still disagree on why the Industrial Revolution happened when it did, and why it happened in England first. It built on a new spirit of studying things through science. The 17th century began a period now called the Enlightenment during which people asked more questions about the way the world worked. England also was a politically stable country throughout the 1700s with no wars at home (although it had many abroad). England was also lucky that it had many of the raw materials needed to make and power the new machines within its borders. It also had an overseas empire that would buy the goods it made and provide it with a cheap source of other raw materials such as cotton and sugar. At the time of the industrial revolution slavery was practiced in many British Empire lands, this supplied a source for some of the money which could be spent on building the new industries. Also, England had much less land that could be farmed compared to other European countries.
Living standards rose and people generally became richer and healthier and had more children who survived to be adults instead of starving. The resulting population growth in England caused new problems. The environment was damaged. Where only a few people had been rich because they owned land, now a few more became very rich thanks to industry, and many lived in poor conditions. Children and women had to work for a long time for little pay. Often several families crowded into very small apartments. Working at different times, family members would take turns sleeping when they were not working. Families were usually unable to get together. 12, 14, or even 18-hour workdays were common. The Industrial Revolution brought problems of its own.
During the industrial revolution, new technology brought many changes. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="14712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14712" title="Botswana">
Botswana

Botswana (officially called Republic of Botswana) is a country in southern Africa. The capital of Botswana is Gaborone.
The countries next to Botswana are Zimbabwe, South Africa and Namibia. It is also possible to travel from Botswana directly into Zambia by crossing the Zambezi River by ferry.
Botswana is landlocked. All of Botswana's trade must be brought in over land, or by airplane.
The two most important geographical features in Botswana are the Okavango Delta and the Kalahari Desert.
People from Botswana are called "Batswana". The population of Botswana is about 1.8 million. This is only 2.7 persons per km², a small number for a country of this size. This is because most of the country is desert and very dry.
Botswana has two official languages. One is English. The other is a local language called "Setswana" (also called "Tswana").
Botswana is a democracy. The people vote for their political leaders. Those leaders vote for the president. The current president of Botswana is Ian Khama.
The economy of Botswana has been growing very fast since it became an independent country in 1966. The people of Botswana have had the world's fastest growth in standard of living since that time.
Botswana's economy comes mostly from mining. This includes diamonds, metals (including copper) and minerals (including salt). Botswana is the highest producer of diamonds by value in the world. In 1999, Botswana produced over 30 million carats (6,000 kg) of diamonds from the three Debswana mines. That is about 25% of worldwide production.
Tourism is also important to the country. Many people come to Botswana each year to see its wildlife.
The currency of Botswana is called the "pula" (which means rain). It is made up of 100 "thebe" (which means shield). One US dollar is about 6.8 Pulas.

</doc>
<doc id="14713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14713" title="Ferry">
Ferry

A ferry is a boat or ship that is used to take people, vehicles or goods across large bodies of water, such as seas, lakes and rivers. 
In many places around the world, ferries are very important for public transport. Some of these places can only be reached by ferry, because they have no roads or railways with bridges or tunnels that join them to nearby places, nor do they have any locations at which to land airplanes, whether it is an airport or only an airfield.
Sometimes the trip in a ferry is free, and sometimes it must be paid for. Many ferries also carry cars, some even have own rail tracks, allowing the ferry to carry trains on board.
The word 'ferry' can also mean 'to take someone or something by ferry'.
The Herald of Free Enterprise disaster, in which 193 people died near Zeebrugge in 1987, was one of the worst ferry accidents of recent times. It was caused by a crew member forgetting to close the bow doors of the ferry.

</doc>
<doc id="14718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14718" title="Rapa">
Rapa

Rapa or Oparo is an island in French Polynesia. It is sometimes called Rapa Iti to distinguish it from Rapa Nui (Easter Island).
The first European, who visited the island, was the captain George Vancouver. He visited the island in 1791. The island had an estimated population of about 2000 inhabitants. Four tribes inhabited the island. There were many tribal wars on the island. 
The Rapan people were converted to Christianity in 1826, when six embassadors were sent from Tahiti. Soon after that some slaves were brought to Rapa. It caused an epidemy and in 1867 the island's population had declined to about 120. Since late 1800s, the island's population has steadily grown. 
The main village of Rapa is Haurei. Nearly all inhabitants of Rapa are living in Haurei. The Bay of Haurei, which is on the western end of the island, is named after the village. The bay's original name was, however, "Oparo" or "Paro". Smaller villages include 'Area. 
Rapa's nearest inhabited neighbor island is more than five hundred kilometers away. Together with Marotiri and some smaller islets, Rapa forms the Bass Islands. Marotiri is 46 miles away from Rapa. 
To the southeast is the uninhabited islet Motu Tauturu. 
Many mountains are in Rapa. The highest of them is Mt. Perau (650 m). Rapa has a land area of forty km².
Rapa is 1240 kilometers away from Tahiti, the main island of French Polynesia. 
Most inhabitants of Rapa are Polynesians. Polynesians are believed to inhabit the island in about 1000 BC.
Rapa has a population of 521 inhabitants (1996). Most of them are fishermen. The most spoken language of the island is Rapan. Most children and youth can also speak French. 
Rapan is however an endangered language. It is sometimes considered to be a dialect of Tubuaian. 
The most common form of Rapan folk music is himene tarava. The band The Tahitian Choir is from Rapa and its songs are sung in the Rapan language.

</doc>
<doc id="14724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14724" title="Jo Whiley">
Jo Whiley

Johanne "Jo" Whiley (born 4 July, 1965 in Northampton) is an English radio DJ on BBC Radio 1, and television presenter. She had a weekday lunchtime show, called "The Jo Whiley Show" and later "The Lunchtime Social". When Simon Mayo left Radio 1 for Radio Five Live in February 2001, Whiley's show was moved to mid-morning.
In July 2009, Whiley published her autobiography, "My World in Motion", on CD from Random House Audiobooks.

</doc>
<doc id="14725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14725" title="Windows Vista">
Windows Vista

Windows Vista is the 6th version of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Microsoft. While it was being made, it was called Longhorn. On July 28, 2005, Microsoft gave out its real name, Windows Vista.
Microsoft had worked on Vista for more than five years, so it came with many new features, such as improved graphics, new built-in programs, and stronger defenses against computer viruses. However, Vista introduced many changes to the way the operating system worked, which caused some older programs to stop working.
Vista was released in November 2006 for system builders and January 30, 2007 for home users. The four main editions of Windows Vista are:
There are 2 special versions called Home Starter Edition, and Enterprise Edition. Home Starter is basically the same as XP Starter, and is for low budget countries. Vista needs at least 512 MB of RAM to run on all computers. Some new parts of Vista need 1 GB of RAM to work.
For stability and performance, more than 1 Gigabyte of main memory (RAM) is always helpful with a large operating system such as this.
Microsoft releases service packs to update software and fix problems.
Windows Vista Service Pack 1 (SP1) was released on February 4, 2008 alongside Windows Server 2008 to OEM partners, after a five-month beta test period. The first use of the service pack caused a number of machines to continually reboot, rendering the machines unusable. This caused Microsoft to temporarily suspend automatic deployment of the service pack until the problem was resolved. The same release date of the two operating systems showed the merging of the workstation and server kernels back into a single code base for the first time since Windows 2000. MSDN subscribers were able to download SP1 on February 15, 2008. SP1 became available to current Windows Vista users on Windows Update and the Download Center on March 18, 2008. Initially, the service pack only supported 5 languages - English, French, Spanish, German and Japanese. Support for the remaining 31 languages was released on April 14, 2008.
Service Pack 2 for Windows Vista was released to manufacturing on April 28, 2009, and released to Microsoft Download Center and Windows Update on May 26, 2009. In addition to a number of security and other fixes, a number of new features have been added. However, it did not include Internet Explorer 8.

</doc>
<doc id="14726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14726" title="The Gambia">
The Gambia

The Gambia is officially called the Republic of the Gambia. This country is also known as Gambia. It is a country in West Africa. It is surrounded by Senegal. It is the smallest country on mainland Africa.
The Geography of Gambia is unusual. It is a long, thin country. Except for its coastline it is completely surrounded by the country of Senegal. The River Gambia flows from Senegal through its centre and into the Atlantic Ocean.
The population of The Gambia is about 1.7 million. People from The Gambia are called Gambians. A number of people from different cultures and backgrounds live in The Gambia. Some of the largest groups are called "Mandinka", "Fula", and "Wolof".
English is the official language, but people speak other languages as well.
Most Gambians follow the religion of Islam.
The American writer Alex Haley, who wrote the book "Roots", found that his family came from The Gambia in the 1760s.

</doc>
<doc id="14739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14739" title="Londonderry">
Londonderry

Derry or Londonderry is the second largest city in Northern Ireland and is the fourth largest city on the island of Ireland. The population is 100,000. The city was founded in 542. It has old city walls which are still complete. The city is located near the border with the Republic of Ireland.
The city was originally called Doire (pronounced "duhruh") which is an Irish word for a group of oak trees. In English, this word became "Derry". After the Ulster Plantations, the London Companies gave money for the building of the Port and Walls in Derry, and the city name was changed to Londonderry.
In 1984 the city council changed the name of the local government area back to its original title of Derry. But the City's official title is still Londonderry.
People from the Republic of Ireland call the city "Derry. "Many people from Northern Ireland also prefer to call it "Derry. "Some people from Northern Ireland who want Northern Ireland to stay in the UK call the city "Londonderry". 

</doc>
<doc id="14740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14740" title="Point">
Point

Point can refer to:
In navigation:
Places:
In sports and games:

</doc>
<doc id="14781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14781" title="Federal Reserve">
Federal Reserve

The Federal Reserve (sometimes called "The Fed") is a large central bank in Washington, D.C. that was founded in 1913. It lends money to other, smaller banks. The "Federal Reserve Board" is a group of financial leaders who work for the Federal Reserve and decide how much to charge these banks for borrowing money (this charge is called an "interest rate"). The Federal Reserve interest rate is decided by the Federal Reserve Board after studying the condition of the US economy. 
When the economy is growing too fast, the Federal Reserve makes borrowing more expensive by increasing the interest rate, which means people and companies spend less, which discourages inflation. When economic growth slows, the interest rate is decreased so that borrowing will increase and there will be growth.

</doc>
<doc id="14787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14787" title="Trent Reznor">
Trent Reznor

Trent Reznor (born Michael Trent Reznor) (May 17, 1965) is an American singer and musician. He is the lead singer and only regular member of the band Nine Inch Nails (often called NIN.) He sings and plays most of the music himself. He also writes all of the lyrics.
Reznor started playing music when he learned the piano, which he started when he was five years old. He was so good he could maybe have become a pianist if he had wanted to. He also learned saxophone and tuba.
He joined his first band when he was in college, called Option 30. He moved to Cleveland, Ohio, USA in 1985 and joined a band called The Innocent where he played keyboard. In 1986 he joined another band, The Exotic Birds.
He got a job as a cleaner at a music recording studio called Right Track Studio which is now called Midtown Recording. He sometimes used the studio to record songs which later went on his first album "Pretty Hate Machine". When the studio heard how good he was, he quit his job as a cleaner and made the band Nine Inch Nails. Their albums since then have been "Broken" (1992), "The Downward Spiral" (1994), "The Fragile" (1999), "With Teeth" (2005), "Year Zero" (2007), "Ghosts I-IV" (2008), "The Slip" (2008), and" Hesitation Marks "(2013).

</doc>
<doc id="14788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14788" title="Oklahoma">
Oklahoma

Oklahoma () is a state that is in the southern part of the Central United States. It had a population of about 3,751,351 people in 2010. The state has a land area of about . Oklahoma is the 28th largest state by population and the 20th largest state by area. The name of the state comes from the Choctaw words "okla" and "humma". It means "Red People". It is also known by its nickname, "The Sooner State." The state was formed from Indian Territory on November 16, 1907. It was the 46th state to become part of the United States. The people who live in the state are known as "Oklahomans" or "Okies". The state's capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
In the past, Oklahoma was used as a path for cattle drives, a place for southern settlers, and a government-made territory for Native Americans.
The state is a large producer of natural gas, oil and food. It has large industries in aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology. The state has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation. Between 2005 and 2006, it had the third highest percentage of income growth and the highest percentage in gross domestic product growth. Oklahoma City and Tulsa are the main economic areas of Oklahoma. Almost 60 percent of Oklahomans live in these two metropolitan statistical areas. 
Oklahoma has small mountain ranges, prairies, and eastern forests. Most of Oklahoma is in the Great Plains. It is regularly hit by severe weather.
The cultural heritage of Oklahoma is made from by a population descending from many cultures. These include German, Irish, British and Native American people. There are more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma, more than in any other state. Many people in Oklahoma believe in evangelical Christianity. The state is part of the Bible Belt. Oklahoma is one of the most politically conservative states, but voter registration is largest for the Democratic Party.
Oklahoma has only been a state for a little over a century, but its history is much longer. Arrow heads from the Clovis culture, native Americans who traveled through Oklahoma have been found near the city Anadarko. These arrow heads are about 11,000 years old. The Spiro Mound Building Indians were the state's first permanent settlers. In 1541 the Spanish explorer Coranado traveled through Oklahoma while in search of the Lost City of Gold. During the 1830s, the Five Civilized Tribes were forced to move from the southeastern United States to Indian Territory (now Oklahoma) on the Trail of Tears. 
During the American Civil War (1861–1865), several Indian tribes sided with the Confederacy. The tribes owned slaves. They agreed with the ideas of the states that from the United States. Also, the tribes were not happy that the federal government did not do what it told them it would do. Not all the tribes sided with the Confederacy. Some tribes had taken control of several forts. This caused much of the Indian Territory to be under Confederate control, but Oklahoma did not become a Confederate state. The Battle of Honey Springs near Fort Gibson on July 17, 1863 was won by the Union forces. This ended the Confederate control of Indian Territory. 
On April 22, 1890, the western part of the state was opened to almost 50,000 settlers for the Oklahoma Land Run. During this land run Oklahoma got its nickname, "The Sooner State". The nickname came from the settlers who crossed the territory's borders before the land was opened by the government. A year later, the western part of the territory was turned into Oklahoma territory. The northeastern part, which was home to the Five Civilized Tribes, stayed under the control of the tribes. On November 16, 1907, the western and eastern territories joined together. They became the 46th state of the United States.
The newly formed state became an important place for the oil industry. The oil pools in the area caused the population of towns to grow very quickly. Tulsa became known as the "Oil Capital of the World" for most of the 20th century. The oil was a large part of the state's early economy. 
In 1927, Tulsa businessman Cyrus Avery, known as the "Father of Route 66", began a movement to make U.S. Route 66. Avery used section of highway that was already built between Tulsa and Amarillo, Texas to make the original portion of Highway 66. He was the main person responsible for making the U.S. Highway 66 Association to watch over the building of Route 66. 
During the 1930s, northwestern Oklahoma went through a period of time called the Dust Bowl. The area had little rainfall and high temperatures. This caused thousands of farmers to go into poverty and forced them to move to other parts of the United States. From 1930 to 1950, the state saw its only loss in population. It lost 6.9 percent of the people who lived there. Because of the Dust Bowl, the state made hundreds of reservoirs and man-made lakes. By the 1960s, more than 200 man-made lakes had been made. This is the most in the United States.
The song "Oklahoma!" was made the official song of the state in 1953. The song comes from the 1943 Broadway musical play "Oklahoma!". The story is set in Oklahoma Territory in 1906 just before Oklahoma became a state. 
On April 19, 1995, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City was bombed by Timothy McVeigh. 168 people were killed in the bombing. This was the worst terrorism attack in the United States before the World Trade Center attacks on September 11, 2001. McVeigh and his partner, Terry Nichols, were both convicted of the bombing. Some people think other people were involved. McVeigh was later sentenced to death and executed by lethal injection on June 11, 2001. His partner, Nichols, was convicted of 161 counts of first degree murder. Nichols is spending the rest of his life in prison without the chance of being released.
The name "Oklahoma" comes from the Choctaw phrase "okla" "humma". This means "red" ("humma") "people" ("okla"). Choctaw Chief Allen Wright gave it that name in 1866 during treaty talks with the federal government about the use of Indian Territory. He dreamed of an all-Indian state with power held by the United States Superintendent of Indian Affairs. "Okla humma" was a phrase in the Choctaw language that meant the same as the English word "Indian". It was used to describe the Native American people all together. "Oklahoma" later became the "de facto" name for Oklahoma Territory. It was officially accepted in 1890, two years after the area was opened to white settlers.
Oklahoma is the 20th-largest state in the United States. It covers an area of ( are land and are water). The state is shaped like a pan with a long, thin section on the west side. This section, known as the "Panhandle", is from west to east, and from north to south.
It is one of six states on the Frontier Strip. The state is partly in the Great Plains near the center of the 48 continental states. It shares borders with Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas.
The highest point in the state is the Black Mesa, in the Panhandle at . The lowest point is Little River east of Idabel in the southeast part of the state at above sea level. There are four mountain ranges in Oklahoma. They are the Ouachita, Arbuckle, Wichita and Kiamichi ranges. All of the ranges are in the southern part of the state. Forests make up about 24 percent of the state. The state is also known for having more man-made lakes than any other state in the country. These lakes cover more than with water.
By the start of the 21st century, conservative Republicans are the growing force in Oklahoma, but Democrats are still a major factor in statewide politics. In 2006, the incumbent Democrat governor won re-election by 66% over a former Republican Congressman. Despite the landslide victory for the Democrats, the Republicans gained two seats in the State Senate, making a 24 Democrat, 24 Republican tie in the senate, and increased their lead in the house of 57-44.
Oklahoma is in a temperate area of the country. The state sometimes sees extreme temperatures and rain that is commonly found in a continental climate. All of the state frequently has temperatures above or below . 
It snows in Oklahoma. In the northwest near the Colorado border, the area can get nearly in snowfall during the winter. The southeastern part of the state usually gets less than in snowfall. 
Most of the state is in an area known as Tornado Alley. This is because there is a lot of contact between cold and warm air masses which makes severe weather. Oklahoma has an average of 54 tornadoes each year. This is one of the highest rates in the world. The state is home to the National Storm Prediction Center of the National Weather Service, in Norman.
Oklahoma had 549 populated places in 2006. It had three cities over 100,000 in population and 40 over 10,000. Two of the fifty largest cities in the United States are in Oklahoma. They are Oklahoma City and Tulsa. More than half of Oklahomans (58%) live in the two cities. 
Oklahoma City is the state's capital and largest city. It had 1,269,907 people living inside its metropolitan area in 2008. Tulsa, the second largest city, had a metropolitan area population of 905,755.
Between 2005 and 2006, the Tulsa suburbs of Jenks, Bixby, and Owasso had the biggest population growth in the state. The population of Jenks grew by 47.9%, Bixby grew by 44.56%, and Owasso grew by 34.31%.
Oklahoma's largest cities in 2007 were: Oklahoma City (547,274), Tulsa (384,037), Norman (106,707), Lawton (91,568), Broken Arrow (90,714), Edmond (78,226), Midwest City (55,935), and Moore (51,106). Seven of the state's ten largest cities are in the metropolitan areas of Oklahoma City and Tulsa. Only Lawton has a metropolitan area of its own.
Oklahoma law says that populated areas are divided into two groups. Cities are areas with more than 1,000 people. Towns have fewer than 1,000 people. Both have legislative, judicial, and public power inside their populated areas. Cities can choose between a mayor-council, council-manager, or strong mayor form of government. Towns are run through an elected officer system.
Oklahoma has minor league sports teams in basketball, football, arena football, baseball, soccer, and ice hockey. These teams are in Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Enid and Lawton. Tulsa is home to the Tulsa 66ers. They are part the NBA Development League. The Tulsa Revolution, playing in the American Indoor Soccer League, is also in Tulsa. The NBA's New Orleans Hornets became the first major league sports team to play in Oklahoma. This happened after the team was forced to move to the Ford Center in Oklahoma City for two seasons after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. In July 2008, the Seattle SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City. They play their home games at the Ford Center under the new team name, Oklahoma City Thunder. They are the state's first permanent major league team.
Oklahoma's state symbols are recognized by state law. The Oklahoma Senate or House of Representatives may add others for special events and to help organizations.
State symbols:

</doc>
<doc id="14793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14793" title="Terry Jacks">
Terry Jacks

Terry Jacks (born March 29, 1944) is a Canadian musician. He was born and raised in Winnipeg. He is most famous for his song "Seasons in the Sun" which was a huge hit in 1974. He now works as an environmental activist.

</doc>
<doc id="14794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14794" title="Sark">
Sark

Sark is one of the Channel Islands. Around 600 people live on Sark. Sark also has its own language called "Sercquiais." Only 15 people speak it. No cars are allowed on Sark, anyone on the island that want to go somewhere must either walk, go on a bicycle, or go by horse and cart. It became a democracy in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="14798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14798" title="Robert Crumb">
Robert Crumb

Robert Crumb (born August 30, 1943) is a famous American cartoonist and musician. He founded the underground comics movement in the 1960s and early 1970s. He is most famous for the album cover for Big Brother and the Holding Company's "Cheap Thrills", the catchphrase "Keep on Truckin'" and "Fritz the Cat", which was made into a movie without his approval. He also collects 78 rpm phonograph records and plays the mandolin. He was the subject of an award-winning documentary movie made in 1994 called "Crumb".

</doc>
<doc id="14800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14800" title="Renée Zellweger">
Renée Zellweger

Renée Kathleen Zellweger (born April 25, 1969) is an American actress, producer and voice artist. She won an Academy Award for her role in the movie "Cold Mountain". She has acted in many movies, including "Jerry Maguire", "Bridget Jones's Diary", "Chicago" and "Cinderella Man".
Zellweger was born in Katy, Texas. Her father, Emil Erich Zellweger, is from a small town in the canton of St. Gallen, Switzerland, and is a mechanical and electrical engineer who worked in the oil refining business. Her mother, Kjellfrid Irene (née Andreassen), a native of Norway, is of Norwegian, Finnish, Swedish, and possible Sami, ancestry. Kjellfrid grew up in Kirkenes and Ekkerøy, and is a nurse and midwife who moved to the United States to work as a governess for a Norwegian family in Texas. Zellweger has described herself as being raised in a family of "lazy Catholics and Episcopalians". 
Zellweger took acting classes because she wanted to make certain she graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a literature degree.
Zellweger appeared in many television shows, for example "A Taste for Killing" and "Shake, Rattle and Rock". Her first part in a movie was in "Dazed and Confused" followed by Ben Stiller’s "Reality Bites". 

</doc>
<doc id="14801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14801" title="Meryl Streep">
Meryl Streep

Meryl Streep (born Mary Louise Streep; June 22, 1949) is an American actress. She has appeared in many movies, including "Falling in Love", "The Bridges of Madison County", and "The House of Spirits". She was born in New Jersey. Streep is considered one of the best actresses of her time. She has won three Academy Awards and has been nominated for seventeen in total. President Barack Obama awarded her the 2010 National Medal of Arts.
Streep was born in Summit, New Jersey. Her mother, Mary Wolf (née Wilkinson; 1915–2001), was a commercial artist and an art editor, and her father, Harry William Streep, Jr. (1910–2003), was a pharmaceutical executive. She has two brothers, Dana David and Harry William III. Her patrilineal ancestry traces back to Loffenau, Germany, from where her second great-grandfather, Gottfried Streep, emigrated to the United States, and where one of her ancestors served as mayor. Another line of her father's family was from Giswil in the canton of Obwalden, a small town in Switzerland. Her mother had English, German, and Irish ancestry. Some of Streep's maternal ancestors lived in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, and were descended from 17th century immigrants from England. Her eighth great-grandfather, Lawrence Wilkinson, was one of the first Europeans to settle Rhode Island. Streep is also a distant relative of William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania, and records show that her family is among the first purchasers of land in the state. One of Streep's maternal great-grandmothers, Grace Strain, was from Creeslough, County Donegal, Ireland.
Streep is married to Don Gummer since September 30, 1978. They have four children, son Henry Wolf Gummer (born November 13, 1979) and daughters Mary Willa Gummer (born August 3, 1983), Grace Jane Gummer (born May 9, 1986), and Louisa Jacobson Gummer (born June 12, 1991).

</doc>
<doc id="14805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14805" title="Bench">
Bench

A bench is a kind of chair, a place where people can sit. Benches are long and often found outside, and more than one person can sit on them. Benches are usually made of wood, metal, stone, and other synthetic things. Many benches have no back. 

</doc>
<doc id="14807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14807" title="List of national anthems">
List of national anthems

This is a list of national anthems.
This list shows the country on the left, the national anthem in the middle, and the meaning in English on the right. The names of states that do not exist anymore, or that are not independent nations, or the names of state organisations are "italicized".

</doc>
<doc id="14808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14808" title="Celsius">
Celsius

Celsius (more precisely, a degree Celsius), sometimes called centigrade, is a unit of measurement used in many countries to measure temperature. This unit was created by Anders Celsius (1701–1744), a Swedish astronomer.
0 degrees (°) Celsius is the melting point of pure water at sea level ("normal pressure"). 
100° Celsius is the boiling point of water at normal pressure. (Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes).
1 °C is therefore one hundredth (the 100th part) of that difference.
Since 1948, this unit has been called "Celsius". "Centigrade" was the name of the unit before the change. "Centi" meaning 1/100, and "grade" being a scale.
The other commonly used measurement of temperature is the Fahrenheit scale. The Celsius scale, based on multiples of ten, is used with SI, or metric measurements.
In 1742, "Anders Celsius" (1701–1744) made a “reversed” version of the modern Celsius temperature scale. In this scale, zero was the boiling point of water and 100 was the melting point of ice. In his paper "Observations of two persistent degrees on a thermometer," he wrote about his experiments. He showed that the melting point of ice was basically unaffected by air pressure. Ice would turn into water at the same temperature, whether it was at sea level or on a mountain. This was not the case for the boiling point of water. It would boil easier with less pressure (on a mountain). He decided that zero on his temperature scale (water’s boiling point) would be set at the standard barometric pressure at sea level. This pressure is known as one atmosphere. In 1954, Resolution 4 of the 10th CGPM (the General Conference on Weights and Measures) set what exactly is one standard atmosphere (101.325 kPa).
In 1744, the year Anders Celsius died, the famous Swedish botanist Carolus Linnaeus (1707–1778) used a reversed version of Celsius's scale when he bought his first thermometer. This had a scale where zero represented the melting point of ice and 100 represented water’s boiling point, like we use it today. His custom-made “linnaeus-thermometer,” to use in his greenhouses, was made by Daniel Ekström, then Sweden’s leading maker of scientific instruments. Ekstöm's workshop was in the basement of the Stockholm observatory. As often happened in this age before modern communications, many physicists, scientists, and instrument makers are given credit with independently making the same measurement scale; among them were Pehr Elvius, the secretary of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (which had an instrument workshop), who Linnaeus had also talked to; Christin of Lyons; Daniel Ekström, the instrument maker; and Mårten Strömer (1707–1770) who had studied astronomy under Anders Celsius.
The first known document reporting temperatures in this modern “forward” Celsius scale is the paper "Hortus Upsaliensis" dated 16 December 1745 that Linnaeus wrote to a student of his, Samuel Nauclér. In it, Linnaeus reported the temperatures inside the orangery at the Botanical Garden of Uppsala University:
For the next 204 years, the scientific and thermometry communities worldwide called this scale the “centigrade scale.” Temperatures on the centigrade scale were often reported as “degrees” or “degrees centigrade.” The symbol for temperature values on this scale was °C (in several formats over the years). Because the name “centigrade” was also the Spanish and French language name for a unit of angular measurement (one-hundredth of a right angle) and had a similar meaning in other languages, the term “centesimal degree” was used when very precise, clear language was required for international communication, such as by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM). The 9th CGPM (General Conference on Weights and Measures) and the CIPM (International Committee for Weights and Measures) officially decided to use “degree Celsius” (symbol: °C) in 1948.
There were three reasons for the decision in 1948 to use the word "Celsius":
It would take nearly two decades however, for school textbooks to change from "centigrade" to "Celsius", and many people today still use the old name.

</doc>
<doc id="14811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14811" title="Fahrenheit">
Fahrenheit

Fahrenheit (more precisely, a degree Fahrenheit) is a unit of measurement used to measure temperature. The conversion rate to Celsius is C= 5/9 x (F − 32). The degree Fahrenheit is abbreviated °F.
This temperature scale was made in 1724 by a German scientist named Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit. In the twentieth century, the unit declined in favour for the degree Celsius. It is still used often in the United States. In the United Kingdom, Fahrenheit is encountered on some websites, as well as some weather forecasts; the main reason for this is because some of the older population are more familiar with Fahrenheit.
The use of the degree Fahrenheit is in decline throughout the majority of the world with the USA being the main exception.
The degree Fahrenheit is often considered to be "old fashioned" throughout the majority of the world as it is an older and outdated way of measuring temperature. The degree Celsius has largely replaced Fahrenheit's use as it is generally easier to use.
On the Fahrenheit scale, water freezes at 32° and boils at 212°.

</doc>
<doc id="14815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14815" title="Agent">
Agent

An agent is a person who acts on behalf of another person, or a representative of an agency.
Agent can also mean:
In science:
In fiction:

</doc>
<doc id="14816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14816" title="Anthrax">
Anthrax

Anthrax, or splenic fever is a disease. Both humans and other animals can get it. It is caused by the bacterium bacillus anthracis. It is common with even-toed ungulates (some hoofed creatures, like camels and giraffes). The spores of the bacteria can live for hundreds of years. Humans usually catch the disease from animals. It is usually not passed from one human to another. Anthrax can be treated with antibiotics. There is also a vaccine against it. If not treated, anthrax often leads to death. 
There are 89 different kinds (strains) of anthrax. One of them, the Ames strain, was used against the United States in 2001 as a biological weapon.
On April 2, 1979, there was a leak at one of the plants just outside of Sverdlovsk that made anthrax during the Cold War. 94 people were infected and 64 of those people died. The USSR blamed the deaths on another strain of anthrax that the people caught by digesting infected meat. However, later it was revealed that the outbreak was caused by an accidental release of the bacteria from a nearby plant which developed biological weapons for the USSR. 
In September 2001, several letters containing anthrax were mailed to several USA media companies and senators. The attacks were linked to the September 11 attacks which occurred a few days before the start of the attack. 
There were many cases of fake powder being found in envelopes.

</doc>
<doc id="14820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14820" title="Napoleon">
Napoleon

Napoleon Bonaparte (French: "Napoléon Bonaparte", Italian: "Napoleone di Buonaparte"; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821) was a military and political leader of France. He was also "Emperor of the French" as Napoleon I. His actions shaped European politics in the early 19th century.
Bonaparte was born in Corsica. His parents were of noble Italian birth. He trained as an officer in mainland France. Napoleon became important under the First French Republic. He led successful campaigns against Coalitions of enemies of the Revolution. In 1799, he staged a "coup d'état" to make himself First Consul. Five years later the French Senate declared him Emperor. In the first ten years of the nineteenth century, the French Empire under Napoleon waged the Napoleonic Wars. Every European great power joined in these wars. After a number of victories, France became very important in continental Europe. Napoleon increased his power by making many alliances. He also made his friends and family members rule other European countries as French client states.
The French invasion of Russia in 1812 became Napoleon's first big defeat. His army was badly damaged and never fully recovered. In 1813, another Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig. The year after that, they attacked France. The Coalition exiled Napoleon to the island of Elba. Less than a year later, he escaped Elba and briefly became powerful again. However, he was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815. Napoleon spent the last six years of his life confined by the British on the island of Saint Helena. A doctor said he died of stomach cancer but some scientists think he was poisoned. 
Napoleon's campaigns are studied at military schools all over the world. He is remembered as a tyrant by his enemies. However, he is also remembered for creating the Napoleonic code.
Napoleon Bonaparte was born in Casa Buonaparte in the town of Ajaccio, Corsica, on 15 August 1769. This was one year after the island was given to France by the Republic of Genoa. He was the second of eight children. He was named "Napoleone di Buonaparte". He took his first name from an uncle who had been killed fighting the French. However, he later used the more French-sounding "Napoléon Bonaparte".
The Corsican Buonapartes were from lower Italian nobility. They had come to Corsica in the 16th century. His father "Nobile" Carlo Buonaparte became Corsica's representative to the court of Louis XVI in 1777. The greatest influence of Napoleon's childhood was his mother, Maria Letizia Ramolino. Her firm education controlled a wild child. He had an older brother, Joseph. He also had younger siblings Lucien, Elisa, Louis, Pauline, Caroline and Jérôme. Napoleon was baptized as a Catholic just before his second birthday, on 21 July 1771 at Ajaccio Cathedral.
Napoleon was able to enter the military academy at Brienne in 1779. He was nine years old when he entered the academy. He moved to the Parisian École Royale Militaire in 1784 and graduated a year later as a second lieutenant of artillery. Napoleon was able to spend much of the next eight years in Corsica. There he played an active part in political and military matters. He came into conflict with the Corsican nationalist Pasquale Paoli, and his family was forced to flee to Marseille in 1793.
The French Revolution caused much fighting and disorder in France. At times, Napoleon was connected to those in power. Other times, he was in jail. He helped the French Republic to fight against royalists who supported the former king of France. In September 1793, he assumed command of an artillery brigade at the siege of Toulon, where royalist leaders had welcomed a British fleet and enemy troops. The British were driven out in December 17, 1793, and Bonaparte was rewarded with promotion to brigadier general and assigned to the French army in Italy in February 1794.
General Napoleon Bonaparte was later appointed by the republic to repel the royalists on October 5 1795. More than a 1400 royalists died and the rest fled. He had cleared the streets with "a whiff of grapeshot" according to the 19th-century historian Thomas Carlyle. He was then promoted to major general and marked his name on the French Revolution. 
The defeat of the Royalist rebellions ended the threat to the Convention and earned Bonaparte sudden fame, wealth, and the patronage of the new Directory. In March 9, 1796, Napoleon married Josephine de Beauharnais, a widow older than he was and a very unlikely wife to the future ruler.
The campaign in Italy is the first time Napoleon led France to war. Late in March 1796, Bonaparte begins a series of operations to divide and defeat the Austrian and Sardinian armies in Italy. He defeated the Sardinians in April 21, adding Savoy and Nice to territories of France. Then, in a series of brilliant battles, he won Lombardy from the Austrians. Mantua, the last Lombard stronghold fell in February 1797.
In May 1798, General Napoleon left for a campaign in Egypt. The French needed to threaten British India and the French Directory was concerned that Napoleon would take control of France. The French Army under Napoleon won an overwhelming victory in the Battle of Pyramids. Barely 300 French soldiers died, while thousand of Mamluks (an old power in the Middle East) were killed. But his army was weakened by bubonic plague and poor supplies because the Navy was defeated at the Battle of the Nile. The Egyptian campaign was a military failure but a cultural success. The Rosetta Stone was found by French engineer Captain Pierre-François Bouchard, and French scholar Jean-François Champollion was able to read the words in the stone. Napoleon went back to France because of a change in the French government. Some believe that Napoleon should not have left his soldiers in Egypt. Napoleon helped lead the Brumaire coup d'etat of November 1799.
Bonaparte returned to Paris in October 1799. France's situation had been improved by a series of victories but the Republic was bankrupt, and the ineffective Directory was unpopular with the French population. He was approached by one of the Directors, Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès, for his support in a coup to overthrow the constitutional government. The leaders of the plot included his brother Lucien Bonaparte (the speaker of the Council of Five Hundred), Roger Ducos, another Director, Joseph Fouché, and Charles Maurice Talleyrand. Other deputies realised they faced an attempted coup. Faced with their protests, Bonaparte led troops to seize control and disperse them, which left a rump legislature to name Bonaparte, Sièyes, and Ducos as the three provisional Consuls to administer the government.
Sieyès expected to dominate the new regime, but he was outmaneuvered by Bonaparte. Napoleon drafted the Constitution of the Year VIII, and secured his own election as First Consul. This made Bonaparte the most powerful person in France, and he took up residence at the Tuileries.
In 1800, Napoleon ensured his power by crossing the Alps and defeating the Austrians at Marengo. He then negotiated a general European peace that established the Rhine River as the eastern border of France. He also concluded an agreement with the pope (the Concordat of 1801), which contributed to French domestic tranquility by ending the quarrel with the Roman Catholic Church that had arisen during the French Revolution. 
In France the administration was reorganized, the court system was simplified, and all schools were put under centralized control. French law was standardized in the Napoleonic Code, or civil code, and six other codes. They guaranteed the rights and liberties won in the Revolution, including equality before the law and freedom of religion.
In February 1804, a British-financial plot against Bonaparte was uncovered by the former police minister Joseph Fouche. It gave Napoleon a reason to start a hereditary dynasty. On December 2, 1804, Napoleon Bonaparte crowned himself "Emperor of the French" . People of France did not see him as the monarch of the old regime because of his holding a Roman Empire title. He invited Pope Pius VII to see his coronation at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. During the ceremony, Napoleon I took the crown from the pope's hand and placed it on his own head. This had been agreed on between Napoleon and the Pope. At Milan Cathedral on May 26 1805, Napoleon was crowned King of Italy with the Iron Crown of Lombardy.
To restore prosperity, Napoleon modernized finance. He regulated the economy to control prices, encouraged new industry, and built roads and canals. To ensure well-trained officials and military officers, he promoted a system of public schools under firm government control. He also repealed some social reforms of the revolution. He made peace with the Catholic Church in the Concordat of 1801. The Concordat kept the Church under state control but recognized religious freedom for Catholics.
Napoleon I won support across class lines. He encourage the émigré population to return, provided they gave an oath of loyalty. Peasants were relieved when he recognized their right to lands they had bought during the revolution. Napoleon's chief opposition came from royalists and republicans.
Among Napoleon's most lasting reforms was a new law code, popularly called the Napoleonic Code. It embodied Enlightenment principles such as equality of all citizens before the law, religious toleration, and advancement based on virtue. But the Napoleonic Code undid some reforms of the French Revolution. Women, for example, lost most of their newly gained rights under the new code. the law considered women minors who could not exercise the rights of citizenship. Male heads of households regained full authority over their wives and children. Again, Napoleon valued order and authority over individual rights.
Emperor Napoleon abandoned plans to invade England and turned his armies against the Austro-Russian forces, defeating them at the Battle of Austerlitz on December 2, 1805. In 1806 Napoleon destroyed the Prussian army at Jena and Auerstädt and the Russian army at Friedland. He crowned his elder brother Joseph Bonaparte as King of Naples and Sicily in 1806 and converted the Dutch Republic into the kingdom of Holland for his brother Louis. Napoleon also established the Confederation of the Rhine (most of the German states) of which he was protector.
To legitimize his rule, he divorced his wife Joséphine and married Marie Louise, duchess of Parma and daughter of the Emperor Francis I of Austria. Soon she delivered a son and heir to the Bonaparte Dynasty. He was named Napoléon François Joseph Charles Bonaparte or Napoleon II and crowned King of Rome from his birth.
At Tilsit in July 1807, Napoleon made an ally of Russian tsar Alexander Romanov and greatly reduced the size of Prussia. He also added new states to the empire: the kingdom of Westphalia, under his youngest brother Jerome, the duchy of Warsaw, and others states.
The Congress of Erfurt sought to preserve the Russo-French alliance and the leaders had a friendly personal relationship after their first meeting at Tilsit in 1807. But the relationship is short-lived, in June 23, 1812, Napoleon went to war with Russia. They defeated many Russian cities and villages, but by the time they reached Moscow it was winter.Due to the Russian army's scorched earth tactics, the French found it increasingly difficult to forage food for themselves and their horses. Napoleon's army was unable to defeat the Russians. The Russians began to attack. Napoleon and his army had to go back to France. The French suffered greatly in the course of Napoleon's retreat. He withdrew back into France, his army reduced to 70,000 soldiers and 40,000 stragglers, against more than three times as many Allied troops. Finally at the Battle of Waterloo, he was defeated by the Allies: Britain, Russia, Austria, and Prussia.
Napoleon had no choice but to abdicate in favor of his son. However, the Allies refused to accept this. Napoleon abdicated without conditions on April 11, 1814. Before his official abdication, Napoleon attempted suicide with a pill but it did not work. In the Treaty of Fontainebleau the victors exiled him to Elba, an island of 12,000 inhabitants in the Mediterranean. The Allies allowed Napoleon to keep an imperial title "Emperor of Elba" and an allowance of 2 million francs a year. Napoleon even requested a 21 gun salute as emperor of the island of Elba. Many delegates feared that Elba was too close to Europe to keep such a dangerous force.
Separated from his son and wife, who had come under Austrian control, cut off from the allowance guaranteed to him by the Treaty of Fontainebleau, and aware of rumours he was about to be banished to a remote island in the Atlantic Ocean, Napoleon escaped from Elba on February 26 1815. He made a surprise march on March 1, 1815 to Paris. His former troops joined him and Louis XVIII fled to exile. He again became ruler of France for a length of 100 days. Napoleon was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo by the British under Duke of Wellington and Prussians on June 18 1815, which was his last battle. Napoleon was again captured and taken to his second exile on the island of Saint Helena on the Atlantic Ocean.
Napoleon was sent to the island of Saint Helena, off the coast of Africa. He died on May 5 1821 of stomach cancer. Napoleon kept himself up to date of the events through The Times and hoped for release in the event that Holland became Prime Minister.There were other plots to rescue Napoleon from captivity including one from Texas, where exiled soldiers from the Grande Armée wanted a resurrection of the Napoleonic Empire in America. There was even a plan to rescue him with a primitive submarine. For Lord Byron, Napoleon was the epitome of the Romantic hero, the persecuted, lonely and flawed genius. The news that Napoleon had taken up gardening at Longwood also appealed to more domestic British sensibilities.
French people remain proud of Napoleon's glory days. The Napoleonic Code reflects the modern French Constitution. Weapons and other kinds of military technology remained largely static through the Revolutionary and Napoleonic eras, but 18th century operational mobility underwent significant change. Napoleon's biggest influence was in the conduct of warfare. His popularity would later help his nephew Louis-Napoléon to become ruler of France 
On the world stage, Napoleon's conquest spread the ideas of the revolution. He failed to make Europe into a French Empire. Instead, he sparked nationalist feeling across Europe.
“The surest way to remain poor is to be honest““Ability is of little account without opportunity.”“I can no longer obey; I have tasted command, and I cannot give it up.”“Women are nothing but machines for producing children.”“If you wish to be a success in the world, promise everything, deliver nothing.”“In politics... never retreat, never retract... never admit a mistake.”“He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.”“Soldiers generally win battles; generals get credit for them.”“The best cure for the body is a quiet mind.”“What is history but a fable agreed upon?”"A picture is worth a thousand words."
<div class="references-small" style="-moz-column-count:2; column-count:2;">

</doc>
<doc id="14823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14823" title="Wetzlar">
Wetzlar

Wetzlar is a city at the river Lahn in Hesse in Germany. The number of people in the city is about 53,000.
Wetzlar is near Frankfurt.
Wetzlar is famous for the historic Oldtown and for Goethe.
The camera maker Leica is there.
Wetzlar has a connection to the Autobahn 45 with three junctions.
Wetzlar is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="14825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14825" title="Andy Warhol">
Andy Warhol

Andy Warhol (Andrew Warhola, Jr.; August 6, 1928 – February 22, 1987) was one of the most famous American artists of the latter half of the 20th century. Many people think that Warhol is the "bellwether of the art market".
Warhol was born Andrew Warhola, Jr. in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on August 6, 1928. He graduated from the Carnegie Institute of Technology before moving to New York. His first big break was in August 1949 when he was asked to illustrate an article in Glamour Magazine. He dropped the 'a' from the end of his name when the credits read "Drawings by Andrew Warhol". Warhol was also famous for painting Campbells' and Watties' soup cans. He painted about 300 different paintings. . He originally worked as a commercial artist. He designed things like advertisements and window displays for stores. He soon became famous as an artist in the Pop Art movement, in which everyday objects and media images were used. One of his most famous paintings is his colourful portrait of American movie star, Marilyn Monroe. After she died he was deeply moved, and wanted to create some sort of memorial. 
In 1968, Warhol was shot by Valerie Solanas.
In 1987, Warhol was in a hospital in New York City after an operation on his gallbladder. He died in his sleep from a sudden post-operative cardiac arrhythmia, aged 58. His family sued the hospital for inadequate care, saying that the arrhythmia was caused by improper care and water poisoning.

</doc>
<doc id="14827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14827" title="Romulus and Remus">
Romulus and Remus

Romulus and Remus were the legendary founders of Rome. In Roman mythology they were twin brothers, sons of Rhea Silvia and the god Mars.
Rhea Silvia was the daughter of Numitor Silvius, king of Alba Longa, a legendary town founded by Ascanius, son of Aeneas, prince of Troy. When Numitor's brother Amulius became king by force, he made Rhea Silvia a Vestal Virgin, so she would not have children who could be kings instead of him. But the god Mars seduced her and she had the twins Romulus and Remus. Rhea Silvia was punished, and her sons were thrown into the Tiber, but were saved by the river god Tiberinus, who also saved Rhea Silvia and married her. Romulus and Remus were found by a wolf who suckled them. A woodpecker fed them. The brothers were later found by a shepherd, Faustulus, who raised them.
Once they were grown, Romulus and Remus founded the city of Rome. However, the twins had an argument about where to start Rome. Romulus favored the Palatine Hill, but Remus favored the Aventine Hill. They decided to settle the disagreement by asking the gods. Each brother stood on his respective hill. Remus saw six birds fly overhead, and Romulus saw twelve. However, Remus countered that he had seen the birds first. Nonetheless, Romulus started to build a wall around his city. Then, Remus jumped over the wall as an insult to his brother. Angered, Romulus killed Remus. He regretted it, and took Remus to Amulius's palace, and buried him there.

</doc>
<doc id="14829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14829" title="Confucianism">
Confucianism

Confucianism is the philosophy based on the teachings of Confucius (551 BC - 479 BC), who was an important Chinese philosopher. Confucianism has a complex system of moral, social, political, and religious thought, and has had a large influence on the history of Chinese civilization. However, there remains some controversy over whether or not it should be considered a religion.
Confucianism was made to stop the fall of Chinese society. After the Zhou Dynasty fell, people cared only for themselves and did not have any respect for others. Confucianism became a social order for China, teaching that social relationships are the most important. People slowly started to believe in it, because they wanted to have peace, but they had to care for themselves too. As a result, Confucianism brought the people love, harmony, and respect for one another. 
Confucianism was started in Ch'u-fu, Confucius's birthplace. Today, Confucianism is spread all the way around the world, but is still more pronounced in China.
The teachings of Confucius focus largely on the respect of one's parents, elders, and ancestors. Also, he taught that humans 'can never stop learning'; meaning that knowledge is infinite, therefore we will always learn, never stopping. For example, he once asked a seven-year-old child to be his teacher, because the child knew something that he did not. 

</doc>
<doc id="14835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14835" title="Lead">
Lead

Lead (pronounce: "lehd") is a chemical element. Its chemical symbol is Pb, which comes from "plumbum", the Latin word for lead. Its atomic number is 82, atomic mass is 207.2 and has a melting point of 327.8°C. It is a very poisonous and heavy metal.
Lead is a shiny, gray-blue poor metal. It gets tarnished easily to a dull gray color. It is soft and malleable. It is very shiny when it is melted. It is very heavy. It is very corrosion-resistant. It is made stronger by adding antimony or calcium. It can form an alloy with sodium. It is toxic to people and animals when swallowed.
Lead burns in air with a grayish-white flame, making toxic fumes of lead(II) oxide. Only the surface is corroded by air. It dissolves in nitric acid to make lead(II) nitrate. It does not dissolve in sulfuric or hydrochloric acid. It reacts with sodium nitrate to make lead(II) oxide and sodium nitrite. It reacts with chlorine to make lead(II) chloride. Lead(II) oxide reacts with lead sulfide to make lead metal and sulfur dioxide.
Lead makes chemical compounds in two main oxidation states: +2 and +4. +2 compounds, also known as lead(II) compounds or plumbous compounds, are weak oxidizing agents. +4 compounds, also known as lead(IV) compounds or plumbic compounds, are strong oxidizing agents. Lead compounds are toxic just like the element. The lead halides do not dissolve in water. Lead(IV) oxide is the most common lead(IV) compound. It is a black solid. The lead oxides are all colored, while the other salts are white or colorless. Lead nitrate and lead(II) acetate are the soluble compounds of lead.
This state is more common than the +4 state. These are weak oxidizing agents. All but the oxides are colorless or white.
Mixed oxidation state compounds contain lead in the +2 and +4 oxidation state.
These are less common. They are strong oxidizing agents. 
Lead is found very rarely in the earth's crust as a metal. Normally, lead is in the mineral galena. Galena is lead sulfide. Galena is the main lead ore.
Lead was used for thousands of years because it is easy to get from the ground and easy to shape and work with. The Romans used lead very commonly. They used it for pipes, drinking vessels, and fasteners.
Lead is made from galena. Galena is made pure by froth flotation to get all the impurities out. Then the lead sulfide is roasted in a furnace to make lead(II) oxide. The lead(II) oxide is heated with coke to make liquid lead metal.
Lead is used in the ballast of sailboats. It is also used in weight belts for scuba diving. It is also used to make shotgun pellets and bullets for small arms. Some printing presses use lead type because it can be easily shaped. It can be used outside because it does not corrode in water. 
Most lead is used in lead acid batteries, though. The lead is oxidized, making electricity. Sheets of lead are used to block sound in some places. Lead is used in radiation shielding. Molten lead can be used as a coolant in nuclear reactors. It used to be mixed with tin to make the pipes in pipe organs. Different amounts of lead make different sounds. In addition, lead has found its usage in solder.
It is used in some solder. It is used in covering for wires that carry high voltage. Some tennis rackets have lead in them to make them heavier. It is used to balance wheels of cars, to make statues, and to make decorative looks in buildings.
Many lead compounds are used to make colored glazes in ceramics. Lead can be used in PVC pipes. Lead compounds are added to candles to make them burn better. Lead glass has lead(II) oxide in it. Lead compounds are still used as pigments in some places. Lead compounds were added to gasoline, but are now outlawed. Some lead compounds are semiconductors and are used in photodetectors. 
Lead was used in many red, yellow, and white pigments in paints. Lead was also used in pesticides. Lead used to be used in pipes carrying water, but now it is not because lead can leach into the water.
Although it can be safely touched, exposure to lead should be avoided – it is very toxic to humans and other animals when swallowed, and its use is restricted in many countries. 
If someone is exposed to lead for a long time, it ruins their kidneys and gives them abdominal pains. Lead also ruins the nervous system. Lead paint was being eaten by children and they were getting lead poisoning.
The best way to understand lead and its properties is to read its MSDS.

</doc>
<doc id="14840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14840" title="Bell">
Bell

A bell is a simple musical instrument. Most bells are made of metal. Bells are also in churches to announce the time between hours. Ships usually carry a ship's bell. Some bells are in bell towers.

</doc>
<doc id="14841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14841" title="Transformers (toy line)">
Transformers (toy line)

Transformers are robots that turn into other things. Usually they turn into vehicles, like cars or jets.
Transformers started in 1984 as a toy line, but then an animated series and a comic book were made. In 1986 a movie came out. In 2002 a new series and story line called Transformers Armada came out. this was followed by two more shows, Energon and Cybertron.
Transformers is about different things sometimes. Usually it is about the heroic Autobots fighting the evil Decepticons. The Autobots are usually led by Optimus Prime. The Decepticons are led by Megatron.

</doc>
<doc id="14842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14842" title="Simplicity">
Simplicity

When something is simple, it is very easy to understand or do. The opposite is hard or "difficult". Simplicity is the measurement of how simple something is. Examples:
"Simple" can mean something that is only made up of a few parts. It is not complicated:
"Simple" can mean that something or someone is humble (lowly) or common:
"Simple" can also be used to refer to someone whose mind thinks in a very simple way. Calling a person "simple minded" is usually rude.

</doc>
<doc id="14844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14844" title="Mathematician">
Mathematician

A mathematician is someone who studies mathematics, either as a hobby or as a job. Many mathematicians are math professors at universities. Euclid, Ramanujan, Sir Isaac Newton are some of the most famous early mathematicians.

</doc>
<doc id="14849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14849" title="West Virginia">
West Virginia

West Virginia is a state in the United States. Its capital and largest city is Charleston. It is often abbreviated W. Va. or simply WV.
West Virginia is bordered by Pennsylvania to the north, by Ohio to the north and west, by Kentucky to the west, by Maryland to the north and east, and by Virginia to the east and south. The Ohio and Potomac Rivers form parts of the boundaries.
West Virginia became a state in 1863.
West Virginia was once a part of Virginia. At the beginning of the American Civil War, Virginia and the other southern states seceded from the United States, which means they chose to not be a part of it anymore. The people in the western part of the state felt that they had very little power in the state's affairs, including its decision to secede. They seceded from Virginia and formed their own state, West Virginia. After the war, the United States was brought back together, but West Virginia never rejoined Virginia.
West Virginia is often called the "Mountain State" because it is entirely within the Appalachian Mountain Range, and there are many hills and mountains throughout the state. The highest one is Spruce Knob, which is 4,863 feet above sea level. There are many rivers, including the Ohio, the Potomac, the Kanawha, and the Monongahela.

</doc>
<doc id="14850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14850" title="Virginia">
Virginia

Virginia is a state in the United States. Its capital is Richmond and its largest city is Virginia Beach. The official name of Virginia is the "Commonwealth of Virginia".
Virginia is bordered (touching) by West Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia (across the Potomac River) to the north, by Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, by North Carolina and Tennessee to the south, and by Kentucky and West Virginia to the west.
Virginia became a state in 1788 after the American Revolution.
Before it became a state of the United States, Virginia was one of the Thirteen Colonies of Great Britain. Virginia was founded (started) in 1607.
The state of West Virginia was part of Virginia until the American Civil War. Virginia then left (seceded from) the United States and joined the Confederate States of America. The western counties of Virginia seceded from Virginia to form a new state which was loyal to the Union. After the end of the Civil War, Virginia became part of the United States again in 1870, but the counties that had left to start West Virginia did not join Virginia again.
Virginia is the state where eight United States presidents were born. This is more than any other state.

</doc>
<doc id="14851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14851" title="Vermont">
Vermont

Vermont is a state in the United States. Its capital is the city of Montpelier, and its largest city is Burlington.
The states that border Vermont are Massachusetts to the south, New Hampshire to the east, New York to the west, and the Canadian province of Quebec to the north.
Vermont was home to the Abenaki and Iroquois Native American groups until France took control of the area when it was building colonies. Great Britain gained control after winning the French and Indian War. It is known for being one of only four states to be an independent nation before joining the United States. It was not a part of the 13 colonies and instead joined as the 14th state. Vermont became a state in 1791. It is world-renowned for its maple syrup industry, and many tourists go to see brilliant colors the trees become in the fall months. The tourism industry has become quite successful, with many tourists coming every year.

</doc>
<doc id="14852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14852" title="South Carolina">
South Carolina

South Carolina is a state in the southeast United States. Its capital and largest city is Columbia. The population of the state is about 4.2 million people, ranked 24th in the United States. The state is relatively small in land area, ranked 40th largest.
Other important cities in South Carolina are Charleston, Greenville, Spartanburg, Anderson, Sumter, and Florence.
Major landforms include beaches, "barrier islands", salt marsh, sand hills, rolling piedmont, and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Because of its natural beauty, the state attracts many tourists, especially to Myrtle Beach, Charleston, and Hilton Head Island.
South Carolina became a state in 1788. The economy was agriculture-based, known for cotton, rice, indigo, and tobacco. After the American Civil War, the state lost much of its political and economic power. Towards the end of the 20th century, the state began to strengthen its economy and add population. Today, the major industries are tourism, textiles (clothing materials), and manufacturing. South Carolina has the second highest number of workers employed by international companies per capita in the United States.
South Carolina is bounded to the north by North Carolina, to the south and west by Georgia, located across the Savannah River, and to the east by the Atlantic Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="14853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14853" title="Rhode Island">
Rhode Island

Rhode Island is the smallest state in the United States. The capital and largest city is Providence.
Rhode Island was one of the original Thirteen Colonies, and became a state (the last of the thirteen to agree to the new United States Constitution) in 1790.
Rhode Island is bordered on the north and east by Massachusetts, on the west by Connecticut, and on the south by Rhode Island Sound and the Atlantic Ocean. It shares a water border with New York. It is named for a large island in Rhode Island Sound. Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams for religious freedom.

</doc>
<doc id="14854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14854" title="North Carolina">
North Carolina

North Carolina is one of the fifty states in the United States. The capital of North Carolina is Raleigh and the biggest city in the state is Charlotte. North Carolina is split up into 100 counties and these counties are split up into many cities and towns.
North Carolina was one of the original thirteen colonies and was where the first English colony in America lived. As of July 1, 2007, there are about 9,061,032 people living in the state.
North Carolina is connected to South Carolina on the south, Georgia on the southwest, Tennessee on the west, Virginia on the north, and the Atlantic Ocean on the east. There are three main sections in North Carolina: the coastal plain, the piedmont, and the mountains. The coastal plain is the eastern part of the state, the piedmont is the middle, and the mountains are the western part of the state. North Carolina also has some islands that are called The Outer Banks. They are in the ocean to the east of the state.
North Carolina has many different kinds of weather in different parts of the state throughout the year.
The eastern part of the state is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, and usually has comfortable temperatures all year long with the summer average high temperature usually not above 90 °F in the summer and not under 40 °F in the winter. However, it can get as hot as the low 100s °F and as cold as 20 °F. Most years there is less than one inch of snow and some years pass with no snow at all. The coastal plain usually gets a tropical storm every 3 or 4 years.
The average temperature generally does not go above 90 °F in most areas of the Piedmont in summer, however it go over 100 °F when there is a heat wave. Short lived episodes of sleet and freezing rain are common in this part of North Carolina, but the mountain ranges protect the Piedmont from most severe winter weather. Snow in this region rarely lasts more than 48 hours before completely melting. Weak tornadoes are often reported in the Piedmont, but only 140 people have died due to tornadoes from 1950-2012 across the entire state.
The average temperature almost never goes above 80 °F in the summer and is usually in the high 30’s or low 40’s in the winter in the mountain region of North Carolina. About 14 to 20 inches of snow fall each year with some of the higher elevations getting 50 inches each winter. The wettest part of the mountains gets 90 inches of rain.
Before being settled by the English, about 30 Native American groups lived across North Carolina. In 1584, Sir Walter Raleigh began two colonies in what is now known as North Carolina, but they did not last long. One of these, the Roanoke Colony later became known as the "Lost Colony" and remains as one of the great unsolved mysteries of early American history to this day. Virginia Dare, the first English child born in the New World, was born in the Roanoke Colony.
The first permanent settlers in North Carolina came from the state of Virginia in 1655 because there was not enough farmland in Virginia. Later the land was devided into present day North Carolina and South Carolina. The name Carolina comes from the Latin for Charles ("Carolus") after King Charles I.
North Carolina was an important state during the American Revolutionary War.
In 1860, North Carolina was a slave state. About 1/3 of the people in the state were slaves. North Carolina fought as part of the Confederacy during the Civil War, although it was the last of the states to leave the Union. The state sent about 125,000 troops to fight in the war and about 40,000 of them died. Even during the war some people in North Carolina did not support the Confederacy, mostly because the Confederacy believed in slavery. The first Confederate soldier to be killed was from North Carolina.
Farms in North Carolina produce various things including grapes, peanuts, Christmas trees, poultry and eggs, wheat, corn, cucumbers, apples, greens, tobacco, hogs, milk, cattle, sweet potatoes, and soybeans. North Carolina grows more tobacco then any other state in the country. Furniture making is an important industry in North Carolina, but over the past few years many jobs have moved to other countries like China and India.
Charlotte, the biggest city in North Carolina, is the second biggest banking center in the United States, making banking very important in North Carolina. BB&T and Bank of America have their main offices in the state.
Technology is also important in North Carolina. There are many companies that make computer software and video games in the state. Winston-Salem is the home to a hub for innovation in biomedical and material sciences and information technology called the Wake Forest Innovation Quarter. Research Triangle Park near the state capital of Raleigh is one of the largest research parks in the world. 
North Carolina has four hospitals that are nationally ranked with many NICUs at a IV rating (highest possible rating in the United States). Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center is reported by the U.S. News & World Report as one of the top hospitals in the nation. Brenner Children's Hospital and Health Services is designated a Nurse Magnet facility and it was rated in 2014 as one of America's best children's hospitals.
North Carolina has more state maintained roads than any other American state. The biggest roads are:
There are many major and international airports in North Carolina. These are:

</doc>
<doc id="14855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14855" title="New Jersey">
New Jersey

New Jersey is one of the 50 states of the United States of America. It is in the northeastern section of the country along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. It is a small state, shaped like a letter [S], and bordered on the west by Pennsylvania and Delaware across the Delaware River, on the north by New York, on the northeast by the Hudson River and New York City, on the east and southeast by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the southwest by Delaware Bay.
The capital of New Jersey is Trenton and the largest city is Newark, though New Jersey is better known for bordering the large cities of New York City and Philadelphia. The state nickname is "The Garden State". The current governor is Chris Christie.
New Jersey is the fourth-smallest state, but has the eleventh-highest number of people. It therefore has the highest population density (number of people for the amount of land) in the United States. New Jersey is also well known for its beaches, industries, swamps, and pine forests.
The climate is hot & humid summers and cold winters. About 1200 mm of precipitation every year.
The average temperature in July is 25-30 degrees celsius and in January around freezing point.
Before Europeans came, the land that is now New Jersey was inhabited by the Lenape (also known as Delaware Indians by the English), who were nomads, hunters, and farmers. The Dutch came to the northern area of the state in the 1630's, after Henry Hudson explored the area, thought it was a nice place, and claimed it for the Dutch. Towns quickly spang up, occupied by the Dutch, Swedes, and Finns. People rushed in. The first towns, such as Bergen (now Jersey City), Trenton (the capitol), and Burlington developed. Many others started themselves upon the west bank of the Hudson. New Jersey was part of the area known at this time as New Netherland.
In 1664, English took New Netherland from the Dutch and added it to their colonies. This part was renamed New Jersey after an island in the English Channel known as Jersey. 
New Jersey took part in the American Revolutionary War, and was a scene of battles. On Christmas in 1776, George Washington's army entered New Jersey to attack British soldiers at Trenton and Princeton. The American army won, in two small but famous battles that were important in boasting American morale. 
Later the rebels drove the British residents out of Princeton and for a time established a national capital there. New Jersey would be the third state to join the United States of America and the first to approve the Bill of Rights.
New Jersey has 21 counties.

</doc>
<doc id="14856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14856" title="New Hampshire">
New Hampshire

New Hampshire is a state in the New England region of the United States. Its capital is Concord and its largest city is Manchester.
New Hampshire was a British colony before the American War of Independence. It became the ninth state on June 21, 1788, when it accepted the United States Constitution. New Hampshire was the 9th state to do so.
The state motto is "Live Free or Die" and the nickname is the Granite State. The state flower is the lilac and the state bird is the purple finch. New Hampshire is part of New England. It is bordered by Maine in the East, Massachusetts to the South, Vermont to the West, and Quebec, a Canadian province, to the North. 
New Hampshire's tourist attractions include the Lakes Region, the White Mountains, the autumn leaves, and the New Hampshire Motor Speedway in Loudon. Some famous people from New Hampshire are Franklin Pierce, Adam Sandler, and members of the band Aerosmith. New Hampshire is also famous for being the first state to vote in the Presidential primaries.
Its population was estimated to be 1,315,809 in 2008,making it the 9th least populous state in the United States and lies just south of Maine.

</doc>
<doc id="14861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14861" title="Watch glass">
Watch glass

A watch glass is used for temporary storage of solids and sometimes liquids (in small amounts).

</doc>
<doc id="14862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14862" title="Funnel">
Funnel

A funnel is an object with a wide top and a narrow tube at the bottom and this is used for pouring liquids into a container. A funnel is also a round metal chimney on top of a ship or train.

</doc>
<doc id="14875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14875" title="Constantinople">
Constantinople

Constantinople (Greek: Κωνσταντινούπολις, Konstantinoúpolis, or Πόλις, Polis) was the capital of the Roman Empire (330-395), the Byzantine/East Roman Empire (395-1204 and 1261-1453), the Latin Empire (1204-1261), and the Ottoman Empire (1453-1922). In 1930 it was renamed Istanbul. It is a city in present day Turkey.
For centuries the city was not very large, and was called Byzantium. Constantine the Great renamed it for himself and made it his capital. In medieval times different sides tried to conquer it including Crusaders. In 1453 the Muslims won and made it their capital, calling it Istanbul.

</doc>
<doc id="14880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14880" title="Mormonism">
Mormonism

Mormonism is a religious movement that was founded by Joseph Smith in 1830. The people that belong to this religion are called Latter-day Saints, or Mormons. Their teachings are similar to many Christian churches, and they consider themselves to be Christian. A 2007 survey showed that 31% of the people polled do not agree that Mormons are Christians. Mormons have beliefs that are different from the beliefs of other Christian churches. The Mormon Church considers itself a restoration church. This means that members of the Church believe that it is the original Christian Church started by Jesus Christ and brought back ("restored") by Joseph Smith, Jr. in 1830. At first it was called The Church of Christ. Mormonism and Bahaism are sometimes called the "fourth Abrahamic religion".
Today there are about 70 groups who call themselves "Mormon" or "Latter day Saint", with the largest and most known of them being The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The name "Mormons" is simply a nickname. They believe in baptism by the person being completely underwater, such as explained in the Articles of Faith that was written in a letter by Joseph Smith. Most Mormons do not practice polygamy any more, as it says in the Doctrine and Covenants Official Declaration 1 (but some small groups, called "Mormon Fundamentalists", do).
Joseph Smith, Jr. said that he had visits from God the Father, Jesus Christ, and many angels. The first visit is called the First Vision. It happened when Joseph was a teenager. He had decided to pray about which religion to join. He said that he went to the woods behind his family's house in New York, prayed, felt evil powers fighting him, and was rescued when a bright light appeared above him. In the bright light, he said that he saw God the Father and Jesus Christ. They told him not to join any church, because none of the churches had all of the truth. They also told him that they had work for him to do.
Part of the work that Joseph did was translating the Book of Mormon. Joseph said that an angel named Moroni visited him and showed him where a very old book was buried. This book was written on pages of gold (sometimes called the Gold Plates). It was buried in a stone box in a hill near Joseph's home. Moroni visited Joseph once a year for four years until he told Joseph to take the Gold Plates. Since the book was written in a very old language, Joseph translated the book into English. He did this with help from God and by the tools called the "Urim" and "Thummim". The book was published as The Book of Mormon in 1830. It tells the story of two main groups of people who lived in North and South America hundreds of years ago (the Nephites and Lamanites), as well as a story of a group of people who came to the Americas thousands of years ago upon leaving the Tower of Babel (the Jaredites). It also teaches many things about Jesus. To members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, The Book of Mormon is a special book from God just like the Bible. Mormons believe that by reading The Book of Mormon and the Bible, people can learn how to get closer to God and how to find happiness in life. This book is also the reason Church members are sometimes called "Mormons".
Today the center of the church is in Utah, but there are more than 14 million Mormons living all over the world. The leader of the church is called the president, and Mormons call him a prophet. They believe that God guides the prophet, just like he guided Joseph Smith and the prophets in the Bible. Mormons believe that it is important for families to spend a lot of time together, and that after they die, they can live together forever. Mormons do not drink alcohol, coffee, or tea, or smoke tobacco. They meet once a week on Sunday for church, where they have the sacrament and listen to short talks or sermons. They also have Sunday School to learn more. The church also has activities during the week. Mormons also have buildings called temples. These are the most holy buildings in their religion. After a temple has been dedicated, only Mormons that are living good lives can go in the temple.
Today, there are three main movements in Mormonism, although one is by far the largest. They are represented by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Community of Christ and the Church of Christ with the Elijah Message. When people talk about Mormons, they usually mean the followers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which is the largest Mormon movement. This movement also says that the term "Mormon" is a nickname given to members early in the churches history, and would prefer to be referred to as "Latter-day Saints" or "LDS".
Some people who call themselves Mormons are not part of "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." These people belong to other Mormon churches. Some of their beliefs are different.
When Brigham Young became the second president of the Church after Joseph Smith was killed, some people did not think he was the rightful president. When Brigham Young led most of the Mormons to Utah, these people stayed in Illinois. They believed that Joseph Smith's son should be the next president. Today, this church is called the Community of Christ. It is the second largest church to call themselves Mormons. They have more than 250,000 people in their church.
Other splits in the Church happened later. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) teaches that a man should only marry one woman. This is called monogamy. In the beginning of the church, this was different. A man could be married to more than one woman at the same time (called polygamy). When the Church changed its position in 1890, some people left the official Church and continued with polygamy. These groups are very small compared to the LDS. The groups that did not want to abandon polygamy are sometimes still called "Mormon", even though in the official church, polygamy has been forbidden since 1890. Most of these smaller groups stay away from other people, since polygamy is illegal in the United States. The LDS tells people not to use the word "Mormon" or pictures of Church leaders and temples when talking about these groups, since it makes it seem like they are still connected to the LDS even though they are not.
There are many practices in Mormonism that are very similar to those used in Christian movements. There are some practices, however, where the Mormon movement is noticeably different from orthodox Christian movements, such as Catholic, Orthodox, or Protestant faiths. People who define Christianity as belonging to one of those denominations have to say that Mormonism is not a Christian movement.
In English, the LDS Church accepts the King James Version of the Bible as a part of its official scripture.
In the beginning, the Mormon movement said that it restored the Christian faith and that the other movements at the time held beliefs that were wrong. In the 1830s, the movement quickly gained members that had come from Christian movements. Many Christians of the time saw some of the practices and beliefs the Mormon movement held at that time as politically and culturally subversive. The most controversial of these included the idea that slavery was wrong, men being able to have more than one wife, and the church's wanting to run a government with laws based on Mormonism. Some of these beliefs are no longer held by most Mormon movements today. Such disagreements led to violent conflicts between Mormons and other Christian groups. Even though there is not really violence anymore, the movement's unique doctrinal views are still criticized.
Mormons believe in Jesus Christ as the literal firstborn Son of God and Messiah, his crucifixion as a conclusion of a sin offering, and resurrection. 
However, Latter-day Saints (LDS) reject the ecumenical creeds and definition of the Trinity taught by the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Anglican Communion, and Trinitarian Protestantism. 
In their view, the New Testament prophesied that people would turn away from Christian teachings, and that there would be a restoration to the situation before the second coming of Christ.
Some important differences with mainstream Christianity include: A belief that Jesus began his atonement from sin in the garden of Gethsemane and continued it until he was crucified, rather than the orthodox belief that the crucifixion alone was the physical atonement. In their view, heaven is divided into three degrees of glory, and hell (often called outer darkness). Additionally, Mormons do not believe in creation ex nihilo, they believe that matter is eternal, and that God organizes existing matter.
Much of the Mormon belief system is oriented geographically around the North and South American continents. Mormons believe the people of the Book of Mormon lived in the western hemisphere, that Christ appeared in the western hemisphere after his death and resurrection, that the true faith was restored in upstate New York by Joseph Smith, and that the Garden of Eden and location of Christ's second coming were and will be in the state of Missouri. For this and other reasons, including a belief by many Mormons in American exceptionalism, Molly Worthen speculates that this may be why Leo Tolstoy described Mormonism as the "quintessential 'American religion'".

</doc>
<doc id="14881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14881" title="Mohammad Khatami">
Mohammad Khatami

Seyyed Mohammad Khatami (سید محمد خاتمی), (born October 14, 1943) was President of Iran from August 2, 1997 to August 3, 2005 and was followed by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Khatami studied Islamic theology in Qom, and philosophy in Isfahan. Khatami built upon the idea of a lawful state, called Rechtsstaat, of democracy and of social equality. He was the first Iranian president to officially do so. These tenets led to conflicts with the government of Iran. Khatami is seen as a reformist. He is currently a prominent supporter of the Iranian Green Movement, and a critic of the government. 

</doc>
<doc id="14903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14903" title="Cider">
Cider

Cider (or cyder) is a drink made from fruit juice, most often from apples.
In Europe and Oceania it is an alcoholic drink that is made from apple juice, through a process called fermentation. In the United States and parts of Canada, cider containing alcohol is called hard cider or alcoholic cider, while "cider" or "apple cider" means less-sweet, usually unfiltered, apple juice.
In the United States and Canada people drink a special kind of cider around Halloween and Thanksgiving. This cider is usually unfiltered, rather thick, and it is often heated and spiced with cinnamon before drinking it. This is different from the cider in Europe, which usually is not heated.
Usually to make cider, apples with a high concentration of tannins are chosen. The fermentation of the apples takes place at around 4-15° Celsius. The temperature influences the duration of the fermentation. The temperature at which the fermentation occurs also has an effect on the taste of the cider.
Shortly before all the sugar has been fermented away, the cider is put in a new barrel which is made air-tight. The rest of the sugar will then become carbonic acid. This will also add to the life-span of the cider (no pasteurisation is needed).
Cider is also the starting-point for distilling Calvados. This alcoholic drink is famous and very expensive.
Cider is made almost anywhere where there are cider-apple trees, most notably
In France, Normandy is the first region as to the production of cider-apples (300 000 tonnes), and the first in cider production (7000 kilolitres).
In France, some ciders can benefit from a protected naming. This is the "cidre normand" and the "cidre breton".
France is the country in the world that produces the biggest quantity of cider.
The United Kingdom produces the most varieties, and along with Ireland holds the biggest market for cider.
Hard cider contains alcohol, which affects the taste of the cider. This can be influenced by choosing the right moment when to stop fermentation:
In France, the most popular are the first, second and fourth categories. In the English-speaking countries, it is possible to find cider with up to 12° of alcohol.
The French and Spanish cuisines have recipes where cider is needed to make them. The French and Spanish also often drink cider instead of wine made from grapes.
In Europe, many young people drink cider. Cider costs less than wine, and is often served in pubs and other places where young people go.
The effects of cider are the same as those of any alcoholic drink.

</doc>
<doc id="14912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912" title="1499">
1499


</doc>
<doc id="14915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14915" title="Bison">
Bison

Bison are a type of even-toed ungulate bovines. They are the biggest mammals in North America. They are often called buffalo, but are not closely related to African buffalo or water buffalo. They used to wander around the prairies of North America in huge herds. 
American bison are large, plant-eating mammals that are similar to cows. There used to be as many as 30 million bison in the United States, but because of hunting, by 1890, only 1,000 bison were left. Through conservation efforts, there are now more American bison than there used to be, but still far fewer than there were before the 1800s.
European bison (wisent) tend to live in lightly wooded to fully wooded areas and areas with increased shrubs and bushes, though they can also live on grasslands and plains.
They are classified in the subfamily Bovinae of the family Bovidae
Bison live in the northern part of the world. The American bison lives in North America, and the wisent lives in Europe. They can also live in rugged areas.
They live to be about 20 years old and are born without their "hump" or horns, which both males and females have. After shedding their light colored hair, and with their horns, they are grown at 2 to 3 years of age, but the males keep growing slowly until about age seven. Adult bulls are very dominant in mating season. Adult bison usually have one or two baby bison.

</doc>
<doc id="14920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14920" title="Baseball cap">
Baseball cap

A baseball cap is a kind of hat, worn by baseball players, when they play as part of their team’s uniform, but other people wear them, too. They were invented by Richard Branson in 1994. Steve Austin likes them. Bald men have to wear them in order to hide their deformity. Women are attracted to men who wear them backwards. They are a staple of American fashion.

</doc>
<doc id="14946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946" title="Windows 95">
Windows 95

Windows 95 is an operating system by Microsoft released in 1995. Windows 95 added many new features to the last Windows operating system, which was Windows 3.x. Windows 95 was the first Windows with the "Start" button. Since then it has been used in all Windows operating systems. Although Windows 95 is thought of as a full operating system, it works over MS-DOS. Windows 95 is like a visual version of DOS. This means that Windows 95 can run both MS-DOS programs and Windows ones, but programs made just for Windows 95 will not work in DOS.
Windows 95 was Microsoft's first operating system to support long file names. Before that, file names could only be eight characters (letters, numbers, or symbols) long, plus the file extension. Windows 95 was also Microsoft's first operating system to fully support CD-ROMs, though Windows 3.x could also access CD-ROMs.
It was popular from 1995 until 1998 when Microsoft replaced it with Windows 98. 

</doc>
<doc id="14948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14948" title="Otto von Bismarck">
Otto von Bismarck

Prince Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck-Schönhausen Duke of Lauenburg (1 April 1815 – 30 July 1898) was an aristocrat and statesman of the 19th century in Europe. As Prime Minister of Prussia from 1862 to 1890, he was mainly responsible for unifying the many independent German countries and founding the German Empire in 1871. He became the first chancellor of the new Empire.
He was "Graf von Bismarck-Schönhausen" (Count Bismarck-Schönhausen) in 1865, then since 1871 "Fürst" von Bismarck (Prince Bismarck) and since 1890 the "Herzog von Lauenburg" (Duke of Lauenburg). At first he did not want the duke title, but accepted it later.
In the 1860s he engineered a series of wars that unified the German states, but deliberately not Austria, into a powerful German Empire under Prussian leadership. He got that by 1871. Bismarck "remained undisputed world champion at the game of multilateral diplomatic chess for almost twenty years after 1871, [and] devoted himself exclusively, and successfully, to maintaining peace between the powers".
Bismarck conducted wars against Denmark (1864), Austria (1866) and France (1871). All were to get more land for the German Empire. The war against France was very significant in the long run. France lost AlsaceLorraine. The German victory, under the brilliant von Moltke, made Germany the most important country in central Europe. 
After the death of the Emperor and his son (Frederick III) in 1888, a new era began, without Bismarck and the elder von Moltke, and with Kaiser Wilhelm II on the throne. 
Bismarck was very conservative and he was strongly connected to the monarchy. He was not a big supporter of democracy. His most important goal was to make Prussia stronger and he achieved that through the unification of Germany. Bismarck tried to stop the socialist movement and to reduce the power of the Catholic Church. 
One way to stop socialism was to make the working class happy. He did that by introducing many social reforms like public health and accident insurance, as well as pensions for old people. Bismarck's pension scheme was the fore-runner of the modern welfare state.

</doc>
<doc id="14949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14949" title="Differential calculus">
Differential calculus

Differential calculus, a branch of calculus, is the process of finding out the rate of change of a variable compared to another variable, by using functions. It is a way to find out how a shape changes from one point to the next, without needing to divide the shape into an infinite number of pieces. Differential calculus is the opposite of integral calculus. It was developed in the 1670s and 1680s by Sir Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz.
Unlike a number such as 5 or 200, a variable can change its value. For example, distance and time are variables. At an Olympic running race, as the person runs, their "distance" from the starting line goes up. Meanwhile, a stopwatch or clock measures the "time" as it goes up. We can measure the average speed of the runner if we divide the distance they travelled by the time it took. But this does not say what speed the person was running at exactly 1.5 seconds into the race. If we had the distance at 1 second and the distance at 2 seconds, we would still only have an average, although it would probably be more correct than the average for the whole race.
Until calculus was invented, the only way to work this out was to cut the time into smaller and smaller pieces, so the average speed over the smaller time would get closer and closer to the actual speed at exactly 1.5 seconds. This was a very long and hard process and had to be done each time people wanted to work something out. Imagine a driver trying to figure out a car's speed using only its odometer (distance meter) and clock, without a speedometer!
A very similar problem is to find the slope (how steep it is) at any point on a curve. The slope of a "straight" line is easy to work out—it is simply how much it goes up ("y" or vertical) divided by how much it goes across ("x" or horizontal). If a line is parallel to the "x" axis, then its slope is zero. If a straight line went through (x,y) = (2,10) and (4,18), the line goes up 8 and goes across 2, so its slope is 8 divide 2, which is 4.
On a 'curve', though, the slope is a variable (has different values at different points) because the line bends. But if the curve was to be cut into very, very small pieces, the curve at the point would look almost like a very short straight line. So to work out its slope, a straight line can be drawn through the point with the same slope as the curve at that point. If it is done exactly right, the straight line will have the same slope as the curve, and is called a tangent. But there is no way to know (without calculus) whether the tangent is exactly right, and our eyes are not accurate enough to be certain whether it is exact or simply very close.
What Newton and Leibniz found was a way to work out the slope (or the speed in the distance example) exactly using simple and logical rules. They divided the curve into an infinite number of very small pieces. They then chose points on either side of the point they were interested in and worked out tangents at each. As the points moved closer together towards the point they were interested in, the slope "approached" a particular value as the tangents approached the real slope of the curve. They said that this particular value it approached was the actual slope.
Let's say we have a function "y" = f("x"). f is short for function, so this equation means "y is a function of x". This tells us that how high y is on the vertical axis depends on what x (the horizontal axis) is at that time. For example with the equation "y" = "x"², we know that if "x" is 1, then "y" will be 1; if "x" is 3, then "y" will be 9; if "x" is 20, then "y" will be 400.
Choose a point A on the curve, and call its horizontal position "x". Then choose another point B on the curve which is a little bit farther across than A, and call its horizontal position "x + h". It does not matter how much "h" is, it is a very small number.
So when we go from point A to point B, the vertical position has gone from f("x") to f("x + h"), and the horizontal position has gone from "x" to "x + h". Now remember that the slope is how much it goes up divided by how much it goes across. So the slope will be:
formula_1
If you bring B closer and closer to A–which means "h" gets closer and closer to 0–then we get closer to knowing what the slope is "at" the point A.
formula_2
Now let's go back to "y" = "x"². The slope of this can be determined as follows:
formula_3
Applying the binomial theorem which states formula_4 we can reduce to:
formula_5
So we know without having to draw any tangent lines that at any point on the curve "f(x)" = "x"², the derivative "f'(x)" (marked with an apostrophe) will be 2"x" at any point. This process of working out a slope using limits is called differentiation, or finding the derivative.
Leibniz came to the same result, but called h "dx", which means "a tiny amount of x". He called the resulting change in f(x) "dy", which means "a tiny amount of y". Leibniz's notation is used by more books because it is easy to understand when the equations become more complicated. In Leibniz notation:
formula_6
Using the above system, mathematicians have worked out rules which work all the time, no matter which function is being looked at.

</doc>
<doc id="14972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14972" title="Socialist country">
Socialist country

A Socialist country is a country where the government or the public as a whole has control over the economy. In a socialist country, the producing and dispersing of goods is owned by the government. Socialism is placed in between capitalism and communism. 

</doc>
<doc id="14973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14973" title="Hamster">
Hamster

Hamsters are rodents belonging to the subfamily Cricetinae. The subfamily contains about 25 species in six or seven genera. They have become established as popular small house pets. They are a bit like a mouse. Wild hamsters live in the desert, but people all over the world keep domesticated hamsters as pets. 
In the wild, hamsters are crepuscular and stay underground during the day. They feed on seeds, fruits, and vegetation, and occasionally eat burrowing insects. Hamsters are distinguished by their large cheek pouches, and relatively short tail. They use their long cheek pouches (extending to their shoulders) to carry food back to their burrows.
There are six main types of hamsters: the Syrian hamster (the kind most people have as pets), winter whites, campbells, the Russian dwarf hamster (a hybrid of winter white and campbell hamsters), winter whites and campbells are two type of Russian (
despite what many pet shops say), the Chinese hamster, and the Roborovski hamster. The Chinese hamster has a long tail. All Syrian hamsters are the descendants of 12 baby hamsters found in Syria in 1930. 
Pet hamsters like to live in cages with wood shavings or recycled newspaper (only if non-toxic). Fluffy bedding is dangerous for hamsters. Plain toilet paper is also a cheap, safe option, but not straw as it is very dry and they may choke on it. Hamsters eat mostly hamster food sold at a pet shop, but they also eat almost any vegetables and fruits in very tiny portions. Hamsters store food in the sides of their mouths. 
Hamster teeth grow constantly. Wooden blocks and some hard food can be used for this. Most hamsters also have a wheel to run on for exercise. A 6 inch (Syrian) wheel is recommended for most dwarf hamsters, and at least an eight inch wheel for Syrians. Some people get other kinds of exercise equipment for their hamsters, like an empty ball that the hamster can roll around the floor or a long network of tubes with air holes for it to crawl through. They should live in an aquarium (without water) or cage. When letting your hamster out always keep an eye on it. Hamsters may look slow, but are truly very fast. Keep your hamster away from any electric wires, since they like to chew on them. Hamster are not recommended for young children.

</doc>
<doc id="14975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14975" title="Watch">
Watch

A watch is a small clock carried or worn by a person. It makes it easy to see the time. It is also a fashion accessory for men and women, and expensive watches are designed for this purpose. A watch may be one of the few accessories worn by a man.
A wristwatch is designed to be worn on a wrist, attached by a strap or other type of bracelet. A pocket watch is to be carried in a pocket. There are other variations. Nurses often wear a watch attached to the front of their uniform. It hangs down from a short strap: when lifted by the user it is right side up. 
Watches evolved in the 17th century from spring-powered clocks, which appeared as early as the 14th century. In 1524, Peter Henlein created the first pocket watch. 
The first watches were strictly mechanical, driven by clockwork. 
As technology developed, mechanical watches were largely replaced by vibrating quartz crystals, producing accurately timed electronic pulses. Some watches use radio technology to correct the time and date. The first digital electronic watch was developed in 1970.
Electronic movements, also known as quartz movements, have few or no moving parts, except a quartz crystal which is made to vibrate by the piezoelectric effect. A varying electric voltage is applied to the crystal, which responds by changing its shape so it works as an oscillator. It resonates at a stable frequency, which paces a timekeeping mechanism. Most quartz movements are primarily electronic but are geared to drive mechanical hands on the face of the watch to give a traditional analog display of the time. Most consumers prefer this.

</doc>
<doc id="14976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14976" title="Ed Gein">
Ed Gein

Edward Theodore "Ed" Gein (August 27, 1906 - July 26, 1984) was an American serial killer. While Gein was found guilty of only two murders, the actual number is not known. Gein is considered by many to be even more well known because of several movies that were based in part on him. He was also known as The Butcher of Plainfield, The Plainfield Butcher, The Mad Butcher and The Plainfield Ghoul.
Ed Gein and his brother Henry were raised by their mother on their 160-acre farm near Plainfield, Wisconsin. She was a very religious woman and was very protective about her boys. She kept them away from women and busy with farm work.
His alcoholic father died in 1940. A few years later his brother Henry died in 1944, officially while fighting a grass fire (though there was evidence he was murdered by Ed). Soon after that, his mother had her first stroke. In 1945 she had her second stroke and died. Ed was left alone.
Gein then closed off the upstairs and the parlour of the house as well as his mother’s bedroom. He lived in the one other bedroom, kitchen and shed of the large house. He stopped working the farm because a government program paid him a subsidy. He also made money by doing small jobs for people in the area.
Ed read books on human anatomy and Nazi concentration camp experiments. He was very interested in it all, especially the female anatomy. One day he saw a newspaper article of a woman who had been buried that day. The first corpse came from a grave very near the grave of Gein’s mother.
Gein continued to do this for the next ten years. He would check the newspaper often for fresh bodies. He always went to the graveyard at the time of a full moon. Gein would take the whole female corpse or just the parts he wanted, put the dirt back in the grave and take home what he took from the grave.
Gein did many strange things with the dead bodies. He would build objects from the bones and skin. The organs would be put into the refrigerator to eat later. It was claimed that he also had sex with the bodies ("necrophilia"), a charge he denied because they "smelled too bad". 
Gein did not tell anyone that he wanted to become a woman himself. This was the reason he had studied anatomy. He thought about the of an operation which would change his sex. He wanted to study a female corpse and learn more about its anatomy. The closest he would get to changing his sex was dressing up in his full woman bodysuit. This bodysuit was made entirely of human skin. It completely covered his body and included a mask and breasts.
Later, Gein thought that fresher bodies would be better for his collection, and turned to murder.
Ed Gein’s first victim was Mary Hogan, a 51-year-old divorcee and the owner of a local tavern in Pine Grove, six miles from his home. On the afternoon of December 8, 1954, he shot her in the head with his 32-caliber revolver. He put her body in his pickup truck and took her back to his shed.
A customer who dropped into the tavern found the place deserted, and a large bloodstain on the floor. A spent .32 cartridge lay near it. Bloodstains ran out the back door and into the parking lot, where they halted beside tire tracks that looked like those of a pickup truck. It looked as if Mary Hogan had been shot and taken away.
Police were not able to learn anything about what happened to her. A few weeks later, a sawmill owner named Elmo Ueeck talked to Gein about it. Gein replied, "She isn’t missing, she’s at the farm right now." Ueeck did not ask him what he meant by that.
There may have been other victims in the years that followed. Nothing is known for certain about Gein until November 16, 1957 when he shot & killed Bernice Worden in her store in Plainfield. He used a .22 rifle from a rack in the store and his own bullet which he carried with him. He then locked the store and took the body home in the store’s truck. Gein also took the cash register. He later explained that he did not take it to commit robbery. He wanted to see how it worked and planned to return it later.
Bernice Worden’s son, Frank, often worked with her in the store. That morning he had gone deer hunting. When he got back, he saw that the store was closed with the lights still on and his mother was missing. He also saw that the cash register was gone and there was blood on the floor.
Frank Worden talked to the sheriff, Art Schley and told him what he had seen. He checked the record of sales made that morning. One of them was for half a gallon of antifreeze. Worden remembered that Ed Gein had stopped by the night before at closing time. He had said that he would be back the next morning for antifreeze. Ed had also asked Worden if he was going hunting the next day.
With the cash register missing, he thought that Gein had planned a robbery once he learned Frank would not be there. Worden told this to the sheriff. The sheriff and captain Lloyd Schoephoester went to the farm, seven miles outside Plainfield.
The house was dark and Ed Gein was not there when the police arrived. They drove to a store where Gein usually bought groceries where they found Gein, who was just about to leave in his truck.
The sheriff stopped him and asked him to get into the police car for questioning. Sheriff Schley had not said anything about Bernice Worden’s death before Gein said that he thought someone had tried to frame him for the death, at which point Schley arrested Gein. 
Sheriff Schley & Captain Schoephoester went back to Gein's house with other officers. The doors to the house were locked, but the door to the shed behind the house was not. Inside they found a naked corpse of a woman hanging upside down from a crossbeam. The legs were spread wide apart and there was a long cut from the genitals almost to the throat. The throat and head were missing. The genitals and the anus were also missing. Bernice Worden had been cut open & dressed out like a deer.
There was no electricity in the dark house. They had to search it with oil lamps, lanterns, and flashlights. The place looked like it had not been clean in years. The few rooms that were not nailed shut were full of books, old papers, magazines, utensils, tin cans, cartons and other junk.
In the house they found
The bodies of 15 different women had been used to create Gein’s trophies. It is also said that sometimes Gein brought gifts of fresh venison to his neighbours but Gein said he had never shot a deer in his life.
Gein was sent to the Central State Hospital for the Criminally insane. He was proven insane. The doctors thought that he loved his mother but he hated her, so that is why he killed older women. It is said that Mary Hogan looked similar to his mother.
Gein said he was not a cannibal or necrophiliac. He did admit grave robbing.
Many people became interested because of the true nature of the crime. Thousands of people drove to Plainfield to look at the 'murder farm'. Eventually the place was burned down by the Plainfield citizens as they felt it as a place of evil.
At Christmas, 1957, Gein was judged insane. He was committed to Waupan State Hospital for the rest of his life. Gein died of cancer in Madison, Wisconsin on July 26, 1984, at the age of 78. He was buried in Plainfield next to the graves of his family.
Because of the true nature of Gein's crimes, Hollywood had a lot of ideas to work on.
The movie "Psycho" was based on the Robert Bloch book and made into a Hitchcock movie. Bloch got most of the ideas for "Psycho" from Gein's life. With the overpowering mother and horror of the movie, it was one of the first of a kind.
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" was based in some parts on Gein. The story is about a group of teenagers who go to a horror house. The people that live in the house are a family of strange homicidal cannibals who also like grave robbing and building furniture made of bones and skulls. The lead bad guy is called ‘Leatherface’. Leatherface likes chasing teens around with his chainsaw and wearing a mask made from the faces of his victims.
The Academy Award winning movie "The Silence of the Lambs" also uses part of Gein's life. It is about an FBI agent who is tracking down a serial killer. To find him she must get the help of an intelligent cannibal, Dr. Hannibal Lecter. The serial killer she is trying to catch is called ‘Buffalo Bill’. He likes to kill women and make clothes of their skin. He also wants to be a woman and made a skin costume like that of Gein.

</doc>
<doc id="14981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14981" title="Easter">
Easter

Easter, also called Resurrection Day, is a holiday. Among Christians, it is a celebration of Jesus Christ returning from the dead. Christians believe that it is the holiest day in the year. Some people who are not Christians celebrate it as the beginning of Spring. 
Easter is not held on the same date every year. This is called a "moveable feast". Currently all Christian churches agree on how the date is calculated. Easter is celebrated on the first Sunday following the first full moon which is on or after March 21st. This means it is celebrated in March or April. It can occur as early as March 22 and as late as April 25. Western churches, like the Roman Catholic Church, use the Gregorian calendar, while Eastern churches, like the Eastern Orthodox Church, use the Julian calendar. Because of this the date of Easter celebrations is different for these two types of churches even though the way they calculate the date is similar. In 2015 Easter was celebrated on April 5 for both the Gregorian calendar and Julian calendar. 
The word "Easter" is derived from "Eastre", the name of the ancient German Goddess of Spring. Her festival occurred at the vernal equinox. The French word for Easter, "Pâcques", comes from the Greek word for Passover, which is the Jewish holiday celebrated at about the same time of the year.
Jesus died on the cross about 2000 years ago in a city called Jerusalem (most of Jerusalem is in the modern country of Israel). The people who killed him did so because they believed that he was causing trouble for the government, and because he was claiming to be the Messiah. When they crucified him (meaning they nailed him to a cross), they even hung a sign over his head, which said, "King of the Jews." The day he was crucified is known by Christians as Good Friday.
The New Testament states that on the Sunday after Jesus was killed, his body was no longer in the tomb where he was laid. Later, Jesus is said to have appeared to over 500 people and preached to them. The New Testament teaches that the resurrection of Jesus is what Christianity is based on. The resurrection made people believe that Jesus was the powerful Son of God. It is also spoken of as proof that God will judge the world fairly. Christians believe that God has given Christians "a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead". Christians believe that through faith in God they are spiritually made alive with Jesus so that they may lead a new life.
Easter is celebrated in several ways in northern Europe and the United States. Most of these celebrations have nothing to do with the Christian meaning of the holiday. These celebrations are related more to the pagan festivals of ancient Germany. Children are given baskets filled with candy. Eggs are decorated and hidden for children to find. People wear new clothes and go to church. Greeting cards are exchanged. An Easter Egg Roll is held on the lawn of the White House on the day after Easter. Small leafless trees or branches are carried indoors and decorated with colored eggs, paper trims, and lights. Some shopping malls offer children a chance to visit with an adult costumed as the Easter Bunny. Forced tulips, hyacinths and lilies are given as gifts. Week-long vacations are taken following Easter Day, giving families the chance to visit with distant relatives. In America, many families leave the cold of northern states to visit amusement parks or sunny beaches in the south. Spring break for American high school and college students usually occurs about Easter time.

</doc>
<doc id="14984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984" title="Agnosticism">
Agnosticism

Agnosticism is the philosophical view that it is unknown (or even, unknowable) whether any deities (god or gods) exist or not. Some people who call themselves "agnostic" say that it is not possible for anyone ever to know if there are any deities or not. Other agnostics, though, say only that they themselves currently do not know if there are any deities.
Thomas Henry Huxley, the English biologist, coined the word "agnostic" in 1869. In 1889 he wrote "Agnosticism... is not a creed, but a method... the fundamental axiom of modern science... In matters of the intellect, do not pretend that conclusions are certain which are not demonstrated or demonstrable".
There are several different kinds of agnosticism:
People often have difficulty telling agnosticism and atheism apart. Atheists do not believe in the existence of deities, and some say that they are sure that no deity exists. Some (perhaps most) atheists, though, say that it is up to theists (people who believe in a deity) to give the evidence for a god or to show why someone should believe in a god. They state that there is neither enough evidence nor a strong enough argument to believe any gods exist, and so they reject belief that any exist. While agnostics think we cannot "know for sure" whether any deities exist, some agnostics do "believe" at least one deity exists. These people are both agnostic and theistic—they believe at least one deity exists, but do not claim to know that to be true. Some people are both atheist and agnostic—they reject belief in any deities without claiming to know that deities do not exist. Some agnostics just cannot themselves decide whether to believe any deities exist or not.

</doc>
<doc id="14985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14985" title="Universal Media Disc">
Universal Media Disc

"UMD can also mean University of Maryland."
The Universal Media Disc (UMD) is an optical disc made by Sony for their PlayStation Portable handheld console. It can hold up to 900 megabytes (single layer) or 1.8 gigabytes (double layer) of data. The disc can store games, music, and video, along with updates for the PSP. It is the first optical disc format to be used for a handheld video game system. To prevent illegal copying, Sony has not made blank discs available for sale. This disc is not used with any other devices. The UMD is very fragile and can be broken from misuse.
The primary use for UMD discs is for a storage medium for PSP games, but the format is also used for the storage of movies.
Even though with the release of the PSP Go, most new games continue to be made via UMD, and, aside from those published by SCE, not all have been released on the PSN.

</doc>
<doc id="14986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14986" title="Georgia (country)">
Georgia (country)

"For the US State, please see Georgia (U.S. State)"
Georgia is a country in Eastern Europe, located on the coast of the Black Sea. During 1991-1995 its full name was the Republic of Georgia but since 1995 it is Georgia as written in the Constitution. Before, it was part of the Soviet Union, but now it is an independent republic. The capital city is Tbilisi. Its population is almost 5 million. 
Georgia is next to the countries of Russia, Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan. It also has a coast on the Black Sea. It lies at the edge of Europe and Asia.
Georgia has many mountains. Its highest point is 5,048 m above sea level. The mountains running through Georgia are called the Caucasus Mountains.
Highest mountain in Georgia is Mount Shkhara at 5,068 m. The coastline of Georgia is 310 km long. Georgia has about 25,000 rivers. Largest river is the Mtkvari.
The capital of Georgia is called Tbilisi.
The population of Georgia is about 5 million. About 1.3 million of these live in Tbilisi. People from Georgia are called Georgians. Most of them speak Georgian as their first language, though some people also speak Azerbaijani, Armenian, Russian or other languages. 
Georgians have their own unique three alphabets. They were invented by King Pharnavaz I of Iberia.
The most famous person to have come from Georgia is Josef Stalin.
Most Georgians are Christians, but there are some Muslims and Jews as well.
The currency of Georgia is called the "lari".
The Georgians are an ancient people. Their Capital Tbilisi was founded around AD 400, after the end of the Roman Empire . Western Georgia was part of the Roman empire before then. The Arabs captured it in 635 AD. The culture continued and they flourished through trade.
In the 900s Arabs were weaker and Georgia became their own country again. It was the major country in the region until the Mongols invaded in 1223. Georgia was part of the Mongolian empire for a century on and off until 1334, when King Giorgi V took over.
In the 1500s the Persians invaded Georgia four times from 1541-1544. In 1555 the Kings of Kartli ruled through the will of the Persian Shahs.
In 1783 The treaty of Georgievsk was signed between Catherine the Great of Russia and King Herekle, giving Russia the power to protect Georgia. Then, in 1798 the Persians burned Tbilisi to the ground.
From 1811 to 1918 Georgia was under the Tsar of Russia. Their culture survived intact. From 1918 to 1921 Georgia was independent, and then was part of the Soviet Union.
In 1991 Georgia declared their independence and they have been their own country ever since. There was a rough patch between 1994 and 1995 when the economy was poor, but now Georgia is a country with close ties with the United States. They are currently applying to NATO.
In 2008 Georgia was involved in the 2008 South Ossetia war.
Major statue of dicator joseph stalin removed for good on june 25 2010! 

</doc>
<doc id="14989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14989" title="First-person shooter">
First-person shooter

A first-person shooter (FPS) is a type of video game. In a first-person shooter, a player sees through the eyes of a character. The character uses a gun to shoot objects or enemies. The character travels and shoots in a three-dimensional world.
The first first-person shooters were made in the 1970s and 1980s.  In the 1970s, schools like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the University of Illinois made "Maze War" and "Spacism." These games were not sold. In 1980, arcades got a tank game called "Battlezone." In 1983, home computers got "Battlezone." It was the first successful first-person shooter sold to many people.
In the 1990s, first-person shooters were very popular. Many people played the first-person shooters "Wolfenstein 3D" and "Doom" because they were shareware. In 1998, "Half-Life" was made. "Half-Life" was different because it had a strong narrative.
First-person shooter examples:

</doc>
<doc id="14996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14996" title="Random-access memory">
Random-access memory

Random access memory (or simply RAM) is the memory or information storage in a computer that is used to store running programs and data for the programs. Data (information) in the RAM can be read and written quickly in any order. Normally, the random access memory is in the form of computer chips. Usually, the contents of RAM are accessible faster than other types of information storage but are lost every time the computer is turned off. Non-volatile random-access memory (NVRAM) keeps its data without using power, but is more expensive and works more slowly, so it is used in smaller amounts. 
Since the late 20th century, RAM uses transistors, usually MOSFETs, to store data.
Dynamic random access memory (DRAM) is the majority in computers. Modern computers use several types of DRAM. Before 2002, most computers used single data rate (SDR) RAM. Most computers made since use either double data rate (DDR), DDR2, or DDR3 RAM. DDR2 allows stored data to be moved and used more quickly than DDR, so that the computer's processor can keep working quickly without having to wait for data as long or as often, and DDR3 technology works even faster.
Different kinds of RAM usually will not work together in the same computer. Most computers can only use one kind of RAM. Some can use a small number of different kinds. Different kinds of RAM often have differently shaped connectors. This limits which RAM chips a particular computer model can use.
Static RAM (SRAM) needs power to keep its data, but doesn't need the computer to be active. Some SRAM chips are battery-backed. This type has a built-in battery to make sure no data is lost if the computer is turned off. Some computers have a little SRAM and mostly DRAM.
Information that the computer always needs, that does not often change, is normally kept in read-only memory (ROM), which does not lose its contents when the computer is turned off. Such items include the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System), which stores the most basic commands for the computer, telling it how it should start up. The BIOS also tells the computer how to input and output information. The BIOS can be compared to the part of your brain that tells your heart how to beat. This is an important part.

</doc>
<doc id="14998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14998" title="Read-only memory">
Read-only memory

Read-only memory (or simply ROM) is a type of computer memory. Unlike RAM, it keeps its contents even when the computer or device is turned off. Usually, ROM cannot be written to when the computer runs normally. ROM contains files such as the bootstrap and is mainly used for the BIOS which tells the computer how to start, or important programs like the firmware of certain devices, which usually does not need to be modified. Usually, ROM comes on computer chips.
There are different kinds of ROMs:

</doc>
<doc id="15002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15002" title="Integrated circuit">
Integrated circuit

An integrated circuit (more often called an IC, microchip, silicon chip, computer chip, or chip) is a piece of specially prepared silicon (or another semiconductor) into which a very complex electronic circuit is etched using photographic techniques. Silicon chips can contain computer processors, memory and special devices. The chip is very fragile and so is normally surrounded by a tough plastic package, and electrical contact with the chip is provided through metal legs sticking out of the package.
There are two main advantages of ICs over discrete circuits: cost and performance. Cost is low because millions of transistors are printed as a complete unit by photolithography and not constructed as one transistor at a time. Performance is higher since the components switch quickly, consuming little power.
ICs are designed for different purposes. A chip may be designed as a calculator, which only works as a calculator. Integrated circuits can be classified into analog, digital and mixed signal (both analog and digital on the same chip).
A semiconductor such as silicon can be controlled to conduct much or little. This allows making transistors that control each other. They are found in many household items such as radio, computers, telephones and other devices. Other semiconductor devices include solar cells, diodes, and LED’s (light emitting diode).
In 1958 and 1959, two people had the idea for an integrated circuit at almost exactly the same time. Transistors had become an everyday thing used in computers. They affected everything from radios to phones and at the time manufacturers needed a better product. Transistors were smaller than vacuum tubes, but for some of the newest electronics, for example missile guidance, they weren't small enough. 
One day in July, Jack Kilby was working at Texas Instruments when it occurred to him that all parts of a circuit, not just the transistor, could be made out of silicon. At the time, nobody was making capacitors or resistors out of semiconductors. This would change the future and make it easier to produce and sell integrated circuits. Kilby's boss liked the idea, and told him to get to work. By September 12, Kilby had built a working model, and on February 6, Texas Instruments filed a patent. Their first ""Solid Circuit"" was the size of a fingertip. 
Meanwhile, in California, another man had the same idea. In January of 1959, Robert Noyce was working at the small Fairchild Semiconductor startup company. He also realized a whole circuit could be put into a single chip. While Kilby had worked out the details of making individual components, Noyce thought of a much better way to connect the parts. The design was called a ""unitary circuit." All that detail paid off because on April 25, 1961, the patent office awarded the first patent for an integrated circuit to Robert Noyce while Kilby's application was still being analyzed. Today, both men are acknowledged as having independently conceived of the idea.
※ The difference between VLSI and ULSI is obscure.
Integrated circuits can be packaged as DIP (Dual in-line package), PLCC (Plastic leaded chip carrier), TSOP (Thin small-outline package), PQFP (Plastic Quad Flat Pack) and other chip package types. Some small ones are packaged for surface-mount technology. The transistors inside can be bipolar transistors in unusual circuits, such as those needing unusually high switching speeds. Most, however, are MOSFETs.

</doc>
<doc id="15004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15004" title="Moss">
Moss

Mosses are Bryophytes, which are non-vascular plants. They apparently evolved from liverworts: evidence from mitochondrial DNA suggests that this is the stem group from which mosses, hornworts and all other land plants evolved. 
Mosses do not have cells that move water like other plants- water must soak into them, like a sponge. A patch of moss is made of many tiny moss plants packed together so that they can hold water for as long as possible. They do not have roots, and could not get water from them if they did. Because they cannot find water, they live in two ways. They can live in places that are always wet; like near a spring, a river, or in a place where there is a lot of fog. They can also dry up when there is no water. This means that they can never live in dry places. 
They cannot grow very large because they could not move water to the top of the moss. The largest moss grows in New Zealand, and is about 30 cm tall. 
A moss does not make seeds. A moss does not have fruit. The green fuzzy part of a moss that is always there has only half of the moss DNA. When the moss has made lots of food and there is enough water, cells from different moss plants swim inside a clump of moss. Two cells combine to make a cell with a full set of moss DNA. This cell grows into a different kind of moss plant- but it gets all of its food from a green fuzzy moss plant. When the cell grows, it makes tiny spores instead of seeds. The spores are like dust. They come from a little box that grows up out of the moss. The box has a lid that falls off. Then the spores come out and float away. They will make more moss.
Scientists divide the mosses into eight groups. Five of these groups are small, with just a few species; most mosses are in the group called Bryopsida.

</doc>
<doc id="15006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15006" title="Function (mathematics)">
Function (mathematics)

In mathematics, a function is a prescription that assigns to every object of one set an object of another (or the same) set. In many cases the objects are numbers. A function may be seen as producing an output - the assigned object -, when given an input - the object from the first set. So a function is like a process. Each input "x" that is in the set "X" of inputs is paired with one output "y" in the set "Y" of outputs. The set "X" of inputs is called the "domain" and the set "Y" of possible outputs is called the "codomain". Then it is said that "y" is a function of "x, "and we write "y" ="f"("x"). "f" is the name of the function and one writes formula_1 (function from X to Y) to represent the three parts of the function, the domain, the codomain and the pairing process.
An example of a function is the factorial: formula_2. One gives a natural number formula_3 as the input and gets a natural number formula_4 as the output with the property that formula_5. The idea of a function has been set up to cover all sorts of possibilities. It is not necessary that the pairing is given by an equation. The main idea is that inputs and outputs are paired up somehow even if the process is very complicated or not obvious.
The inputs and outputs can be put in a table like the picture; this is easy if there is not too much data.
In the picture it can be seen that both 2 and 3 have been paired with c; this is not allowed in the other direction, 2 could not output c and d,each input can only have one output.
All of the formula_6 (c and d in the picture) are usually called the "image" set of formula_7 and the image set can be all of the codomain or not.One can say that the subset A of the codomain with the image set is f(A).
If the inputs and outputs have an order it is easy to plot them on a graph:
In that way the image come on the image of the set A.This will make a both of 2 and 3 have paired with is not allowed in the other direction,even one can make between codomain or not.So,we can make a conclusion that the subset A of the codomain is the image set is F(A).
In the 1690's Gottfried Leibniz and Johann Bernoulli used the word function in letters between them so the modern concept began at the same time as calculus.
In 1748 Leonhard Euler gave:
"A function of a variable quantity is an analytic expression composed in any way whatsoever of the variable quantity and numbers or constant quantities." and then
in 1755:
"If some quantities so depend on other quantities that if the latter are changed the former undergoes change, then the former quantities are called functions of the latter. This definition applies rather widely and includes all ways in which one quantity could be determined by other. If, therefore, x denotes a variable quantity, then all quantities which depend upon x in any way, or are determined by it, are called functions of x."
which is very modern.
Usually, Dirichlet is credited with the version used in schools until the second half of the 20th century:
"y is a function of a variable x, defined on the interval a < x < b, if to every value of the variable x in this interval there corresponds a definite value of the variable y. Also, it is irrelevant in what way this correspondence is established."
In 1939, the Bourbaki generalized the Dirichlet definition and gave a set theoretic version of the definition as a correspondence between inputs and outputs;this was used in schools from about 1960.
Finally in 1970, the Bourbaki gave the modern definition as a triple formula_8, with formula_9 (i.e. formula_10 and formula_11).
Elementary functions.
Inverse functions.

</doc>
<doc id="15017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15017" title="Miami">
Miami

Miami is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is a known tourist stop and it is well known for its Cuban, Puerto Rican and Haitian culture. Miami is the county seat (and largest city) of Miami-Dade County. 
Miami has a tropical monsoon climate. Summers have average temperatures of during the day and at night, with average monthly rainfall around . Winters have average temperatures of during the day and at night, with average monthly rainfall around .
Miami-Dade County Public Schools is the school district for public schools in Miami. There are also some private schools there. There are many colleges and universities in and around Miami. A few of these include Florida International University, the University of Miami, and Miami Dade College.
There are several professional sports teams that play in and around Miami, including Major League Baseball's Florida Marlins, the National Basketball Association's Miami Heat, the National Hockey League's Florida Panthers, and the National Football League's Miami Dolphins.
Also, three universities in and around Miami are members of NCAA Division I, the top division of college sports in the U.S.:
The population of Miami, Florida as of 2011 is 1.3 Million, with 41.4% suffering from poverty. According to the DNA North American Studies Institute, the racial-makeup of Miami is:
The Information there **Others** includes Asians, Arabs, and among others.

</doc>
<doc id="15018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15018" title="Grunge music">
Grunge music

Grunge music or Seattle sound (as it is called sometimes) is a style of rock music that has elements of punk rock and heavy metal. It started in the mid- 1980s in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, especially in the states of Washington and Oregon. It became more popular in the early 1990s. Grunge songs often had lyrics with nihilism, depression, unhappiness, or apathy as themes. The widespread use of heroin as a recreational drug found its way into the lyrics and careers of numerous grunge rockers, notably Kurt Cobain and Layne Staley of "Alice in Chains". 
The songs often had light (or clean) guitar sounds in the verses, and the high energy boost of distorted (or dirty) guitars in the choruses. The line-up for these bands was the typical rock band of guitars, bass, drums and vocal.
Although grunge as a movement became less popular by the last 1990s, its influence is still heard in many bands today.
Some well known grunge artists were:

</doc>
<doc id="15019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15019" title="Carly Simon">
Carly Simon

Carly Simon (born June 25, 1945) is an American singer-songwriter and occasional children's book author. She was born in New York City to businessman Richard L. Simon (1899-1960) and Andrea Heinemann Simon (1909-1994). She was raised in Riverdale, The Bronx. She has two sisters: singer Joanna Simon (born 1940) and composer Lucy Simon (born 1943). She also has a brother, photographer Peter Simon. 
Simon's songs include: "You're So Vain", "Nobody Does It Better", "Coming Around Again" and "Let the River Run".

</doc>
<doc id="15020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15020" title="Toto">
Toto

Toto is a soft rock group that formed in Los Angeles in 1978, that was popular in the early 1980's.
The current band members are Joseph Williams, Steve Lukather, David Paich, Steve Porcaro, Keith Carlock and David Hungate (as a touring musician).
The former band members were Fergie Frederiksen, Mike Porcaro, Jeff Porcaro, Simon Phillips, Greg Phillinganes and Bobby Kimball.

</doc>
<doc id="15030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15030" title="Jim Jones">
Jim Jones

James Warren "Jim" Jones (May 13, 1931 – November 18, 1978) was an American preacher and religious leader. His church was called the "People's Temple". It began as a Christian church (a member church of the Disciples of Christ), but over time became a cult. Jones and most of the members of his group died on November 18, 1978 in Guyana. In Jones' case, it was genuine suicide.
In November 1978, U.S. Congressman Leo Ryan led a fact-finding mission to Jonestown to investigate allegations of human rights abuses. Ryan's delegation included relatives of Temple members, Don Harris, an NBC network news reporter, an NBC cameraman and reporters for various newspapers. The group arrived in Georgetown on November 15. On November 17, Ryan's delegation traveled by airplane to Jonestown. 
The delegation left hurriedly the afternoon of November 18 after Temple member Don Sly attacked Ryan with a knife. The attack was thwarted, and the visit ended. Congressman Ryan and his people took with them fifteen People's Temple members who had expressed a wish to leave. At that time, Jones made no attempt to prevent their departure.
As members of Ryan's delegation boarded two planes at the airstrip, Jones' "Red Brigade" armed guards arrived in a tractor-pulled trailer and began shooting at the delegation. The guards killed Congressman Ryan and four others near a twin engine Otter aircraft. At the same time, one of the supposed defectors, Larry Layton, drew a weapon and began firing on members of the party that had already boarded a small Cessna. An NBC cameraman was able to capture footage of the first few seconds of the shooting at the Otter. The five killed at the airstrip were Congressman Ryan; Don Harris, a reporter from NBC; Bob Brown, a cameraman from NBC; San Francisco Examiner photographer Greg Robinson; and Temple member Patricia Parks. Surviving the attack were future Congresswoman Jackie Speier, then a staff member for Ryan; Richard Dwyer, the Deputy Chief of Mission from the U.S. Embassy at Georgetown; Bob Flick, a producer for NBC News; Steve Sung, an NBC sound engineer; Tim Reiterman, a "San Francisco Examiner" reporter; Ron Javers, a "San Francisco Chronicle" reporter; Charles Krause, a "Washington Post" reporter; and several defecting Temple members.<
Later that same day, 909 inhabitants of Jonestown, 303 of them children, died of apparent cyanide poisoning, in and around a pavilion. This was the greatest single loss of American civilian life in a non-natural disaster until the September 11, 2001 attacks. No video was taken during the mass suicide, though the FBI did recover a 45 minute audio recording of the suicide in progress.
On that tape, Jones tells Temple members that the Soviet Union, with whom the Temple had been negotiating a potential exodus for months, would not take them after the Temple had murdered Ryan and four others at a nearby airstrip. The reason given by Jones to commit suicide was consistent with his previously stated conspiracy theories of intelligence organizations allegedly conspiring against the Temple, that men would "parachute in here on us," "shoot some of our innocent babies" and "they'll torture our children, they'll torture some of our people here, they'll torture our seniors". Parroting Jones' prior statements that hostile forces would convert captured children to fascism, one temple member states "the ones that they take captured, they're gonna just let them grow up and be dummies".
Jones and several members argued that the group should commit "revolutionary suicide" by drinking cyanide-laced grape-flavored Flavor Aid. However, later released video made to show the best of Jonestown shows Jones opening a storage container full of Kool-Aid in large quantities. This may have been what was used to mix the "potion" (as was referred to in several statements on the tape recordings) along with a sedative. 
One member, Christine Miller, dissents toward the beginning of the tape. When members apparently cried, Jones counseled, "Stop this hysterics. This is not the way for people who are Socialists or Communists to die. No way for us to die. We must die with some dignity". Jones can be heard saying, "Don't be afraid to die," that death is "just stepping over into another plane" and that it's "a friend". At the end of the tape, Jones concludes: "We didn't commit suicide; we committed an act of revolutionary suicide protesting the conditions of an inhumane world". According to escaping Temple members, children were given the drink first and families were told to lie down together. Mass suicide had been previously discussed in simulated events called "White Nights" on a regular basis. 
Jones was found dead in a deck chair with a gunshot wound to his head that Guyanese coroner Cyrill Mootoo stated was consistent with a self-inflicted gun wound. However, Jones' son Stephan believes his father may have directed someone else to shoot him. An autopsy of Jones' body also showed levels of the barbiturate Pentobarbital which may have been lethal to humans who had not developed physiological tolerance. Jones' drug usage (including LSD and marijuana) was confirmed by his son, Stephan, and Jones' doctor in San Francisco.

</doc>
<doc id="15031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15031" title="Saludemos la Patria orgullosos">
Saludemos la Patria orgullosos

"Saludemos la Patria orgullosos" ("Salute the Motherland Proudly") is the national anthem of El Salvador.

</doc>
<doc id="15032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15032" title="Eritrea">
Eritrea

Eritrea is a country on the eastern coast of Africa. Its official name is The State of Eritrea.
Eritrea is located on the coast on the Red Sea. It is north of the Bab-el-Mandeb and the Horn of Africa. Eritrea has borders with the countries of Sudan, Ethiopia, and Djibouti. The land area of Eritrea is 101,000 km², and it is one of the smallest countries in Africa.
The population of Eritrea is about 5.6 million. About 0.5 million people live in Asmara. People from Eritrea are called Eritreans. Most of them speak "Tigrinya" or "Tigre" as their first language. The people usually use Tigrinya or Arabic for official business.
Eritrea has nine ethnic groups. These are the Afar people, the Bilen people, the Hedareb people, the Kunama, the Nara, the Rashaida, the Saho, the Tigre, and Tigray-Tigrinya.
The currency of Eritrea is called the Nakfa. Eritrea is a very poor country. Almost half of Eritrea's economy comes from Eritreans who live abroad. They send money home to their families. Most of the rest comes from farming.
Football and cycling are the most popular sports in Eritrea. In recent years, Eritrean athletes have also seen increasing success in the international arena.
Eritrea became an independent country on 24 May 1993. It is one of the newest countries in the world.
Many different countries have ruled the land that is now called Eritrea. Between 1885 and 1941 it was a colony of Italy. Between 1941 and 1952, the United Nations put it under the protection of United Kingdom. After 1952, Eritrea became a part of Ethiopia. This was the reason for a long civil war between the Eritreans and the government of Ethiopia.
Eventually, in 1993, Eritrea became an independent country after a vote by its people.
Eritrea is known for being the most oppressive country in Africa, sometimes considered to be the "North Korea of Africa". The nation has been accused of many human rights violations, severely limited freedoms, and many arbitrary (made-up) arrests.

</doc>
<doc id="15033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15033" title="Sanford Dole">
Sanford Dole

Sanford Dole (April 23, 1844 – June 9, 1926) was an American politician. Dole was a part of a group of businessmen who first forced a new Hawaiian national constitution on the country during King David Kalakaua's reign and then after his death removed Queen Liliuokalani from the throne and took control of the country in 1893. They removed the queen by threatening to use the warships of the U.S. Navy had in Honolulu harbor. 
Queen Liliuokalani did not want her people to be harmed so she agreed to do what the revolutionists wanted. The Queen went to Washington and talked to the American President, Grover Cleveland. Cleveland decided that this had been an act of war against the Hawaiian Kingdom. Cleveland ordered Sanford Dole, the President of the newly formed republic, to make Liliuokalani the queen again. 
Dole refused to do this. He said that President Cleveland was interfering. Dole remained the president of Hawaii from 1894 until 1900 after Cleveland was elected out of office. The newly elected American president William McKinley signed the Newsland Resolution. The Newsland Resolution made Hawaii a territory of the United States. This ended any legal or military chance of restoring the Queen and the Hawaiian Kingdom.
Dole served as governor of Hawaii from 1900 until 1903, he was the first when he accepted a position as United States District Court judge. He remained a judge until 1915.

</doc>
<doc id="15034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15034" title="Ancient Egypt">
Ancient Egypt

Ancient Egypt, or the Egyptian Empire, was a society that began about 3150 BC, and lasted until 20 BC when it was invaded by the Roman Empire. 
It grew along the River Nile and was at its most powerful in the second millennium BC. Its land went from the Nile delta to Nubia, a kingdom which today is mostly in the Sudan.
For most of its history, Egypt was prosperous, since the water from the Nile made sure that the Egyptians would have good crops. Crops were grown after the Nile flood water went down. 
The Egyptians created a way of writing using hieroglyphs, built huge temples and tombs, traded with other areas, and had a powerful army. Their religion had many gods, and its priests were powerful and rich. Their rulers, called Pharaohs, were thought to be close to the gods.
Archaeologists, who study objects left by ancient people, have found that people have lived along the Nile for a very long time. The fertile flood plains of the Nile allowed people to begin farming. By the 10th millennium BC, the people in Egypt had begun growing cereal grains like wheat and barley. Because they were farming, they stayed in one place, and because they were settled, their society became more complex. This was an important step in the history of human civilization.
This period in Egyptian history is called "predynastic", as it happened before the large dynastic kingdoms were formed.
By about 5500 BC, small tribes living in the Nile valley had developed into a series of cultures. Each had begun farming crops and animals. Each had their own types of pottery and personal items, such as combs, bracelets, and beads. In Upper Egypt, the south part of the country, the Badarian was one of the earliest cultures. It is known for its high quality pottery, stone tools, and its use of copper. They were followed by the Amratian and Gerzian cultures. They had better tools and other new ideas. In Gerzian times, the people were making contact with Lower Egypt, Palestine and the Byblos coast (now Lebanon).
The different periods of ancient Egyptian history are:
The Intermediate periods included times when the traditional system broke down, the country was split, or invaded by foreign rulers. Egypt's culture and climate was relatively stable, compared to other parts of the Middle East. Nevertheless, they had some periods when their government was challenged and sometimes overthrown.
Ancient Egypt was split up into many different districts called "sepats". The first divisions were created during the Predynastic Period, but then, they were small city-states that ruled themselves. When the first pharaoh came to power, the sepats remained and were much like the counties in many countries today. They stayed basically the same for a long time – there were 42 of them, and each was ruled by a governor chosen by the pharaoh. In later years the districts were called nomes and the governor was called a nomarch.
Ancient Egypt had a lot of different taxes, but there was no real money, so people paid each other with goods or work. The person who watched the tax collection was a "scribe", and every tax collector in Egypt had to tell him every day how many taxes they had collected. Each person paid different taxes based on the work that they did: craftsmen paid in goods, hunters and fishermen paid with food, and every single household in the country had to pay a labour tax every year by helping with work for the country like mining or for canals. A lot of rich Egyptians paid poorer people to do this for them.
The language can be divided into six time periods:
Egypt had writing called hieroglyphics, which is one of the two oldest written languages (the other is Sumerian cuneiform). 
Hieroglyphic writing dates to c. 3200 BC, and is composed of some 500 symbols. A hieroglyph can represent a word, a sound, or a silent determinative (which makes clear what the sign means). The same symbol can serve different purposes in different contexts. Hieroglyphs were for public purposes, used on stone monuments and in tombs. It was art, and often it was political propaganda.
The script used by priests for everyday writing on papyrus, wood or cloth.
In day-to-day writing, scribes used a cursive form of writing, called hieratic, which was quicker and easier. While formal hieroglyphs may be read in rows or columns in either direction (though typically written from right to left), hieratic was always written from right to left, usually in horizontal rows.
The script used by ordinary people. A new form of writing, Demotic, became the main writing style. It is this form of writing and formal hieroglyphs which accompanies the Greek text on the Rosetta Stone.
The Coptic script is a modified Greek alphabet. The Coptic language is the last stage of the Egyptian language (modern Egyptians speak a dialect of Arabic).
Some ancient Egyptian literature has survived to the present day. There are teaching texts, such as the "Maxims of Ptahhotep", the "Instructions of Amenemope", and the Ebers papyrus. The Ebers papyrus is one of the earliest medical texts ever found.
There are also poems and stories. 
Religion was very important to Ancient Egyptians. To Egyptians, animals were holy and were worshipped. Because of this, Egyptians domesticated, or made pets of, animals very early and took very good care of them. The centre of any Egyptian town was the temple, and this building was used for everything from the town hall to a university in addition to its religious services. 
Because they were so religious, Egyptians created a lot of art of their gods. This art shows all different kinds of divine, or holy, creatures including the pharaoh, who was thought to be a god. 
The afterlife was also very important to Egyptians and they are known for mummifying their dead. These mummies are important to scientists today because they tell them about how the Egyptians lived.
All the gods were important but some were more important than others.
The rich fertile soil came from annual inundations of the Nile River. The ancient Egyptians were thus able to produce an abundance of food, allowing the population to devote more time and resources to cultural, technological, and artistic pursuits. In ancient Egypt taxes were assessed based on the amount of land a person owned.
Farming in Egypt was dependent on the cycle of the Nile River. The Egyptians recognized three seasons: "Akhet" (flooding), "Peret" (planting), and "Shemu" (harvesting). The flooding season lasted from June to September, depositing on the river's banks a layer of mineral-rich silt ideal for growing crops. After the floodwaters had receded, the "growing season" lasted from October to February. Farmers plowed and planted seeds in the fields, which were irrigated with ditches and canals. Egypt received little rainfall, so farmers relied on the Nile to water their crops. From March to May, farmers used sickles to harvest their crops, which were then threshed with a flail to separate the straw from the grain. Winnowing removed the chaff from the grain, and the grain was then ground into flour, brewed to make beer, or stored for later use.
Flax plants were grown for the fibers of their stems. These fibers were split along their length and spun into thread, which was used to weave sheets of linen and to make clothing. Papyrus growing on the banks of the Nile River was used to make paper. Vegetables and fruits were grown in garden plots, close to habitations and on higher ground, and had to be watered by hand. Vegetables included leeks, garlic, melons, squashes, pulses, lettuce, and other crops, in addition to grapes that were made into wine.
The Egyptians believed that a balanced relationship between people and animals was an essential element of the cosmic order; thus humans, animals and plants were believed to be members of a single whole. Cattle were the most important livestock; livestock were taxed; the size of a herd reflected the prestige and importance of the estate or temple which owned them. In addition to cattle, the ancient Egyptians kept sheep, goats, and pigs. Poultry such as ducks, geese, and pigeons were captured in nets and bred on farms, where they were force-fed with dough to fatten them. The Nile provided a plentiful source of fish. Bees were also domesticated from at least the Old Kingdom, and they provided both honey and wax.
The ancient Egyptians used donkeys and oxen as beasts of burden. They plowed the fields and trampled seed into the soil. The slaughter of a fattened ox was part of an offering ritual. Horses were introduced by the Hyksos in the Second Intermediate Period, and the camel, although known from the New Kingdom, was not used as a beast of burden until the Late Period. There is also evidence to suggest that elephants were briefly used in the Late Period, but largely abandoned due to lack of grazing land. Dogs, cats and monkeys were common family pets, while more exotic pets imported from the heart of Africa, such as lions, were reserved for royalty. Herodotus observed that the Egyptians were the only people to keep their animals with them in their houses. During the Predynastic and Late periods, the worship of the gods in their animal form was extremely popular, such as the cat goddess Bastet and the ibis god Thoth, and these animals were bred in large numbers on farms for the purpose of ritual sacrifice.
Ancient Egyptians had some advanced medical knowledge for their time. They performed surgery, set broken bones and even knew about medicines. Some medicines the Ancient Egyptians used are honey and breast milk or gazelle's milk. Not only did they have medicinal values, they also are believed to have been used to ward off evil spirits and demons. The easiest way to see how good they were at medicine is to look at the medical papyri which have survived to the present day. The Edwin Smith papyrus is the world's oldest surviving surgical document, from about 1600 B.C. The text describes anatomy, and the examination, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of 48 types of medical problems in detail.
Ancient Egyptian pyramids are shaped stone masonry structures. They are the best known pyramid structures, and are some of the largest ever buildings. Over 130 pyramids have been discovered in Egypt. Most were built on the western side of the River Nile in desert areas. Egyptian pyramids are often contain chambers and passages. The pyramids were built as the burial places of the Egyptian kings before the start of the old kingdom until the end of the middle kingdom. Because the Egyptians kept written records, we know about the building of some pyramids.
The Great Pyramid at Giza is the largest and most famous pyramid. It was built for Pharaoh Khufu. It is over 140 metres high and took 20 years to build. It is listed as one of the seven wonders of the world. The step pyramid at Saqqara is the earliest pyramid which is still standing today. This was built in 2630 BC. It was a burial place of the Pharaoh Djoser. The architect of the step pyramid was Imhotep.
Engineering was an important activity in Egypt. Engineers were able to measure and survey the distance between two points. They designed and made the pyramids, which are nearly perfect geometrically. They could make cement, and developed large irrigation networks. 
Science was also important. Mathematics was used in Egypt, and the golden ratio was used in the construction of the Pyramids.
Another ability of the Egyptians was glass making. Archaeologists have found many pieces of beads, jars, figures and ornaments in tombs across the nation. In 2005, the remains of an ancient glassmaking factory was found.

</doc>
<doc id="15035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15035" title="Alexander the Great">
Alexander the Great

Alexander the Great (356 BC323 BC) is also known as Alexander III of Macedonia. He was King of Macedonia and conqueror of the Persian Empire. He is considered one of the greatest military geniuses of all time. Alexander was born in 356 BC in Pella, the ancient capital of Macedonia. He was the son of Philip II, King of Macedonia, and Olympias, the princess of neighboring Epirus. Alexander spent his childhood watching his father transform Macedonia into a great military power, and watching him win victory after victory on the battlefields throughout the Balkans. 
When he was 13, Philip hired the Greek philosopher Aristotle to be Alexander’s personal tutor. During the next three years, Aristotle gave Alexander a training in rhetoric and literature, and stimulated his interest in science, medicine, and philosophy, all of which became important in Alexander’s later life. 
In 340 BC, Philip assembled a large Macedonian army and invaded Thrace. He left 16 year old Alexander with the power to rule Macedonia in his absence as regent. But as the Macedonian army advanced deep into Thrace, the Thracian tribe of Maedi bordering north-eastern Macedonia rebelled and posed a danger to the country. Alexander assembled an army, led it against the rebels, and with swift action defeated the Maedi, captured their stronghold, and renamed it Alexandropolis. 
Alexander became king of Macedonia in 336 BC when his father was assassinated. He was awarded the generalship of Greece and used this authority to launch his father's military expansion plans. In 334 BC, he invaded Persian-ruled Asia Minor. He began a series of campaigns that lasted ten years. Alexander broke the power of Persia in a series of decisive battles, most notably the battles of Issus and Gaugamela. He overthrew the Persian King Darius III and conquered the entire Persian Empire. At that point, Alexander's empire stretched from the Adriatic Sea to the Indus River.
He invaded India in 326 BC, and defeated , who ruled a region in the Punjab. Afterwards they became allies.
Alexander died in Babylon in 323 BC, of unknown causes. Poison, murder, or a fever after a battle have all been suggested. At his death, he was planning a series of campaigns that would have begun with an invasion of Arabia. In the years following his death, a series of civil wars tore his empire apart. Several states were then ruled by the Diadochi, Alexander's surviving generals and heirs. They fought and conquered each other. The largest surviving piece was the Seleucid Empire.
 

</doc>
<doc id="15037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15037" title="Brisbane">
Brisbane

Brisbane (local nickname "Brissie") is the capital city and biggest city of Queensland in Australia. It has a population of 2.2 million people and is the third biggest city in Australia, after Sydney and Melbourne.
The central city is on the Brisbane River, inland from Moreton Bay.
Brisbane is named after the Brisbane River, which is named after Sir Thomas Brisbane who was Governor of New South Wales from 1821 to 1825. 
A penal colony was founded at Redcliffe, to the north, in 1824. It was moved to North Quay in 1825. The first free settlers moved to Brisbane in 1842. Brisbane became the capital city when Queensland became a separate colony from New South Wales in 1859.
Brisbane has more than 50 skyscrapers more than tall.
Brisbane has a humid subtropical climate. Summers are hot and wet. Winters are warm and quite dry.
Thunderstorms happen a lot from November to March every year. Very heavy thunderstorms caused big floods and a lot of damage in February 1893, January 1974, January 2011 and January 2013.
The warmest recorded temperature in Brisbane was on 26 January 1940 and the coldest was on 2 July 1896.
Sunshine hours are not typical for a location in the southern hemisphere. While the sunniest month, November sees over 250 bright hours, the dullest month, February, equivalent of August in the northern hemisphere, has less than 200 hours.
The City of Brisbane, run by Brisbane City Council, covers a big part of the suburbs close to the city. The outer suburbs are part of Logan City to the south, Moreton Bay Region to the north, the City of Ipswich to the south west, Redland City to the south east, with a small part in the Scenic Rim Region to the west.
Brisbane has many universities and colleges including University of Queensland, Queensland University of Technology and Griffith University. The Australian Catholic University, Central Queensland University, James Cook University, University of Southern Queensland and the University of the Sunshine Coast each have a campus in Brisbane.
There are three big vocational school in Brisbane - Brisbane North Institute of TAFE, Metropolitan South Institute of TAFE and Southbank Institute of TAFE.
Most primary schools and secondary schools are run by the Queensland Government. There are also private, Catholic and other Christian schools.
Brisbane hosted the 1982 Commonwealth Games, the 1988 World Exposition (called World Expo 88), and some games at the 1987 Rugby World Cup and 2001 Cricket World Cup.
Big sports stadiums include the Brisbane Cricket Ground, Lang Park, Ballymore Stadium and the Queensland Sport and Athletics Centre.
Brisbane has teams in all Australian sports competitions.

</doc>
<doc id="15039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15039" title="Hawaiian language">
Hawaiian language

The Hawaiian language () is the language of native Hawaiians. "Aloha" and "mahalo" are probably its most recognized words. The word "lanai" is also used in English. (That is different from "Lanai", the name of one of Hawaii's islands.)
There are related languages in the Marquesas, Raratonga, Samoa, some islands of what is now Fiji and New Zealand. Their languages have changed a lot over the last two thousand years or so. However, native speakers of all these languages can still understand each other.
The language has only 12 letters (A, E, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, U, W). There are 13 if you count the okina. The okina is a real letter and came from some "K" sounds in old Polynesian languages. The okina is pronounced as a glottal stop, like the break in the middle of the word "Uh-oh". The okina is written as a backward apostrophe (small numeral 6 above and before a vowel).
The Niihau dialect still uses some T, S, R and "hints" of B sounds. People who live on that island are the only people who still speak Hawaiian only and their dialect is the most true to its roots.
Every Hawaiian syllable ends with a vowel. There are some who think that makes the language sound "musical". Some think that final vowels helped the speakers remember chanted traditional stories and genealogies. Most linguists, however, think it's because of internal phonological processes.
There are two forms of each of the five vowels. One is regular, where the vowel is pronounced as a Spaniard would say it. The other is extended, in written form, where a horizontal bar called a kahako is over the vowel. The meanings (and pronunciations) of words spelled the same but with or without the appropriate kahakos or okinas can be very different, sometimes even embarrassing.
One might think that learning the language would be relatively easy, but that only applies to na keiki (children) who have never learned the 26 letters that English speakers use. There is a children's rhyme that goes on for a couple minutes (and written, probably a couple dozen lines) that consists of nothing but both versions of the letters a, i and the okina. It talks of him (ia) eating (ai) his (iaia) fish (ia). 
When the missionaries made a written form of Hawaiian Language, they did not write the kahakos or okinas; leaving it to the context to make the meanings evident. 
Since the intent was to translate the Bible ("Paipala"), natives forgave some of the confusion created. They still learned how unintended "double entendres" could be funny in written form. When Hawaiian language newspapers started, native-speaking writers and editors were careful to avoid these (the type that was available to "set" did not include such "specialty" characters).

</doc>
<doc id="15041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15041" title="Skinhead">
Skinhead

Skinheads, named after their short haircuts, are members of a subculture that originated in Britain in late 1960s, where they were closely tied to the Rude Boys and the Mods. They shave their heads, because originally most of them were workers in factories and they had to be bald, so their hair could not get caught in the machines. 
Traditional skinheads identify with the original skinhead movement ("The Spirit of '69") in music, style, and/or working class pride. Skinheads listen to ska, rocksteady, reggae, Oi! and punk music.
People who are not part of the group often see Skinheads as being politically close to the Neo-Nazi (or White Power) movement. Often Skinheads are seen as part of that movement. This is wrong, given that there are many young people in the movement who have no political views at all. Many Skinheads are also not violent, unless they are provoked.

</doc>
<doc id="15044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15044" title="Anime">
Anime

Anime (アニメ) is Japanese for "Animation" or Cartoon. In Japan, anime is the word used for all animation. Outside of Japan, the term anime refers to Japanese Animation or Animation similar in style to Japanese Animation. This article is about Japanese animation.
Some anime is drawn by hand, but anime can also be made with computers. There are many types of anime; you can find anime about sports, magic, or romance. These are just some examples. Anime are shown on television, on DVD and VHS, and are used in video games. Also, some anime cartoons are just movies, but they have cartoon characters and animation instead of real people and places. Anime is often based on Japanese comics that are called manga and graphic novels. Sometimes live action (not animation) movies and television series are based on an anime.
The history of anime begins around 1900, when Japanese filmmakers tried out ways of animation at the same time as the United States, Russia, Germany and France.
The filmmakers in Japan did not have a lot of money to make their movies and not a lot of places where they could film their movies. The people that the filmmakers could use as actors in their movies was also a problem for making Japanese movies. Japanese people look different from people in other places in the world, and it was hard for filmmakers to make a movie about places other than Japan with Japanese actors. Movie makers liked animation because then they could have animator draw other places and people that could not be filmed in a normal movie, and the animators could be very creative with the cartoons they made.
During the 1970s, more and more people started to like manga. At the same time, manga were used as the starting point to make anime with the same characters and stories. Animators would take the drawings done by a manga artist and the stories the manga artist wrote, and turn them into the stories and characters of a similar anime. At that time Osamu Tezuka became very popular. Now he is called a "legend" and the "god of manga". Tezuka and other pioneers of anime made a lot of types of stories and styles that are common to anime today. The giant robot genre (known as "mecha" outside Japan) began with manga and anime from Tezuka's ideas. Robot anime like Gundam and Macross became classics in the 1980s. Today, the robot genre is still very popular in Japan and worldwide. In the 1980s, anime became very popular in Japan, and saw an increase in production. (Manga is much more popular than anime in Japan). There are a lot of different kinds of anime that many different kinds of people like besides Mecha, and there are types of anime based on the age of the people who might like it or the subject of the anime.
Very popular stories in anime and manga are often translated into other languages, and the words used in the anime or manga will be put into another language where they mean the same thing. That way, people who live outside of Japan and who do not understand Japanese (the language used for dialogue in anime and manga in Japan) can also understand the stories. If a manga or anime is not translated by a company in another country, sometimes people in that country will translate the story to share with other people for free before a company translates it for the general public. This is good because it allows more people to watch animes, but some companies think it is stealing.
In the late 1980s, lots of people in countries other than Japan started to like anime too. In the United States, giant robot anime became popular. In Europe, anime for children became popular. Today, many different kinds of anime are popular all around the world. Anime helped spread in popularity thanks to the internet.

</doc>
<doc id="15047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15047" title="Sudan">
Sudan

Sudan is a country in Africa. The official name of Sudan is The Republic of Sudan. Its capital is Khartoum.
Sudan borders by Egypt to the north, the Red Sea to the northeast, Eritrea and Ethiopia to the east, South Sudan to the south, the Central African Republic to the southwest, Chad to the west, and Libya to the northwest.
Sudan used to have the largest area of all the countries in Africa. However, on July 9, 2011, the southern part of the country left and became a new country, South Sudan. Sudan now has an area of 1,861,484 km, and is the third largest country in Africa by area.
The Nile flows through Sudan, providing water to crops. There are many different tribal and ethnic groups of people, though the country is mainly divided between the north, which has more Arabic people, and the south, which has more people of African descent.
People from Sudan are called Sudanese. About 45 million people live in Sudan. About 4 million of these live in Khartoum or in towns that are joined to it.
Arabic is the official language of Sudan, but people also speak "Nubian", "Nilotic" and English. Many other languages are spoken in different parts of the country as well.
Most Sudanese people have Islam as their religion. A small number are Christian. Some people have other religions that are called tribal (local) beliefs.
The currency of Sudan is called the Sudanese Pound (Jinneh).
The leader of Sudan right now is President Omar Hassan al-Bashir.
For several years, the Darfur conflict has been going on in Sudan. Over 400,000 people have died in it.
<noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="15048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15048" title="OpenBSD">
OpenBSD

OpenBSD is a secure, free computer operating system. It can run on many types of computers, including Intel PCs and Apple Computer's PowerPCs.
Like the other open source BSDs and unlike with most Linux operating systems, the whole operating system is developed by the same group of people with OpenBSD. Programmes from other sources are available separately.
OpenBSD is often the first to add new security tools to make it harder to break, developers have also carefully read through the programming code to check for mistakes more than once. The project is led by Theo de Raadt from Calgary, Alberta, Canada and is released under conditions which put few restrictions on people that use the source code, the BSD licence.
OpenBSD releases new versions every six months, each version is supported for one year after release. OpenBSD 4.4 was released November 1, 2008.
OpenBSD's first mascot was a BSD daemon with a halo, it was replaced with Puffy, a pufferfish, on June 15th, 2000, with the release of OpenBSD 2.7.
The operating system's developers add in many new technologies to make the system more secure, technologies like W^X, Stack Protection, malloc reconfigurations and ssh to replace telnet and rlogin.
Because it is so secure, OpenBSD is often used as a firewall and for other security-related jobs. It is also usable for on a desktop computer, it can act and look like one of several other operating systems like Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows, and others.

</doc>
<doc id="15049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15049" title="1170">
1170


</doc>
<doc id="15050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15050" title="1883">
1883


</doc>
<doc id="15051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15051" title="1638">
1638


</doc>
<doc id="15056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15056" title="1741">
1741


</doc>
<doc id="15059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15059" title="Civil war">
Civil war

A civil war is a war that takes place between two or more groups in one country. While civil wars can take place for many of reasons, there are two common reasons.
The first is because the different groups disagree about who should be in charge, or how the country should be run. If two political parties disagree about the result of an election, this might lead to a war if the two sides cannot or would not come to an agreement.
The second is because one group of people does not want to be part of the country anymore. This is known as a war of secession. Lots of people living in a certain area might decide that they want independence to make their own country. Very few national leaders would be happy to give up land that is part of that country, and a war could result.
Sometimes the people who want to break away do not necessarily want to form a whole new country, but they might want more autonomy over their affairs. This happens sometimes when different ethnic groups belong to the same nation.
Civil wars can be just as destructive and damaging as international wars. Civil wars can continue on for many years. This is because civil wars tend to become complicated very quickly and differ. A civil war might start between two sides, but groups might break up and the new, different sides could start fighting each other. Groups of people who were not involved at the beginning can easily be sucked in, as they start getting weapons to defend themselves against both sides. Civil wars with many different sides all fighting each other have occurred. Sometimes foreign countries help one side.
Civil wars include:

</doc>
<doc id="15060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15060" title="1175">
1175


</doc>
<doc id="15061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15061" title="Crocodile">
Crocodile

A crocodile is a large amphibious reptile. It lives mostly in large tropical rivers, where it is an ambush predator. One species, the Australian saltie, also travels in coastal salt water. In very dry climates, crocodiles may aestivate and sleep out the dry season.
The modern type of crocodile appeared first in the Eocene period, but its ancestors go much further back, to the Upper Triassic. The name "Crocodile" is also used for any member of the order "Crocodilia". They are basically Archosaurs, a group which also includes the dinosaurs. There are many species of Crocodiles including the American, slender-snouted and Orinoco crocodile.
The crocodile can snap its jaw shut quickly and with much power. But crocodiles have very little strength opening their jaws and a person could hold the jaw shut with their hands.
Crocodiles range in size from African Dwarf crocodiles that measure rarely over 5 feet to saltwater crocodiles which can approach 23 feet.
Crocodiles live in rivers, lakes and dams in parts of America, Asia, Africa and Australia. Some of the crocodiles from Australia live in salt water. These saltwater crocodiles are normally bigger than the ones that live in fresh water. While crocodiles spend most of their time in water, they can come out and move around on the land. Crocodiles cannot breathe underwater: they breathe air, just like people. They can hold their breath for a maximum of about two hours underwater. Some people feel threatened by crocodiles because they can be violent. However, some people find them fascinating.
Their colors range from brown to grey and have different patterns covering them.
They have many shapes and they differ in color. They have sharp claws and teeth.
They can also be a greenish-brownish color.
Crocodile tongues are not free. They are held in place by a membrane that can not move. Crocodiles are unable to stick out their tongues.
Although there is not much difference in their life-style, biologists put alligators in a separate family. Gharials are also in a separate family, and Caimans are a sub-family of alligators.
The difference between an alligator and a crocodile is that one can not see the fourth tooth in the lower jaw of an alligator when the alligator's mouth is closed. One can see the fourth tooth in the lower jaw of a crocodile when its mouth is closed.
Crocodiles are said to have narrower snouts than alligators , but there are also some crocodiles with wide snouts.

</doc>
<doc id="15068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15068" title="ZZT">
ZZT

ZZT is a computer game made by Tim Sweeney. People can make other games with this game's engine.

</doc>
<doc id="15070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15070" title="Centre">
Centre

Centre (British spelling) or center (U.S. spelling) means the middle of something.
The word "centre" often means places or buildings where an activity takes place. Common examples are:

</doc>
<doc id="15071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15071" title="Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky">
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky

Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky (, "Pëtr Il’ič Čajkovskij"; ) (born Kamsko-Votkinsk, 7 May 1840; died St Petersburg, 6 November 1893) was a Russian composer who lived in the Romantic period. He is one of the most popular of all Russian composers. He wrote melodies which were usually dramatic and emotional. He learned a lot from studying the music of Western Europe, but his music also sounds very Russian. His compositions include 11 operas, 3 ballets, orchestral music, chamber music and over 100 songs. His famous ballets ("Swan Lake", "The Nutcracker " and "Sleeping Beauty") have some of the best known tunes in all of romantic music.
Tchaikovsky’s father was a Ukrainian who worked as a mining engineer. His mother’s grandfather was a Frenchman who had moved to Russia. She was a nervous woman and Tchaikovsky may have gotten his nervous character from her. Tchaikovsky was only five when he started taking piano lessons. He was soon better than his teacher. The family had an orchestrion (a kind of musical box) which played some tunes from classical music by Mozart, Bellini, Donizetti and Rossini.
In 1848 the family moved to St. Petersburg. Tchaikovsky was unhappy and unsettled as he was often separated from his family who moved several times. In 1854 his mother died. He tried to comfort himself by playing music. He spent nine years at the School of Jurisprudence. When he left school, he had to get a job. For four years he worked as a clerk in the Ministry of Justice. Then the composer and pianist Anton Rubinstein helped him to become a music student at the newly opened conservatory in St. Petersburg. He learned to play the flute and the organ as well as the piano and learning all about composition. In 1866 he moved to Moscow where Nikolai Rubinstein, the brother of Anton, encouraged him to write music with a Russian character. He worked very hard, and was often exhausted, but he managed to finish his First Symphony, which was performed in 1868.
Tchaikovsky met some famous musicians including the French composer Berlioz who was visiting Moscow. He also became friendly with the Russian composer Mily Balakirev who was very helpful and persuaded him to rewrite one of his works several times until it was very good. The result was a piece for orchestra called "Romeo and Juliet" which soon became internationally known. Balakirev had four friends who were composers. This circle of friends is often called “The Five” or “The Mighty Handful”. They were interested in using Russian folktunes in their music. Tchaikovsky was never a member of the group, although he liked their ideas. Tchaikovsky was different to them: he had learned music at the Conservatoire where he had studied Western music. The harmonies that he used in his works were often not suitable for Russian folktunes. He wrote many songs which are romantic in character. One of them, "None But the Lonely Heart", is especially well known in English.
By now, Tchaikovsky was writing works which were to make him very famous. He wrote two more symphonies, and his First Piano Concerto, one of the most popular of all piano concertos, was given its first performance in Boston. He was also writing operas and chamber music.
In 1875, Tchaikovsky began making a long tour of Europe. He liked Bizet’s opera "Carmen", but Wagner’s operas from the "Ring cycle " bored him. In 1877 he finished "Swan Lake", the first of his three ballets. The audience did not like it at first because the dancers were not very good.
Tchaikovsky was a closeted homosexual. In the summer of 1877 Tchaikovsky decided to marry. His wife was called Antonina Milyukova. The marriage was a disaster. A few weeks after the marriage, he ran away and never lived with her again.
Another woman was to become important in his life, but in a very different way. It was to be a very unusual relationship. Her name was Nadezhda von Meck. She was the wife of a rich man. She loved Tchaikovsky’s music and promised him that she would pay him a lot of money every month so long as he promised her that he would never try to meet her. Tchaikovsky no longer needed to work. He was able to give up his teaching job at the Conservatory. For several years he spent the winters in Europe and the summers in Russia. Nadezhda and Tchaikovsky wrote long letters to one another, often quite passionate and dreamy; they talked about love, life and how they wanted it to change, but they never saw one another. He had plenty of time to write music: he wrote several operas including "Eugene Onegin" and his Fourth and Fifth Symphonies, the Violin Concerto, the Serenade for Strings, "Capriccio Italienne" and the "1812 Overture". Tchaikovsky loved Nadezhda very much but never actually told her his true feelings.
By 1885, Tchaikovsky had got tired of travelling around. He rented a country house in Klin, just outside Moscow. He lived a regular life, reading, walking in the forest, composing during the day and playing music with his friends in the evenings. He started to have more confidence as a conductor and toured Europe twice, conducting in Leipzig, Berlin, Prague, Hamburg, Paris and London. In 1889 he finished his second ballet, "The Sleeping Beauty" and the next year, while staying in Florence, he wrote his famous opera "The Queen of Spades" based on a story by Pushkin. Later that year Nadezhda von Meck wrote to him that she had lost nearly all her money and could not continue to support him.
In the spring of 1891 he was invited to conduct in New York where the Carnegie Hall was being opened. He also conducted concerts in Baltimore and Philadelphia. When he returned to Russia he wrote his last ballet "The Nutcracker" and his , known as the “Pathétique” which was dedicated to his nephew with whom he was passionately in love. This work is often considered his best. It was performed in St Petersburg on 16 October 1893. Five days later he suddenly became ill with cholera, a disease many people were catching in the city. Tchaikovsky died four days later. Many people think that he committed suicide by deliberately drinking contaminated water. He may have wanted to (or even been forced to) commit suicide in order to avoid a scandal because he was having a relationship with a nephew of an important aristocratic man. Exactly what happened is still a mystery.

</doc>
<doc id="15078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15078" title="BBC Radio 1">
BBC Radio 1

BBC Radio 1 (often known as Radio 1) is an international radio station that is based in the United Kingdom. It is owned by BBC and BBC Radio. Radio 1 started broadcasting at 7.00 am on September 30, 1967. Tony Blackburn presented the first programme on the station.
Radio 1 mainly plays popular music throughout the day, and often plays alternative music genres after 7 pm. This includes electronic dance, rock or just interviews. The station is meant to be listened to mainly by people aged 15–29. 
Before the launch of Radio 1, the BBC ran three radio stations (the BBC Light Programme, the BBC Home Service and the BBC Third Programme), but these were considered old fashioned and were closed down in 1967. They were replaced with Radio 1, 2, 3 and 4. 
The launch of Radio 1 in 1967 was because of the popularity of pirate radio stations such as Radio Caroline. They had been outlawed by Act of Parliament, and the BBC needed to provide alternative radio stations.
Radio 1 also has a sister station, BBC Radio 1Xtra.

</doc>
<doc id="15081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15081" title="1232">
1232


</doc>
<doc id="15082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15082" title="1910">
1910

1910 (MCMX) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1910s.

</doc>
<doc id="15083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15083" title="1443">
1443

1443 was a common year. It started on a Tuesday.

</doc>
<doc id="15086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15086" title="1558">
1558


</doc>
<doc id="15087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15087" title="Sea level">
Sea level

The sea level is the average height of the ocean (informally called the "sea"). The word 'average' must be used because the height of the sea changes with the tides. The height of mountains, countries, and so on, is almost always given as "above sea level".
Sea level is generally used to refer to mean sea level (MSL). This is the an average level for the surface of one or more of Earth's oceans. 
MSL is a type of standardised geodetic reference point. It is used, for example, as a chart datum in cartography and marine navigation. In aviation it is the standard sea level at which atmospheric pressure is measured. This is used to calibrate altitude, which influences aircraft flight levels. A common mean sea-level standard is the midpoint between a mean low and mean high tide at a particular place.
Sea levels can be affected by many factors. They have varied greatly over geological time scales. The careful measurement of variations in MSL offers insights into ongoing climate change. The present slight rise in sea levels is offered as proof of ongoing global warming.
In Earth's long history, the continents and sea floor have changed due to plate tectonics. This affects global sea level because it alters the depths of various ocean basins, and also changes the distribution of glaciers. 
Over most of geologic time, the long-term mean sea level has been higher than today (see graph). Only at the Permian-Triassic boundary ~250 million years ago was the long-term mean sea level lower than today. 
Long term changes in the mean sea level are the result of changes in the oceanic crust, with a downward trend expected to continue in the very long term.
Rapid changes may happen by huge lakes breaking through into seas. This has happened on a number of occasions. When the latest ice age was ending, melting caused huge lakes in central North America. This eventually broke through into the Atlantic. Melting ice in the North Sea are also broke through into the English Channel. The largest known example of marine flooding was when the Atlantic breached the Strait of Gibraltar about 5.2 million years ago. This restored Mediterranean sea levels, which had dried up.
The present rise in sea level is taken from tide gauges. It is about 1.8 mm/yr. Active research continues in this field. 

</doc>
<doc id="15093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15093" title="Fear Factory">
Fear Factory

Fear Factory is an American death/industrial metal group. They were formed in Los Angeles, California in 1989 and disbanded in early 2002. They have reformed in the following year adding Byron Stroud (of Strapping Young Lad) as their current bass player. Their classic line-up was Burton C. Bell (vocals), Dino Cazares (guitars), Christian Olde Woblers (bass) and Raymond Herrera (drums) between 1994 and break up time.

</doc>
<doc id="15095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15095" title="Sublime">
Sublime

Sublime was a popular punk/ska rock band. The band was formed in 1988 in Long Beach, California. They have released popular hit singles like "Date Rape", "Doin' Time", "Santeria" and "What I Got".
Sublime broke up 1996, because singer, guitarist and songwriter Bradley Nowell died. He died in a hotel room in San Francisco, California on May 25th of the same year from a heroin overdose. He was 28 years old. Their third and final album "Sublime" was released two months after Nowell's death. The album's song "What I Got" was what made Sublime famous.
Sublime has sold over 8 million albums around the world.
A few of Sublimes songs have been used in video games. "Santeria" was included in "Guitar Hero World Tour". 
The song "Seed" was included in "Tony Hawk's Underground" and the song "What I Got" was included in "Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX".

</doc>
<doc id="15096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15096" title="Crass">
Crass

Crass was one of the first anarcho-punk bands. The band was formed in Essex, England in 1977. The band split up in 1984.
The group was first of all made up of Penny Rimbaud (playing drums) and Steve Ignorant (who sang). Later they were joined by other people who also lived together in their shared house (or commune) called Dial House.
Crass did their first concert at a squatted festival in Huntley Street, North London. Soon after they played at the famous punk club The Roxy in London's Covent Garden area. However the group were made to come off of the stage because they were very drunk. They also did early concerts with punk band the UK Subs, but not many people went to watch these concerts.
After this members of Crass decided to be more serious about what they were doing. They decided to wear black clothes all of the time, whether or not they were on stage. This was so that no member of the band would be seen as the group 'leader'. They also made a banner that they hung up behind them when they were playing live. This had a logo on it that was made up of symbols like the Christian cross, the swastika and the British flag, as well as a snake with two heads that is eating itself. The meaning of this logo was the idea that "power will destroy itself".
Crass released their first record in 1978. It was called "The Feeding of the 5000". It was meant to have 18 songs on it, but one song was banned by the people who worked at the factory where the records were made. This was because they thought it was blasphemous. This song was called "Asylum". The band instead released the record with a 2 minute gap where that song had been, which they called "The Sound of Free Speech". After this they set up their own record label, Crass Records. This was so that they could control what was on their own records in the future. They re-recorded and released the song that had been banned as a single. They also re-released the first LP with the banned song put back on it.
The second LP released by Crass was the double album "Stations of the Crass". It was released in 1979. One side of this LP was a recording of a live concert that the band played at the Pied Bull pub in Islington, London on August 7, 1979.
Their next LP was released in 1981. It was called "Penis Envy". The band had deliberately changed their sound for this record. The lyrics and the record cover artwork had a strong feminist message. Steve Ignorant did not appear upon it. Instead only the women members of the band, Eve Libertine and Joy DeVivre sung the songs. 
The Crass Records label also released many other records by other musicians and bands. These included Flux Of Pink Indians, Conflict, Poison Girls, Zounds, Honey Bane, Rudimentary Peni and others.

</doc>
<doc id="15097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15097" title="Black Flag">
Black Flag

Black Flag was an American hardcore punk band. They formed in California in 1976 and broke up in 1986. There were many different members in the band, but the leader was Greg Ginn. Ginn was the guitarist and wrote many of the songs.
Black Flag was one of the groups that created the hardcore punk style. They toured the United States and Canada to play many live shows. They influenced many other musicians and fans to make their own hardcore bands. The band's first album, "Damaged" (1981), has been recognized as a classic punk album and one of the most influential punk records ever made.
After breaking up, the lead singer Henry Rollins formed a new band by himself, Rollins Band and guitarist Greg Ginn worked on a separate career in the early 90s.

</doc>
<doc id="15110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15110" title="Tarika">
Tarika

Tarika is the Arabic word for a Sufi order in Islam. The first Tarikas were founded in the 12th and 13th century and many of them still exist today. The head of a Tarika is called a "sheikh", the disciples are called "dervishes".

</doc>
<doc id="15117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15117" title="Crazy Frog">
Crazy Frog

The Crazy Frog is a 3D animated creature, featured on music albums.
Before becoming a ringtone to download onto mobile phones, The Crazy Frog started as a TruboForce 3D animated creature. It was called “The Annoying Thing” in 2003 by its creator, Erik Wernquist of Sweden. With big eyes and a bigger mouth, the high resolution anthropomorphic “thing” is dappled grey-blue and nude save for a helmet, goggles and biker vest. All original videos and images also show small male humanoid genital in a relaxed state that move realistically. Some sources pixel out or remove the genitals.
Members of Bass Bumpers had a dance remix of Harold Faltermeyer’s “Axel-F” the Beverly Hills Cop theme, adding Daniel Maldemahl’s impression of a moped engine (Ring-a-ding-dong) and a Max Headroom, “What’s going on?” (among other dubbed words). In the music video for that remix the “Thing” says featured bites from Daniel’s bit (Ding, ding.) and zooms around on a mimed bike to escape a robot minion on a hover bike. 
The internet and media dubbed it both a Frog and crazy. Erik went along with it.
First, it was simply a vocal imitation of a two stroke, internal combustion engine. Daniel Malmedahl of Sweden created a recording of his imitation in 1997 that eventually spread through peer to peer file sharing on the Internet.
The company that sells Crazy Frog ringtones (Jamba!) has made £14 million from it.

</doc>
<doc id="15119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15119" title="Surrey">
Surrey

"For the city in British Columbia, see Surrey, British Columbia."
Surrey is a county in southern England. The size of Surrey is about 1,663 km² and it has about 1,059,000 people (2002). It is near London. Surrey's largest town is Guildford. In Guildford there is also a university. The River Thames forms part of Surrey's north border.
Surrey is a setting of "War of the Worlds" by H. G. Wells (Woking, Leatherhead in particular).
Surrey is near London's Heathrow and Gatwick airports. It has access to major road routes (including the M25, M3 and M23). It has frequent rail services into Central London.

</doc>
<doc id="15128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15128" title="Universal Serial Bus">
Universal Serial Bus

The Universal Serial Bus (USB) is technology that allows a person to connect an electronic device to a computer. It is a fast serial bus. 
It is mostly used on personal computers. USB is also used on other devices, like the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, the Xbox 360, and others. USB connects different devices using a standard interface.
Most people use USB for computer mice, keyboards, scanners, printers, digital cameras, and USB flash drives. There are over six billion USB devices around the world.
The standard was made to improve plug and play devices. This means that a device can be plugged into a free socket, and simply work. The computer will notice the device. The computer sometimes installs special software so that the device can directly be used. The device can be removed after it stops being used. This technology is called "hot swapping". "Hot swapping" means it can be plugged and unplugged while the power is on. The computer does not need to be turned off for people to change the devices.
USB can also provide a small amount of power to the attached device through the USB cord. Devices that only need a little power can get it from the bus, and do not need a separate electric power plug. That allows gadgets like USB battery chargers, lights, and fans.
As of 2015, USB has replaced several older standards. Those include the parallel port, serial port and SCSI. Some special purposes still need those old connection methods.
The first version of the Universal Serial Bus was created in 1995. This new technology became an instant success. Since the introduction of USB, people that make electronic devices thought about how it could be used in the future. Today, USB connects a computer or other devices like laptops and MP3 players to peripheral devices.
The bus was introduced by seven companies which represent the leaders in the industry of information technology: Compaq, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, NEC, Northern Telecom, and Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC).
Several years earlier, adopters and developers of USB held a meeting called "Plugfest" at a special hotel in California to test their devices. They selected a hotel that included rooms for sleeping and for testing. The meeting lasted three days. During the meeting, the representatives of about 50 companies connected their USB devices to one general host system.
The logo of the USB device also has its own history. The USB logo was in development for several months. 
Currently, four different USB standards are used: USB 1.0, USB 1.1, USB 2.0 and USB 3.0. USB 3.1 is said to be released in 2016 and will be 10 times the speed of 3.0. It will optionally use a different connector called USB Type-C, which is reversible (meaning you can plug it in both ways). USB 1.0 is now rarely used.
USB offers four different transfer speeds: 1.5 MBit per second (called "low speed"), 12 MBit per second ("Full Speed"), 480 MBit/second ("Hi Speed") and 5Gbit per second (called "super speed". Hi speed is only available in USB 2.0 and later, and Super speed is only available in USB 3.0. These speeds are raw data speeds (in Million bits per second). The actual data rate is usually lower (and Hi Speed maxes out at around 320 MBit per second due to protocol overhead).
In order to use the "hi speed" transfer rate, the USB controller and the connected device both need to support it. USB is backwards compatible. Faster and slower USB devices and controllers can be connected together, but they will run at the slower speed.
Almost all computers sold today have USB ports, and most of them support USB 2.0. The number of ports they have is usually limited, though. Between two and six ports are common. USB allows connecting USB hubs to add more USB ports.
The hubs themselves are also USB 1.1 or USB 2.0 compliant. On an USB 2.0 controller, standards can be mixed. Devices connected to a USB 1.1 hub will only go as fast as USB 1.1 rates.
USB was designed to be easy to use. The engineers learned from from other connectors before they designed USB connectors. There are 3 connectors. 
A USB system has an asymmetric design. It is made of a host, several downstream USB ports, and multiple peripheral devices connected in a star topology. Additional USB hubs may be included in the tiers, allowing branching into a tree structure with up to five tier levels.
A USB host can have multiple host controllers. Each host controller provides one or more USB ports. Up to 127 devices, including the hub devices, may be connected to a single host controller.
USB devices are linked in series through "hubs". There is always one hub known as the root hub. The root hub is built into to the host controller. There are special hubs, called "sharing hubs". These allow multiple computers to access the same peripheral devices. They work by switching the access between PCs, either manually or automatically. They are popular in small-office environments. In network terms, they converge rather than diverge branches.
A physical USB device can have several logical sub-devices that are referred to as "device functions". A single device may provide several functions, for example, a webcam (video device function) with a built-in microphone (audio device function).
USB device communication is based on "pipes" (logical channels). Pipes are connections from the host controller to a logical entity on the device named an endpoint. The term "endpoint" is occasionally used to incorrectly refer to the pipe. A USB device can have up to 32 active pipes, 16 into the host controller and 16 out of the controller.
Each endpoint can transfer data in one direction only, either into or out of the device, so each pipe is uni-directional. Endpoints are grouped into "interfaces" and each interface is associated with a single device function. An exception to this is endpoint zero, which is used for device configuration and which is not associated with any interface.
When a USB device is first connected to a USB host, the USB device enumeration process is started. The enumeration starts by sending a reset signal to the USB device. The speed of the USB device is determined during the reset signaling. After reset, the USB device's information is read by the host, then the device is assigned a unique 7-bit address. If the device is supported by the host, the device drivers needed for communicating with the device are loaded and the device is set to a configured state. If the USB host is restarted, the enumeration process is repeated for all connected devices.
The host controller polls the bus for traffic, usually in a round-robin fashion, so no USB device can transfer any data on the bus without an explicit request from the host controller.
The computer hardware that contains the host controller and the root hub has an interface for the programmer. It is called "Host Controller Device" (HCD) and is defined by the hardware implementer.
For USB 1.0 and 1.1, there were two different HCD implementations, "Open Host Controller Interface" (OHCI) and "Universal Host Controller Interface" (UHCI). OHCI was developed by Compaq, Microsoft and National Semiconductor, UHCI by Intel.
VIA Technologies licensed the UHCI standard from Intel; all other chipset implementers use OHCI. UHCI relies more on software. This means UHCI is slightly more processor-intensive than OHCI but easier and cheaper to make. Because there were two different implementations, operating system vendors and hardware vendors needed to develop and test on both of them. This increased cost.
The USB specification does not specify any HCD interfaces and is not concerned with them. In other words, USB defines the format of data transfer through the port, but not the system by which the USB hardware communicates with the computer it sits in.
During the design phase of USB 2.0, the USB-IF insisted that there was only one implementation. The USB 2.0 HCD implementation is called the "Enhanced Host Controller Interface" (EHCI). Only EHCI can support hi-speed (480 Mbit/s) transfers. Most of PCI-based EHCI controllers have other HCD implementations called 'companion host controller' to support Full Speed (12 Mbit/s) and may be used for any device that claims to be a member of a certain class. An operating system is supposed to implement all device classes, so it can provide generic drivers for any USB device. Device classes are decided upon by the Device Working Group of the USB Implementers Forum.
Device classes include:

</doc>
<doc id="15129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15129" title="Punk rock">
Punk rock

Punk rock (or "punk") is a music genre related to rock music. It is often described as harder, louder, and cruder than other rock music. Many punk rock songs have lyrics (words) which tell angry stories or which use rude or controversial words.
Punk rock is a style of music. Many musicians and punk rock music listeners ("punk rockers") want to protest or rebel against the norms or rules of society. Punks say that people should "Do It Yourself", which means that people should try to accomplish their goals using the materials in their own communities. Many punk bands make their own music recordings and distribute them without using a major record company.
Many punks have strong political beliefs. Punk rock musicians are often mad at the government, the police, and laws. Many punk rock songs protest injustice, lies, and unfairness in countries. Almost all punks are leftists, who believe that a country should share the products and food that it produces with all the people in the country. Some punks are vegetarian or vegans, because they believe that animals should not be killed for food. Some punks are anarchists. Very few punks are conservative, libertarian, or Republican.
Many punk musicians put colored hair dye in their hair or put gel to make it stand up. They wear distinctive clothes as a form of protest or rebellion against the norms and rules of society.
Punk rock developed in New York City in the mid-1970s. Bands like The Ramones, Television, The Heartbreakers, Blondie, and Patti Smith played loud, angry songs. Many bands played at a club called CBGB's. The music soon spread to Australia and Britain, were bands started playing punk rock in 1976-1977. British bands like Buzzcocks, The Clash, The Damned, Generation X, The Jam, and Sex Pistols played punk rock music that was inspired by the music being played in New York, as well as by garage rock, pub rock, and other protopunk music.
These early "punks" rejected the excesses of mainstream 1970s rock. They created fast, hard-edged music, with short songs, stripped-down instrumentation, and often political, anti-establishment lyrics. They often did controversial things, such as saying bad words in public. Many newspapers wrote articles about the "bad" behavior of punk rock musicians.
In the 1980s, a new type of punk rock called "hardcore punk" or "hardcore" developed. It was louder, harder, and faster than the original punk rock. By the mid-1980s, hardcore punk rock began being mixed with Heavy Metal rock music. Many hardcore bands began playing in the United States and in the UK.
In the 1990s, punk rock began being mixed with pop music to create a new lighter style of music called pop-punk. Pop-punk bands include Green Day and Good Charlotte. Some pop-punk bands mixed punk rock stars 
ska music.
Pop-punk was still popular in the 2000s. Some people who like the 1970s-style punk rock criticize pop-punk because pop-punk is commercialized.
Some people say that punk rock is dead. But that is not true, because the spirit lives on and many punk rockers are around today.

</doc>
<doc id="15132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15132" title="Edip Yuksel">
Edip Yuksel

Edip Yüksel (who was born 1957) is an American thinker and activist. He has written many books on the Qur'an and is very an influential figure in modern Islamic reform. Yüksel was a student of Rashad Khalifa and was a member of his group United Submitters International. He sometimes works as a legal researcher and a community college teacher, but is mostly a supporter to change the Islamic religion. He lives in Tucson, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="15134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15134" title="Epididymitis">
Epididymitis

Epididymitis is a painful inflammation of the epididymis, usually resulting from bacterial infection, but also occasionally caused by injury or viral infection.

</doc>
<doc id="15186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15186" title="Perth, Western Australia">
Perth, Western Australia

Perth is the capital city of the state of Western Australia. It is built on the banks of the Swan River. Almost 1.7 million people live in the city.
It is the fourth biggest city in Australia, behind Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Perth was founded in 1829 by Captain James Stirling.
Perth is famous for its beautiful white, sandy beaches. Popular local beaches include Cottesloe and Scarborough. These beaches are ideal for swimming and bodysurfing. A popular local tourist attraction is Rottnest Island, which is populated by small native mammals called Quokkas.
Perth is a sister city with many other cities. Sister cities can share students and business contacts. Perth is a sister city to these cities:
Perth also has some other agreements with Perth, Perth and Kinross in Scotland and formerly Grenoble, France.
Perth is home to four public and one private university. These are:
Perth has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate. It is the windiest city in Australia. It is also considered to be the third windiest city in the world. Perth is also the sunniest city in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="15187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15187" title="Osama bin Laden">
Osama bin Laden

Osama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden ""; 10 March 1957 2 May 2011) was the founder of al-Qaeda, the Sunni militant islamist organization, that claimed responsibility for the September 11 attacks on the United States, along with numerous other mass-casualty attacks against civilian and military targets. He was a Saudi Arabian, a member of the wealthy bin Laden family, and an ethnic Yemeni Kindite. 
He was born in the bin Laden family to billionaire Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden in Saudi Arabia. He studied there in college until 1979, when he joined the mujahideen forces in Pakistan against the Soviets in Afghanistan. He helped to fund the mujahideen by funneling arms, money and fighters from the Arab world into Afghanistan, also gaining popularity from many Arabs. In 1988, he formed al-Qaeda. He was banished from Saudi Arabia in 1992, and shifted his base to Sudan, until US pressure forced him to leave Sudan in 1996. After establishing a new base in Afghanistan, he declared a war against the United States, initiating a series of bombings and related attacks. Bin Laden was on the American Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) lists of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives and Most Wanted Terrorists for his involvement in the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings.
From 2001 to 2011, bin Laden was a major target of the War on Terror, as the FBI placed a $25 million reward on him in their search for him. On May 2, 2011, bin Laden was shot and killed inside a private residential compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, by members of the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group and Central Intelligence Agency operatives in a covert operation ordered by U.S. President Barack Obama.
Bin Laden probably believed that the restoration of Sharia law would set things right in the Muslim world, and that all other ideologies—"pan-Arabism, socialism, communism, democracy"—must be opposed. These beliefs, along with violent expansive jihad, have sometimes been called Qutbism. 
He believed Afghanistan under the rule of Mullah Omar's Taliban was "the only Islamic country" in the Muslim world. Bin Laden had consistently talked about his belief in the need for violent jihad to make right what he believed are injustices against Muslims perpetrated by the United States and sometimes by other non-Muslim states, the need to eliminate the state of Israel, and the necessity of forcing the US to withdraw from the Middle East. He had also called on Americans to "reject the immoral acts of fornication and homosexuality, intoxicants (e.g. alcohol), gambling, and usury" in an October 2002 letter.
One of Bin Laden's most infamous beliefs was that civilians, including women and children, are legitimate targets of jihad. Bin Laden was antisemitic, and had delivered warnings against alleged Jewish conspiracies: "These Jews are masters of usury and leaders in treachery. They will leave you nothing, either in this world or the next". Shia Muslims have been listed along with "Heretics... America and Israel," as the four principal "enemies of Islam" at the ideology classes of bin Laden's Al-Qaeda organization.
In keeping with Wahhabi beliefs (the Saudi type of Islam), bin Laden opposed music on religious grounds, and his attitude towards technology was mixed. He was interested in "earth-moving machinery and genetic engineering of plants" on the one hand, but rejected "chilled water" on the other.
His viewpoints and methods of achieving them led to him been designated as a terrorist by scholars, journalists from the New York Times, the British Broadcasting Corporation, Qatari news station Al Jazeera, analysts such as Peter Bergen, Michael Scheuer, Marc Sageman, and Bruce Hoffman and he was indicted on terrorism charges by law enforcement agencies in Madrid, New York City, and Tripoli. He stayed in hiding until he was killed by the United States in Pakistan, in May 2011.
Osama bin Laden's name can be transliterated in several ways. Usāmah bin Muhammad bin 'Awad bin Lādin (Arabic: أسامة بن محمد بن عوض بنلادن), shortened to Usama bin Laden (أسامة بن لادن).
The form used here, Osama bin Laden, is used by most English-language mass media. This includes CNN and the BBC. The FBI and Fox News use Usama bin Laden. Often the name is abbreviated to UBL. 
The bin Laden family (or "Binladin," as they like to be called) usually use the name as a surname in the Western style. The family company is known as the "Binladin Brothers for Contracting and Industry". It is one of the largest corporations in Saudi Arabia. 
Bin Laden had many aliases and nicknames, such as "the Prince", "the Emir", "Abu Abdallah", "Mujahid Shayekh", and "the Director".
Bin Laden was first married at the age of 17 to a Syrian cousin. Her name was Najwa Ghanem. She was probably two years younger than he. They had 11 children. Najwa left bin Laden just before 9/11.
He was married to Khadijah (1983–1995, divorced). His next wife was Khairiah (1985–2011, his death). His fourth wife was Siham (1987–2011, his death). He was married to unknown woman in 1996 but the marriage was annulled with a few days. His last wife was Amal (2000–2011, his death). There were a total of nine children from these later marriages, making 20 in all.
U.S. President Barack Obama launched a mission, "Operation Neptune Spear", where United States Special Operation forces raided bin Laden's hideout compound. On the night of 2 May 2011 (Pakistani time; 1 May 2011 U.S. time), bin Laden was killed by bullets to the chest and head. His body was buried at sea later that day so there would be no grave.

</doc>
<doc id="15188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15188" title="Mayflower (ship)">
Mayflower (ship)

The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 passengers, including a group of people seeking religious freedom. Their original destination was the Virginia Colony but they were forced to land instead at the Cape Cod hook. Their story is one of suffering and survival in a harsh environment. The voyage is one of the most famous in early American history.
The "Mayflower" left England with the ship "Speedwell" on 15 August 1620. It carried Pilgrims from England and Holland. The "Speedwell" turned out to be unseaworthy. Both ships were twice forced to return to England. The "Mayflower" finally left Plymouth, England on 16 September 1620. On 19 November 1620, they spotted land. Their destination was the Virginia Colony but the ship was damaged so were forced to land Cape Cod on 21 November. They wrote the Mayflower Compact, which made rules on how they would live and treat each other.
The Passengers lived on the ship for a few months. They went ashore to build shelters in the day, then returned to the ship at night. About half the people died in the winter of 1620-21. In March 1621, there were enough shelters for everyone to live on land. 

</doc>
<doc id="15189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15189" title="800">
800


</doc>
<doc id="15190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15190" title="Reykjavík">
Reykjavík

Reykjavík is the capital city of the island country of Iceland. It is also the largest city in that country. The population of Reykjavík is over 117,000 people. There is a geothermal bath, both natural and unnatural in appearance. It is situated in the capital and people relax in this hot spring during the cooler months. Björk, an Icelandic singer, is from Reykjavik.

</doc>
<doc id="15195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15195" title="Uniform">
Uniform

Uniforms are special clothes to show that a group of people belong together. The group of people will all be dressed in the same way ("uni" means "one" so the word means "one form").
People may wear uniforms for several reasons. The uniform will help the people to feel a team spirit so that they work well together. They may also help members of the public to know who they are, e.g. in a department store a customer can tell who is a member of staff, or in the street people will recognize a police officer. Uniforms may also be worn because they are practical, e.g. it might keep them safe when operating machinery or keep them clean when doing their work.
In the army soldiers wear uniform. They also wear extra things such as badges on their uniform which show how important they are (what rank they are).
Nurses in hospitals wear uniform. Sometimes domestic workers wear uniform when working for their employers. Important domestic workers may wear special smart uniforms called "livery" e.g. porters (doormen) at luxury hotels.
In some countries such as India, Japan, China, Korea, Australia and United Kingdom many school children wear uniform. The uniform would be a set of clothes with the school crest or symbol. It helps them to feel proud of their school and children from rich families and poor families all look the same. In Britain, for example, most young children wear school uniform. In state schools the children may wear polo-necked T shirts with a school logo. Other schools, especially private schools, may have a formal uniform, or they may be free to choose their own clothes so long as they are the school colour.

</doc>
<doc id="15196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196" title="Battle of Trafalgar">
Battle of Trafalgar

The Battle of Trafalgar was a sea battle fought on 21 October 1805 between the navies of France and Spain on one side, and Great Britain on the other. The battle took place near Cape Trafalgar (a cape is a piece of land sticking out into the sea), which is in southwest Spain. The battle ended with a clear victory for the British forces. This allowed Britain to become the world's largest sea power for 100 years. The Battle of Trafalgar was the most important sea battle of the 19th century.
France and Britain had been at war for some time. France had built the strongest army in Europe, and controlled much of the land. Because it was an island, Britain had built a strong navy, and had used this to try to prevent French ships from leaving their ports. (This is called a "blockade".) Because the French leader Napoleon Bonaparte wanted to invade (capture) Britain, he knew that he would have to sink the British navy first, otherwise it would be able to prevent his army from landing.
The British knew that France might try to attack them, and had placed ships outside the important French ports, like Toulon. The admiral (chief sailor) in charge of the British fleet was Lord Horatio Nelson. He had become famous in Britain for his victories over the French, such as at the Battle of the Nile in 1798.
But the French navy managed to avoid Nelson's fleet and leave Toulon during a storm and met up with a group of Spanish ships. Spain at the time was an ally (partner) of France. This small fleet first sailed to the West Indies, then returned across the Atlantic Ocean to the Spanish port of Cadiz. They wanted to join up with more French ships to make a stronger fleet. The British had chased them both ways across the ocean.
The French then learned that some British ships had been seen in Gibraltar, and thought this meant that the British fleet was not as strong as it had been before. So they decided that this was the best time to leave Cadiz.
The next day, the 33 ships of the French and Spanish fleet were met by the 27 ships of the British. Nelson had put his ships into two lines. Before the battle started, he sent a message which was to become famous: "England expects that every man will do his duty".
The two British lines sailed through the French and Spanish line, splitting it, and was able to cause great damage to its ships.
However, Admiral Nelson, on board his ship, "HMS Victory", was hit by a musket bullet fired by a sniper from the French ship "Redoutable". The bullet entered via his shoulder, went into his lung and lodged in his spine. He was taken below the deck and died later, shortly before 4.30pm, as the battle died down. The French and Spanish had lost 22 ships, the British lost none. 
Because France was unable to invade Britain, British soldiers were able to fight on the European continent together with the armies of other countries against the armies of Napoleon. In the end, Napoleon was finally defeated, in 1815, at the Battle of Waterloo. With control of the seas, Britain was able to build up a large empire during the years that followed and its navy was the world's largest for over a hundred years.
Nelson's body was brought back to Great Britain and he was given a hero's funeral. In 1843, the famous Trafalgar Square and Nelson's Column were built in London to honour him.

</doc>
<doc id="15197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15197" title="Peter Frampton">
Peter Frampton

Peter Frampton (born April 22, 1950) is an English guitarist. He is best known for the album "Frampton Comes Alive".

</doc>
<doc id="15198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15198" title="1537">
1537


</doc>
<doc id="15199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15199" title="Nairobi">
Nairobi

Nairobi is the capital and largest city of Kenya. It is near the coastline of Kenya. About three million people live there. The city was founded in 1899 as a railway depot linking Uganda to Mombasa. Nairobi is the fourth largest city in Africa. Nairobi is also very sunny at most times. Nairobi is a good place in to go for a ride in a car, although traffic is often bad. There are several popular shopping malls, including the Yaya Center, Junction Mall, the Village Market, and the Sarit Center. The Westgate Mall was another popular destination until it was attacked by al Shaabab terrorists in 2013.
Nairobi has become very highly populated due to high rural to urban migration rates. Violent crime is also fairly common in many areas, leading to the nickname "Nairobbery." 

</doc>
<doc id="15201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15201" title="Derek and the Dominos">
Derek and the Dominos

Derek and the Dominos was an American blues rock band. The band's members were Eric Clapton, Carl Radle, Bobby Whitlock, Jim Gordon, and Duane Allman. They made the album "Layla and Other Assorted Love Songs". "Layla", with the well-known guitar riff, came from that same album. The band broke up after one album.

</doc>
<doc id="15202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15202" title="Carl Radle">
Carl Radle

Carl Dean Radle (born June 18, 1942 Tulsa, Oklahoma, died May 30, 1980) was an American musician, best known for being the bassist in Derek and the Dominos. Radle worked with many well-known artists and worked on many gold and platinum singles and albums. Radle is thought by many to have been the best bass guitar sideman in the music business.
In May 30, 1980, Radle died at age 37, of problems from a kidney infection caused by his alcoholism and drug addiction.

</doc>
<doc id="15204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15204" title="Nineteen Eighty-Four">
Nineteen Eighty-Four

Nineteen Eighty-Four is a novel written by George Orwell in 1948. The main character is Winston Smith, who lives in Oceania, under the rule of The Party and Big Brother. He becomes friends with the character O'Brien. He also falls in love with Julia, who hates Big Brother and The Party.
Winston's job is to change or "rectify" printed news stories and articles. No one in Oceania can look at the old changes. They are not allowed to even think about them again, or else they will be in big trouble. This is called "thoughtcrime". Thoughtcrime and Facecrime are punished by death. Another thing they are trying to do is cut all the hard words out of the English language. They are changing it to make it more simple so that people will not be too clever or think too much. They are not allowed to have families. Other people who live on the outside of the system have more freedoms. They are called "proles". There is an endless war going on with another nation, Eurasia. In other parts of the world, large wars are being fought to keep the people busy. The sides in the wars sometimes change. When this happens, they pretend there was no change and that the sides were always the same. This means that all the articles will have to be changed by people like Winston who are not supposed to think about what they are doing. When news is "rectified", the old copies are destroyed.
Orwell got the idea for the book when he saw in the newspapers of London that they listed how much the country's supplies increased (more supplies) during World War II when they were actually very low on supplies and were getting smaller. He started writing a political satire of the possible condition of Britain in 50 years. He wrote the book over several years, finishing, mostly in Jura, Scotland. At last he sent the manuscript to his publishers in December 1948.
The book was not an attack on socialism, which Orwell supported, but on communism. He once wrote Later he repeated that idea, writing about "1984" 
At the end of "Nineteen-Eighty Four", Winston is taken to the "Ministry of Love". This is the prison of Oceania. While he is there, he is tortured and constantly watched by four telescreens, which he can not escape from. The only place he is safe is in his own mind. Soon he loses control over it as well. At the start he thought that O'Brien was an ally (friend) against the Party. This is not true because O'Brien is his questioner. He thinks O'Brien betrayed him. So that he is not executed, Winston must answer many questions. He also worried about the bond (agreement) of love he made with Julia. He is not sure if she betrayed him or not. In the end, Winston is faced with his worst fear: a cage filled with rats, which can eat his face. He then breaks down (stops fighting). He dies as only another member of the Party.
Details of the Endless War:
Newspeak is a fictional (not real) language that appears in the book "Nineteen Eighty-Four". It is the official language of Oceania. At the end of his book, George Orwell described Newspeak. It started out as the English language, but the number of words gets smaller each year. The Party are trying to stop people from rebelling, so it destroys words like "freedom" and "love", saying that people can not think of it if there is no word for it. In the society, this is supposed to prevent thoughtcrime, which is thinking against the Party, or thinking about the past. For example, a person could not say "I want to be free", because there was no word for "free" any more, so the person could not describe what he or she was feeling. At the time, it was supposed to make fun of what was later called "politically correct" speech, and "thoughtcrime" made fun of censorship. "Newspeak" is also used for military reasons, such as Oceania's Ministry of Peace (in Newspeak: "Minipax"), really the war department. Words like "Peace", "Truth", "Love", and "Plenty" were used in Newspeak a lot to mean their exact opposites. Another "Newspeak" word, "joycamp", means "forced labor camp". Other "Newspeak" words were used for political reasons. Words like ""crimethink"" were defined by the "Party", and became laws of the land.
"Book" magazine ranked the character of Big Brother as #59 on its "100 Best Characters in Fiction Since 1900" list.

</doc>
<doc id="15206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15206" title="Grover Cleveland">
Grover Cleveland

Stephen Grover Cleveland (March 18, 1837 - June 24, 1908) was the 22nd (1885–1889) and also the 24th (1893–1897) President of the United States. He was the only president to serve a second term that did not begin as soon as the first had ended. Cleveland was the first Democrat elected as President after the Civil War.
He was known for his honesty, integrity, and having a firm stance against corruption. He believed in small government (he wanted the government to tax less and spend less). He used the presidential veto power over 500 times, far more than most other presidents, to reject bills he disagreed with. He did not want the United States to get its military involved in Latin America.
Cleveland was born on March 18, 1837 in Caldwell, New Jersey. He was raised in Cleveland, Ohio. Cleveland studied at New York Institute for the Blind. He was married to Frances Folsom. He was the first President to marry in the White House. They had one child, Ruth Cleveland. During his second term, he had an emergency surgery for jaw cancer on a boat in the middle of a river to avoid publicity. Cleveland died on June 24, 1908 from a heart attack in Princeton, New Jersey, aged 71.

</doc>
<doc id="15208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15208" title="Bassist">
Bassist

A bassist is a musician whose musical instrument is a bass guitar or a double bass. In rock, pop, country, metal, jazz fusion, and funk music, most bassists play a bass guitar. In some types of jazz, and in rockabilly, bluegrass, and in symphony orchestras, bassists play a double bass.
Many professional rock, pop, country, metal, and funk, rockabilly, and bluegrass, bassists learn to play by performing in groups for many years and by taking private lessons with bass teachers. 
Bassists who play in symphony orchestras, or who play jazz or jazz fusion often learn to play the bass in a conservatory, music school, college, or university. College or university degrees in double bass include the Bachelor of Music degree (which takes four years) and the Master of Music degree (which takes two years).
There are fewer Bass players than traditional guitar players. Some believe the bass is harder to play, although it has fewer strings
Bassists, like other musicians, have a much lower average income than many other job categories, such as accountants or administrators. Although a tiny number of famous bassists make a large amount of money, and a small number of bassists have full-time jobs in bands or orchestras, most bassists have low incomes. Many bassists do not earn enough from playing, so they do other music-related jobs, such as teaching bass.

</doc>
<doc id="15209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15209" title="President of the United States of America">
President of the United States of America

The President of the United States (of America) is the head of state and leader of the government of the United States of America. The current President is Barack Obama.
The Presidents of the United States of America may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="15210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15210" title="Fascism">
Fascism

Fascism is a form of government which is a type of one-party dictatorship. Fascists are against liberal democracy. They work for a totalitarian one-party state. This aims to prepare the nation for armed conflict, and to respond to economic difficulties. Such a state is led by a strong leader—such as a dictator and a martial government. 
Fascist leadership might also be similar to an oligarchy, such as in Italy where the fascist party was ruled by its "grand council" from 1922 until the end of World War II.
Fascism appeared in Europe in the 1920s and developed fully in the 1930s. Its supporters thought that democracy was weak and full of moral perversions, that multiparty capitalism was too materialistic and unfair to the people, while communism, although unifying and fair, did not care about the needs of the nation and hampered business initiative. Two Fascist leaders in history were Mussolini and Hitler. After World War II, fascism continued in the form of military dictatorships in Latin America and some parts of Asia.
Fascism was supposed to be the answer for that need, with national unity and solidarity instead of the divisions of class struggle and party politics. Liberals and believers in democracy generally consider fascism and communism as two facets of totalitarianism, and that they are unified by the urge to control everything and allow no freedom. But, believers in Marxism-Leninism think that capitalism either creates or uses fascism as a tool to destroy the workers' movements and secure rule by the upper classes if it is challenged. It does so by appealing to the people and to their most primitive needs, while actually pursuing the interests of the already rich.
There is more than one reason why people living in democratic states oppose fascism, but the main reason is that in a fascist dictatorship the individual citizen has no guaranteed rights. If you say the wrong thing or oppose the wrong person, you can be arrested or killed without a fair trial. You have to be careful to avoid becoming popular with the people.
Many people believe that Fascism would not be a terrible system if you always do your duty and you never oppose the government. However, the problem is that people can be corrupt. Everything looks good in theory, but in real life innocent people can get into serious trouble with the government when there is no guaranteed right to a fair trial.
Fascist governments are different from communist ones in that fascists, in theory, support the right of labor representatives and corporate representatives (CEOs, company presidents, etc.) to negotiate - through a system called corporatism. Fascists usually work closely with corporations and economic elites, and use the resources to build up the military and other parts of the fascist state. Fascist States take over schools and other parts of civil society in order to promote nationalism and propaganda. All adults are expected to either join the fascist party or support it as the government. Fascist governments, similar to the Nazis in Germany, pursue racist policies of segregation and/or extermination in opposition to cultural and ethnic pluralism.
Communism, on the other hand is viewed as totalitarian in the sense that it calls for complete economic control and ownership of the economy by the people, in common. 
It is always a big crime in fascist countries to speak against the leader or ruling party. Fascist leaders often give themselves a high military rank, or appear in public in an army or navy uniform, because fascist countries consider the army and warfare the most important part of the struggle for survival.
The first fascist government was run by Benito Mussolini in Italy from 1922 until 1943. The governments of Engelbert Dollfuss in Austria and Adolf Hitler in Germany are also iconic examples of fascism. Other examples are Greece under Ioannis Metaxas, Spain under the rule of Francisco Franco, and Portugal when António de Oliveira Salazar was the head of the government. All of these governments were much like Italian fascism, especially before and during World War II.
Fascism is named after the fasces, which is an old Roman Empire name for a group of sticks tied together. It is easy to break one stick in half. It is very hard to break many sticks tied together in half. Fascists think that everyone following rigidly following the same leader and nationalist ideas makes the country strong the same way the sticks are.
In countries led by fascist governments, the government tries to control all areas of life, including work, school, and family life. Fascist ideas were most common around the time of World War II. Many people were killed by fascist governments because the government did not like them or because they opposed fascism. Even more were killed in wars started by fascist governments. However, the fascist governments of Portugal and Spain did not take part in World War II, and stayed in power until the 1970s. Many scholars consider these governments to have been or evolved into traditionalist and conservative rather than fascist. Fascism, while supporting order and stability as conservatism does, wants to transform society in new ways.
After World War II, Fascism lost much of its influence, although movements and politicians inspired by Fascism have had success in several countries, such as Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="15211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15211" title="Erection">
Erection

An erection () of a body part such as a man's penis, a woman's clitoris or a nipple refers to it becoming larger and harder.
The term "erection" is most often used to refer to an erection of the penis. It is widely believed that a man's penis needs to be erect in order for him to take part in sexual intercourse and penetrate his partner's vagina and to ejaculate semen, but all are possible without an erection. For an erection to take place, a man must be sexually aroused (made sexually excited) or stimulated. This can happen if he is touched sexually, or even if he is not touched – for example, if he sees a naked person or thinks about having sex with someone else. Tissues in the penis called the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis fill with blood, causing the penis to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright. A man's erection usually stops if he is no longer sexually aroused, or after he has had an orgasm and has ejaculated. 
Erect penises have appeared in erotic (sexually exciting) art for a very long time. Pictures of men with erections appear on ancient objects and in paintings. In the past, the erect penis was also a symbol or sign of health and fertility (the ability to give life). Ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans believed in gods that had erect penises. Today, erect penises do not often appear in artworks or movies because many people think that showing a man's penis when it is erect is obscene (not decent). Men with larger penises are often thought to be more handsome, manly and powerful. A lot of people also believe that men with bigger penises are better at making their partners feel good when they are having sex. However, this is not always true.
Like a man's penis, a woman's clitoris can also become erect. This happens in the same way as an erection of the penis. The clitoris also has a corpus spongiosum and corpus cavernosum, and when a woman is sexually excited these parts of the clitoris fill with blood. This causes the clitoris and other parts of the woman's sex organs to become larger, harder, redder in colour, and very sensitive to being touched. An erection of the clitoris that does not go away after a long time is a medical problem called clitorism.
The nipples of men and women can also become erect. Women's nipples become erect when they are breastfeeding (giving milk to their babies from their breasts). Men and women may also have an erection of their nipples when they are sexually excited, or if they feel cold. Nipples do not have any tissue in them that fills with blood. Instead, the body's nervous system makes muscles in the nipples contract (become shorter), causing them to stand up and become slightly harder.
Blood flows out of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa penis, and the penis goes back to its normal size. A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction (ED). On the other hand, an erection that lasts too long is also a dangerous condition called priapism.
The term "erection" is most often used to refer to an erection of the penis. A man's penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When the penis is like this, it is said to be flaccid (). In order for the man to take part in sexual intercourse by putting his penis inside a woman's vagina, his penis needs to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright. When this happens, it is said that the penis is erect, or that the man has an erection. The penis needs to be at least mildly erect before the man can have an orgasm and ejaculate semen.
The scientific name for an erection is "tumescence" (which means "swelling"). Some slang terms for having an erection are "getting hard", "getting wood" and "having a hard-on", and an erect penis is informally called a "boner", "hard-on", "stiffy", "wood" or "woody".
The penis is shaped like a banana or sausage. It has a duct or tube called the urethra running right through it. Semen and urine pass along the urethra to get out of the body. Around the whole urethra is tissue called the corpus spongiosum penis (which is Latin for "body of the penis that is like a sponge"). It is near the lower surface of the penis. Also inside the penis near its upper surface are two cylindrical tissues called the corpora cavernosa penis (Latin for "bodies of the penis that are like caves"). (One of these tissues by itself is called a corpus cavernosum.) The corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis are filled with many blood vessels called arteries which carry blood.
When a man is sexually aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited) by touch – for example, if he masturbates or another person touches him in a sexual way – the touching is picked up by nerves in the arteries of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. The nerves then cause a chemical called nitric oxide to be released into the arteries. This makes the arteries dilate (become wider), and they fill up with blood. Thus, the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis all fill with blood and become larger and harder. This makes the penis grow longer, thicker and harder. The corpora cavernosa penis press against blood vessels called veins that let blood flow out of the penis. Since less blood can flow out of the penis through the veins, more of it stays in the penis, which remains hard. During an erection, a valve stops urine from entering the urethra so that only semen flows along it. This is why it is very difficult for a man to urinate when he is having an erection.
A man can also become sexually aroused without being touched, for example, if he sees a naked person or thinks about having sex with someone. In this case, his brain sends messages through his spinal cord (which is inside his vertebral column or backbone) to his penis and makes an erection happen. The brain can also stop an erection from happening, even if the man is being touched sexually.
After a man has had an orgasm and has ejaculated, his erection usually ends. How long this takes depends on the length and thickness of his penis. A man can also stop having an erection without having an orgasm and ejaculating, if he is no longer sexually aroused. Nerves in his body cause the arteries in the penis to constrict (become narrower). This forces blood out of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. As they go back to their normal size, they do not press so much on the veins leading out of the penis. This lets blood flow faster out of the corpus spongiosum penis and corpora cavernosa penis. The scientific term for this process is "detumescence".
The angle that an erect penis makes varies from one man to another. If it is imagined that a man is standing upright and there is a horizontal line stretching out from the base of his penis, most men's erect penises point upwards from the line at a certain angle (as shown in the photograph on the left). However, it is common and normal for an erect penis to point nearly vertically upwards, nearly vertically downwards, or even horizontally forward. The angle depends on how long a man's suspensory ligament is. The suspensory ligament is a band of tough, stringy tissue that joins a man's penis to the front of his pelvis.
Few men's penises are completely straight when they are erect. It is common for an erect penis to have a slight curve in it. The curve can be up or down, or to the left or right. A curve of up to 30° is considered normal, and medical treatment is usually not needed unless the angle of curvature is more than 45°. A curved penis does not usually cause a man any problems when he is having sex. However, if the curvature of a penis changes, this could be caused by an illness called Peyronie's disease (see below).
A survey of 300 men over the age of 18 carried out between 11 March and 17 March 2001 in Cancún, Mexico, found that among those men the average erect human penis was about 14.928 centimetres (5.877 inches) long, and that most of them had an erect penis length of between 14 and 16 centimetres (5.5 and 6.3 inches). The typical girth or circumference (the length around the outside of the penis) was about 12.63 centimetres (4.972 inches), and most erect penises had a girth of between 12 and 13 centimetres (4.7 and 5.1 inches). As this survey was only done in one city, its findings may not apply to men from other countries.
The size of an erect penis generally does not change after puberty, the time when a boy becomes sexually mature. Some people have surgery to make their penises larger. However, a study that came out in 2006 found that only 35% of men who had gone for such surgery were happy with the results.
An erection of the penis can also happen by itself when a man is asleep, often when he is dreaming. The scientific term for this is "nocturnal penile tumescence" (which means "swelling of the penis at night"). It is also common for a man to wake up after a night's sleep to find that he has an erection. This is often caused by his bladder being full of urine, which presses on the tissues in the penis. Such an erection is sometimes informally called a "morning glory" or "morning wood".
Unexpected erections are involuntary and are normal. Such erections can be embarrassing if they happen in public. Erections can occur unexpectedly at any time of day.
A man who often has problems having or keeping an erection of his penis is said to have erectile dysfunction. Erectile dysfunction is also known as ED, impotence or male impotence. The study of erectile dysfunction comes within andrology, the field of science dealing with men's health.
ED is not uncommon. For example, about 10% of all men in the United Kingdom will have ED happening to them regularly at some time in their lives. It can be due to both physiological and psychological reasons. Physiological reasons are those dealing with how the body works. Psychological reasons are those involving human behaviour and how people think.
These are some common physiological reasons for ED:
ED can also happen for psychological reasons. For example, a man can find it difficult to have an erection:
Having erections is seen by many people as a very important part of being a man. Therefore, a man who has ED often feels that he is not manly enough and not successful in life. This can lead to him feeling ashamed and not as good as other men. The matter is made worse because men often do not like talking about their personal problems with other people, so they keep their unhappy feelings to themselves. However, talking to a doctor or psychiatrist (a doctor who knows a lot about mental problems) is helpful, as he or she may be able to suggest ways of dealing with the problem.
How ED may be treated depends on the cause. If it is caused by a disease, sometimes treating the disease will reduce the problem. For example, if a man is unable to have erections because his body does not make enough testosterone, he can be given pills to take which help his body to do so. If the blood vessels or nerves in the corpora cavernosa penis are damaged, a full cure may not be possible. However, there are some temporary treatments that allow a man to have an erection for long enough to have sex:
If a man's erection lasts for more than four hours even though he is no longer sexually excited, this is a medical problem called priapism (). The condition is named after the Greek god Priapus, whose penis was believed to always be erect (see below). Priapism is painful, and is a medical emergency because the blood stuck in the penis can become thick and form clots. This can damage the blood vessels of the penis and lead to erectile dysfunction (ED). In serious cases the tissues of the penis can die, and the penis may have to be amputated (cut off) so that the tissue death does not spread to the rest of the body.
It is not really known what causes priapism. Men who suffer from priapism sometimes have blood diseases like leukemia (a type of cancer of the blood; in the United Kingdom and some other countries it is spelled "leukaemia") or sickle-cell disease (which makes the blood cells crescent-shaped). Problems with the nervous system such as injury to the spinal cord or abnormal growths on it can also lead to priapism. Certain medicines can make priapism happen, including some used to treat ED such as alprostadil. A 2008 study suggests that too much of the chemical adenosine in the body may cause priapism since it makes blood vessels widen which lets more blood flow into the penis.
When a man with priapism is brought to the emergency department of a hospital, a doctor will usually try to remove blood from the corpora cavernosa penis by aspirating it (sucking it out) using a syringe. If this is not enough, a chemical called phenylephrine may be injected into the penis to try and make the blood vessels become narrower. If this also does not work, the doctor will make a shunt (a hole or passage) between the corpora cavernosa penis and corpus spongiosum penis. This allows blood to flow away from the corpora cavernosa penis into the corpus spongiosum penis. For men who have priapism again and again, it has been found that medicines such as sildenafil (Viagra) and tadalafil (Cialis) may help.
When an erect penis is shown in art, it is often called a phallus. Erotic (sexually exciting) art has shown phalluses for a very long time. Pictures of men with erections appear on ancient objects and in paintings.
The erect penis was also a symbol or sign of health and fertility (the ability to give life). The Hohle Fels phallus was found in a cave in Germany. It is a piece of stone carved to look like a penis that archaeologists believe is about 28,000 years old. (Archaeologists are scientists who study the past by looking for things that people have left behind.) From the fourth millennium B.C. (4000–3001 B.C.), Ancient Egyptians worshipped Min as the god of reproduction and the maker of all things. Min was shown in statues and on wall carvings as having an erect penis.
The Ancient Greeks believed in a god called Priapus who had a very large penis that was always erect. He was thought to protect livestock (animals kept by humans for food, milk, leather or wool), fruit plants and gardens, and men's sex organs. He was also seen as able to chase away evil, and as a protector of sailors, fishermen and others needing good luck. 
Long after the Roman Empire ended and many people became Christian, Priapus was still seen as a symbol of health and fertility. A 13th-century book called the "Lanercost Chronicle", which is a history of northern England and Scotland, talks about someone putting up a statue of Priapus to try and stop a disease from spreading among cattle. 
Some Native Americans in the Southwestern United States believe in a fertility god called Kokopelli who is in charge of childbirth and agriculture (the growing of plants and animals for food and other uses). He also plays tricks and is a symbol for the spirit of music. Kokopelli is sometimes shown as a man playing a flute with a humpback (a back that is bent forwards), things like feathers sticking out from his head, and a very big penis.
Today, phalluses do not often appear in artworks or movies (except in pornographic movies which show people having sex with each other). This is because many people think that showing a man's penis when it is erect is obscene (not decent).
Men with larger penises are commonly thought to be more handsome, manly and powerful. In 2006, it was reported that an Internet survey of 52,031 heterosexual (straight) men and women showed that men who thought that their penises were larger than the average size believed they were more good-looking. Of the men, 55% of them were happy with their penis size, but 45% wanted to be larger. Only 0.2% wanted a smaller penis. On the other hand, 85% of women were happy with how big their partner's penis was. Another study that also came out in 2006 in the Netherlands found that out of 251 homosexual (gay) men who were asked, most felt it was better to have a large penis, and those who thought they had one were happy about their bodies. However, just because a man has a large penis does not always mean he is sexier or stronger than other men, even though many people think this.
A lot of people also believe that men with bigger penises are better at making their partners feel good when they are having sex. For heterosexual men, this is because it is thought that when the penis can go further into the vagina, this helps the woman have a better orgasm. Scientists are not sure whether this is true or not. Some research shows that the most sensitive area of the female sex organs includes the vulva, clitoris and the part of the vagina nearest the outside of a woman's body. There are also parts of the clitoris inside the vulva and vagina. Therefore, most men's penises are long enough to make their partners feel good during sex. Also, some studies say it is not how long but how thick a penis is that decides how well it excites a woman sexually.
However, other research seems to say that a long penis that touches and sexually excites the fornix, which is the deepest part of the vagina near the cervix (the opening of the uterus into the vagina), helps a woman to have an orgasm. A study from the Netherlands of 375 women came out in 2002. This study said that although 77% of the women felt that the length of a man's penis was not important to them, quite a large number – 21% – felt it was important.
The clitoris () is part of a woman's sex organs. It makes a woman's orgasms happen, which gives her very good sexual feelings. Like a man's penis, a woman's clitoris also becomes bigger and harder, moving out and away from the body, when she is sexually excited. However, because the clitoris is much smaller than the penis, and most of the clitoris is inside the woman's body, only part of its entire length can be seen from the outside. Some clitoral erections cannot be seen as well as an erection of the penis.
An erection of the clitoris happens in the same way as an erection of the penis. The clitoris has a corpus cavernosum similar to the penis. However, instead of the corpus spongiosum it has two vestibular bulbs. When a woman is sexually excited, the corpus cavernosum and vestibular bulbs fill with blood. This causes the clitoris and other parts of the woman's sex organs to become larger, harder, and redder in colour. When this happens, they become very sensitive to being touched.
If an erection of the clitoris does not go away after a long time, even though the woman is not being made sexually excited any more, this is a medical problem called clitorism. Like priapism which can affect a man's penis, it is painful. A woman who thinks she may have clitorism should see a doctor.
Clitorises range in size. From a small pea to fingertip-section(s) when still soft. They engorge with blood and become much larger in all dimensions, and firmer when aroused. They can range into even 4-5 inches in some. A penis has a tubular shape while a clitoris has a hood covering and C curvature shape, and yet still tubelike, and rides along the body. The tip can lift upward more when aroused. The tip can also be referred to as the pearl. Sometimes, it can be uncomfortable to the entire clitoris, from its sensitivity, if treated rashly, mistaking erection for pleasure. This is known mentally by the participant if pleasurable or uncomfortable. It can be hard, or midfirm as well, and climb to a shudder, then do a sharp firm up and an outward move right before, and then a tingling jingle inside and to the g-spot on in the other - and this is an orgasm. Orgasms vary in intensity. The body and mind can be relaxed and passionate afterwards to continue with love making or setting itself.
The nipples of men and women can also become erect. Women's nipples become erect when they are breastfeeding (giving milk to their babies from their breasts). Men and women may also have an erection of their nipples when they are sexually excited. This is caused by the release of a hormone called oxytocin in the body. Nipples can also become erect when a person feels cold or sexually excited.
Unlike the penis and clitoris, nipples do not have any tissue in them that fills with blood. Instead, the body's nervous system makes muscles in the nipples contract (become shorter), causing them to stand up and become slightly harder.

</doc>
<doc id="15213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15213" title="Methamphetamine">
Methamphetamine

Methamphetamine (also called crystal meth or just meth) is a man-made stimulant drug. Many people use it illegally, but it is occasionally used legally by prescription to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or obesity as "Desoxyn".
Methamphetamine has two isomers, "left-handed" and "right-handed". Left-handed methamphetamine helps fight stuffy nose and is legal. Right-handed methamphetamine makes people feel high and is mostly illegal. This page is mostly about the right-handed form.
Methamphetamine is very addictive. This means that when people start taking the drug, they will want to keep taking more, even if it is making them sick.
Methamphetamine can be in powder or crystal form, and can be snorted, smoked, injected, or eaten. In its smoked form, methamphetamine is known as "ice," "crystal," "crank," or "glass".
When meth is snorted, the methamphetamine crystals are ground up and made into little lines (also called rails). Then they are inhaled through the nose with rolled-up paper, rolled-up dollar bills, empty plastic pen tubes, short plastic straws, or other things that can be made into a small "tube" shape.
When meth is snorted, its effects last longer than when it is smoked or injected. The effects can last as long as twelve hours. However, it takes longer to feel the effects, and there is not as strong of a "rush" (a very happy feeling called euphoria).
Snorting methamphetamine can damage the nasal septum on the inside of the nose. Also, if people share the same snorting tube, they can get infections.
When meth is smoked, the crystals are placed into a glass pipe (called a "meth pipe") or a hollowed-out lightbulb. The crystals are warmed up from underneath by a flame (like from a lighter or matches). The methamphetamine is not actually "smoked" this way; it is heated up until it melts. When it melts, it turns into a gas that the user then breathes in.
Smoking meth causes euphoria to happen very quickly, and causes strong euphoria. However, the vapor (gas) can damage the lungs.
Methamphetamine can be mixed with water, then put into a needle and injected. Meth can be injected under the skin (this is called "skin-popping); into a muscle; or into a vein. Injecting meth into a vein causes the quickest, strongest euphoria.
Injecting meth can damage the body in many ways. It is very addictive. People can get infections (including HIV, hepatitis C, and many others) from dirty needles.
If methamphetamine is eaten, it gets absorbed into the body from the digestive system. The effects take longer to start, but they last longer.
Desired effects are the things people want to feel when they take methamphetamine. These include:
Adverse effects are the bad things that using methamphetamine can cause. Meth has many adverse effects. For example:
Methamphetamine is very addictive. This means that when people start taking the drug, they will want to keep taking more, even if it is making them sick.
One of the reasons meth is so addictive is that people feel very bad when the effect begins to wear off. Many users claim to have an uncontrollable urge to get more of the drug after using it.
When people are addicted to meth, they will have withdrawal symptoms when they do not take meth. This means they will feel sick when they do not have the drug. For example, without meth, people will feel anhedonia. This means they cannot feel good without taking meth.
Overdosing on meth (taking too much) can make a person very sick. Some of the symptoms of methamphetamine overdose are very dangerous, and can even kill a person. For example, overdosing on meth can cause:
"Meth Mouth" is a term used to describe destroyed teeth in people that use methamphetamine. Meth mouth can happen very quickly. A new addict can go from having healthy teeth to losing all of their teeth in as little as one year. The decay (rotting teeth) is not caused by methamphetamine itself, but by meth users not brushing their teeth, having a lot of sugary drinks, and having dry mouth.
Life expectancy
The life expectancy of a meth addict is 5-10 years.
Methamphetamine's effects on the body can include:
Methamphetamine's effects on feelings and behavior can include:
Taking meth over a long time can cause Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In fact, a teenager taking methamphetamine can show symptoms similar to Alzheimer's.
People who take meth over a long time often have serious psychological problems, like:

</doc>
<doc id="15216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15216" title="Mother">
Mother

A mother is a female parent (a male parent is called a father). A mother gives birth to a child.
"Madre" is Mother in Spanish. "Mamma" or "Mor" is Mother in Norwegian. "Mater" is Mother in Latin. ' Mutter" is Mother in German. "Mat" is Mother in Russian.

</doc>
<doc id="15217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15217" title="Democrat">
Democrat

Democrat may refer to: 

</doc>
<doc id="15218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15218" title="Caribbean">
Caribbean

The Caribbean or Caribbean Area (Dutch: "Cariben" or "Caraiben", French: "Caraïbe" or more commonly "Antilles"; Spanish: "Caribe") is a region of the Americas. It includes the Caribbean Sea, its islands (more than 7,000 islands, small islands and cays, most of them surrounding the sea), and the coasts of north South America and east Central America.
The Caribbean is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to its east and north, the coast of South America to its south, the coast of Central America to its southwest, and by the Gulf of Mexico to its northwest.
The West Indies is the name for the group of the islands of the Bahamas and the "Antilles". The Antilles are divided into two groups: the larger "Greater Antilles", on the north limit of the Caribbean Sea, and the "Lesser Antilles", on the east and south.
The Caribbean islands have many different types of land. Because of this, the islands have many different kinds of plants and animals, even uncommon ones.
Famous islands in the Caribbean include Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico and Hispaniola. The countries of Dominican Republic, and Haiti are on Hispaniola.
There is also a lot of white sandy beaches and hot sun there.
The name Caribbean comes from "Carib", indigenous people living in the Lesser Antilles and north South America when the Europeans came to the Americas. 
The 18th century saw many countries trying to colonize the islands. Because of this, Caribbean culture is very similar to those of Africa, India, and many countries in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="15220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15220" title="Caribbean Sea">
Caribbean Sea

The Caribbean Sea is a tropical sea in the center of the Caribbean area. The body of water is part of the Atlantic Ocean. The sea is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico. The Caribbean Sea has many islands, which are popular among North American tourists because of their tropical climate. The Caribbean Sea is famous around the world as a tourist destination. 
Christopher Columbus came across a group of islands in the Caribbean region. When he did so, he thought he had reached another part of the world. Because of this, he named the islands the ‘West Indies’. However, later it was realized that he found an entire region. It still had its natural resources. The name ‘Caribbean’ was later given to it by the Amerindian tribe, the Caribs. That is how it got its name: the Caribbean Sea.
This entire region covers an area of 1,063,000 sq. miles. It covers from Mexico to the boundaries of South America.
This sea is just as deep as it is wide. Its deepest point is believed to be even lower than 25,220 ft, 7,686 m. That makes this point one of the lowest points on the surface of the earth, and the Caribbean Sea one of the deepest seas in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="15222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15222" title="Gibraltar">
Gibraltar

Gibraltar is an Overseas Territory of the United Kingdom. This means it shares the British King or Queen and has the protection of the British Army. It is located in southwest Europe on the Mediterranean Sea. It has a population of about 28,000 people, who are called Gibraltarians.
Gibraltar has always been important as a military base because this is where the Mediterranean Sea narrows to only 14 kilometres (9 miles) at the Strait of Gibraltar. This meant that whichever country controlled Gibraltar could see all ships that came into the Mediterranean Sea. 
Gibraltar is most famous for "The Rock of Gibraltar", a 426 meter high limestone rock rising out of the sea. The rock can be seen for many miles. It is home to the "Barbary Apes", a type of tail-less monkey which are the only wild monkeys in Europe.
Gibraltar belonged to Spain between the years 1501 and 1704, and it was captured by a group of Dutch and British marines during the War of the Spanish Succession (1704). In 1713, Spain signed papers called the "Treaty of Utrecht". These papers said Gibraltar would be British permanently. However, according to this treaty, if the Crown of Great Britain ever wants to leave the territory, the Crown of Spain will have a prior position in order to claim the sovereignty.
Gibraltar was very important in World War II. Since it was in such a good position, it was the perfect place for the British army and navy to have its base. In World War II the people living in Gibraltar were taken to different parts of the world like Jamaica so they could be protected from the war and also leave the Rock for the soldiers. The Rock of Gibraltar was used by these soldiers, and long tunnels were made inside it. These tunnels even had a hospital and living areas for the soldiers. 
Since 1704 when Spain lost Gibraltar, Spain began trying to get it back. They attacked the Rock several times in the 18th century. 
However, since the 1950s, Spain has tried get Gibraltar by diplomacy (international relations) by putting different kinds of pressure and restrictions on the people of Gibraltar.
In 1969 Britain gave Gibraltar a new constitution. This meant that it gave the people of Gibraltar a large amount of self-government. 
In 2002 the people of Gibraltar were asked to vote whether they wanted Spain to share Gibraltar with the United Kingdom; almost everyone voted and 98.97% said they did not. 
In 2006 Gibraltar voted to approve a new constitution which gave full self government to the people meaning they can independently create their own laws.
Spain recently stopped interfering with Gibraltar telephone lines and daily flights to Madrid started. 

</doc>
<doc id="15223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15223" title="Windows 2000">
Windows 2000

Windows 2000 (also known as Win2K, W2K, codenamed Windows NT 5.0, Memphis, Neptune, Oddysey) is an operating system that was designed to work with computers that have either single or multiple processors. It was designed for 32-bit Intel x86 computers. It is part of the Microsoft Windows NT line of operating systems and was released on February 17, 2000. Windows 2000 comes in four versions: Professional, Server, Advanced Server, and Datacenter Server. Additionally, Microsoft offers Windows 2000 Advanced Server - Limited Edition and Datacenter Server - Limited Edition, which were released in 2001 and runs on 64-bit Intel Itanium processors. Windows 2000 was designed for businesses, but it was also popular with home users. A Home Edition of Windows 2000, codenamed Neptune, was planned, but was never released.
Windows 2000 uses two 'modes' - a 'User Mode' and a 'Kernel Mode'. The Kernel Mode is specially for hardware drivers (drivers tell the computer how to 'speak' to something) and allows drivers to 'speak' to things in the computer. The User Mode is for computer programs to run in without fear of causing harm to the computer.
All versions of Windows 2000 have things in common, including many system utilities such as the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) and standard system management applications such as a disk defragmentation utility. There is lots of support for different languages and for people with disabilities. Windows 2000 supports the Windows NT filesystem NTFS 5, the Encrypted File System (EFS), as well as basic and dynamic disk storage. Dynamic disk storage allows different types of volumes to be used (a volume is an area of storage on a hard disk that has been formatted with its own file system structure). The Windows 2000 Server version has many more features, including the ability to provide Active Directory services (a way of organising resources such as printers, users and group), a distributed file system (a file system that supports sharing of files) and fault-redundant storage volumes.
Windows 2000 can be installed and deployed to an enterprise through either an attended or unattended installation. Unattended installations rely on the use of answer files to fill in installation information, and can be performed through a bootable CD using Microsoft Systems Management Server (SMS), by the System Preparation Tool (Sysprep).
Windows 2000 was created from the Microsoft Windows NT operating system versions. It was originally called Windows NT 5 but Microsoft changed the name to Windows 2000 on October 27th, 1998. It was also the first Windows version that was released without a code name. The first software test version (also known as a beta version) for Windows 2000 was released on September 27, 1997. Several more test versions were released until Beta 3, which was released on April 29, 1999. Microsoft further issued three more test versions from between July to November 1999. They then finally released Windows 2000 to partners on December 12, 1999 . The public received the full version of Windows 2000 on February 17, 2000 and the press immediately called it the most stable operating system Microsoft had ever released. Novell (a competitor of Microsoft) did not think that Microsoft's new directory service product (part of Windows 2000) was as good as their own Novell Directory Services (NDS) technology . On September 29, 2000, Microsoft released Windows 2000 Datacenter. Microsoft released Service Pack 1 (SP1) on August 15, 2000, Service Pack 2 (SP2) on May 16, 2001, Service Pack 3 (SP3) on August 29, 2002 and its last Service Pack (SP4) on June 26, 2003. Microsoft has said that they will not release a Service Pack 5, but instead, have offered an "Update Rollup" for Service Pack 4. Microsoft stopped developing their Java Virtual Machine (JVM) for Windows 2000 in Service Pack 3.
Microsoft has replaced Windows 2000 Server products with Windows Server 2003, and Windows 2000 Professional with Windows XP Professional. Windows Neptune started development in 1999, and was supposed to be the home-user edition of Windows 2000. However, the project took a long time to create and only one pre-test (alpha version) release was created. Windows Me was released instead and the Neptune project was incorporated into the development of Windows XP. The only elements of the Windows project which were included in Windows 2000 were the ability to upgrade from Windows 95 or Windows 98, and support for the FAT32 file system.
Several notable security flaws have been found in Windows 2000. Code Red and Code Red II were famous computer worms that used problems with indexing service of Windows 2000's Internet Information Services (IIS) to caused a security problem. In August 2003, two major worms named the Sobig worm and the Blaster worm began to attack millions of Microsoft Windows computers and caused many problems for system administrators and computer operators who used Windows 2000. This was very embarrassing for Microsoft, and caused many corporations and governments to look carefully at Microsoft's security problems. 
Windows 2000 is the last version of Windows that does not require any Pentium instructions, and is therefore the last version that will run on a 486.

</doc>
<doc id="15224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15224" title="Junior Certificate">
Junior Certificate

The Junior Certificate is earned by passing a required exam that takes place in secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland.
The exams take place every June, with English always the first exam. For example, the English exam took place on June 8 this year (2005). Exams usually end with the subjects that the fewest people take. For example, Italian took place on June 24 this year (2005).
Three exams must be passed in order to receive a certificate: They are English, Mathematics, and Irish. If a student has not lived in Ireland for at least seven years before the exam, he is not required to sit for the Irish exam. A student may then take 3-6 other subjects to get his certifcate.
The results of the exams are given in mid-September.

</doc>
<doc id="15225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15225" title="Leaving Certificate">
Leaving Certificate

The Leaving Certificate is the final exam in the Republic of Ireland secondary school education system. Students have to do the Junior Certificate before they can take the Leaving Certificate. Students also have to take Maths and English. If they took Irish during the Junior Certificate, they also have to take Irish.
Students have to take exams on at least six subjects. They can take either High or Ordinary level tests. In Irish and Maths, there is also a Foundation level. This is for people who have trouble with that subject.
The results are given out in the middle of August. A leaving certificate is required in order to go on to college or university.

</doc>
<doc id="15226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15226" title="Empire">
Empire

An empire is a set of lands or regions that are ruled by an emperor. Usually the emperor will have governors, viceroys or client kings who each rule one land or region. An empire will usually also have many different cultures.
Well-known empires include the Persian Empire, the Roman Empire, the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the British Empire. 
Today, the only monarch to use the title "emperor" is the Emperor of Japan, although his power is mostly ceremonial.

</doc>
<doc id="15228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15228" title="Writer">
Writer

A writer can mean anyone who makes a written work or who writes, but the word more usually means people who write creatively or as a job, or those who have written in many different forms. Skilled writers demonstrate skills in using language to portray certain ideas and images, whether in fiction or non-fiction.
This list is only a few examples of the many types of writing there are.

</doc>
<doc id="15229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15229" title="Inventor">
Inventor

An inventor is a person who makes new inventions, devices that perform some kind of function. The devices are mostly electrical or mechanical. Someone that invents new ideas or methods on how to do things may also be called an inventor.
Many inventors make small changes to old inventions. For example, people have invented new ways to make clocks over history. Early clocks were sundials, later clocks used water, and pendulums. Modern clocks are often electronic. Other machines such as vehicles are made of many inventions.

</doc>
<doc id="15230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15230" title="Bear">
Bear

Bears are a group of large mammals. They form the family Ursidae, in the suborder Caniformia of the order Carnivora. There are 9 living bear species.
Bears usually have a big body with short and thick legs. They only have a very short tail. They have small eyes and round ears. They usually have longer, shaggy fur. On each foot they have five claws, which they cannot pull back. They have very good senses of smell and hearing. They can stand up on their back legs. Usually bears can climb and swim very well.
They are mostly active at night (except for the Polar Bear). Some bears hibernate, that means they sleep during the winter to save energy.
Bears are usually omnivorous, which means that they eat plants and meat. They eat berries, grass, and fish. An exception is the polar bear, which eats mostly meat.

</doc>
<doc id="15231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15231" title="Meteorology">
Meteorology

Meteorology is the science that focuses on the Earth's atmosphere. People who study meteorology are called meteorologists. Meteorologists record air pressure, wind speed and direction, temperature, humidity, weather patterns, and other information. Meteorologists use this data to understand weather and to predict it. Meteorology is a major branch of earth science.Meteorologists study the causes of particular weather conditions using information obtained from the land, sea and upper atmosphere.
They use computerized and mathematical models to make short and long-range forecasts concerning weather and climate patterns. A variety of organizations use meteorological forecasts including:
•transport services, particularly air and sea travel;
•the shipping and sea fishing industries and sailing organisations;
•the armed forces;
•government services, e.g. for advice on climate change policy;
•farmers;
•public services;
•the media;
•industry and retail businesses;
•insurance companies;
•health services.
In addition to forecasting, meteorologists study the impact of weather on the environment and conduct research into weather patterns, climate change and models of weather prediction.
Written by AGCAS editors

</doc>
<doc id="15232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232" title="Technology">
Technology

Depending on when the word technology is used, technology is:
Genetic engineering (GE), also called genetic modification, is a branch of applied biology. It is the changing of an organism's genome using biotechnology.

</doc>
<doc id="15233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15233" title="Wonders of the World">
Wonders of the World

The Seven Wonders of the World (or the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World) is a widely-known list of seven great buildings or structures from the classical time period.
This is a list put together in the 2nd century BC by 
Antipater of Sidon and Philon of Byzantium. This explains why it only lists monuments of the Mediterranean world. There are other slightly different versions: this is the most usual one.
Out of those structures only the Great Pyramid still exists in the 21st century. Most of the wonders were built by the Greeks. Earlier versions listed the Walls of Babylon and the Palace of Cyrus the Great.
This version was decided by the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
There is no single list of seven natural wonders of the world. One of the many lists was compiled by CNN:
From a variety of modern lists of wonders made by man, some items occur several times:

</doc>
<doc id="15236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15236" title="Daughter">
Daughter

A daughter is a female child. The opposite of a daughter is a son. A daughter would be a sister, if she has siblings.

</doc>
<doc id="15237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15237" title="Son">
Son

A son is the male child of a mother and father. The opposite of a son is a daughter. If the child has siblings then the son is a brother.

</doc>
<doc id="15241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15241" title="1516">
1516


</doc>
<doc id="15243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15243" title="Oliver Stone">
Oliver Stone

William Oliver Stone (born September 15, 1946) is an American movie director, producer, writer and actor. He was born in New York City and raised in Manhattan and Stamford, Connecticut. Stone became well known in the late 1980s and early 1990s for directing a series of movies about the Vietnam War. He was in the war as an infantry soldier. Stone's movies are often about political and cultural issues.

</doc>
<doc id="15244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15244" title="Whale shark">
Whale shark

The Whale shark ("Rhincodon typus"), is a large filter feeding shark, and is the largest shark in the world, reaching lengths of up to 12 metres long, and weighing as much as 47, 000 pounds. 
The Whale shark has a very wide distribution, found in all tropical and warm temperate seas, except in the Mediterranean
The Whale shark has a streamlined body and a wide, flattened head. The mouth is transverse, very large and is nearly at the tip of the snout. The gill slits are also very large, and are designed as filtering screens. The first dorsal fin is much larger than the second dorsal fin, and is located at the back of the body. The caudal fin is semi-lunate (crescent-shaped) in adults, and with the young, the upper lobe is quite longer than the lower lobe. The Whale shark has a unique "checkerboard" colour pattern of light spots and stripes on a dark background.
Whale sharks are grey, blue or brown above, with a surface pattern of creamy white spots between pale, vertical and horizontal stripes. The belly is white. The use of the strange pattern on the Whale shark is unknown, although many bottom-dwelling Whale sharks use these markings as a camouflage against their backgrounds. 
They can be as long as 41 feet (12.3 metres) in length, and weigh as much as 47,000 pounds (21.5 tonnes). However, it is believed that there are some Whale sharks which can reach lengths of up to 67 feet (20 metres). The smallest free-living individuals are around 55cm (21.7 inches) long. Whale sharks reach maturity at lengths of around 9 metres 
The Whale shark has a very widespread distribution, found in all tropical and warm temperate seas, except in the Mediterranean. It is found throughout the Atlantic Ocean, from New York, through the Caribbean, to central Brazil, and from Senegal to the Gulf of Guinea. It also is found in the Indian Ocean, throughout the region, including the Red Sea and the Arabian Gulf. In the Pacific Ocean it is found from Japan to Australia, off Hawaii, and from California to Chile. 
Although other shark species of the order Orectolobiformes are benthic (live on or near the bottom), the Whale shark lives in the pelagic zone. Studies show that this shark prefers warm waters, with surface temperatures of around 21-30°C. It is often seen offshore but commonly comes close inshore, sometimes entering lagoons or coral atolls. Whale sharks sometimes swim deeper than 700 metres 
Although the Whale shark has no real predator, young Whale sharks have been found in the stomachs of Blue sharks and Blue marlin. 
In spite of it's large size, the Whale shark has a nature of being very timid. Divers usually hold onto the tails of these sharks and swim with them, and the Whale sharks never seem to attack. However, the large size can be dangerous due to the fact of the great force they give out if they accidentally bump into a diver.
There is also the risk that a diver getting too close to a Whale shark could get sucked into the filtering system that the sharks use for feeding. Another risk is that they can create problems for small boats that they may accidentally knock into. For the sharks, contact with very large boats can result in severe injuries. 
Along with the Basking shark and the Megamouth shark, the Whale shark is one of the three known species of filter feeding sharks. It feeds mainly on plankton and nekton, small crustaceans, schooling fish, and sometimes on tuna and squids. Whale sharks may also sometimes feed on phytoplankton and macroalgae. Unlike most plankton-feeding vertebrates, the Whale shark does not depend on slow forward motion to operate its filtration mechanism. Instead, it relies on a versatile suction filter-feeding method, which allows it to draw in a larger amount of water than other filter-feeders, like the Basking shark. This allows the Whale shark to capture larger amounts of plankton. Whale sharks are always seen feeding in a vertical or near vertical position with the head at or near the surface. 
Other food items for the Whale shark can include krill, and the larvae of Christmas Island red crab. 
There is very little information that has been documented about Whale sharks mating and giving birth to young. Some Whale sharks which live in captivity are studied by scientists but the Whale shark is not very common in aquariums due to its large size. 
However, it is believed that they can have up to 300 pups at a time. This would be a lot more than other shark species. Yet, only a small fraction of them live to the age of maturity. It is believed that this species of shark doesn’t take part in mating until around 30 years old. They can live from 70 to 100 years of age. 
In the past, the Whale shark has been of little interest to fisheries. Now, commercial fishing for Whale sharks are limited, but may expand from an increased demand for food products. In Taiwan around 100 Whale sharks are caught annually. The meat of the Whale shark is sold for high prices in this country, and since of this, there have been larger harvests of Whale sharks over the last few years. Fishing for this shark also occurs in the Philippines, particularly in the Visayas and Mindanao areas, providing food for the local fishing communities. Whale shark fins are sold in the Orient, especially in Hong Kong. Occasionally, Whale sharks are captured accidentally along the coast of India. Sometimes the flesh is eaten and the liver oil is used for waterproofing wooden fishing boats and for the manufacture of shoe polish, and it is also used as a treatment for some skin diseases. The fins of Whale sharks are also sold in India. Often, the Whale shark is used as an indicator of waters which are rich in plankton-feeding fish that will, in turn, attract more valuable species, such as tuna. Whale sharks have been kept in aquaria in Japan, but their large size and their diet has made it hard to keep a Whale shark in an aquarium. Some locations where the presence of Whale sharks appears to be predictable, are increasingly targeted by commercial tourist operations. 
Some biological characteristics, such as the slow growth, and long time to mature, makes the Whale shark vulnerable to overfishing. These characteristics also suggest that populations are slow to recover from any overfishing. The Whale shark is listed as Vulnerable by the IUCN. The Whale shark is listed by the AFS (American Fisheries Society) as "Conservation dependent" (meaning that the Whale shark's population has reduced but it is recovering under conservation plans) in both the Atlantic waters of the U.S.A, and the Gulf of Mexico. However, it is considered not at risk in the Gulf of California. In the Maldives and Philippines there has been a ban on the fishing of Whale sharks. This protection was introduced because of the serious impact that the fisheries may be making on Whale shark numbers. The predictable occurrence of Whale sharks in a few areas, such as western Australia, has led to the development of an expanding tourism industry. In this area the Whale shark is a protected species and its tourism has been managed through a controlled system, including the licensing of a limited number of operators tours. Also, divers have been stopped from riding, chasing, or harassing any marine animal in any way, including Whale sharks. Recently, some studies made on the Ningaloo Reef's Whale sharks provided information that regular diving is a normal behaviour of these sharks, and there is no avoidance reaction during contact with humans. 

</doc>
<doc id="15245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15245" title="Qatar">
Qatar

Qatar is a country in the Middle East. Its official name is the State of Qatar. There are about 2,000,000 people. It is a very rich country which has many reserves of oil and natural gas. 
Qatar is a peninsula (a strip of land sticking out into the sea). It is joined to Saudi Arabia to the south, and all the other sides of it are surrounded by the waters of the Arabian Gulf.
Qatar is quite a small country and has an area of only 10,360 km². The peninsula is 160 km long. Much of the country is a low, barren plain, covered with sand. The Jebel Dukhan area has Qatar’s main onshore oil deposits. The natural gas fields lie offshore, to the northwest of the peninsula.
The capital of Qatar is Doha. Over 90% of the people live in Doha. The other large city is Al Wakrah.
Qatar has an unelected, monarchic, emirate-type government. The position of emir is hereditary.
The Emir is the only one who can appoint and remove the prime minister and cabinet ministers. Together the ministers make up the Council of Ministers. They are the highest executive authority in the country.
People from Qatar are called Qataris. They are Arabs. The official language of Qatar is Arabic, but many people also speak English, especially when they are doing business.
About 2,2 million people live in Qatar; however, about 88% of these are "guest workers" (people from another country who are living and working there for a short time), mostly coming from South Asia, South East Asia and other Arab countries. 545,000 are Indians, 400,000 Nepalis, 200,000 Filipinos among a lot of other nationalities. 
Nearly all of Qatar's economy comes from producing petroleum and natural gas.
The currency of Qatar is called the Qatari Riyal.
Almost all Qataris follow the religion of Islam. However, many of the guest workers follow other religions.
Football is the most popular sport in Qatar, closely followed by cricket. The Qatar under-20 national football team finished second in the 1981 FIFA World Youth Championship.
The Asian Football Confederation's 2011 AFC Asian Cup finals were held in Qatar in January 2011. It was the second time it has been hosted by Qatar, the other being the 1988 AFC Asian Cup.
Doha, Qatar, is also home to Qatar Racing Club a Drag Racing facility. 
Khalifa International Tennis and Squash Complex in Doha, Qatar, hosted the WTA Tour Championships in women's tennis between 2008 and 2010. Doha holds the WTA Premier tournament Qatar Ladies Open each year.
On 2 December 2010, Qatar won their bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup. 
Nasser Al-Attiyah of Qatar won the 2011 Dakar Rally and the Production World Rally Championship in 2006. In addition, he has also won gold medals at the 2002 Asian Games and 2010 Asian Games as part of the Qatari skeet shooting team.
Since 2002, Qatar has hosted the yearly Tour of Qatar, a cycling race in six stages. Every February, riders are racing on the roads across Qatar's flat land for six days. Each stage covers a distance of more than 100 km.

</doc>
<doc id="15247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15247" title="Salt water">
Salt water

Saline water (also called salt water, salt-water or saltwater) is water with salt in it. It often means the water from the seas (sea water) and oceans.
Salt water used for making or preserving food, is usually saltier than sea water and is called brine. Drinking sea water alone is dangerous. A summary of 163 life raft voyages showed the risk of death at 39% for those who drank seawater, compared to 3% for those who did not. Experiments on rats showed the danger.
When scientists measure salt in water, they usually say they are testing the salinity of the water: salinity is measured in "parts per thousand" or "ppt". Most sea water is about 35 ppt salt. Salt lakes can be up to ten times as salty. Above that level precipitation creates a salt plain.
Brackish water, in contrast, is less salty than seawater.
Salt water is more dense than fresh water. This means that it has more matter per its volume. Fresh water has a density of 1 g/ml, while salty seawater has an average density of about 1.025 g/ml.

</doc>
<doc id="15248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15248" title="Oceanography">
Oceanography

Oceanography (also called oceanology or marine science) is the study of the ocean, its properties and its characteristics. This can include, and is not limited to, studying the marine life, the geography of the ocean floor, and the water itself. The branch of science dealing with physical and biological aspects of the oceans. It is mainly studied by boats using drills and moon pools to study the rock floor.
The study of oceanography may be divide branches:

</doc>
<doc id="15250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15250" title="Diamanto Manolakou">
Diamanto Manolakou

Diamanto Manolakou, born on 1 March 1959, is a Greek politician and member of the European Parliament for the Communist Party of Greece; part of the European United Left–Nordic Green Left.

</doc>
<doc id="15252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15252" title="Arthur C. Clarke">
Arthur C. Clarke

Sir Arthur Charles Clarke (Minehead, Somerset, 6 December 1917 – Colombo, Sri Lanka, 19 March 2008) was a British author and inventor. He was most famous for his science fiction novel "", and for working with director Stanley Kubrick on the movie of the same name. Clarke and Isaac Asimov were probably the two best-known science fiction writers of their day.
Some of Clarke's novels include "Childhood's End", "A Fall of Moondust", "The Songs of Distant Earth", "The Sands of Mars", and "Meeting with Medusa". He also wrote many short stories, and several serious works on science. 
Clarke served in the Royal Air Force as a radar instructor and technician from 1941–1946. He proposed a satellite communication system in 1945 which won him the Franklin Institute Gold Medal in 1963. 
He was the chairman of the British Interplanetary Society from 1947–1950 and again in 1953.
Clarke emigrated to Sri Lanka in 1956 largely to pursue his interest in scuba diving; That year, he discovered the underwater ruins of the ancient Koneswaram temple in Trincomalee. He lived in Sri Lanka until his death. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1998, and was awarded Sri Lanka's highest civil honour, Sri Lankabhimanya, in 2005.
Clarke died from heart and respiratory failure at the age of 90.
Arthur C. Clarke Award

</doc>
<doc id="15253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15253" title="Anthony Burgess">
Anthony Burgess

Anthony Burgess (25 February 1917 – 22 November 1993) was an Englishman who wrote many long stories, called novels.
One of these was named "A Clockwork Orange". It was about evil. He had the idea for the story after a group of bad young men raped and beat his wife for no reason.
Burgess also made songs and music. And he wrote a lot about writers he loved, such as James Joyce, a novelist, and Gerard Manley Hopkins, a poet.
Burgess was born in Harpurhey, Manchester, in the north of England. Before he became a writer, he was a soldier, then a teacher. When he was 37 years old, he left his home country to work in Malaysia and Brunei. Later, he lived in the USA, Italy, and France.
He was born very poor, the son of a man who made a meagre living out of selling cigarettes to workmen. But when Burgess died, he had grown rich. This was because he worked so hard at his art, which is the art of literature. He wrote at least 1,000 words every day of his life. But he always found time to be kind to other writers. He was friendly to the many people who came to visit with him at his seaside home in Monaco.
Burgess died of lung cancer aged 76, in St John's Wood, London.
The books by Burgess that people say they like the most are called "Earthly Powers", about the Pope; "Enderby", about a poet; and "Nothing Like the Sun", about William Shakespeare.

</doc>
<doc id="15254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15254" title="Rape">
Rape

Rape is usually defined as having sexual intercourse with a person who does not want to, or cannot consent. Consent is when someone agrees of their own choice without being forced to. In France it is more widely defined as 'unwanted sexual penetration'. Rape is a form of sexual assault. In most countries, rape is one of the most serious crimes. The International Criminal Court can also condemn it as a "crime against humanity", if done by a group. A person who rapes someone is a rapist. Rapists may use violence, drugs, or threats to get their way. People of any gender can be raped. This was not recognized by the United States law until 2011. Girls and women or boys and men may stay quiet about a rape because they might feel ashamed about it. Rapists can be both male or female.
A person may be unable to consent (say yes to) to sexual intercourse or other sexual activity. Having sex with a person who cannot consent is rape.
Some adults are unable to consent to sex.
Marital rape is where the victim of rape is married to the person committing the rape. Unconsenting sex with a married partner is thought to be rape under the laws of some countries but not others. In the United Kingdom, marital rape was determined to be a crime in the case of "R v. R" (1991). Marital rape being illegal does not mean that the law is enforced. For example, in Ireland marital rape was made illegal in 1990, but by 2006 only one person had been convicted of it.
Rape is a medical emergency. People who are raped may be injured or have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). People may not know they are hurt or sick. Doctors can give medicine to treat an STD. HIV, an STD, can be prevented by early treatment. If seen quickly, a doctor can give medication called emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy. Rape is at least twice as likely to cause pregnancy as consensual sex. The reason for this is not known.
At the hospital, police can collect evidence from the victim and his/her clothing. Evidence may help find the rapist, and can help him/her go to jail. Waiting too long makes it hard to collect evidence. Also, taking a shower before telling the police or going to a hospital can wash off some of the DNA evidence.
Victims of rape often feel scared, sad, and/or guilty. They may think about the rape a lot, even when they do not want to. They may have nightmares about the rape. Many have post-traumatic stress disorder. People who are raped during childhood or adolescence often get borderline personality disorder. They may binge drink to cope. Talking to someone, like a counselor, can help. Rape counselors are trained to help rape victims. Sometimes doctors can give medicine to decrease fear and sadness. Calling a rape crisis center or hotline can help a victim find help.
Some people believe in 'rape culture'. For example, they say that the United States has a rape culture. Rape culture is a culture that lets rape happen. It even encourages it. In the US 97% of rapists are never put in prison for their crimes. Some people are worried about women lying about being raped and men getting unfairly punished. This happens much less often than people think. In a study of college athletes, they thought that women lie about being raped 50% of the time. A 2005 study by the British Home Office found that 2.5% of rape reports were false.
Part of rape culture is victim blaming. This is when people say that someone who has been raped is the person to blame for their rape. An example of this is people saying that a rape victim was 'asking for it' because they were wearing a short skirt. It can also be more subtle. Victim blaming has been linked to the just world fallacy. This is when people think that the world is fair, so bad things only happen to people who have done something wrong. Victim-blaming is also related to 'slut-shaming'.
The idea of rape culture has been criticized. Christina Hoff Sommers argues that rape is just one type of violent crime and America's culture of violence in general is what should be fought.
It is not easy to find out how many people have been raped or how many people have raped. A lot of rape victims don't tell anyone that they were raped. They may be scared that they will not be believed or feel too ashamed to talk about what happened. The conviction rate for rape is very low so they might think reporting to police is a waste of time. The 2006-07 British Crime Survey found that 1 in every 200 women suffered from rape in that period. The same year 800 people were convicted of rape. This means less than 1 in every 100 reports of rape led to a conviction. A survey by Mumsnet found that 68% of women would hesitate reporting a rape to the police because of low conviction rates.
So rape report statistics are not reliable. A person may be raped but deny or not realize that what happened to them is rape, so would not say 'yes' if they were asked in survey if they had been raped. A person is more likely to say they were raped or raped someone if the word 'rape' is not used in a survey question. Different countries have different legal definitions of rape. Marital rape or rape that is not male-female is not always counted in the law or statistics.
Some studies ask what people think about rape instead of or as well of if they have raped or been raped. This comes from the idea that rape is a social problem.
One in five women in the U.S. say they have been raped in their lives. One in three Native American women has been a victim of rape or attempted rape.
One in six men in the U.S. say they were raped or sexually abused before age 18.
Prostitutes have possibly the highest rape rate in the population. A 1996 study in San Francisco found that 70% of a sample of 200 female prostitutes had been raped.
Opinion Matters surveyed a random sample of 1061 people in London aged 18 to 50 online. 20% had been raped (23% of 712 women and 15% of 349 men).
In a 2005 poll 26% of people thought that a woman is partly or fully responsible for her rape if she was wearing sexy clothing. 4% thought that there are more than 10,000 women raped a year.
60% of 1000 women in a Rape Crisis survey thought that rape is not rape if the woman does not say 'no'. 16% had been raped.
A 2009 study by NSPCC found that 1 in 16 girls between the age of 13 and 17 who were in relationships had been raped.
In a survey between 2010 and 2012 of adults living in Britain, 9.8% of women said they had been raped and 1.4% of men said they had been raped.
In 2013 the 'Savile effect' was described in the media. In 2012 there was a lot of media coverage about claims of child sexual abuse against Jimmy Savile. The number of sex crimes reported to police increased 9%. This was linked to the sexual abuse scandal.
In Finland convicted rapists get very short sentences compared to other countries. Between 2001 and 2003 the average sentence for rape was two years in prison.
In 2013 a study by the United Nations was published that asked 10,178 men in six countries (Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Sri Lanka) if they had raped a woman who was not their partner. Over one in 10 said yes. When they were asked if they had raped a woman who was their partner, 1 in 4 said yes, making headlines. The highest rate was 62% of men in Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea who said they had raped a woman. 7.6% had raped a man. 14% of men from the area had took part in gang rape.
2.8% of the whole sample reported having raped another man.
The lowest rate was 10 per cent in urban Bangladesh. The majority of the men who had raped did not face any legal consequences. 42.7% had first raped between the age of 15 and 19.
73% said they raped because of sexual entitlement. 59% said they did it for fun. 38% said they had raped a woman to punish her. Alcohol was the least common reason. Men who had been sexually abused were more likely to rape.
20.8% of 1,863 Cambodian men had raped. Gang rape was the least common kind of rape in Cambodia. In Cambodia it was more common than non-partner rape by a rapist on their own. 81.7 percent of Cambodian women said that if a woman does not physically fight back it is not rape.
Other research found that 87% of Cambodian girls and 87% of Cambodian boys don't think that gang rape of a prostitute by a group of men is wrong or actually rape.
96.5% of Sri Lankan men who raped experienced no legal consequences.
20% of 8000 Indian men in a survey by ICRW had committed marital rape.
In a survey by IUSSP 32% of Indian women said they had been raped in their lives. The conviction rate for rape in India is 24.21%.
South Africa has been described as the rape capital of the world. In a study in the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal by the South African Medical Research Council over one in four of 1737 anonymously surveyed men said that they had raped. 4.6% had raped and 5.3% had attempted rape in the last year. 16.8% had attempted rape ever. 8.9% had engaged in gang rape in their lives. 46.3% of men who had raped had raped more than one woman or girl and 53.9% had raped more than once. 7.1% raped 6-10. 7.7% said they had raped more than ten women or girls. 45% did not feel guilty. 9.8% of rapists were under 10 years old and 16.4% were 10–14 years old the first time they raped a girl of woman. However the sample contained more young men than the general population. The men who raped were much more likely to have experienced bullying and bad relationships with their parents. The most common reason given by the rapists for raping was entitlement.
In another study in Gauteng, South Africa's wealthiest province, over 1 in 3 (37.4%) of the 487 men asked admitted to rape. Two thirds of men said they raped because of feeling entitled to sex. Other reasons given were that they wanted to have fun or to punish a woman. 25.3% of 511 women said they had been raped.
Community Information, Empowerment and Transparency (CIET) Africa says that in 1998, one in three of the 4,000 women they asked in Johannesburg were raped.
A 2013 study of grade-nine boys at 46 secondary schools in Cape Town and Port Elizabeth found that 17.2% had raped.
A study of 1370 rural South African men aged 15–26 from 70 villages found that 21% had raped. The average age of first rape was 17.
Other very different statistics have been reported.
In "The South African demographic and health survey of 1998" 4% of women aged 15 to 49 said they had been raped. The reason for the differences in the statistics are not known. Rape between men is not part of the legal rape definition in South Africa.
In a study of 1,049 women in Lesotho, 33% said they had been raped by the age of 18. In 66% of cases the rapist was a boyfriend.
A study in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's largest city, found that 1 out of 5 women over the age of 12 (the age group studied) have been raped. 10% had reported their rapes to police.
A 2010 study estimated that 1,100 women are raped every day in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a statistic 26 times higher than the previous estimate.http://www.aljazeera.com/news/africa/2011/05/2011511231649539962.html
An analysis of 2,565 patients who received medical care in the Médecins Sans Frontières sexual violence clinic in Ituri found that 96% were female. 73% were raped by armed men. 95.2% of the male victims were raped by armed men. 35.9% of females who were asked if they had became pregnant as a result of their rape said yes. 74.5% experienced gang rape (89.3% of male and 73.9% of female victims), usually involving 2-4 rapists. 48.6% of victims were raped while doing daily chores outside the home like collecting water and 12.3% in their own homes.
10.3% of women in Botswana said that they had been raped in a 2011 study. 3.9% of men said they had raped.
5% of Swaziland men in a study had raped. 11.4% of women had been raped.
A study in Addis Ababa of high school boys found that 4.3% had been raped in their lives.
In a sample of street females in Bahir-Dar town 24.3% had been raped in their lives and 11.4% were raped in the last year. 93.8% of the rapes were not reported. 19.1% became pregnant as a result of their rape.
A study of 374 female students at Wolaita Sodo University found that 23.4% had experienced attempted rape and 8.7% had been raped.
The World Health Organization (WHO) found among a sample of women in rural Ethiopia who had had sex, 17% said that the first time they had sex it was forced.
In a survey 8% of 2011 Ghanian women had been raped. 5% of men had raped a wife or girlfriend.
Out of a sample of 295 female students from Ebonyi State University Abakaliki in Southeast Nigeria, 10.8% had been raped on campus. In another study of 12-19 year old students from schools in Oyo State found that 68.3% of intellectually disabled females with sexual experience had been raped.
In a 2013 poll, 34% of 585 randomly chosen Nigerians said that 'indecent dressing' is the most common cause of rape in their society. 79% agreed with the statement 'most rapes in Nigeria go unreported'. In Nigeria raping someone you are married to (marital rape) is not recognized as a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="15255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255" title="Emmet D. Boyle">
Emmet D. Boyle

Emmet Derby Boyle (July 26, 1879 - January 3, 1926) was a Governor of Nevada. He was a Democrat.
Boyle was born in Virginia City, Nevada in 1879. He was a mining engineer, and was the Governor between 1915 and 1923. He died in 1926 at the age of 46.

</doc>
<doc id="15256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15256" title="Carp">
Carp

The Carp is a fish that lives in fresh water, such as rivers and lakes. In Europe and Asia carp are loved as a fishing and eating fish. However, carp are a really big problem in countries such as the U.S. and Australia. They make the water dirty by causing the mud at the bottom to move and in these countries people hate them.
Some popular ornamental fishes like the koi and goldfish are also carp. 

</doc>
<doc id="15257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15257" title="Christopher Walken">
Christopher Walken

Ronald Walken (born March 31, 1943), known as Christopher Walken, is an American movie, television, and theatre actor. He is best known for playing evil or mentally damaged characters. He has sometimes used that image for comedic effect. He was born in Queens, New York to a German father and Scottish-born mother. Walken has been married to casting director Georgianne Walken since 1969.
Walken is a skilled dancer who in many of his movies dances, because he requests it. He has been in nearly one hundred movies and television shows since 1953, including "The Dead Zone" (1983), "Brainstorm" (1983), "A View to a Kill" (1985), "Batman Returns" (1992) "True Romance" (1993), "Pulp Fiction" (1994), "Nick of Time" (1995), "Catch Me If You Can" (2002), "Around the Bend" (2004) and "The Jungle Book" (2016). He was George Lucas' second choice for Han Solo after Harrison Ford.
He won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in "The Deer Hunter" (1978) where he played a disturbed Vietnam veteran with Robert De Niro. He was nominated again in 2002 for "Catch Me if You Can". 
Walken has been guest host on Saturday Night Live many times. He has played many well known characters on that show.

</doc>
<doc id="15261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15261" title="Gene Hackman">
Gene Hackman

Eugene Alden Hackman (born January 30, 1930) is an American retired actor and novelist. Hackman was born in San Bernardino, California. His parents divorced while he was a child, and he moved from one place to another until he settled finally in Danville, Illinois, where he lived with his English-born grandmother. At the age of 16 he left home to join the Marines, where he served 3 years as a radio operator. Having finished his service, he moved to New York, where he worked in several minor jobs. He then studied television production and journalism at the University of Illinois.
Already over 30 years old, Hackman decided to become an actor, and joined the Pasadena Playhouse in California. It was in that school that Hackman became friends with another person who wanted to be an actor named Dustin Hoffman.
After working hard in many roles he became a well-respected actor. He has won two Academy Awards, and has played many well-known roles.

</doc>
<doc id="15264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15264" title="Brian Russell">
Brian Russell

Brian Russell (born February 5, 1978) is an American music producer. He is the former husband of musician Brenda Russell. He is currently married to Cheryl Ladd.

</doc>
<doc id="15266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15266" title="Cod">
Cod

Cod is a teleost fish that lives in the ocean, where it is one of the larger predators. There about 12 different genera. 
Cod is an important type of fish for professional fishing. It is also popular to eat, because it is mild in taste. The livers of cods are processed to get cod liver oil. Along with Haddock and Plaice, cod is a very common fish to use for Fish and Chips.
Cod has been traded about since the period of the Vikings. Cod grows to about 5 ft long. The biggest one ever caught weighed about 104 pounds.

</doc>
<doc id="15267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15267" title="U.S. 1st Infantry Division">
U.S. 1st Infantry Division

The 1st Infantry Division of the United States Army—nicknamed the "Big Red One" after its shoulder patch—is the oldest division. Since the Division was made, it has served in almost all wars the American Army has been in. The division's official motto is "Duty First". Their unofficial motto is "No Mission Too Difficult, No Sacrifice Too Great".

</doc>
<doc id="15270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15270" title="Charles Manson">
Charles Manson

Charles Milles Manson (born on November 12, 1934) is an American leader of a Californian cult which murdered several people. This was in the late 1960s and early 1970s. His cult, of young women and men, was known as "The Family". 
He planned and ordered the Family to commit several brutal murders. Most known is the murder by his followers on August 8, 1969 of movie actress Sharon Tate. She was expecting a baby, already seven/eight months. The same night they also murdered Steven Parent, a friend of the groundskeeper at the house; Jay Sebring, a hair stylist; Abigail Folger, an heiress and social worker; and Wojciech Frykowski; a Polish writer and actor. The next night, Manson and some of his followers murdered Leno La Bianca, a grocery store owner and his wife Rosemary. Manson and his followers were arrested for stealing cars, but soon it was found out that they were the ones who committed the murders. 
Manson is in jail for life in California. He and four Family members were sentenced to death, but the death penalty was abolished in California shortly after that. He has been diagnosed with schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder. Because of his violent, murderous, antisocial behavior and unstable mental state, he was refused parole in 2012, for the 12th time. The chance is small that he will ever be free from prison. His next hearing is set for 2027.
Manson released an album entitled ""Lie: the Love and Terror Cult"", it features Manson's music and all profits of the 2006 revived ESP-Disk label version would go to the family of Wojciech Frykowski. Allmusic rated the album 4 out of 5 stars.
Manson was a convicted criminal long before the infamous murders. When he was released for the second time, on March 21, 1967, he had spent more than half his 32 years in prisons and other institutions. He told the authorities that prison had become his home and he asked to stay. This fact was disclosed in a 1981 television interview.
On his release day, Manson was allowed to move to San Francisco. With the help of a prison friend. he moved into an apartment in Berkeley. While in prison, a bank robber taught him to play the steel guitar. Living mostly by panhandling, he soon met Mary Brunner, a 23-year-old graduate of the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Brunner was working as a library assistant at University of California, Berkeley, and Manson moved in with her. Someone said in a secondhand report that he managed to talk her into allowing other women to live with them, even though she was against it. Before long, they were sharing Brunner's home with 18 other women.
Manson set himself up as a guru in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury. During 1967's "Summer of Love" it was becoming the most popular place for hippies to live and hang out. Preaching a philosophy that included some of the Scientology he had studied in prison, he soon had his first group of young followers, most of them female. When Manson had been put in prison in July 1961 at the U.S. penitentiary in McNeil Island, Washington, Manson put "Scientologist" as his religion on a questionnaire.
Before the summer ended, Manson and eight or nine of his followers began to travel around in an old school bus. They went as far north as Washington state, then south through Los Angeles, Mexico, and the southwest. Returning to the Los Angeles area, they lived in Topanga Canyon, Malibu, and Venice—western parts of the city and county.
In the late spring of 1968, in some reports of the events, Dennis Wilson, of The Beach Boys, picked up two hitchhiking Manson followers. They were Patricia Krenwinkel and Ella Jo Bailey. Wilson brought them to his house in a rich neighborhood of Los Angeles for a few hours. After an all-night recording session, he came home in the early hours of the next morning. Wilson was greeted in his driveway by Manson, who came out of the house. Feeling afraid, Wilson asked the stranger if he was going to hurt him. Saying no, Manson then began kissing Wilson's feet.
Inside his house, Wilson found 12 strangers, mostly women, who had moved in. Over the next few months, the number of members moving in continued to grow. The Family members who had made themselves part of Wilson's Sunset Boulevard household cost him about $100,000. This included a large doctor's bill for treatment of their gonorrhea and $21,000 for wrecking his uninsured car, which they had borrowed. Wilson spent a lot of time singing and talking with Manson, whose women were treated like domestic workers.
Wilson paid for recording studio time to work on songs written and performed by Manson. He also introduced Manson to friends of his in the entertainment business. One was Terry Melcher, (the son of Doris Day), who was also a musician and record producer. Gregg Jakobson, another friend, also paid to record Manson material. He later wrote about this experience with Manson for "Rolling Stone" magazine. He used a fake name of "Lance Fairweather" for the article.
In his book, "Manson in his own words", Manson says he first met Wilson at a friend's San Francisco house, where Manson had gone to buy cannabis. The drummer then gave Manson his Sunset Boulevard address and invited him to stop by when he would be in Los Angeles.
Manson established a base for the group at Spahn's Movie Ranch, not far from Topanga Canyon, in August 1968 after Wilson's manager told the Family to move out of Wilson's home. The entire Family then relocated to the ranch.
Family members did helpful work around the grounds. Also, Manson ordered the Family's women, including Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, to have sex occasionally with the nearly blind, 80-year-old owner, George Spahn. The women also acted as seeing-eye guides for Spahn. In exchange, Spahn allowed Manson and his group to live at the ranch for free.
In the first days of November 1968, Manson established the Family at alternative headquarters near Death Valley, where they occupied two unused or little-used ranches. 
While back at Spahn Ranch, no later than December, Manson and Watson visited a Topanga Canyon acquaintance who played them the Beatles' "White Album", then recently released. Manson was obsessed with the group. At McNeil, he had told fellow inmates, including Alvin Karpis, that he could surpass the group in fame; to the Family, he spoke of the group as "the soul" and "part of 'the hole in the infinite'. "
For some time, Manson had been saying that racial tension between blacks and whites was growing and that blacks would soon rise up in rebellion in America's cities. He had emphasized Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination, which had taken place on April 4, 1968. On a bitterly cold New Year's Eve at Myers Ranch, the Family members, gathered outside around a large fire, listened as Manson explained that the social turmoil he had been predicting had also been predicted by the Beatles. The "White Album" songs, he declared, told it all, although in code. In fact, he sad the album was directed at the Family itself, an elect group that was being instructed to preserve the worthy from the impending disaster.
In early January 1969, the Family escaped the desert's cold and positioned itself to monitor L.A.'s supposed tension by moving to a canary-yellow home in Canoga Park, not far from the Spahn Ranch. Because this would allow the group to remain "submerged beneath the awareness of the outside world", Manson called it the Yellow Submarine, another Beatles reference. There, Family members prepared for the impending apocalypse, which, around the campfire, Manson had termed "Helter Skelter", after the song of that name.
By February, Manson's vision was complete. The Family would create an album whose songs, as subtle as those of the Beatles, would trigger the predicted chaos. Ghastly murders of whites by blacks would be met with retaliation, and a split between racist and non-racist whites would yield whites' self-annihilation. Blacks' triumph, as it were, would merely precede their being ruled by the Family, which would ride out the conflict in "the bottomless pit"—a secret city beneath Death Valley.
At the Canoga Park house, while Family members worked on vehicles and pored over maps to prepare for their desert escape, they also worked on songs for their world-changing album.
A total of eight people are known to have been killed by the Manson Family, and two other killings are suspected. 
On July 25, 1969, Manson sent Bobby Beausoleil, Mary Brunner and Susan Atkins to the house of acquaintance Gary Hinman, to persuade him to turn over money Manson thought Hinman had inherited. The three held the uncooperative Hinman hostage for two days, during which Manson showed up with a sword to slash his ear. After that, Beausoleil stabbed Hinman to death, probably on Manson's instruction. Before leaving the Topanga Canyon residence,one of them used Hinman's blood to write "Political piggy" on the wall and to draw a panther paw, a Black Panther symbol.
On the night of August 8, Manson directed Charles Watson to take Susan Atkins, Linda Kasabian, and Patricia Krenwinkel to "that house where Melcher used to live" and "totally destroy everyone in [it], as gruesome as you can". He told the women to do as Watson would instruct them. Unknown to Manson, the tenants were now Sharon Tate and Roman Polanski. Polanski was in Europe at the time, and Tate was at home with three other people. They were all killed, as was a delivery boy who turned up at an inopportune moment.
This event was the murder of a supermarket owner and his wife. On this occasion Manson himself took charge of the murders, and six Family members accompanied him. As with the other killings, there was no particular reason for the crime, and the victims were unknown to the Family other than Manson.

</doc>
<doc id="15271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15271" title="Herring">
Herring

A herring is a small teleost fish of the genus "Cluptea". Best-known of this family is probably the Atlantic Herring. There are 15 different species of herring. When herrings migrate in the water they usually do this in large numbers; this is then called a "school" of herring. Like other fish, they do this for protection: see shoaling and schooling. 
Herrings can be eaten. They are often smoked or pickled. 
A red herring is used to describe a plot device in mystery fiction that leads the reader to a wrong solution.

</doc>
<doc id="15275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15275" title="Ray">
Ray

The rays are a group of Batoid cartilaginous fish containing more than 500 described species in thirteen families. The batoids include four orders. 
They are mostly flattened in shape, and usually demersal, living and eating at the bottom of the sea. The group first appears in the Triassic period, after 95% of marine species had been wiped out by the P/Tr extinction event.
Rays look like bats in the water, and this is probably why they are called batoids. They have pectoral fins that are attached to their bodies from back to front, similar to the way a bat's wings attach from its shoulder to its feet. 
The fins of the ray create a disk shape that can be round, triangular, or diamond-shaped. Rays use their pectoral fins to fly through the water. Though a bony fish takes in water with its mouth, rays do not because they live at the bottom of the ocean. If they took in water through their mouths, they would probably just get a mouthful of sand. Because of this, they have breathing holes on top of their bodies called "spiracles". Rays use spiracles to take in water that is then sent over the gills. 
Also, because they do not have a swim bladder, rays sink when they are not actively swimming.
Interestingly, rays are usually curious and social animals. Though they often live alone, they like swimming together in groups with other rays. Despite the fact that they are able to swim, most rays live at the bottom of the sea, eating benthic animals. In fact, they often flick sand on their backs to camouflage (disguise, or hide) themselves as they lie in the sand at the bottom of the ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="15276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15276" title="Tuna">
Tuna

Tuna, sometimes called tunafish, are several species (kinds) of fish. They are in the family Scombridae, mostly in the genus Thunnus.
Tuna are fast swimmers. People have seen tuna swim at up to 77 km/h. Several species of tuna are warm-blooded. Most species of fish have white flesh. The flesh of the tuna is different. It is pink to dark red. This is because tuna muscle tissue contains greater quantities of myoglobin. Myoglobin is a molecule that binds oxygen. Some of the larger tuna species such as the Northern bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity. This enables them to live in cooler waters and survive a wider range of circumstances.
Tuna is an important commercial fish. Some varieties of tuna, such as the bluefin and bigeye tuna are threatened by overfishing, dramatically affecting tuna populations in the Atlantic and northwestern Pacific Oceans. Other populations seem to support fairly healthy fisheries (for example, the central and western Pacific skipjack tuna), but there is mounting evidence that overfishing threatens tuna fisheries world-wide.
Some fishermen in Australia now grow Southern bluefin tuna in fish farms. Fish farms are areas of water with nets around them, where farmers raise (keep and grow animals) fish. Some tuna farms are circular nets forty meters in diameter and twenty meters deep. The fishermen catch the tuna at sea, and then they keep the tuna in these farms. The tuna grow and get fatter for from three to six months. There are also tuna farms in the Mediterranean, North America, and Japan that raise Northern bluefin tuna. Some environmental groups say that tuna farms use too much fish as food for the tuna, and that the farms pollute the water (make the water dirty).
Tuna are high up in the food chain. They eat animals that ate animals. Their diet leads to the accumulation of heavy metals in their flesh. Mercury levels can be relatively high in some of the larger species of tuna such as bluefin and albacore. As a result, in March 2004 the United States FDA issued guidelines recommending pregnant women, nursing mothers, and children to limit their intake of tuna and other types of predatory fish . However, most canned light tuna is skipjack tuna and is very low in mercury.
Sport fishermen like to catch tuna using rods and hooks.
There are eight species:
Species of several other genera (all in the family Scombridae) have common names containing "tuna":

</doc>
<doc id="15279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15279" title="Fishing hook">
Fishing hook

Fishing hook is a hook used to catch fish. There are many types of fishing hooks. Most have a sharp point which sticks into the fish when it is caught. There are lots of types of fishing hooks, and they all depend on how powerful they can hold the line and the size.
Many hooks have different sizes for different fish.

</doc>
<doc id="15281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15281" title="Fishing rod">
Fishing rod

A fishing rod is a tool used for catching fish. The rod is often used to cast a lure to where the fish are. This is the way people catch fish for fun or sport. Commercial fishing is usually done using fishing nets.
A fishing rod is basically a line with bait on it, fixed on a pole. There is usually some way to make the line longer or shorter, and the pole it is fixed on can bend a little.

</doc>
<doc id="15282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15282" title="Mammalia (taxonomy)">
Mammalia (taxonomy)

"See Mammals for more info"
"Class:" Mammalia: 

</doc>
<doc id="15290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15290" title="Nottuln">
Nottuln

Nottuln is a town in Coesfeld county, 20 km west of Münster, Germany.
It consists of
A church was founded in 860 by Ludger Liudger, as well as the first monastery in Westphalia.
After a big fire 1748 it was built up by Johann Conrad Schlaun.
The county of Nottuln is at the A43 and a railway.

</doc>
<doc id="15291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15291" title="Coesfeld">
Coesfeld

Coesfeld is a town in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany and the capital of Coesfeld county.
Nepomucenum and St.-Pius-Gymnasium are highschools in Coesfeld.
Coesfeld was founded by the holy Ludgerus. Coesfeld has been a town since 1197.
Big villages in county Coesfeld:

</doc>
<doc id="15292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15292" title="St.-Pius-Gymnasium">
St.-Pius-Gymnasium

St.-Pius-Gymnasium is a catholic private highschool in Coesfeld near Münster in Germany. It is held by the diocese of Münster and named after Pope Pius X. . Until 1976 the school was a boarding school only for boys. Since then it has been a "Gymnasium". Today, there are 791 pupils.
There is a statue of Pius X on the school ground to express solidarity with the patron. The school has a chapel and a pastor. There is a modern, well-equipped assembly hall, too.
St.-Pius-Gymnasium is associated with the Lyceé Notre-Dame in Guingamp (France), offers trips to Poole (England) and tries to establish a partnership with a school in Orlando (Florida, USA). 
In Advent, the school publishes a yearbook named "Piusbrief". Its pupil magazine "Fünf vor Acht" got multiple honours. 
The whole school is a non-smoking area.

</doc>
<doc id="15293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293" title="Cell membrane">
Cell membrane

The cell membrane is a thin flexible layer around the cells of all living things. It is sometimes called the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane. 
Its basic job is to separate the inside of cells from the outside.
In all cells, the cell membrane separates the cytoplasm inside the cell from its surroundings. In animal cells, that is all there is. Bacteria, fungi and plants have cell walls as well, which support the cell and block the passage of large molecules.
The membrane is made up of a thin layer called the 'phospholipid bilayer'. This has two layers of phospholipid molecules with phosphate heads on the surfaces and lipid (oil) tails on the inside. The outside heads mix with water, but the tails reject water.
Other proteins and lipids can be added to the cell membrane. By these changes, the cell can adjust what it brings in or puts out. Some proteins are always stuck into it, these are called "integral" membrane proteins. It also has some which are only sometimes stuck onto it. These are called peripheral membrane proteins.
The cell membrane is active and regulates (adjusts) what comes in and what goes out of the cell. The movement of substances across the membrane can be either "passive", occurring without the input of cellular energy, or "active", requiring energy. 
Proteins within the membrane are key to its working. These proteins mainly transport chemicals and information across the membrane. 
The membrane contains many proteins. The surface proteins can act as gates. They let some chemicals into the cell and let other chemicals leave the cell. It is estimated that up to a third of the human proteome may be membrane proteins. Some of these proteins are linked to the exterior of the cell membrane. An example of this is the CD59 protein, which identifies cells as “self” and thus inhibits their destruction by the immune system.

</doc>
<doc id="15294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15294" title="Morocco">
Morocco

Kingdom of Morocco (Berber: Tagldit n Murakuc, Arabic: المملكة المغربية) is a country in North Africa.
Morocco is a constitutional monarchy. The political powers are shared between the king Muhammad VI (the sixth) and the Head of the Government. The King is the head of state (Person in charge of the country) and the most important person.
The people of Morocco vote for Members of Parliament to speak for them and to help make laws for them. The Council of Ministers defines what must be done. He makes all the important decisions. Today, the Head of Government is Abdelilah Benkirane.
Morocco is next to the countries of Algeria to its east and Mauritania to its south. The Mediterranean Sea lies to the north of Morocco, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.
Morocco has a diverse geography from fertile plains, to forests, cold mountains, dry lands, and deserts. Most people live in areas close to the coast, or in fertile farms. Morocco has an area of 446,550 km². Morocco also controls most of the Western Sahara which is 266.000 km² big.
The capital of Morocco is Rabat. About 1.2 million people live in Rabat. The biggest city in Morocco is however Casablanca, with nearly 4 million people living there. Both Rabat and Casablanca have large ports and industrial zones. The third biggest city is Marrakesh from which the word "Morocco" is made.
The population of Morocco is about 34 million. People from Morocco are called Moroccans. Moroccans are Arab, indigenous Berber, Sub-Saharan African and European.
The official languages of Morocco are Arabic and Berber. French is also very used in companies, universities, and in some TV channels. Morocco was part of the French colonial empire for 44 years. Some people in the north (close to Spain) speak Spanish as well. Spain also occupied parts of Morocco before leaving them in 1956 and in 1975.
Most educated Moroccans do not speak English well, or do not know it at all. In the 21st century English is being taught to students in an increasing number of schools.
Most Moroccans follow Islam as their religion. There are very small numbers of Christians, Jews, and non-believers. Morocco is home to the oldest university in the world, the University of Karaouine.
Morocco is divided into 12 regions. The regions are divided into 62 prefectures and provinces.
As of 2015 the regions are:
Morocco is divided into 37 provinces and 2 wilayas : Agadir, Al Hoceima, Azilal, Beni Mellal, Benslimane, Boulemane, Casablanca, Chefchaouen, El Jadida, El Kelaa of Sraghna, Errachidia, Essaouira, Fez, Figuig, Guelmim, Ifrane, Kenitra, Khemisset, Rommani, Khenifra, Khouribga, Laayoune, Larache, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Ouarzazate, Oujda, Rabat, Sale, Settat, Safi, Sidi Kacem, Tangier, Tan-Tan, Taounate, Taroudant, Tata, Taza, Tetouan, Tiznit. Three additional provinces of Dakhla (Oued ed Dahab), Boujdour, and Es-Smara as well as parts of Tan-Tan and Laayoune fall within Moroccan-claimed Western Sahara.
Mining, agriculture, fishing, and tourism are the 4 main parts of Morocco's national economy. Also, Moroccans working in Europe (about 2 million) send billions of Euros of money home to their families every year.
Tourism is becoming very important too. Many Americans and Europens come to see the historical places of Morocco, live the Berber countryside life, or enjoy the warm sun and the long and clean beaches. Marrakesh is the most liked city by tourists.
The currency of Morocco is called the Dirham, its code is MAD.

</doc>
<doc id="15295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15295" title="Andrew Johnson">
Andrew Johnson

Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 – July 31, 1875) was the 16th Vice-President and 17th President of the United States. Before becoming Vice-President, he was a Governor and U.S. Senator from Tennessee. When Tennessee and ten other Southern slave states declared they were no longer part of the United States, he was the only member from such a state to not quit his seat in the U.S. Congress. A southern Democrat, he was elected as Abraham Lincoln's vice-president on a "National Union" ticket in 1864.
He became president in 1865 after Abraham Lincoln was killed. Congress was then run by Republicans, and after Lincoln's assassination, they wanted stricter terms than Johnson did for the Reconstruction of the Southern states that had rebelled. As a result, he vetoed 29 bills passed by Congress, and is the president to have the most vetoes overridden (15) by Congress.
He was also the first President to be impeached, but was later acquitted by one vote, and finished the rest of his term. The only U.S. president never to have gone to school, he was later taught to read by his wife, Eliza McCardle Johnson. The U.S. purchased Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million (the price was 2 cents per acre) while he was president.

</doc>
<doc id="15296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15296" title="1808">
1808


</doc>
<doc id="15297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15297" title="Starfish">
Starfish

Starfish, or sea stars, are Echinoderms of the Class Asteroidea.
All live in the ocean, on the sea floor. Some live in deep water, others in shallow water. Some live in the intertidal zone, between low and high tide. They have five or more arms and can be quite large. The Sunflower sea star ("Pycnopodia helianthoides") is the largest: fully grown, its arm-span is about a metre. This is a bit larger than the famous Crown-of-thorns starfish, which lives on coral polyps.
Although starfish are invertebrates, they do have a kind of skeleton. The bodies of starfish are composed of calcium carbonate plates, known as 'ossicles'. These form the endoskeleton, which takes on a variety of forms such as spines and granules. 
They have a primitive nervous system, but not a brain. They also do not have blood, instead they use sea water to pump things around their bodies.
There are over 1500 different species of sea star. Most sea stars are predators. They eat mussels, clams, and other bivalves. Occasionally, they catch small fish.
Most starfish have five arms, called "rays" that come out from a center circle (disk). If a starfish has more than five rays, it will often have rays in multiples of five; there could be 10, 15, 20, or even 30 rays on one starfish. This is called pentameral (five-fold) symmetry.
The degree of protection offered by the skeleton differs between species. If the skeleton becomes more rigid, it offers better protection against predators. However, this will tend to limit its feeding alternatives. Great flexibility is required for the process of external digestion used by many species to eat bivalves. The less well armoured species may adopt a life in places where they are not so open to predation. The heavily armoured ones can tough it out in the most competitive habitats:
The movement of starfish is guided by their senses of touch and sight. There are five 'eyes', light-sensitive cushions, one at the end of each arm. These and the tube feet are connected to nerve fibres, so these animals are more complex than might appear.
Although starfish started off as filter-feeders, they evolved to become major predators of shell-fish (the brachiopods and bivalves). They can also eat small crustacea and fish. Their tube feet developed suckers, perhaps originally to improve movement. Later, they were used to open shell-fish.
The shells of brachiopods and bivalves are held together by strong muscles. What the starfish does is clamp hold of them on either side with its tube feet, and apply a steady pull. The starfish, with its muscles and hydraulic system, can pull for much longer than any bivalve muscle can withstand. Apparently, ten minutes are usually enough to open the shell a bit. Then the starfish slips its stomach inside the shell. The stomach can get through a slot as narrow as 0.1mm. The starfish then dissolves the mollusc where it lives, absorbing the nutrients. This digestion process takes much longer than opening the shell, perhaps a couple of days.
Some species swallow the shell whole, and dissolve the contents inside their stomach, then push out the shell afterwards.
The ability of starfish to eat brachipods and bivalves developed in the Mesozoic, especially in the Jurassic and Cretaceous. This was part of the "Mesozoic marine revolution", which transformed the sea-floor fauna. Weakly defended and static shellfish disappeared, and more heavily armoured or more mobile shellfish flourished.
Starfish, like many sea creatures, are able to "regenerate" (grow back) parts of their bodies. Starfish are better at regeneration than most other creatures. Not only can a new ray grow when a ray is torn off, but if the torn off ray has even a small piece of the central disk still attached, a whole new starfish can grow from the one ray.
Because starfish like to eat clams and oysters, fishermen who gather shellfish have tried for years to get rid of them. To kill the starfish, fishermen would catch them, slice them right in half, and throw them back in the ocean. However, because starfish can grow back parts of their bodies, they were actually increasing the number of starfish.

</doc>
<doc id="15298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15298" title="1582">
1582

Gregorian calendar switch: The year 1582 (MDLXXXII) involved conversion to the Gregorian calendar. It had only 355 days. It began as a common year starting on Monday, in accordance with the Julian calendar. It continued as normal through Thursday, October 4. But the next day, it became October 15 (like a common year starting on Friday) in Italy, Poland, Portugal, and Spain. Other countries continued to use the Julian calendar, switching over to the Gregorian in later years.

</doc>
<doc id="15300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300" title="Jellyfish">
Jellyfish

Jellyfish are animals of the phylum Cnidaria. They are a monophyletic clade, the Medusozoa. Most of them live in the oceans, in salt water, where they eat small sea animals like plankton and little fish, and float in the sea. Only a few jellyfish live in fresh water. 
They have soft bodies and long, stinging, venomous tentacles that they use to catch their prey, usually small plankton animals or small crustaceans or tiny fish. Some jellyfish hunt other jellyfish. Venom is injected by stinging cells called "nematocysts". A jellyfish is 97% water.
Most jellyfish have a bell-shaped body and long tentacles at the underside of the body. Tentacles are long "arms" with special stinging cells called nematocysts. They move by contracting their bodies, but they do not have much control over where they go: most of the time, they drift with the water current. The largest type of jellyfish is the Lion's mane jellyfish, which has tentacles that can be as long as 60 meters, but most jellyfish are much smaller.
The Medusozoa are four classes of the Cnidaria: 
There are many types of jellyfish. The smallest jellyfish are just a few inches across. The largest jellyfish is the Lion's mane ("Cyanea capillata"), whose body can be over 3 feet (1 m) across, with much longer tentacles. Some jellyfish in the dark (this is called phosphorescence). Some of the most dangerous jelly fish include the box jelly (Genuses "Chironex", "Chiropsalmus" and "Carybdea") and the tiny, two-cm-across Irukandji jelly ("Carukia barnesi"); the venomous sting of these jellyfish can kill a person.
Many animals eat jellyfish, including sea turtles and some fish (including the sun fish). Humans eat jellyfish too; especially in Asia jellyfish are considered a delicacy. Jellyfish spoil very quickly after they are caught. Sometimes they are dried to preserve them. There is a different process in which they are cleaned, which can take up to 40 days. They are often eaten in a kind of salad, with soy sauce or vinegar.
Most jellyfish undergo two distinct life history stages (body forms) during their life cycle. The first is the polypoid stage, when the animal takes the form of a small stalk with feeding tentacles. Very often, this polyp is attached to the sea floor, or to another hard surface; it rarely moves around. A polyp that lives that way is called sessile. In some cases, the polyp is free-floating. Polyps generally have a mouth surrounded by upward-facing tentacles. Polyps may be on their own or in groups, and some bud asexually, making more polyps. Most are very small, measured in millimeters.
In the second stage, the tiny polyps asexually produce jellyfish, each of which is known as a medusa. Tiny jellyfish swim away from the polyp and then grow and feed in the plankton. Jellyfish reproduce both sexually and asexually. Well-fed adult jellyfish spawn daily. In most species, spawning is controlled by light, so the entire population spawns at about the same time of day, often at either dusk or dawn. Jellyfish are usually either male or female (with occasional hermaphrodites). In most cases, adults release sperm and eggs into the surrounding water, where the (unprotected) eggs are fertilized and mature into new organisms.
Medusae have a radially symmetric, umbrella-shaped body called a bell, which is usually supplied with marginal tentacles that capture prey. A few species of jellyfish do not have the polyp portion of the life cycle, but go from jellyfish to the next generation of jellyfish through direct development of fertilized eggs. Jellyfish at the medusa stage usually lives only up to six months, after which it dies.
Jellyfish eat plankton and small fish, which they catch using their venomous tentacles. Jellyfish may live in symbiosis with algae. The jellyfish transports them into sunlight and get nutrients from the algae's photosynthesis. Both forms of jelly fish have small tentacles with nematocysts (stinging cells) that sting and can hurt people on contact.
A group of jellyfish is called a "smack"; an occurrence of many jellyfish simultaneously is sometimes called a "bloom".

</doc>
<doc id="15301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15301" title="Tilapia">
Tilapia

Tilapia is a fish that is often farmed for food, or kept as pets in aquariums. They live in warm, fresh water, but some species live in brackish water. The fish are found in Africa, North and South America, India, and Sri Lanka.
They are listed as one of the worlds worst introduced species. They can quickly take over from native fish in rivers. This has happened in places like in the Endeavour River, in Queensland, Australia. These fish are thought to have been released into the river from an aquarium.

</doc>
<doc id="15302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15302" title="Sardine">
Sardine

Sardine is a name of several kinds of fish, especially oily fish. Another name for these fish is Pilchard. All of those fish are quite small and are related to the herring. The Latin name of the family of these fish is Clupeidae. However, the naming is not precise. Fishbase, a database about all kinds of fish, has six species just named "pilchard". There are over a dozen with the name of "sardine". Many more exist, with the basic names qualified by adjectives.
The fish are named after the Island of Sardinia. In the past, they could easily be fished there.
Many shops and supermarkets sell canned (or tinned) "sardines". Very often, those fish are not sardines, but rather sprats or round herrings.

</doc>
<doc id="15304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15304" title="Bone">
Bone

Bones are parts of the human or animal skeleton of vertebrates. They are stiff organs which make up the endoskeleton. Our body is made of flesh and blood built on a framework of bones. Without our bones, we could not stand up or move about. They also protect organs inside our body. The skull protects the brain and the ribs protect the heart and lungs. The jaw and cheekbones support the facial muscles, which help us smile. The number of bones in a human's neck is the same as a giraffe's.
The bones are the framework of the body. Without them we would be a pile of organs on the ground and would not be able to move. The bones are also very important for our protection, that is, the rib cage protects the heart and lungs, cranium (skull) protects the brain, pelvis protects the reproductive organs, vertebrae protect the spinal cord. Bones need to be maintained by taking regular exercise and by having lots of calcium from foods like milk, and dark leafy greens such as spinach. The red bone marrow in the middle of the bigger bones is what makes the red blood cells that we need.
Osteons are the parts of the haversian system. They are found in the bone in most mammals, and many reptiles, birds and amphibians. Inside the osteons are bone cells called osteocytes, each living in its own small space. Osteocytes make contact with each other by cytoplasmic processes through a network of tiny canals. This allows the exchange of nutrients and metabolic waste. Collagen fibers in each ring of cells ('lamellae') give them structure.
Osteons have a hole down the middle, called the haversian canal. This canal contains the bone's blood supply. It contains capillaries, and nerve fibres.
Inside long bones is a central core which is not there to give strength and structure. It contains the bone marrow, one of the most important tissues in the vertebrate body. It produces blood cells for the blood system, and lymphocytes for the immune system.

</doc>
<doc id="15316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15316" title="Anteater">
Anteater

Anteaters are mammals of the family Myrmecophagidae and the suborder Vermilingua. Anteaters live in South America and Central America.
Anteaters eat ants and termites. They have long, sharp claws and a long, sticky tongue. The tongue can be up to 60 cm long, as long as a person's arm. The anteater opens an ant nest with its claws. Then it licks up the ants with its tongue.

</doc>
<doc id="15318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15318" title="Sorghum">
Sorghum

Sorghum is a genus in the grass family "Poaceae". The plants are grown in warmer climates. Species grow naturally in tropical and subtropical regions of all continents in addition to Oceania and Australasia. Because many species of Sorghum are resistant to drought and high temperatures, it is a very important food source in the desert areas of Africa. 

</doc>
<doc id="15321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15321" title="Polar bear">
Polar bear

The polar bear ("Ursus maritimus") is a large bear which lives in the Arctic. It is also called white bear or northern bear. It has black skin under the white fur. They are strong and fast, and can run as fast as 25 miles (40 km) an hour for a short distance. 
Polar bear fur is made up of a layer of dense underfur and an outer layer of "guard hairs", which appear white to tan but are actually translucent. The fur keeps them very warm. The skin is not white; it is black. Therefore, they can absorb sunlight efficiently. They are strong and can swim very well. Polar bears are similar in size to a normal bear but have a slimmer neck, longer legs and fur.
They are mostly carnivorous. They eat mostly seals and fish. When Polar bears hunt, they often wait at holes in the ice, where the seals come up to breathe. They can live off of one seal for many days, but it will make them hungry if they do.
Polar bears live alone. Polar bears are black with clear fur, so in daylight, they appear white; at night, they are invisible. 
Young Polar bears stay with their mothers for 1–2 years, and they become mature when they are 5–6 years old. People think Polar bears can become 25–30 years old in nature, but in captivity (for example, in zoos), they can become up to 45 years old.
Polar bears live in countries in the Arctic Circle, including these:
The breeding time is 8 months. The babies are born six weeks after their mother mates. At birth, a baby cub weighs less than 2 pounds (0.9 kilograms).
The mother feeds the babies milk, which makes them grow fast, and after 10 weeks, the cubs weigh about 20 to 25 pounds (9.1 to 11.4 kilograms).
Young polar bears wrestle in the snow to build their strength and skills. They practice using their strong paws, and they show off their big, sharp teeth.
Mother polar bears will do anything to protect their young. They can kill a predator with just one swat of their powerful front paws. Scientists have even seen a mother polar bear stand up and leap at a helicopter to keep it away from her cubs.
During the first year, the cubs begin to eat solid food but still nurse from their mother. They begin to learn to hunt and swim. But they cannot live on their own.
By the time they are two years old, the cubs have grown into large bears. They leave their mother and strike off into territory of their own. They hunt and live alone. But they play with other bears they meet.
Polar bears are ready to mate when they are five or six years old. They are adults by this time and weigh 330 to 660 pounds (150 to 300 kilograms).
Both male and female polar bears live to be as much as 30 years old (in a zoo). Polar bears have 42 teeth.
As adults, male bears fight with each other over a female. Each male fluffs out his coat of fur to make himself look bigger. Then, he swaggers along, growling, to scare off his rival. Polar bear scientists call this "the cowboy walk."
The polar bear eats seals, fish and fruits (berries).
They can be up to 250cm long and 160cm tall and weigh up to 600kg. 
When two polar bears meet, they have a special way of greeting each other. They circle around each other for a while, grunting. Then they come closer and touch noses.
The polar bear was the most dangerous animal to hunt. It was also greatly respected for its strength and spirit. The bear's blubber, meat, and fur all help the Inuit survive. The Inuit gave thanks and respect in turn. After a hunt, they held a celebration that lasted for several days. Then, a polar bear dance was held. Finally, the bear's skull was set on an ice floe to release its spirit back into the Arctic.
A polar bear's paws are perfect snowshoes for them. The bottoms are wide and covered with fur to help keep the bear from slipping. The sharp claws help grip the ice.
A polar bear can crawl across ice too thin for a human to walk on. They spread out their legs and lay their bellies flat on the ice. Then they use their claws to slowly push themselves across the ice.
Polar bears mate in April or May. The cub is born in December, when the mother is hibernating. The cub stays in the den with the mother until March, then, they all come out. They eat immediately after hibernating. Sometimes, because of global warming, this is impossible and the cubs die before they have had a chance to live. The cub leaves its mother in 2-3 years.
The polar bear's liver contains a lot of vitamin A. Inuit people knew that eating the liver could cause sickness and death. Several groups of European polar explorers were seriously ill after eating livers. The symptoms included drowsiness, wanting to sleep, being irritable, headaches, and vomiting. After 24 hours, people's skin began to peel off.

</doc>
<doc id="15322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15322" title="The Blues Image">
The Blues Image

The Blues Image was a late 1960s rock band formed in Tampa, Florida in 1966, and their only hit was the song "Ride, Captain, Ride". Members are singer and guitarist Michael Pinera, drummer Manuel Bertematti, and drummer Joe Lala. They were later joined by bassist Malcolm Jones and keyboardist Frank "Skip" Konte.

</doc>
<doc id="15323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15323" title="Drummer">
Drummer

A drummer is a person who plays the drums as a job or as a hobby. This can be someone who plays drums in the military, in a band or as a session musician. A session musician is someone who plays an instrument in a band when no one else is available. A drummer keeps the beat so their role is a hard and important job. Without a drummer, the band would find it hard to keep in time.

</doc>
<doc id="15324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15324" title="Singer">
Singer

A singer is a person who sings. Anyone who is singing is a singer. Some people do it as a job (professional singer), others may sing without being paid (amateur singer). Singers may sing anything: songs, opera etc. They may be accompanied by an instrument or an orchestra. Some singers also play a musical instrument such as piano, guitar or harp while they sing (they accompany themselves). Singing is important in movies and in the theatre.
The lead vocalist (lead vocal or lead singer) is the member of a band who sings the main solo vocal portions of a song. The lead vocalist may also play one or more instruments, and is usually the "leader" of their group, often the spokesperson in interviews and before the public. The lead vocalist is sometimes referred to as the frontman. For example, Jerry Garcia was the lead singer and frontman for the Grateful Dead.
A good singer will have to think of a lot of different things in a performance. Good vocal technique, a large vocal range, as well as "feeling the song" through emotional language and breathing, and also acting to provide a song with meaning. A good singer may be able to learn a song quickly, but it may take some time before they really feel it has become "part of them". A lead singer has to be a strong singer since other vocalists must sing accordingly.
Singers can sing as a solo, or in a group or a choir. Choirs can include gospel, church music and even pop songs where there are usually two groups of singers, soprano and alto. Sopranos have a higher range and altos have a lower range. Combining these two can create various harmonies which add textures to songs and make them more interesting to listen to.
People who want a career in singing should start young. This means having lots of experience in music, including being able to read music and learning to perform music with other people. Serious vocal training should only begin when the body is more mature (mid- or late teenager).
People may feel like singing for various reasons. They may want to share their feelings with other people. They may be feeling happy about something, or sad, or excited, frustrated or angry. Singing is an art in which mood is expressed through the voice.

</doc>
<doc id="15325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15325" title="Keyboardist">
Keyboardist

A keyboardist is a musician who plays one or more of the musical instruments called keyboard instruments, such as the piano, organ, or electronic synthesizer. A person who plays piano is also called a pianist. A person who plays organ is called an organist. Many types of music use keyboardists, such as rock, pop, funk, and classical music.

</doc>
<doc id="15362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15362" title="Mao Zedong">
Mao Zedong

Mao Zedong (26 December 1893 – 9 September 1976) was a Chinese Communist leader. He was the leader of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) from its establishment in 1949 until his death in 1976.
Mao Zedong is the most common (used by the most people) version of Mao's name. His name used to be spelt ""Mao Tse-Tung"". "Mao" is his surname - in China, surnames are placed first. Mao is also called Chairman Mao, a nickname, because he was the Chairman of the Communist Party.
Mao was born on 26 December 1893 in the Hunan province of China. He grew up in a farming family, and became a Communist while working at a library. Throughout the 1920s, his power increased in the Communist Party of China, and by 1933, he was its leader. In 1923 the Communists and the Kuomintang joined together with the help of the Soviet Union. Later in the 1920s, the groups fought each other. This fight was called the Chinese Civil War. Mao said that Chiang Kai-shek was corrupt and unfit to rule China. Mao also wanted to make China follow communism, a way of thinking that opposed private property and supported common ownership.
Chiang Kai-shek's group, the Nationalists, had more fighters in 1935. They beat Mao's Communists and made them move out of the country. The Communists went to a fort that they owned, in a distant part of China called Yenan. This move was called the Long March. Mao escaped from the Nationalists with other Communists. By this time, in 1935, the Chinese Civil War caused 500,000 deaths.
When Japan invaded China in 1937, Mao and Chiang stopped fighting. The United States defeated Japan in 1945 and made the Japanese Army leave China. The Chinese Civil War had been stopped during World War II, but after the war it became very violent. Chiang Kai-shek and the Nationalists had supporters in the cities and among the middle class. Mao and the Communists had many supporters in the farms and the countryside. In those days in China there were more farmers than city people, so Mao had more supporters than Chiang, and others supported Mao because they thought Chiang's government was bad.
By 1949, Mao had chased the Nationalists to the island of Taiwan, and told the people that China would be Communist, with him as leader. Mao named the new China the "People's Republic of China".
In the 1950s, Mao had many plans for how China could move forward in technology very fast and catch up with countries like the United Kingdom and United States. Mao was responsible for the First Five Year Plan and also, The Second Five Year Plan. The Second Five Year Plan had some ideas that did not work the way that Mao had wanted them to. Farms could not produce, or make, much food because of bad farming plans, and cities did not make many things like clothes and machines. Because of the lack of food, many people died of starvation.
In the 1960s, Mao wanted to change everything about China, such as the way Chinese people thought about China, and the way they remembered history. Because of this, he forced people to change things very fast, even if they did not want to. These changes were called The "Cultural Revolution". Mao and his supporters, the Red Guards, did not like it if someone talked about his ideas a bad way, but many people in Chinese cities did not like Mao's ideas because of the food problems. There was also no freedom to do many different things when the Red Guards were running the country. To keep people from saying bad things about Mao and trying to get rid of him, Mao told all of China's best and brightest people to quit their jobs, and go into the farms. China became poorer and weaker because of this.
About the same time Mao became the leader in China, Nikita Khrushchev became the leader in the Soviet Union. Before this, Joseph Stalin was the leader in the Soviet Union, and Mao liked Stalin and respected his way to lead, and China and Russia were allies with each other. Khrushchev thought Stalin was a criminal dictator, and led the country very differently. Mao and Krushchev did not like each other, so the Soviet Union was no longer allies with China. China now had only a few allies like Albania, North Korea, Democratic Kampuchea, and Pakistan. This change of friends was called the Sino-Soviet Split. "Sino" is another way to say "Chinese".
During the 1970s, Mao became more friendly with the United States. In 1972, American president Richard Nixon visited China and met Mao. Mao died in 1976, and the "Cultural Revolution" ended that year. Mao's supporters were jailed, and Deng Xiaoping, who followed Mao, changed Mao's policies so that Chinese people could have more private ownership.
Some Chinese mainlanders still believe Mao Zedong was a great leader, but they also knew that he did many unwise and bad things. According to Deng Xiaoping, Mao was "seven parts right and three parts wrong", and his "contributions are primary and his mistakes secondary." Some people think Mao made China lose its important ally, or friend, the Soviet Union, in the Sino-Soviet Split. The Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution were two of the things that Mao did that many people disliked. Most historians, people who study history, think that about tens of millions of people died because of Mao's bad ideas and neglect. That is the biggest number of people to ever die without a war. Some people disliked Mao because he did not support family planning, and this caused too many babies to be born, making too many people in too small places. Leaders of China after Mao had to make a new rule called one child policy.
Mao also made several changes to the Chinese language, such as switching from the Wade Giles system of Romanization to Pinyin, which is different. For this reason, Nanking is now called Nanjing on modern maps. Taiwan still uses Wade Giles, so its capital is called Taipei instead of the pinyin Taibei. He also simplified the Chinese characters, in theory it would make them easier to read and write so that more people would be literate.
Mao Zedong disliked Shaoqi because he was afraid that Liu Shaoqi would overthrow him, and take over the CCP. As in the result, Mao blamed Liu Shaoqi for being a capitalist, and placed him in jail. As in the result, Liu Shaoqi died in prison from brutal treatments, hunger, and the terrible conditions.
Mao had been in poorer health for several years and had declined visibly for at least six months prior to his death. There are unconfirmed reports that he possibly had ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease. Mao's last public appearance was on 27 May 1976, where he met the visiting Pakistani Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto during the latter's one-day visit to Beijing.
At around 5:00 pm on 2 September 1976, Mao suffered a heart attack, far more severe than his previous two and affecting a much larger area of his heart. X-rays indicated that his current lung infection had worsened, and his urine output dropped to less than 300 cc a day. Mao was awake and alert throughout the crisis and asked his team of doctors, several times, whether he was in danger. His condition kept changing and his life hung in the balance. Three days later, on 5 September, Mao's condition was still critical, and Hua Guofeng called Jiang Qing back from her trip. She spent only a few minutes visiting him in Building 202 (where Mao was staying) before returning to her own residence in the Spring Lotus Chamber. On the afternoon of 7 September, Mao's condition took a turn for the worse. Jiang Qing went to Building 202 where she learned the news. Mao had just fallen asleep and needed the rest, but she insisted on rubbing his back and moving his limbs, and she sprinkled powder on his body. The medical team protested that the dust from the powder was not good for his lungs, but she instructed the nurses on duty to follow her example later. The next morning, September 8, she went again. She demanded the medical staff to change Mao's sleeping position, claiming that he had been lying too long on his left side. The doctor on duty objected, knowing that he could breathe only on his left side, but she had him moved nonetheless. Mao's breathing stopped and his face turned blue. Jiang Qing left the room while the medical staff put him on a respirator and gave him CPR to keep his heart alive. Mao barely revived and Hua Guofeng urged Jiang Qing not to interfere further with the doctors' work, as her actions were detrimental to Mao's health and helped cause his death faster. Mao's organs failed quickly and he fell into a coma shortly before noon where he was put on life support machines. He was taken off life support over 12 hours later quarter to midnight and was pronounced dead at 12:10 am on 9 September 1976. This was chosen as the day to let Mao die because it was seen as an easy day to remember, being the ninth day of the ninth month of the calendar.
His body lay in state at the Great Hall of the People. There was a three-minute silence observed during this service. His body was later placed into the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong, even though he had wished to be cremated and had been one of the first high-ranking officials to sign the "Proposal that all Central Leaders be Cremated after Death" in November 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="15368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15368" title="Opus Dei">
Opus Dei

Prelature of the Holy Cross and Opus Dei (more commonly known as Opus Dei) is an organization of the Roman Catholic Church. ("Opus Dei" means "Work of God" in Latin.) Opus Dei says that the Catholic Church gave them a special job: to tell everyone that God wants them to be close to him. This means that everyone is called by God to become a saint. 
Opus Dei was started by St. , a Roman Catholic priest, in 1928. Now, Opus Dei has around 85,000 members all around the world. 
Opus Dei was approved by the Catholic Church in 1941. In 1982, Pope John Paul II decided to make Opus Dei into a personal prelature. Usually, in the Catholic Church, there are separate dioceses in different areas. Each area has its own bishop who is in charge of just that diocese. But because Opus Dei is a personal prelature, its bishop is not limited to any specific area. He is in charge of members of Opus Dei wherever they are, around the world. 
Opus Dei was started by a Roman Catholic priest, Josemaria Escrivá, on 2 October 1928 in Madrid, Spain. He said that God showed him what to do. On that day he "saw Opus Dei."
Escrivá said that the goals of Opus Dei are: 
Opus Dei gives classes, talks, and other help so that people can practice these teachings.
Pope John Paul II has said that Escrivá was led by God when he started Opus Dei.
In 2002, Pope Benedict XVI said that Opus Dei is God's work, not Escrivá's. He said that God just used Escriva as a tool to start his own work. 
Some people do not accept what the Popes say. They say Opus Dei is just the work of a man.
Escrivá's and Opus Dei's main teachings on how to get close to God are:
Escrivá said that the basis of the life of a Christian is the fact that we are children of God. If we are aware of this fact, then we will always be very happy. "Joy comes from knowing we are children of God." 
According to the Catholic Church, people can find God in their daily work and activities. There they can be very close to him. They do not have to become priests or monks to become a saint. God wants them to become a saint by doing their ordinary duties and activities well. For example, studying, playing, watching TV, helping in the house, reading a book, editing Wikipedia, etc. The task given to Opus Dei by the Catholic Church is to spread this knowledge that one can be a real saint by doing ordinary things and offering them to God.
Pope John Paul II praised Opus Dei and said that its aim of bringing God into the place of work is something great. Cardinal Albino Luciani, who later became Pope John Paul I, said that Escriva brought about a big change in how people deal with God. Before people gave importance only to prayers as a way of being close to God. Escriva, he said, gave importance also to work. The work one does can become prayer.
But when Escriva started teaching this, some Jesuits in the 1940s did not understand him. They said his beliefs were against the Catholic faith, because at that time it was believed that only priests and nuns could become holy. Some Jesuit leaders started saying that Opus Dei had secrets which it did not want the world to know, and that Opus Dei is dangerous. In fact, they said, Opus Dei just wanted to become very powerful and to control the world. 
All these accusations were cleared up by the Popes and Catholic officials. These officials say that Opus Dei is doing something good for the world, by teaching people how to practice good habits such as telling the truth, working hard, keeping promises, loving people and being concerned with those who are in need. 
However, since the Jesuits are well respected, a lot of people in the world believed what they said. Catholics and non-Catholics are now attacking Opus Dei around the world. They say that the members develop a strong drive to gain influence, and that the behaviour resembles that of a sect. What is also said about the organisation is that it has a very traditional view of the role of women in a Christian society. According to these critics, for Opus Dei the duty of the woman is to busy herself about the house and to raise the children of the family.
A writer named John L. Allen, Jr. wrote a book in the year 2005, which argued against these accusations. He said that these claims are mainly based on not understanding Opus Dei. He said that Opus Dei only teaches what the Catholic Church teaches. He said that there are many Opus Dei women who are very good leaders in business, fashion, art, schools, social work, etc. One half of Opus Dei leaders are women, he said, and these women also lead men. It is also true, he says, that Opus Dei teaches that women are very good at taking care of their family. Escriva said that women are natural teachers. 
Another writer, Massimo Introvigne, said that Opus Dei is now being attacked by people who do not believe in God and people who think that God should not be present in the world of human beings. These people, he says, do not want religion to come back to the lives of many people in society.

</doc>
<doc id="15416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15416" title="Superhero">
Superhero

A superhero is a fictional character who protects innocent people and fights for good.
Modern superheroes usually have superhuman powers, for example have better senses, are stronger and faster than normal humans. Usually a superhero is courageous and noble. They usually have a colorful name and costume.
Some well known superheroes include Superman, Batman, Aquaman, Spider-Man, Iron Man, Captain America, Hulk ,The Thing, Thor and Wonder Woman.
Some superheroes don't actually have super powers but are merely strong individuals who want to do good in the world. For example, Batman does not have any superpowers, but has been through years of training to be physically and mentally stronger than his enemies. 
Most superheroes keep their identities a secret by wearing masks or helmets. This is because superheroes don't want for villains to know who they are because then they would be able to hurt superheroes' friends and family. Also, because superheroes don't fight within the regulations of the law like police officers do, they would have to be arrested for vigilantism if they revealed their identities. 
Also, many superheroes have tragic backstories that play into why they're superheroes in the first place. Batman, for example, saw both of his parents murdered in front of him and dedicated himself to fighting crime to prevent things like that happening to other people. Another example of this is Spider-Man who let a thief go that he could've easily stopped; that same thief later broke into his home and killed Spider-Man's uncle. After this, Spider-Man realized that he had to be responsible with his power and use it to help others.

</doc>
<doc id="15420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15420" title="Paul Karrer">
Paul Karrer

Paul Karrer (April 21, 1889 – June 18, 1971) was a Swiss biochemist best known for his work on vitamins. He and Walter Norman Haworth won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1937.

</doc>
<doc id="15421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15421" title="Smush Parker">
Smush Parker

William "Smush" Parker (born 1 June 1981 in New York, New York) is a professional player in the American National Basketball Association.
Parker was not selected in the NBA player draft after a college career at Fordham University, and has played for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Detroit Pistons and Phoenix Suns, signing a contract with the Los Angeles Lakers during the 2005 offseason.
He last played in the NBA for the Los Angeles Clippers in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="15423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15423" title="1462">
1462


</doc>
<doc id="15428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15428" title="Half-Life (video game)">
Half-Life (video game)

Half-Life is a science fiction first-person shooter computer game developed by Valve Software and published by Sierra Entertainment in 1998, based on a very changed "Quake" game engine. It was first published for PCs running Microsoft Windows, and was later ported to Sony's PlayStation 2 video game console. It is the first game in the Half-Life (Series)
"Half-Life", often shortened to "HL", has been thought to be very great by computer game critics for its gripping in-depth storyline, which has influenced the development of many other first-person shooters after it. It became very popular after it was released and still has many fans.
The story of the game revolves around a science research facility in the United States named Black Mesa. In the game, you are Gordon Freeman, a scientist who works at Black Mesa. A test goes wrong, causing portals to open to another world. Aliens from the dimension, Xen, come through the portals and kill many of the scientists and workers. Gordon Freeman (the player) must escape Black Mesa and get help before it's too late.
"Half-Life: Opposing Force" is the first Expansion for Half-Life, which was made by Gearbox Software, and released on November 1,1999. Half-Life: Opposing Force happens during the same time as Half-Life and in the same setting. It revolves around a Marine, who was sent to Black Mesa, and must escape after being shot down.
"Half-Life: Blue Shift" is the second Expansion for Half-Life, which was made by Gearbox Software, and released on June 12, 2001. Half-Life: Blue Shift happens during the same time as Half-Life and in the same setting. It revolves around a security guard, who must escape Black Mesa.
"Half-Life: Decay" is the final Expansion for Half-Life. It was exclusive to the PlayStation 2 version of Half-Life. It featured Co-op multiplayer.

</doc>
<doc id="15429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15429" title="1681">
1681

Year 1681 was a common year that started on a Wednesday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15430" title="Anonymity">
Anonymity

Anonymity means "namelessness" and comes from Greek words meaning "without name". It is when a person's identity or name is unknown. If a person is called anonymous, nobody knows who he or she is, or the anonymous person does not want to be found out. 
The concept of anonymity has some important uses. It is vital for a democracy that votes cast in an election are anonymous. In that way, no-one can find out how a person voted in an election.

</doc>
<doc id="15431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15431" title="Spectroscopy">
Spectroscopy

Spectroscopy is the study of light as a function of length of the wave that has been emitted, reflected or shone through a solid, liquid, or gas. Many times it is analyzed when the chemical is heated, because it makes a special color of flame. Most chemicals make a different color or spectrum than other chemicals. This can be used to see what chemicals are in a substance. Spectroscopy allows scientists to investigate and explore things that are too small to be seen through a microscope, such as molecules, and the even smaller subatomic particles like protons, neutrons and electrons. There are special instruments to measure and analyse these light waves.
Infrared spectroscopy measures light in the infrared electromagnetic spectrum. The highlight of IR spectroscopy is that it is very useful in identifying functional groups of organic molecules. The absorption of infrared light by organic molecules causes molecular vibrations. The vibrational frequencies are unique to the individual functional groups. IR spectra is given graphically by transmittance(%) vs. wavenumber (cm-1)
X-ray crystallography can look at the structure of a crystalline molecule. The electron cloud of each atom diffracts the X-rays thus revealing the positions of the atoms. Various inorganic and organic molecules can be crystallized and used in this method including DNA, proteins, salts and metals. The sample used for analysis is not destroyed.
Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy uses visible and ultraviolet light to look at how much of a chemical is in a liquid. The colour of the solution is the basis for how UV-Vis works. The color of the solution we are working with is colored because of its chemical composition. So the solution absorbs some light colors and reflects other colors, the light it reflects is the color of the solution. UV-Vis spectroscopy works by passing light through a sample of your solution then determining how much light gets absorbed by the solution.
Nuclear magnetic resonance can look at nuclei. It uses the magnetic properties of certain nuclei, the most common being C and H. The NMR instrument generates a large magnetic field that makes the nuclei act like tiny bar magnets. The nuclei either align with the instruments magnetic field or against it. At this point we have two possible orientations the nuclei could be in α or β. Next the nuclei are exposed to radio waves that make α go to the β orientation. When this change occurs energy is given off and detected. The data is interpreted graphically (Intensity vs. chemical shifts in ppm) by a computer system. NMR does not destroy the sample you use for analysis. Below is a 900 MHz NMR system.

</doc>
<doc id="15437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15437" title="Equestrianism">
Equestrianism

Equestrianism (or horse riding) is the sport of riding a horse. It is a popular sport in countries like the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe. Horses are used in many different competitions.
Within the sport, there are several types of riding, such as English and Western. In English riding, there are three Olympic events: cross country, dressage and show jumping (in which competitors ride horses over obstacles). There are no forms of Western riding in the Olympics.
In show jumping, a rider rides a horse over a set course of horse jumps while being timed. The horse and rider must also try not to knock down any of the jumps. Riders win by having the fastest time without knocking any jumps down. There are many types of horse jumps such as the vertical (a jump with only height), oxer (a jump with height and width), and combinations (2 or 3 jumps put right after each other). 
Not every type of horse can jump well, just like not all horses are able to do well at horse racing or farm work. Most horses seen in show jumping competitions are warmbloods, a type of horse that was bred for equestrian sports. The riding has been popular since 1900.
Dressage is an event where horses do not jump, but must be very obedient to their riders. There is usually a sequence that the horse and rider must complete. Letters are placed around an arena to show where movements should happen. In dressage the horse and rider can also perform a freestyle, which is also known as "Dancing on Horseback". Dressage riders usually wear tight pants called breeches, as well as a blouse, a top coat and a top hat. The moves the horse performs are very graceful and fun to watch. Horses that compete at the olympics in dressage have had many years of training to learn all the moves they must do for the competition.
Eventing combines dressage, show jumping, and the horse version of cross country into one sport. This combined training is based on the old military tests of the cavalry where the rider's life depended on the horse listening to what the rider told it to do. Cross country makes this sport different from the other equestrian sports. It requires the horse to canter at a high speed over solid and interesting jumps. These jumps may be logs, stone walls, water, ditches, or banks. The cross country course is very long, and at the Olympics it may take as long as 10 minutes to complete the course.
The dressage test makes sure that the horse is listening to the rider. It tests that the horse is very well trained. The cross-country course makes sure that the horse is fast and brave, since cross-country fences may be very scary. The show jumping makes sure that the horse is in good shape, since he must do it the day after running over the long cross country course. If the horse is too tired, he will hit the show jumps and make it harder for the rider to win.
Stock work began when horses were ridden on a ranch to round up cows, sheep, or other animals. Today, horse shows also have competitions for horses to show these skills. These include Cutting, Reining, Barrel Racing, Cattle Penning, Calf Roping, and Pole Bending.
Driving in the horse world means that a horse is pulling a type of wagon. It knows where to go by a person sitting on the wagon that tells them which direction they should turn. A horse used to pull a wagon is usually bigger and heavier than most other horses. The hooves are also much larger than a racing horse. Large horses are calm, trustworthy and good-natured. Types of heavy horses are: Belgians, Shires, Clydesdale, Friesian horse, and Gypsy Vanners. Also a beginner is able to communicate with these well tempered horses.
Races of horses pulling carts are called harness racing. The horses are smaller.
Barrel racing is a sport where the rider rides the horse in a pattern around 3 barrels. The rider must be able to turn the horse very quickly around the barrels. The horse that does the pattern the fastest is the winner.
Pleasure riding is riding for enjoyment, not for awards. People ride horses on trails in the forest, along quiet roads, or in an arena near their homes or barns. Horse back riding lessons could be considered pleasure riding. Pleasure riding can be called trail riding. Pleasure riding does not have to be for any specific reason, just for fun and enjoyment. Riding in a horse carriage may also be for pleasure. Endurance riding is an equestrian long-distance race. There are two main types of endurance rides which are competitive trail riding and endurance rides. 
Horse racing tests the speed of a horse. Different breeds do different types of races. The most popular type in the U.S. is Thoroughbred racing, where only horses of this breed can participate in galloping around a track. There are also endurance races, trotting races and steeplechases (horses galloping around a track with jumps). Most horses that are used for racing are ridden by professional riders called jockeys. Usually the people that own or train the horse do not ride it in the races.
In Hunter-jumpers, people ride horses in various classes. Some of those are Show jumping or Hunter-under-saddle. They are judged on the rider, not the horse. Any type of horse or pony can compete.

</doc>
<doc id="15439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15439" title="United States Virgin Islands">
United States Virgin Islands

The United States Virgin Islands are a group of islands in the Caribbean Sea. They are currently owned and under the authority of the United States Government. They used to be owned by Denmark (and called "Danish West Indies"). They were sold to the U.S on January 17, 1917, because of fear that the Germans would capture them and use them as a submarine base in World War I. They are the only part of the U.S. where vehicles drive on the left hand side of the road. Name after the virgin mother mary

</doc>
<doc id="15440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15440" title="Chester A. Arthur">
Chester A. Arthur

Chester Alan Arthur (October 5, 1829 – November 18, 1886) was an American politician and the 21st President of the United States. Before becoming president, he was most noted as the Collector of Customs for the port of New York, a job he got from his political friendships. Arthur was the first President of the United States to take oath of office at his own house. 
Arthur was a lawyer in New York City. Two of his cases were famous. One confirmed that any slave brought to New York was automatically set free. The other ended the racial segregation of streetcars in the city. 
After President James A. Garfield died, vice-president Chester Arthur replaced him. During his term a major problem was that people were appointing their friends (such as himself) into high political offices instead of people who were most qualified to do the job. The problem was solved after he passed the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act which required people to pass tests before they could be appointed to a public job.

</doc>
<doc id="15446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15446" title="Wizardry">
Wizardry

Wizardry is a series of computer role-playing games that were popular in the 1980s. First, made for the Apple II, they were later moved to other platforms. The latest game in the series, "Wizardry 8", is only for Windows.
"Wizardry" began as a simple dungeon crawl by Andrew C. Greenberg and Robert Woodhead. It was written when they were students at Cornell University and then published by Sir-Tech.
David W. Bradley took over the series after the fourth game. 
Ultimately the single game became a series:
The first and last three games were trilogies (Three parts of one story). 
"Wizardry" inspired many games which were almost exactly like it. Some notable series that are very much like "Wizardry" include "The Bard's Tale" and "Might and Magic".

</doc>
<doc id="15451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15451" title="United States Army">
United States Army

The United States Army is a branch (or section) of the United States Armed Forces.
An army mainly deals with land based missions and operations. The army started as the Continental Army from 1775 to August 7, 1789 when the War Department (now known as the Department of Defense) was formed. Officially, a person (or member) in the army is called a soldier. The soldier must take orders from a person in charge known as a CO or commander. When a person joins the Army, they must serve for a certain amount of time or a "tour of duty". A new soldier or recruit must go through training called Basic Training to become a soldier. Each soldier is trained in a variety of weapons and equipment to carry out commands.
The United States Army serves as the land-based branch of the U.S. Military. 

</doc>
<doc id="15452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15452" title="Charlemagne">
Charlemagne

Charlemagne (Latin: Carolus Magnus, English: Charles the Great, German: Karl der Große, Dutch: Karel de Grote) (ca. 742 or 747 – 28 January, 814) was the king of the Franks who started the Holy Roman Empire. He was crowned as the Emperor in 800. He was the older son of King Pippin III of the Carolingian dynasty. When Pippin died, Charlemagne and his brother Carloman ruled together. When Carloman died in 771 Charlemagne became the only ruler of the Franks. In 800, on Christmas Day, Pope Leo III made him an emperor.
The Franks—one of the Germanic peoples who had moved their homes over the River Rhine into the Roman Empire as it was falling apart—were, by the year 700, the rulers of Gaul, and a lot of Germania east of the Rhine. They also protected the Papacy and the Roman Catholic faith. When their king Pepin the Short died, his sons, Charlemagne and Carloman were chosen to share the kingdom. They divided it into two parts: one half for Charlemagne, and the other for Carloman. Carloman died on December 4, 771, leaving Charlemagne as the leader of the whole Frankish kingdom.
He was king of the Franks from 768, and king of the Lombards from 774. He was crowned Imperator Augustus (Emperor) in Rome on Christmas Day by Pope Leo III in 800, starting the Holy Roman Empire, that they hoped would be a kind of second Western Roman Empire (while the Byzantines in Constantinople were still keeping up the Eastern Roman empire). With many wars, Charlemagne spread his empire across much of Western Europe.
Charlemagne fought in many wars over the course of his reign. He is known for using his sword, “Joyeuse”, in each of the thirty years of war and the 18 battles he fought in. He also finally managed to conquer Saxony, something the Roman Emperor Augustus could not do 800 years earlier. He was able to convert the Saxons to Catholic Christianity. He also had many schools built so his people could learn. However, he also killed thousands of those who failed to convert.
Charlemagne's politics and plans failed, which led to low self-esteem. His last years were spent in bed in deep depression. He died in 814, leaving his kingdom to his only son, Louis the Pious. The descendants of Charlemagne are called "Carolingians". His family line died out in Germany in 911 and in France in 987.

</doc>
<doc id="15454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15454" title="Marlow, Buckinghamshire">
Marlow, Buckinghamshire

Marlow is a town on the banks of the River Thames, on the southern tip of Buckinghamshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="15455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15455" title="Italian unification">
Italian unification

Italy used to be many different, smaller countries. Between 1815–1871 Italy started to form from these smaller states and became one country, the Kingdom of Italy, led by Vittorio Emanuele II of Italy (Called Victor Emanuel II in English). Starting around 1848, nationalism and patriotism became popular throughout Europe. Many people wanted the smaller countries with similar culture, language, or ethnicity to join together. This resulted in two major countries being formed. The first was Italy in the Italian unification. The second was Germany in the German unification. 
Risorgimento (also called Italian unification or unification of Italy or 'the resurgence) refers to the Italian movement for independence. Risorgimento literally means resurgence in the Italian language. The movement truly began in 1848, when there were many revolts occurring throughout Italy after Klemens Wenzel von Metternich lost his office of Austrian Chancellor. The movement for independence succeeded in 1859 through the efforts of Count Cavour, the Piedmontese prime minister, as well as Giuseppe Garibaldi. - an Italian national hero, who united the South, which allowed King Victor Emmanuel to become the first King of Italy.
Napoleon invaded Italy in 1796 and later controlled it, but when he was defeated in 1814,in the battle of Waterloo. it became possible for the now free states to join together.
Victor Emmanuel of Piedmont-Sardinia saw a great vision of a unified Italy. He wanted Piedmont-Sardinia to be a model for the unification of Italy. To do so, he started many public works, projects, and political reforms. Piedmont-Sardinia was soon recognized as an emerging power. The next step for Piedmont-Sardinia 's conquest was to get Austria out of the Italian Peninsula. With the Crimean War breaking out between France and Britain on one side, and Russia on the other, Piedmont-Sardinia saw a chance to earn some respect and make a name for itself. Britain and France proved victorious, and Sardinia was able to attend the peace conference. As a result of this, Piedmont-Sardinia gained the support of Napoleon III.
In 1858, Sardinia and France secretly plotted a plan of attack against Austria. The following year, Sardinia put its plan into action and provoked Austria into declaring war on Sardinia. By Sardinia's encouraging nationalist revolts in Austrian-held territories in Italy, Austria was provoked into the war. Following the battles of Magenta and Solferino, France drove Austria out of Lombardy, but Austria still held onto Venetia.
At this point, France dropped out of the war, fearing a unified Italy might be a threat, as well as realising that Austrian Strength would eventually crush them. This ended the war, with Austria keeping Venetia.
Meanwhile, the Italian nationalist Giuseppe Garibaldi led a nationalist uprising, combining the states and territories into a full Republic. As Sardinia ended the war, Garibaldi gave most of the provinces to Sardinia. In March 1861, a parliament of all of Italy except Rome and Venetia, agreed on unifying Italy with Victor Emmanuel as its first king.

</doc>
<doc id="15457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15457" title="Meditation">
Meditation

Meditation is to try to get past the "thinking" mind, and into a deeper state of relaxation or awareness.
Meditation is a common practice in many religions including Buddhism, Christianity (sometimes), Hinduism (where Yoga is important) 
and other religions.
In Buddhism, three things are very important: being a good person, making the mind stronger, and understanding why people are in pain (Dukkha). 
Buddhist meditation is not just used for spiritual reasons. Research shows that Buddhist meditation lowers stress, anxiety and depression. 
For Buddhists, meditation is used to calm the mind so that the mind can better see the cause of pain. Buddhists believe that this type of seeing can end pain.
Most types of Buddhist meditation focus on something. The most popular things to focus on include the breath, love, other emotions, and religious images and sounds.
Christians sometimes meditate by thinking about small parts of the Bible, or by saying the words of a prayer to themselves over and over.
Hare Krishna

</doc>
<doc id="15460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15460" title="Nobel Peace Prize">
Nobel Peace Prize

The Nobel Peace Prize is one of six awards in the memory of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of Dynamite. Every year the organization gives out six awards for the people "who best benefit mankind through their actions" in one of the six subjects; peace, literature, physics, chemistry, economics, and medicine.
The Peace Prize is given out in Norway, but the other Prizes are given out in Sweden. This is because Norway and Sweden were one country when the prizes were started.
Its list of winners includes Martin Luther King, Jr., Elihu Root, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Henri la Fontaine, Mikhail Gorbachev, Aung San Suu Kyi, Nelson Mandela, Kofi Annan, Jimmy Carter, Wangari Maathai, Barack Obama and Liu Xiaobo. There is often a lot of controversy about the award of the prize. The 2013 winner is the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, making it the second year in-a-row that an organization has won the prize, after the European Union did so in 2012.
Here are the winners of the Nobel Peace Prize:

</doc>
<doc id="15472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15472" title="Celtic Park">
Celtic Park

Celtic Park is a football stadium in Parkhead, Glasgow, Scotland. It is the home ground of Celtic Football Club.

</doc>
<doc id="15473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15473" title="Romanian language">
Romanian language

The Romanian language is a Romance language, meaning it comes from Latin like French, Spanish and Italian. It has 66% Latin-based words and 20% Slavic-based words. The rest are newer and come from Dacian, Turkish, Greek or English. There are about 28 million speakers: 24 million who speak it as their mother tongue and 4 million who have learned it as their second language.
Romanian is also the most spoken language in Moldova, which is northeast of Romania. In Moldova, they refer to Romanian as Moldavian. However, there are certain differences, such as the dialect and a Moldavian accent.

</doc>
<doc id="15483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15483" title="Ealing">
Ealing

Ealing is a town in the London Borough of Ealing, most famous for the Ealing Studios, a movie studio. In 2011, the population was estimated at 339,300 and contains seven distinct town centres – Ealing, Hanwell, Acton, Southall, Greenford, Perivale and Northolt. 
The borough of Ealing has a total of 91 state-run schools and nurseries as well as four Non-League football clubs. 

</doc>
<doc id="15485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15485" title="Roma">
Roma

Roma might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15497" title="Ear">
Ear

The ear is the part of the body which lets people hear. People and most mammals, have ears, but many animals do not hear through ears. Spiders have small hairs on their legs that they can hear with. 
For us, the ear works by directing sound to the inner ear. These vibrations are sent to the brain by a network of nerves. The whole system is called the auditory system.
The part of the ear that sticks out and can be seen is called the "pinna."
Ears are also used in other ways. African elephants use their large ears to cool themselves when it is very hot. Bats rely on their ears to find prey by echolocation. Some animals use their ears for signalling to each other.
In ordinary language, "ear" refers to this receptor which conducts sound and sends signals to the brain. It does not refer to the many other methods of hearing found in fish and invertebrates. The inner part of the ear is common to most vertebrates, but mammals have special adaptations for hearing which even other land vertebrates do not have. These include the external ear (the pinna) and the three little bones which transmit sounds (the ossicles).

</doc>
<doc id="15507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15507" title="Czech language">
Czech language

The Czech language is a Slavic language. People in the Czech Republic speak it. Ten million people speak it. It has three genders. It is an inflected language like Latin. It is very similar to the Slovak language, to the point of the differences between these two languages being smaller than differences between dialects of some other languages.

</doc>
<doc id="15511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15511" title="William Howard Taft">
William Howard Taft

William Howard Taft (September 15, 1857 – March 8, 1930) was the 27th President of the United States from March 4, 1909 to March 3, 1913. He is well known for being the heaviest President in U.S. history, weighing over 350 pounds. He was also six feet tall. Taft was also the only President who also served as a Supreme Court justice.
Taft served as Solicitor General of the United States, a federal judge, Governor of the Philippines, and Secretary of War before being nominated for President in the 1908 by the man who preceded him, Theodore Roosevelt. As a Republican President, Taft was most notable for trust-busting, in which he broke up large businesses that had too much control over the economy. Taft also expanded civil service, fixed up the United States Postal Service and promoted world peace. Taft also started the tradition of the president pitching the first ball of the baseball season. Early in life, Taft had played baseball. He was a good second baseman and could hit with power. 
In 1912, Theodore Roosevelt came back into politics and ran for President against William Taft. Many Republicans split their votes between Taft and Roosevelt, and the Democratic opponent Woodrow Wilson won the election. 
In 1921, Taft became the 10th Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, the only President to do so. He retired from the job on February 3, 1930 due to bad health.
Taft was the most obese president. He was 5 feet, 11.5 inches tall; his weight was at 335–340 pounds toward the end of his Presidency. He had difficulty getting out of the White House bathtub. He had a 7-foot (2.1 m) long, 41-inch (1.04 m) wide tub installed. This tub could accommodate four normal-sized men. It was replaced in 1952 with a modern tub of similar size.
Taft died on March 8, 1930 due to heart failure. Three days later, he became the first president to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="15512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15512" title="Underwear">
Underwear

Underwear are clothes worn under other clothes, often next to the skin. They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat. They also shape the body and provide support for parts of it, and in cold weather help the wearer to keep warm. Underwear can be used to protect the wearer's modesty, as well as to make them look sexy. Special types of underwear have religious importance. Some items of clothing are made to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts and certain types of shorts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing. If made of suitable fabric, some types of underwear can serve as nightwear or swimsuits.
Items of underwear commonly worn by women today include brassieres (bras) and panties (also known as knickers), while men wear briefs, boxer shorts or boxer briefs. Items worn by both women and men include T-shirts, sleeveless shirts, bikini underwear, thongs and G-strings. In countries where the weather is cold, long underwear can be worn to keep warm.
There are a number of different words for underwear: 'underclothes', 'underclothing' and 'undergarments' are more formal words. 
In casual situations, underwear may be called 'undies'. In Australia, one may hear underwear being called 'Reg Grundys' or 'Reginalds' (rhyming slang for 'undies'), while in the UK the word 'smalls' is sometimes used. Different types of women's undergarments are known together as 'lingerie' (pronounced "-zhur-ray"). They may also be called 'intimate clothing' or simply 'intimates'.
Words for the top half of female lingerie: 'bras', obviously. Note the use of 'teddy' for a one-piece close-fitting nightwear. 
Words for the bottom half of female lingerie: pants (US) versus knickers, drawers or panties, but never pants! (UK). 'Briefs' is another possible. 'French knickers' = knickers with frills, looser-fitting. Note the French "cache-sex" as a prototype 'G-string. Other types of undergarments are spandex shorts common for women who workout. These shorts are used because it supports the behind and the back for good posture.
An "undershirt" is old word for a piece of underwear covering the torso, which has fallen out of usage in the UK, but is still commonly used in North America. "Vests" is by far the most common term in UK. "Underpants" or "pants" cover the part of the body where the sex organs are, but never "drawers". Most common words: "shorts " as in "boxer shorts" for the looser fit. "Y-fronts" for the tight fit (UK), "boxers" or "briefs" used for the same things in Canada and the USA.
These and other words for different types of underwear are set out in the table below.
Underwear is worn for many reasons. They keep outer clothes from being made dirty by sweat. Men's briefs provide support for the male sex organs, and women's brassieres (bras) do the same thing for their breasts. Some people wear corsets to make their torsos a certain shape. For more support and protection when playing sports, people often put on underwear that fits more tightly for extra support. Men may wear jockstraps and trunks (which are a type of boxer shorts). Women may wear sports bras and pelvic protectors. Sports bras lessens the chance of damage to the ligaments of the chest during vigorous exercises such as jogging.
In countries where the weather is cold, underwear is one more layer of clothing that helps the wearer to keep warm. Underwear can be used to keep the wearer modest – for instance, some women wear camisoles and slips (petticoats) under clothes that are see-through. A camisole is an item of clothing without sleeves that covers the top part of a woman's body, while a slip or petticoat is a kind of skirt that is worn underneath an outer skirt. On the other hand, underwear can also be worn to make a person look more sexy. It is possible to buy underwear made specially to excite another person in a sexual way, such as underwear that can be eaten (it is usually made of small sweets stuck together) and underwear with holes cut into them.
Some items of clothing are designed to be worn as underwear, while others such as T-shirts can be used both as underwear and as outer clothing. Whether underwear can be used as outer clothing depends on a number of things, such as how warm it is indoors and outdoors, what other people in society find acceptable, fashion, and what the law allows. Some types of underwear can be used for sleeping in or as swimsuits, if they are made of suitable fabric.
Underwear can also have religious use:
The table below sets out types and styles of underwear that are commonfly worn.
A number of big clothes designers are well known for their underwear collections. Two of these are Calvin Klein and Dolce & Gabbana. There are also companies that make only underwear, such as 2(x)ist, Agent Provocateur, C-IN2, GapBody, Gilly Hicks, Ginch Gonch, La Senza, Fruit of the Loom, Lord, and Victoria's Secret.
Although most of the time underwear is kept hidden under other clothes, sometimes it is partly exposed for fashion reasons or to make other people feel sexually excited when they see it. A woman may, for instance, allow the top of her bra to peek out from under her collar, or wear a see-through blouse over it. Some men wear T-shirts underneath partly- or fully-unbuttoned shirts.
A common style among young men is to allow their trousers to sag or droop down below their waists. This fashion is called "sagging". When a person allows his trousers to sag, the waistband or a larger part of his boxer shorts can be seen. A woman wearing trousers which expose the upper back portion of her thong underwear is said to show a "whale tail".
Not wearing underpants under one's outer clothing is known in American slang as "freeballing" for men or "freebuffing" for women. The term "going commando" is also used at times, for both sexes. Certain types of clothes, such as cycling shorts and kilts, are meant to be worn or are traditionally worn without underpants.

</doc>
<doc id="15513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15513" title="Monica Lewinsky">
Monica Lewinsky

Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) is an American woman who, in 1998, became well-known for being part of a scandal between her and then President of the United States, Bill Clinton. She was born in San Francisco, California. The scandal involved claims that she had had a sexual relationship with President Clinton. He said they had not. In the end Clinton had to admit that sexual activity of some kind took place between them.
Lewinsky grew up in a luxury $1.6 million home in Beverly Hills. She is the daughter of Bernard Lewinsky, a medical researcher and photographer.
She worked in the mid 1990s as an intern at the White House and the Pentagon.
Lewinsky experimented with designing handbags and purses for her company, "The Real Monica".
On December 14, 2006, Lewinsky graduated with a Masters of Science degree in Social Psychology from the London School of Economics. Lewinsky's thesis is titled "In Search of the Impartial Juror: An exploration of the third person effect and pre-trial publicity". According to her publicist Barbara Hutson, Lewinsky was interviewing for jobs in the United Kingdom in early 2007.
In 2009, scholar Ken Gormley had communications with Lewinsky as a part of his in-depth study of the Clinton scandals. She said that Clinton had lied under oath when asked detailed and specific questions about his relationship with her.

</doc>
<doc id="15515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515" title="1190">
1190


</doc>
<doc id="15516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15516" title="William S. Burroughs">
William S. Burroughs

William Seward Burroughs (February 5, 1914 – August 2, 1997) was an American writer. He was a contemporary and friend of writers Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac.
Burroughs was a member of the family who owned the Burroughs Company. A family trust paid him an income, so he did not have to work a regular job. Sometimes he lived in Mexico and other countries, because he could live there in more luxury than in the United States. One favorite apartment he had in New York City was a windowless basement, nicknamed "Bill's " by his friends. Many of them were emerging writers and artists.
Burroughs told interesting, stories, but did not think he could be a writer. This changed as he came to terms with tragedy; he had killed his common law wife Joan, in an accident when they were both drunk. Burroughs began to write to work through his grief and feelings of guilt. He also abused drugs, including heroin, and it affected his writing. His first novel, "Naked Lunch", was a surreal work.
Besides writing, Burroughs also recorded spoken word and musical works. One of his works paired him with musician Kurt Cobain.
Burroughs died of a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="15517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15517" title="1773">
1773


</doc>
<doc id="15518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15518" title="Uganda">
Uganda

The Republic of Uganda is a landlocked country in east Africa. Its capital and biggest city is Kampala.
The currency is the Ugandan Shilling. The official languages of Uganda are English and Swahili. The most common religion is Christianity. The President of Uganda is Yoweri Kaguta Museveni. The country is to the East of Africa. The population of Uganda is 32 million people. The area of Uganda is about 236,040 .
Uganda produces coffee and copper.
The literacy rate of Uganda is 68%, which means that 68 out of 100 people in Uganda who are at least 15 years old know how to read and write.
Uganda is among countries thought to be very corrupt by Transparency International. It is rated at 2.4 on a scale from 0 (the most corrupt) to 10 (the most clean). Uganda is one of the poorest nations in the world. 37.7 percent of the people live on less than $1.25 a day.
Uganda became independent from the United Kingdom on 9 October 1962.
Uganda is almost completely in the Nile basin. At the centre of the country is Lake Kyoga. Although landlocked, Uganda has many large lakes. Besides Lake Victoria and Lake Kyoga, there are Lake Albert, Lake Edward and the smaller Lake George. Most important cities are in the south, near Lake Victoria, including the capital Kampala and the nearby city of Entebbe.
The climate is mostly equatorial. But it is not the same everywhere because there are some changes in altitude. The difference in altitude changes the climate. Southern Uganda is wetter with rain generally throughout the year. At Entebbe on the northern shore of Lake Victoria, most rain falls from March to June and in the November/December period. Further to the north a dry season slowly emerges. At Gulu about 120 km from the South Sudanese border, November to February is much drier than the rest of the year.
The largest cities in Uganda are:
Because there are so many communities, culture in Uganda is diverse. Many Asians (mostly from India) who had to leave during the regime of Amin have returned to Uganda.
Football is the national sport in Uganda. Games with the Ugandan national football team usually attract large crowds of Ugandans. The Ugandan Super League is the top division of Ugandan football. There are 16 clubs from across the country. It was made in 1968. Uganda's most famous footballers are David Obua of Scottish club Hearts and Ibrahim Sekagya, who is the captain of the national team. Uganda's notable past greats of the game include Denis Obua, Majid Musisi, Fimbo Mukasa and Paul Kasule.
Cricket has become more popular. Uganda won the World Cricket League (WCL) Division 3 in 2007.
In 2007, the Uganda national rugby union team were victorious in the 2007 Africa Cup, beating Madagascar in the final.
Hockey is the only Ugandan field sport to date to have qualified for and represented the country at the Olympics. This was at the 1972 Summer Olympics. Uganda won gold medals at the Olympics in athletics with legendary hurdler John Akii-Bua in 1972 and marathon winner at the London 2012 Olympics Stephen Kiprotich.
In July 2011 Kampala, Uganda qualified for the 2011 Little League World Series. Due to visa trouble they were unable to attend the Series. In 2012, Uganda qualified again for the Little League World Series. This time they were able to attend.

</doc>
<doc id="15519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15519" title="Mike Judge">
Mike Judge

Mike Judge (born October 17, 1962) is an American animator, actor, writer, and producer. He is most famous for creating and starring in the animated television series "Beavis and Butt-head" and "King of the Hill". Judge also wrote, directed, and played a small part in the 1999 movie "Office Space", and directed the 2006 movie "Idiocracy", which starred Luke Wilson. He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador, grew up in New Mexico, and lives in Austin, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="15520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15520" title="Missing Persons">
Missing Persons

Missing Persons was an American New Wave group. They formed in the 1980s while working with Frank Zappa.

</doc>
<doc id="15525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15525" title="Blackpool">
Blackpool

Blackpool is a seaside town in Lancashire, in the north west of England. The town is on the coast of the Irish Sea. Blackpool had a population of 142,283 as of the 2001 census.
Blackpool became important for tourism during the 19th century. It is known for its beaches and amusement parks. It is also the home to a famous international ballroom dancing competition.

</doc>
<doc id="15526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15526" title="Francisco Franco">
Francisco Franco

Francisco Franco (Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teódulo Franco y Bahamonde Salgado Pardo de Andrade, 20 December 1892 – 20 November 1975) was a Spanish military leader who ruled as dictator of Spain from 1939 until his death.
He was a leader of a coup d'état against the Spanish Second Republic in 1936. After this uprising the Spanish Civil War started. Franco was supported by fascists, big businesses, the church, conservative people and Spanish nationalists. This was because the Spanish Republic had a socialist government that wanted to make businesses and the church less powerful. The Republic also set up local parliaments in the regions of Spain. Spanish nationalists thought this was wrong and would make Spain weak. Franco remained neutral during World War II as Hitler did not accept his conditions for Spain to take part in it with the fascist and nazi regimes. He let a group of volunteer soldiers join the German Army to fight the Russians between 1941 and 1943. They were called the "División Azul" (Blue Division)
Franco died in Madrid on November 20, 1975, just after midnight. Relatives had asked doctors to remove his life support systems. After Franco's death, Juan Carlos became king.

</doc>
<doc id="15528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15528" title="Police officer">
Police officer

A police officer is a serving member of a police force. Police officers arrest criminals, prevent crime, protect and help the public, and keep public order. Officers have legally authorised powers, which in Britain is called a "warrant". 
A police officer's job is to protect the public, make sure people obey the law and make people feel safe. Not all police officers wear a uniform and patrol. Some police officers have specialist jobs, such as being a detective, a traffic officer or a dog handler. In some countries, not all police carry guns, so a police officer could choose to become an armed police officer after a lot of experience.
As a part of their job, police officers have rights that a normal person does not have. This might include the power to arrest a person who they think has committed a crime, the power to search a person, the power to stop cars and direct traffic, the power to ask for a person's name and address, the power to give out tickets or fines or the power to make a person come to court. Without these powers the police would not be able to gain any sort of control over society. 
Being a police officer can be dangerous. Police officers are sometimes killed or hurt by criminals when they are sent to incidents, so that is why the police have to carry the equipment needed to defend themselves. Police officers have the right to carry weapons, such as a gun or a baton in order to stop crime even if the weapon laws are strict and limited to the general public.
In different countries, police officers are given different equipment to deal with the crime that is in their country. All police officers are armed with weapons that they can use to defend themselves or other people that need help. Most police officers carry these things:
Police officers have to patrol and respond to emergencies as quickly as possible. Some police officers will walk on foot patrol, but often police officers will patrol in a police car. This is so that they can get to emergencies faster and carry more equipment. Sometimes officers patrol on bicycles, motorbikes or on horses because they have chosen to work in that unit.

</doc>
<doc id="15536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15536" title="Account">
Account

Account might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15538" title="Dutch people">
Dutch people

The Dutch are the people who live in the Netherlands, or those that come from the Netherlands. Often the Netherlands is called Holland, but this is only part of the Netherlands. The Dutch culture and ethnicity are also found outside of the Netherlands, with large number of Dutch living in the United States of America, South Africa, Suriname, Namibia.
Many inventors were Dutch, including Hans Lippershey, Hans Janssen, and his son Zacharias Janssen the inventors of the microscope and the telescope, and the incubator. Many famous painters have also been Dutch, among them Rembrandt van Rijn, Vincent van Gogh and Johannes Vermeer.
The definition of ethnicity is not always clear. One can count all people living the Netherlands as Dutch, but many are not. This is because many people who live in The Netherlands were not born there. There are about 15.5 million people in the Netherlands who actually have the Dutch nationality. About 1 million people living in the Netherlands do not have the Dutch nationality. To make things more confusing, people who live in the other parts of the Kingdom of the Netherlands (including Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, and the Caribbean Netherlands) also have Dutch nationality. Still, even more people in the Netherlands were not born there can also be called "Dutch". According to some definitions, also people who were born in the Netherlands, but who's parents were not, cannot be called Dutch. This definition leaves almost 20% of the entire Dutch population to be 'foreign'.
Throughout the world there are about 30 million Dutch people:
During the last 150 years, the Netherlands saw a relatively quick population growth as compared to the rest of Europe. For comparison: The Belgian population grew from 50% more inhabitants in 1850 to a third less in 2000. The population of the Netherlands grew from 3 million in 1850, to 5 million in 1900, to 10 million in 1950, to 16 million in 2000.
The Dutch society in the present can be seen as a very multi-cultural society. About 20% of the entire Dutch population is not of Dutch origin (these people are called "allochtoon" in Dutch). Even most members of the Dutch Royal family are allochtoon. This comes from the fact that the Netherlands were open to other nationalities and other religions since the beginning of the Republic of the Netherlands (founded in 1588). In the 17th century, it was not odd, for instance for Muslims to live in Amsterdam. After the Second World War, the Dutch hired many workers from Turkey and Morocco to rebuild the Netherlands. Many of these guest workers ("gastarbeiders") stayed in the Netherlands. Therefore, The Netherlands have a large Turkish and Moroccan community. Immigration from especially Suriname and Indonesia also led to the multi-cultural society of the present. Recent events (like the murder on Theo van Gogh by a radical Muslim) have led to negative views on "allochtonen" by some of the Dutch people.
The Dutch society is also famous for its liberal views. The Netherlands were the first country to legalize same-sex marriage (the marriage of homosexuals). The Netherlands have a strong gay-rights movement. Abortion and euthanasia are also legal in the Netherlands. The Netherlands are also the only country in the world where marijuana is "gedoogd". This means it is not legal but the laws against it are not actively enforced. 
The Netherlands are one of the busiest countries in the world. Almost 16.5 million people live in the little country. That's why not many Dutch live in villages. Most Dutch people live in cities, with a city being a place with at least 25,000 people living there. 8.7 million Dutch live in "agglomerations" (urban areas which are connected to each other, a sort of metropolitan area). That's about 54% of all the Dutch people. About 15% of the Dutch people live in city's which are not in an agglomeration. The other 30% live in villages (places with less than 25,000 people).
The Netherlands are a country where bicycles are used very much. Almost 30% of all travel is done by bicycle in the Netherlands. Bicycles are used so much so that throughout the Netherlands hundreds of bicycle parking lots ("fietsenstallingen") are built. In Amsterdam, there is even a 3-story high bicycle parking lot. Trains are also used very much (unlike in, for instance, the US). The biggest railway company (NS) has 1.1 million travellers per day. That's 7 percent of the entire Dutch population each day.

</doc>
<doc id="15547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15547" title="Liquid Paper">
Liquid Paper

Liquid Paper, also called white out and correction fluid, is used to correct mistakes made in writing on typewriters and with ink. It was originally called Mistake Out and was invented by Bette Nesmith Graham in 1951, who was working at a bank in the U.S. state of Texas at time and had trouble when she typed on the typewriter, which was part of her job. She made in product in her blender and sold it to friends starting in 1956. She sold the product to the Gillette Corporation for 47.5 million US Dollars in 1979. When she died the following year, her son, Michael Nesmith, a famous musician, formally of The Monkees inherited the fortune.
Now people still use the correction fluid, but more seldom. With more advanced technology, people have computers allowing them to backspace easily, not needing to use it. Also, there is also another recent invention of the correction tape. To use the fluid, you squeeze the bottle, and let the fluid flow out to cover the mistakes. Usually you have to shake the bottle before using it, and after using, you need to wait for it to dry for a few minutes, which is considered quite fast. Then you can write on top of the dried fluid. 

</doc>
<doc id="15548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15548" title="Doris Day">
Doris Day

Doris Mary Ann Kappelhoff (born April 3, 1922 or 1924) is an American singer, actress, and animal welfare activist. All her grandparents were German immigrants. She is known for her blonde, wholesome image.
She sang with the big bands. She started with Les Brown & His Band of Renown. Her first hit song was Sentimental Journey. This song was popular with soldiers returning from World War 2.
She made many movies from 1948 to 1968. Three of these movies also starred Rock Hudson.
Day was married to Al Jorden from 1941 until they divorced in 1943. She was married to George Weidler from 1946 until they divorced in 1949. She was married to Martin Melcher from 1951 until his death in 1968. She was married to Barry Comden from 1976 until they divorced in 1981. 
Day had a son, Terry Melcher (1942-2004), by Jorden. 

</doc>
<doc id="15549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15549" title="Jack the Ripper">
Jack the Ripper

Jack the Ripper is the name given to an unidentified serial killer. He was active during the summer and autumn of 1888 in the Whitechapel district of London, England, which was known for its overpopulation and prostitution. 
The main victims thought to be killed by the Ripper were five prostitutes:
Newspapers and police in London around this time started to get taunting letters. The letters were signed "Jack the Ripper". Other murders were reported around the same time, but were not thought to be done by Jack the Ripper.
Nobody knows who Jack the Ripper really was. Some think he might have been a doctor or a butcher because of how he killed and cut up the women, much like how a surgeon might perform surgery, or how a butcher might dissect an animal. All the murders happened on weekends, so it could have been someone who did not live in London but visited the city on weekends, or someone who worked during the week and was only free at the weekends.
In September 2014, a research group claimed that it had identified Jack the Ripper as a 23-year old Jewish immigrant from Central Europe named Aaron Kosminski.
The Ripper was famous for the brutality of his murders. He often mutilated his victims, usually killing them by slashing their throats open, almost to the point of decapitation, and stabbing them multiple times, especially in the abdomen. At about 23:00 on 30 August, Mary Ann Nichols was seen walking the Whitechapel Road; at 00:30 she was seen to leave a pub in Brick Lane, Spitalfields. An hour later she was turned out of 18 Thrawl Street as she was lacking fourpence for a bed, implying by her last words that she would soon earn the money on the street with the help of a new bonnet she had acquired. She was later seen at the corner of Osborn Street and Whitechapel Road, at 02:30, an hour before her death, by Nelly Holland. Nichols claimed she had made enough money to pay for her bed three times over, but had drunk it all away, it was the last time she was seen alive. An hour later, she was found lying dead in front of a gated stable entrance in Buck's Row (since renamed Durward Street), Whitechapel, her throat cut and her abdomen ripped open. Nobody had seen or heard a thing, the killer struck again on 8 September, Annie chapman was seen talking to a man at about 5:30 a.m. just beyond the back yard of 29 Hanbury Street, Spitalfields. Mrs. Long described him as over forty, and a little taller than Chapman, of dark complexion, and of foreign, "shabby-genteel" appearance. He was wearing a deer-stalker hat and dark overcoat, carpenter Albert Cadosch had entered the neighbouring yard at 27 Hanbury Street seconds later, and heard voices in the yard followed by the sound of something falling against the fence. Chapman's body was discovered at just before 6:00 a.m. on the morning of 8 September 1888 by a resident of number 29, market porter John Davis. She was lying on the ground near a doorway in the back yard. Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders. The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing. Chapman's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr Phillips to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.
Two weeks later, a letter was sent claimed to have been written by the killer himself. The letter, received on September 27 1888, was signed "Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper." The law enforcement and newspapers referred to him as the Ripper from that point on. The letter read:
The "From Hell" letter was received by George Lusk, leader of the Whitechapel Vigilance Committee, on 16 October 1888. The handwriting and style is unlike that of the "Dear Boss" letter and postcard. The letter came with a small box in which Lusk discovered half of a kidney, preserved in "spirits of wine" (ethanol). Eddowes' left kidney had been removed by the killer. The writer claimed that he "fried and ate" the missing kidney half. There is disagreement over the kidney: some contend it belonged to Eddowes, while others argue it was nothing more than a macabre practical joke. The kidney was examined by Dr Thomas Openshaw of the London Hospital, who determined that it was human and from the left side, but (contrary to false newspaper reports) he could not determine its gender or age. Openshaw subsequently also received a letter signed "Jack the Ripper".
Elizabeth Stride and Catherine Eddowes were killed in the early morning of Sunday 30 September 1888. Stride's body was discovered at about 1 a.m., in Dutfield's Yard, off Berner Street (now Henriques Street) in Whitechapel. The cause of death was one clear-cut incision which severed the main artery on the left side of the neck. Uncertainty about whether Stride's murder should be attributed to the Ripper, or whether he was interrupted during the attack, stems from the absence of mutilations to the abdomen. Witnesses who said they saw Stride with a man earlier that night gave differing descriptions: some said her companion was fair, others dark; some said he was shabbily dressed, others well-dressed. Eddowes' body was found in Mitre Square, in the City of London, three-quarters of an hour after Stride's. The throat was severed, and the abdomen was ripped open by a long, deep, jagged wound. The left kidney and the major part of the uterus had been removed. A local man, Joseph Lawende, had passed through the square with two friends shortly before the murder, and he described seeing a fair-haired man of shabby appearance with a woman who may have been Eddowes. His companions, however, were unable to confirm his description. Eddowes' and Stride's murders were later called the "double event". Part of Eddowes' bloodied apron was found at the entrance to a tenement in Goulston Street, Whitechapel. Some writing on the wall above the apron piece, which became known as the Goulston Street graffito, seemed to implicate a Jew or Jews, but it was unclear whether the graffito was written by the murderer as he dropped the apron piece, or merely incidental.Police Commissioner Charles Warren feared the graffito might spark antisemitic riots, and ordered it washed away before dawn. The "Saucy Jacky" postcard was postmarked 1 October 1888 and received the same day by the Central News Agency. The handwriting was similar to the "Dear Boss" letter. It mentions that two victims were killed very close to one another: "double event this time", which was thought to refer to the murders of Stride and Eddowes. It has been argued that the letter was mailed before the murders were publicised, making it unlikely that a crank would have such knowledge of the crime, but it was postmarked more than 24 hours after the killings took place, long after details were known by journalists and residents of the area.
Mary Jane Kelly was seen with a man of "Jewish appearance". Kelly and the man headed for her room at 13 Miller's Court, Elizabeth Prater, who was woken by her kitten walking over her neck, and Sarah Lewis both reported hearing a faint cry of "Murder!" at about 4:00 a.m., but did not react because they reported that it was common to hear such cries in the East End. She claimed not to have slept and to have heard people moving in and out of the court throughout the night. She thought she heard someone leaving the residence at about 5:45 a.m. Kelly's gruesomely mutilated body was discovered the next morning lying on the bed at 10:45 a.m. on Friday 9 November 1888. The throat had been severed down to the spine, and the abdomen virtually emptied of its organs. The heart was missing.
After the murder of Mary Jane Kelly, the Ripper murders stopped suddenly. The identity of Jack the Ripper is unknown. Although many historians have different opinions and theories on who Jack the Ripper was, it will probably never be known who he was.

</doc>
<doc id="15550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15550" title="Johnny Rivers">
Johnny Rivers

Johnny Rivers (born John Ramistella on November 7, 1942 in New York City and grew up in Louisiana) is an American rock and roll musician. He was popular in the 1960s and 1970s for his songs like "Secret Agent Man", "The Poor Side of Town", "Baby I Need Your Lovin", "The Midnight Special", and "Swayin' To The Music (Slow Dancin')".

</doc>
<doc id="15552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15552" title="Doctor John">
Doctor John

Malcolm John Rebennack, Jr or Dr. John (born November 21, 1940) is an American musician from New Orleans.

</doc>
<doc id="15554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15554" title="Death metal">
Death metal

Death metal is a style of heavy metal that is a very fast, brutal and energetic. It has very harsh singing. Most death metal has very fast guitar and drum beats. Almost every death metal drummer plays with two bass drums (or a type of pedal that has two beaters on one bass drum), so that they can play the bass drum beats faster. It is a music focused mainly on drums and guitars. The lyrics in death metal sometimes involve topics such as death, war and pain. Some bands choose to write about philosophy or religion. Some bands try to write about things that other death metal bands do not write about such as ancient history. Death metal vocalists usually grunt, growl or scream.
Some artists and groups of this genre are:

</doc>
<doc id="15555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15555" title="Suffolk">
Suffolk

Suffolk is a county in England. The counties around Suffolk are Norfolk to the north, Cambridgeshire to the west and Essex to the south. The North Sea is on the east. The county town is Ipswich and other big towns include Lowestoft and Bury St Edmunds. Felixstowe is one of the largest container ports in Europe.
Suffolk is mostly flat and has very fertile soil which is good for both growing crops and grazing animals on.

</doc>
<doc id="15556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15556" title="Etymology">
Etymology

Etymology is the study of the origin and meaning of words and names. It tells us how words have changed over time, and what other languages they came from. For example, the etymology of the word "etymology" is from the Greek words ἔτυμον ("étymon", "true meaning", from "etymos" "true") and λόγος ("lógos", "word" or "study").

</doc>
<doc id="15557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15557" title="Mule">
Mule

A mule is a horse-donkey hybrid (a mix of two different animals). It is the child of a female horse and a male donkey.
They are used mostly for pulling carts and transportation. Although it is extremely unlikely for a mule to become pregnant (less than 300 reported cases worldwide), it is possible. They will tend to be cautious which may lead people to think that they are stubborn. They must know what they are walking on or what they are about to cross. They will be scared of anything that is not normal. They are shown in show against horses or other mules. They are used in western riding and English riding, and really good for high-jumping. 

</doc>
<doc id="15559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15559" title="Dead Sea">
Dead Sea

The Dead Sea is a lake between the West Bank and Jordan. It is below sea level. It is the lowest point on the surface of the Earth.
The Dead Sea is almost nine times as salty as the ocean. That makes it impossible for most life to exist in it. This is the reason for its name. However, it is not completely dead, because some types of bacteria are able to live in the water.
Because the water is so salty, it weighs more than fresh water. That lets people float in the Dead Sea without any effort. Tourists come from around the world to float in the water.

</doc>
<doc id="15563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15563" title="American Black Bear">
American Black Bear

The American black bear (scientific name "Ursus americanus") is North America's smallest and most common species of bear. Black bears are omnivores (eating both meat and plants). Black bears usually live in forested areas, but do leave forests in search of food. Sometimes they become attracted to human activity due to a lack of food. The American black bear is listed by the IUCN as Least Concern, because the species has a large global population estimated to be twice that of all other bear species combined. In the past century, only 37 people have been killed by these animals.
American black bears usually hibernate during winter. During this time, the black bear's metabolism and heart rate both decrease in relation to one another. In fact, during hibernation, an American black bear's heart can stop for twenty seconds. The body temperature of black bears also decreases to 31 °C (88 °F) during hibernation. When hibernation is over, the black bear's body temperature returns to normal.

</doc>
<doc id="15566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15566" title="Fur">
Fur

Fur is the hair of mammals. Different species may have quite different styles of hair, making them more or less suitable to the fur trade, but many are as follows:
Fur usually consists of two main layers:
Many large mammals have little hair, because their body mass radiates proportionately less heat (elephants, rhinoceros, hippopotamus). When elephants lived in arctic conditions they did have fur (woolly mammoths).
Marine mammals usually have little or no fur: the fur would become waterlogged. They have a layer of fat (blubber) underneath their skin. A special case is the naked mole-rat, whose hairlessness is probably an adaptation to their underground life-style.

</doc>
<doc id="15567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15567" title="Jackson Pollock">
Jackson Pollock

Jackson Pollock (January 28, 1912 – August 11, 1956) was an American painter. He became famous for painting in the abstract expressionist style. Pollock's most famous paintings were made by dripping and splashing paint on a large canvas. His nickname was Jack the Dripper. Because of the method, this style is often called "action painting". Pollock was helped by his wife, artist Lee Krasner, and his style was very new at the time. 
Pollock was bitter, and had serious drinking problems. His paintings are in museums all over the world, and his work is rated very highly. Pollock has been the subject of many movies because of his interesting life. The most famous was a short documentary movie directed by Hans Namuth in 1951, and the 2000 movie about his life called "Pollock", made by and starring actor Ed Harris. Pollock was born in Cody, Wyoming. In 1956, he was killed in a car crash in Springs, New York at the age of 44.
Pollock was introduced to the use of liquid paint in 1936 at an experimental workshop operated in New York City by the Mexican muralist David Alfaro Siqueiros. He later used paint pouring as one of several techniques on canvases of the early 1940s, such as "Male and Female" and "Composition with Pouring I." After his move to Springs, New York, he began painting with his canvases laid out on the studio floor, and he developed what was later called his drip technique. 
Pollock described this use of household paints, instead of artist’s paints, as "a natural growth out of a need". He used hardened brushes, sticks, and even basting syringes as paint applicators. With this technique, Pollock was able to achieve a more immediate means of creating art, the paint now literally flowing from his chosen tool onto the canvas. By defying the convention of painting on an upright surface, he added a new dimension, literally, by being able to view and apply paint to his canvases from all directions. 
Later, Pollock turned to synthetic resin-based paints called alkyd enamels, which, at that time, was a novel medium. In 1956, "Time" magazine called Pollock "Jack the Dripper" as a result of his unique painting style.
Influences on his dripping technique include the Mexican muralists and Surrealist automatism. Pollock denied "the accident"; he usually had an idea of how he wanted a particular piece to appear. His technique combined the movement of his body, over which he had control, the viscous flow of paint, the force of gravity, and the absorption of paint into the canvas. It was a mixture of controllable and uncontrollable factors. Flinging, dripping, pouring, and spattering, he would move energetically around the canvas, almost as if in a dance, and would not stop until he saw what he wanted to see.
Pollock's "No. 5, 1948" stands at the fifth highest price ever for a work of art. It was privately sold by Sotheby's for (price adjusted) US$163.8 million dollars.

</doc>
<doc id="15569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15569" title="Otto Struve">
Otto Struve

Otto Struve (August 12 1897 – April 6 1963) was a Russian astronomer. He was the grandson of Otto Wilhelm von Struve and the great-grandson of Friedrich Wilhelm von Struve.
Struve's education at the University of Kharkov was interrupted by World War I and the Russian Civil War, which left him a refugee in Turkey. He went to the United States in 1921, obtained a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and eventually became head of the astronomy department there. In 1932, he was made joint director of the University's Yerkes Observatory and McDonald Observatory (which he founded and where a telescope is named after him). Struve may be regarded as the father of modern SETI. He was one of the few eminent astronomers in the pre-Space Age era to publicly express a belief that extraterrestrial intelligence was abundant.

</doc>
<doc id="15580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15580" title="Tamerlane">
Tamerlane

Tamerlane (8 April 1336 – 18 February 1405) was a Turkic conqueror in the 14th century. His real name is "Tīmūr bin Taraghay Barlas". He is also known by these names: Temur, Taimur, Timur Lenk, Timur-i Leng, Temur-e Lang, Amir Timur, Aqsaq Timur, and Tamburlaine. He invaded Delhi in 1398 and masaccred thousands. Timur succeeded in establishing a vast empire which included Transoxiana, a part of Turkistan, Afghanistan, Persia, Syria, Qurdistan, Baghdad, Georgia and the major part of Asia Minor. He successfully looted southern Russia and several parts of India. Delhi was perhaps the worst sufferer. It is said of Timur’s invasions, “Wherever he went he brought about destruction, massacres, burning, looting and dishonour to women”.Timur is considered the last of the great nomadic conquerors of the Eurasian Steppe, and his empire set the stage for the rise of the more structured and lasting Gunpowder Empires in the 1500s and 1600s.
http://www.historydiscussion.net/history-of-india/timurs-invasion-on-india-what-were-its-effects/2692

</doc>
<doc id="15583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15583" title="Augustus">
Augustus

Augustus (Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus, 23 September 63 BC – 19 August AD 14) was the first and one of the most important Roman Emperors. He led Rome in its transition from a Republic to a great Empire.
Octavian, as he was originally called, was the adopted son of the dictator of the Roman Republic, Julius Caesar. Octavian came into power in the Second Triumvirate. This was three men ruling over the Roman Republic: Mark Antony, Lepidus and Octavian.
All three were loyal to Julius Caesar, the assassinated dictator, killed in 44 BC. Following his death a civil war broke out across Rome, between those loyal to Caesar, and the conspirators, led by two of Caesar's assassins, Brutus and Cassius.
At first, Octavian was the junior partner in the triumvirate. Lepidus was more experienced in government, and Mark Antony was a fine military leader. The triumvirate defeated Brutus and Cassius at the Battle of Philippi, 42 BC, largely due to Antony's leadership. Then they split the leadership of the Republic three ways. Antony took the east, Lepidus took Spain and part of North Africa, and Octavian took Italy.
Antony followed in Caesar's footsteps by going to Egypt and becoming Cleopatra's lover. They had three children together. His absence from Rome allowed the intelligent Octavian to build up support.
The triumvirate broke up in 33 BC, and disagreement turned to civil war in 31 BC. Antony was defeated by Octavian at the naval Battle of Actium and then at Alexandria. He committed suicide, as did his lover, Cleopatra VII of Egypt, in 30 BC.
After winning this bloody power struggle, Octavian was voted as Emperor by the Roman Senate in 31 BC. He took the name "Augustus" (which meant 'exalted'). He ruled until AD 14, when his stepson and son-in-law Tiberius became Emperor in his place.
During his reign, some of those who were against his government were murdered (especially those senators who wanted to keep the Roman Republic). He promised to make Rome a Republic again, but instead proclaimed himself High Priest ("Pontifex Maximus"). Many temples in the provinces set up statues of him as one of their gods. The name of the month "August" in English (and most other European languages) comes from him.
His main accomplishment was the creation of the Roman Empire, a political structure that lasted for nearly five centuries more. He first recruited and set up the Praetorian Guard.
Historians often use the Res Gestae Divi Augusti as a source for Augustus. It was written by him as an inscription on his tomb which recorded all his achievements.
The historian Tacitus is often used by historians. He gives an anti-Augustan perspective, whereas many other sources and histories were written to flatter Augustus (propaganda). Some examples of writers like these are Velleius Paterculus, Virgil, Ovid. The most famous work of Augustan propaganda is the Virgil's Aeneid
Cassius Dio presents a quite impartial account of Augustus as emperor: he was writing in the reign of a later emperor.

</doc>
<doc id="15585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15585" title="Camel">
Camel

Camels are mammals of the Camelidae family. Camels form the genus Camelus. They are also called Afro-Asiatic Camelids. There are two living species of camels. Camels have existed on Earth since prehistoric times.
Camels live in desert, where it is hot and dry. Camels have adaptations that help them live in deserts. They have a thick coat of hair that protects them from the sun. They have wide, soft feet, so they can walk a long time in the hot sand.
Several adaptations help a camel save water. Their large feet spreads their weight on the sand when they are walking. When there is food and water, a camel can eat and drink large amounts and store it as fat in the hump. Then, when there is no food or water, the camel uses the fat for energy, and the hump becomes small and soft. A camel’s waste contains very little water. Even the water from the camel’s breath flows back into its mouth.
A camel has a naturally adapted temperature regulation - it can change its bodily temperature by six degrees Celsius either way. 
It has two sets of eyelashes, closing muscles in the nasal passages with slited nostrils, hairy ears and tough, leathery skin to protect the camels skin in vital emergencies such as a sandstorm. It has thick rubbery lips to eat dry, prickly plants and a large, haired tail to swat pests such as mosquitos and flies.
It has a long slender neck in order to reach high leaves such as palm trees, and rubbery patches on the belly and knees to protect the skin when kneeling and sitting on the hot sand. These form after five years of age.
Camels live in groups, with one male, several females, and their young calves. 
An unborn camel gestates about 9 to 11 months. There is usually one calf per birth. A camel calf can run only a few hours after it is born. Calves are weaned when they are about 1 year old.
In the desert, people feed camels with grass, grains, wheat and oats. When camels are travelling in the desert, food is often very hard to find. So the animal might have to live on dried leaves, seeds, and thorny twigs (without hurting their mouths). If there is not any regular food, camels will eat anything:, leather, even their owner's tent.
Camels are ruminants but camels do not chew their food very well before swallowing. The first stomach stores the food that is not completely chewed. Later, this food (or cud) returns to the camel's mouth, and the camel chews it again. Then the camel swallows the cud and it goes to the other parts of the stomach to be completely digested.
Camels have been domesticated by humans for about 5000 years. They are used for riding and to carry things, and for meat, milk and wool.
As domesticated animals they are used in Africa, Asia, and since the 19th century also in Australia. About 900-1000 wild Bactrian Camels still live in China and Mongolia. There are no wild Dromedaries anymore, but there are escaped domestic Dromedaries in Australia. Today there are about 50,000 Dromedaries living wild in the Outback in Australia.
A Dromedary and a Bactrian Camel can have hybrid children that are called "Tulus" or "Bukhts". These hybrids are larger than the Dromedary or Bactrian Camel and have either one long hump or one small and one big hump.
When a camel calf reaches one year of age, the owner often teaches it to stand and kneel on command. They also learn to carry small, light packs around. As they grow older, the size of the pack also increases.

</doc>
<doc id="15589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15589" title="15th century">
15th century

The 15th century is the century from 1401 to 1500.
Note: years before or after the 15th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15590" title="14th century">
14th century

The 14th century is the century from 1301 to 1400.
Note: years before or after the 14th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15591" title="13th century">
13th century

The 13th century is the century from 1201 to 1300.
Note: years before or after the 13th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15592" title="12th century">
12th century

The 12th century is the century from 1101 to 1200.
Note: years before or after the 12th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15594" title="Mammalogy">
Mammalogy

Mammalogy is the study of the mammals.

</doc>
<doc id="15596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15596" title="Antibiotics">
Antibiotics

An antibiotic (or antibacterial) is something that kills bacteria or slows the growth of bacteria. They are used as medicines to cure diseases caused by bacteria. Antibiotics are no use against viruses. Penicillin, the first natural antibiotic, is produced by a fungus. Production started in 1939, and now it is made by chemical synthesis.
Today, people worry that bacteria will not be affected by antibiotics. Bacteria do evolve, and already many strains of bacteria resist regular antibiotics. When exposed to antibiotics, most bacteria die quickly, but some may have mutations which make them slightly less susceptible. These bacteria then multiply and make a large colony which is less affected by the antibiotic. 
Part of this problem is caused by the over-use and misuse of antibiotics. If someone is sick with a virus, antibiotics will not affect the virus. Some doctors will still prescribe an antibiotic so the patient feels as though they are being treated for their illness.
The other problem is that many people do not use antibiotics correctly. People often stop taking the medicine when they start feeling better. But antibiotics don't kill all of the bad bacteria at once. Bacteria which are more resistant do not die right away. When someone stops taking the antibiotic too quickly, these resistant bacteria can reproduce and survive. Then the antibiotic does not work so well because the bacteria are less affected by it.
The term "antibiotic" was first used in 1942 by Selman Waksman and his collaborators in journal articles to describe any substance produced by a microorganism that is antagonistic to the growth of other microorganisms in high dilution. This definition cut out substances which kill bacteria, but are not produced by microorganisms (such as gastric juices and hydrogen peroxide). It also excluded synthetic antibacterial compounds such as the sulfonamides. 
With advances in medicinal chemistry, most of today's antibacterials chemically are modifications of various natural compounds.
Certain bacteria are only affected by specific types of antibiotics. Patients might need different types or different amounts of antibiotics depending on what bacteria is causing their health problems. Because of this, antibiotics should always be used under the supervision of a medical doctor (or other certified medical practitioner). The doctor can also watch for side effects and change the patient's treatment when necessary. Antibiotics are very useful when your body is infected by a bacteria.
Antibiotics don't kill virus, so it is useless against a viral infection. A doctor must determine if a patient's infection is of viral or bacterial origin before taking antibiotics, this is another reason why a medical doctor should prescribe antibiotics instead of relying on self-medication.
The first new antibiotic in forty years has been discovered. It is called "teixobactin", and researchers say it is very promising. It has not yet been developed and tested, so it will be some time before it is in doctors' hands. It only works on gram-positive bacteria. However, that does include MRSA and "Mycobacterium tuberculosis".

</doc>
<doc id="15599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15599" title="Sexism">
Sexism

Sexism is generally defined as discrimination based on the gender of a person—looking down on people because they are female. Sexism may also include stereotyped roles for men and women. International laws, such as Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women or Yogyakarta Principles demand to abolish any kind of sexism. And it might affect women attending a party, getting a job that means being hired, joining a game, promotion, being selected and so on. 
The women's rights movement fights sexism.
Hatred of women is called misogyny.
Pauline M. Leet made the word "sexism" on November 18, 1965.
World literacy is lower for females than for males. On 9 October 2012 the Pakistani schoolgirl Malala Yousafzai was shot in the head on her schoolbus by Taliban gunmen because she did activism for girls' rights to education.

</doc>
<doc id="15600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15600" title="Go">
Go

Go is a board game, called "I-Go" in Japanese, and "Wei-chi" in Chinese. It is played on a board, with pieces of two colors (black and white) called stones. Players take turns placing a stone of their color on intersections of the 19x19 square grid. A normal Go board has 19 rows and columns of lines. Sometimes Go is played on smaller 9x9 or 13x13 boards instead of 19x19. 
Stones do not move after they are placed, but stones with no liberties (access to empty space) are captured and removed from the board. The goal of this game is to have more points when the game ends by placing pieces around the board to surround areas. At the end of each game each player's space (territory), prisoners or stones (depending on the rule set) are counted to see who has more points. 
Its original Chinese name is "" (= wei qi or wei chi). It is also popular in Japan, and its common name "Go" comes from Japanese. In Korea the game is called "baduk". In these three countries the game is an important part of the culture, like chess is in many western countries.
Go and chess are both "board games" and "strategy games", though both may be used as gambling games as well. They share a tenuous connection to the art of war, though this is most obvious in chess, which was a war game in origin. They both have no luck or secret information, unlike some other classic games like backgammon (dice are rolled) or poker and other card games which also have secret information.
There are many places to play Go on the internet, as well as local clubs and national organizations in many countries around the world.
Go was invented in China but the specific time is not known. The historian of board games, H.J.R. Murray, said:

</doc>
<doc id="15602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15602" title="Gulf War">
Gulf War

The 1991 Gulf War, or Persian Gulf War, was a conflict between Iraq and 34 other countries, led by the United States. It started with the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq on August 2, 1990 and ended the following spring when Iraq's armies were fought away. Many of the problems caused by this war were never finished. There were 2 special operations: Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm. Operation Desert Storm started on January 17, 1991 with an air strike. The war ended on February 28, 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="15604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15604" title="Point of view">
Point of view

A point of view, viewpoint or POV, is the following:

</doc>
<doc id="15605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15605" title="Sicily">
Sicily

Sicily is the largest island in the Mediterranean. Along with some smaller islands it is an autonomous region of Italy. The capital city of Sicily is Palermo. The population was about 5,087,000 (over 5 million) in 2004. Sicily is the biggest region in the nation of Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="15606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15606" title="Donkey">
Donkey

A donkey or ass ("Equus africanus asinus") is a mammal of the Equidae family. 
The wild ancestor of the donkey is the African wild ass, "E. africanus". The donkey has been used as a working animal for at least 5000 years. There are a number of other wild asses in different parts of the world. 
The name 'donkey' is correct for the domesticated animal. It is the tame animal that people use for transportation and other work, such as pulling a carriage or plowing a field.
Donkeys can have hybrid children with a common horse. The child of a female horse and a male donkey is called a "mule". The child of a female donkey and a male horse is called a "hinny". Mules are more common, and have been used for transportation of people and things.
Donkeys, zebras and mules all look different from the common horses. One difference is the ears. Donkeys ears are much longer than a horse's. The necks are straighter and the croup and rump are also a different shape. The back is straighter.
The mane and tail of the donkey are rough. The mane is still and upright, almost always standing up, and the tail is more like a cow's, most of it covered with short body hair. Because their mane sometimes fly away, many donkeys wear their manes clipped short or shaved close to the neck.
Hoof shapes are different as well, donkey hooves are smaller and rounder, with more upright pasterns. The legs should have good bone, but lots of donkeys have long thin legs with tiny feet. Larger donkeys may appear opposite, with big, heavy legs and large round feet. Good legs and feet are very important for mules that are trying to find a mate. This is because, for breeding, a good foot is more liked than a large body on small legs and feet.
The donkey's voice is a very raspy kind, and it makes the "Aw-ee aw-ee" noise. Although most people think donkeys are a gray color, sometimes they can have stripes, dark ear marks, as well as the "light points". This means that it has a white muzzle and white rings around its eyes, and a white belly and inner leg.
Colors of the donkey may be from gray to brown. Or sometimes they can be black, both red and gray, creamy white, or a unique spotted pattern. Donkeys come in lots of different sizes. Some, like the rare French donkey, has huge heads and ears, and very thick, shaggy curled black coat.
Good grass hay and pasture is usually what donkeys enjoy to eat. If the hay or grass is grained, the protein is best to be lower than 12%. However, if a donkey is overfed, it will have a "roll" on the neck. A roll is when fat bunches up and stays in a part of a donkey's body, and they usually happen on its neck or its hip. If they develop on the donkey, it will usually stay for its whole life. If the neck roll of fat gets too heavy, it will fall or "break over" to one side and never recover its balance again. This is why donkeys should not be fed too much. Many people do not like to work with donkeys. They think that donkeys are too stubborn and will kick them. However, a donkey that is nicely trained can be as easily managed as other horses.

</doc>
<doc id="15618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15618" title="Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince">
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was written by J. K. Rowling and published on 16 July 2005. The book is the sixth Harry Potter book.
In the sixth book Harry begins his sixth year at the magical school Hogwarts with his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. During the year he has help in his worst class by the mysterious Half-Blood Prince, he has his first romance and learns several very important facts about his enemy, Voldemort.
The film, based on the book, was to be released on November 21, 2008, but on August 14, 2008, it was announced that the film would be pushed back to July 17, 2009. On January 8, 2009, the film was given a PG rating by the MPPA. The previous two installments, "Goblet of Fire" and "Order of the Phoenix," were rated PG-13.
The book starts at Severus Snape's house. Narcissa Malfoy is very unhappy that Voldemort has made her son, Draco, put on a mission. Voldemort is a very bad man who does not like half-blood or Muggle (non-magical) wizards and witches. He wants to kill them. Bellatrix, Narcissa's sister, and Narcissa go to Snape's house. There, Snape agrees and says he will help Malfoy complete whatever his mission is.
Headmaster Albus Dumbledore comes by Harry Potter's place to ask him to come with him. Harry says okay. They go to Horace Slughorn's house. Slughorn was the former professor of Potions over at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He does not want to come back, but when Dumbledore shows Harry, he says okay. On the train to Hogwarts, Slughorn gets together his club again. Slughorn likes to take a back seat and has a lot of influence, or power. Harry is one of the most famous wizards ever and Slughorn wants to be his friend. When school starts, the first thing Slughorn does is recreate his old Slug Club, filled with people who have power or a good name.
The Half-Blood Prince is of great mystery to Harry. Harry finds a book with the Prince's name on it and finds that it has many helpful tips for making potions. He follows the tips and is seen as very smart to Professor Slughorn. His friend Hermione is mad that Harry is getting credit for information that he does not really know. The old professor, Professor Snape, is now teaching Defense of the Dark Arts.
Dumbledore gives private lessons to Harry. They usually involve looking into a Pensieve, which holds old memories. In flashback, Harry learns that Voldemort was the product of an unhappy witch and a Muggle father that never loved him. The witch was named Merope and she had an older brother and father that were very bad to her. They made her work and crushed her spirit. A Ministry of Magic wizard came and arrested the father and brother. Merope left the house and gave a love potion to a young man she liked named Tom Riddle.
After she was pregnant with the baby, she stopped giving him the potion and he left her. Soon afterwards, she goes to an orphanage and gives birth to Voldemort, naming him Tom Marvolo Riddle, and dies shortly afterwards. Voldemort is a very bad kid. He steals items from the other kids and uses magic against them. Dumbledore comes one night to tell him that he has magic and invites him to attend Hogwarts.
One final memory shows Voldemort trying to apply for a job at Hogwarts. Dumbledore, who was the Transfiguration teacher at the time, was just made Headmaster. Voldemort wants to be the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. Dumbledore says no. Voldemort is angry. Since then, no professor has held the Defense Against the Dark Arts job for more than a year and Dumbledore thinks it is because of this meeting.
Dumbledore tells Harry that Voldemort has six "Horcruxes," or pieces of his soul. While Voldemort has these Horcruxes, nobody can kill him. A couple of them have been destroyed. In Harry's second year, he stabbed Riddle's diary with a fang, destroying one. Before Harry's sixth year started, Dumbledore visited the old Marvolo home and found a ring and destroyed it but lost his hand as a result.
One night, Dumbledore and Harry go out to a cave area. Dumbledore thinks there is another Horcrux there. After getting there, they find a goblet. Dumbledore drinks the entire potion, which makes him woozy and dizzy. They find the locket and go back to Hogwarts, where they find that the Death Eaters and Malfoy have attacked. They take broomsticks and land at the top of one of the towers. Malfoy bursts where Harry and Dumbledore are. Harry is hiding under an invisibility cloak. Soon, other Death Eaters come up, but Malfoy cannot kill Dumbledore as Voldemort ordered him to do. Snape comes up and kills Dumbledore.
The Death Eaters all escape afterwards. Harry tries to get Snape, but Snape is too fast. When Harry tries to use some curses he found in the Half-Blood Prince's book, Snape fights back and then declares that he is the Half-Blood Prince. Later, Hermione says this is true, having found a newspaper article about a girl named Eileen Prince (a witch) marrying a man named Tobias Snape (a Muggle), making Snape a half-blood wizard.
Hogwarts holds a funeral for Dumbledore. Harry opens the locket, only to find that someone named R.A.B was there earlier and found and destroyed the Horcrux. He also says he will not be coming back to Hogwarts next year.

</doc>
<doc id="15621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15621" title="Persian language">
Persian language

Persian is the official language of Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. It is also spoken by many people in Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, immigrants from Central Asia in Russia, and in other neighbouring countries. Persian was also taught as a second language in schools in Pakistan until 2006. In the past, many of these places were parts of the Persian Empire.
Persian has many dialects. The Persian language is officially called Farsi in Iran, Dari and Farsi in Afghanistan, and Tajiki in Tajikistan. The literary language of each of these countries is a little different, but people from each country can understand each other when they have a conversation. It has taken on many French words in Iran, and many Russian words in Tajikstan.
The Persian alphabet is:
ا ب پ ت ث ج چ ح خ د ذ ر ز ژ س ش ص ض ط ظ ع غ ف ق ک گ ل م ن و ه ی
The Persian alphabet used in Iran and Afghanistan is very similar to the Arabic one, but the language is in a different family than Arabic, so their vocabulary and grammar are very different. Since the 1930's, in the countries which used to be in the Soviet Union, like Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, Persian has been written in an alphabet that is similar to the Russian one. In the past, all Persian speakers used the one based on Arabic.
Persian is a very old language, and linguists have names for three different versions of Persian that were used in three different times. Old Persian was spoken in the first Persian empire, under the Achaemenid kings, including Cyrus and Darius the Great. This first empire started in the 6th century BC and continued until Alexander the Great conquered it. A second Persian empire, the Sassanian kings, ruled from the 2nd century AD until the Muslim conquest of Iran by the Arabs in the 7th Century, and Middle Persian, or Pahlavi, was spoken by them. 
The current Persian language, New or Modern Persian, was first written down in the 9th century during the Samanid empire, which was the first Muslim Persian kingdom, and was based in Central Asia. The earliest writers of New Persian included poets like Rudaki, and Ferdowsi, who wrote an epic called the "Shahname", translated as the "Book of Kings" in English. It is a very long poem, which has myths and historical stories from before the Arabs conquered Persia. Many other famous writers in the Persian language were poets too, such as Saadi, Hafez, Rumi, and many more. Up until today, the Persian language was a very important one for literature. After Arabic, it was the second most used language for writing in Muslim countries, especially in the East.
An example sentence in Persian:

</doc>
<doc id="15624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15624" title="Copenhagen">
Copenhagen

Copenhagen is the capital city of Denmark. It is also the largest city in Denmark with 1,246,611 people living in the urban area in 2014. Copenhagen is on the islands of Zealand and Amager. 
Founded as a Viking fishing village. Copenhagen was built in the 12th century A.D. and got City rights in 1254. A few years later, it was destroyed nearly completely. In 1443, Copenhagen became the capital of Denmark. In 1801, there were more than 100,000 inhabitants in Copenhagen for the first time. In the 1960's, more than 700,000 people lived in Copenhagen Municipality, and today there are 528,000 inhabitants in the municipality. Near the city centre there is the famous Freetown Christiania.

</doc>
<doc id="15627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15627" title="Nepali language">
Nepali language

The Nepali language is the official language of Nepal. Besides Nepal it is spoken in India, Bhutan and parts of Burma. In the Indian state West Bengal also it is an official language. This language is also known as Gorkhali Language or Khaskura. It is believed to have originated from the ancient Sanskrit language., from which it takes a lot of words. It is written in Devanagari style of writing which is similar to Hindi. It is spoken throughout Nepal and is the mother tongue of more than half of the population. It is also used by the Government of Nepal for all official purposes. In Nepal it is compulsory to study Nepali language as a subject until Grade 10 (High School). 

</doc>
<doc id="15628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15628" title="Kathmandu">
Kathmandu

Kathmandu is the capital city of Nepal. It is the largest city of Nepal. The population of the city is about 1.003 million. It has many Buddhist and Hindu temples and palaces. 
Kathmandu has a humid subtropical climate ("Cwa" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="15629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15629" title="Nepali">
Nepali

Nepali could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15632" title="11th century">
11th century

The 11th century is the century from 1001 to 1100.
Note: years before or after the 11th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15634" title="10th century">
10th century

The 10th century is the century from 901 to 1000.
Note: years before or after the 10th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15635" title="9th century">
9th century

The 9th century is the century from 801 to 900.
Note: years before or after the 9th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15636" title="8th century">
8th century

The 8th century is the century from 701 to 800.
Note: years before or after the 8th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15637" title="7th century">
7th century

The 7th century is the century from 601 to 700.
Note: years before or after the 7th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15638" title="6th century">
6th century

The 6th century is the century from 501 to 600.
Note: the 6th century officially started in 501.

</doc>
<doc id="15639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15639" title="5th century">
5th century

The 5th century is the century from 401 to 500, according to the Julian calendar in the Anno Domini era.
Note: years before or after the 5th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15640" title="4th century">
4th century

The 4th century is the century from 301 to 400.
Note: years before or after the 4th century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="15643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15643" title="Zambia">
Zambia

The Republic of Zambia is a country in southern Africa. It shares its borders with the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the north, Tanzania to the north-east, Malawi to the east, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Namibia to the south, and Angola to the west. It was called Northern Rhodesia and it is currently named after the Zambezi River.
The capital of Zambia is Lusaka, which is also the largest city in the country. Edgar Lungu is the current president. Its motto is "One Zambia, One Nation" and its national anthem is "Stand and Sing of Zambia, Proud and Free". Its official language is English.
Zambia originated from Northern Rhodesia which was a colony of Great Britain. In 1965 Zambia became an independent country. The first president was Kenneth Kaunda, who ruled Zambia for 30 years with his party UNIP. Zambia was a one party democracy. UNIP was the only legal party and all other parties were banned.
After protests, democratic elections were held in 1991. Kenneth Kaunda lost the elections and gave away his power in an orderly manner to his successor Frederick Chiluba, a former union leader.
Zambia is now a multi-party democracy. It has had three democratic elections since 1991. The latest presidential election was in 2008, which was won by Rupiah Banda against Michael Sata.
In the 1960s, Zambia was making a lot of money because of the copper deposits that were mined in Copperbelt province. When copper became cheaper in the 1970s, the economy got worse because people in Zambia were not making as much money from selling copper.
Today, Zambia is a poor country. It does not have many industries. Copper is still its main export. Commercial farming in Zambia is starting to make more money.
Zambia is divided into nine provinces. Each province is divided into several districts. There are 72 districts all together. The provinces are:
The important places in Zambia are:

</doc>
<doc id="15644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15644" title="Benin">
Benin

Benin (officially called Republic of Benin) is a country in Africa. The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo. The seat of government is in Cotonou, the country's largest city. Most people live on the small southern coastline on the Bight of Benin.
The official language of Benin is French. Languages such as Fon and Yoruba are commonly spoken. The largest religious group in Benin is Roman Catholicism. This is followed closely by Islam, Vodun and Protestantism.
Benin is a member of the United Nations, the African Union, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone, La Francophonie, the Community of Sahel-Saharan States, the African Petroleum Producers Association and the Niger Basin Authority.
From the 17th to the 19th century, Benin was ruled by the Kingdom of Dahomey. It was called the Slave Coast from as early as the 17th century. This is because of the large number of slaves shipped to the New World. After slavery ended, France took over the country. They renamed it French Dahomey. In 1960, Dahomey gained full independence from France.
From 1972 to 1990 a Marxist–Leninist state called the People's Republic of Benin existed. The current Republic of Benin was formed in 1991.
Benin is a narrow country in west Africa. The country measures about at its widest point. It is between the Equator and the Tropic of Cancer. Benin is bordered by Togo to the west, Burkina Faso and Niger to the north, Nigeria to the east, and the Bight of Benin to the south.
The highest point is Mont Sokbaro at .
Reserve du W du Niger and Pendjari National Park attract tourists who want to see elephants, lions, antelopes, hippos, and monkeys. Historically Benin has been a home for the endangered Painted Hunting Dog, "Lycaon pictus";
Benin's climate is hot and humid. Yearly rainfall in the coastal area averages 1300 mm or about 51 inches. Benin has two rainy and two dry seasons per year. The main rainy season is from April to late July, with a shorter less strong rainy period from late September to November. The main dry season is from December to April, with a short cooler dry season from late July to early September. In Cotonou, the average maximum temperature is ; the minimum is .
Benin is divided into 12 Departments. Then it is divided into 77 communes.
Beninese literature had a strong oral tradition long before French became the main language. Felix Couchoro wrote the first Beninese novel, "L'Esclave" in 1929.
Singer Angélique Kidjo and actor Djimon Hounsou were both born in Cotonou, Benin. Composer Wally Badarou and singer Gnonnas Pedro are also from Benin.
In the 2010 census, 27.2% of the population of Benin were Christian, 24.4% were Muslim, 17.3% practiced Vodun, 6% other traditional local religious groups, 1.9% other religious groups, and 6.5% have no religious affiliation.
The literacy rate in Benin is one of the lowest in the world. In 2002 it was said to be 34.7%. At one time the education system was not free.
Beninese cuisine is known in Africa for its exotic ingredients and flavorful dishes. Beninese cuisine has lots of fresh meals with a variety of sauces. In southern Benin cuisine, the most common ingredient is corn. It is often used to prepare dough which is mainly eaten with peanut- or tomato-based sauces. Fish and chicken are the most common meats used in southern Beninese cuisine. Beef, goat, and bush rat are also eaten. The main food in northern Benin is yams. The northern provinces use beef and pork meat which is fried in palm or peanut oil or cooked in sauces. Cheese is used in some dishes. Couscous, rice, and beans are commonly eaten, along with fruits such as mangoes, oranges, avocados, bananas, kiwi fruit, and pineapples.
Meat is usually expensive. Meals are usually light on meat and generous on vegetable fat. Smoked fish is commonly prepared in Benin. Many people have outdoor mud stoves for cooking.

</doc>
<doc id="15648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15648" title="Dominican Republic">
Dominican Republic

The Dominican Republic (Spanish: "República Dominicana") is a country on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola; the other country on the island is Haiti. Its capital, and largest city, is Santo Domingo. The national language is Spanish.
The country was occupied by the United States from 1916 to 1924. The Dominican Republic is a presidential democratic republic. The country has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean).
The island of Hispaniola was discovered by Christopher Columbus on 5 December 1492, but the first time that he saw part of the present Dominican Republic was on 4 January 1493 when he saw a headland that he named "Monte Cristi" ("Mountain of Christ"). That mountain is called now "El Morro" and is near the city of Monte Cristi.
From Monte Cristi, Columbus went east along the north coast of the island and on 6 January, after visiting the Samaná Bay, he went back to Spain. In his second trip to America, he founded the first European city in the continent, "La Isabela", near the present city of Puerto Plata.
Later, Bartholomew Columbus founded the city of Santo Domingo, the oldest permanent European city in the Americas. From here, many Spaniards went to conquer other islands (Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico). Because Cuba was closer to the continent, many people moved there from Hispaniola, and then to the continent. Because of that, the population of the island grew very slowly. By the Treaty of Ryswick in 1697, Spain gave the western third of the island to France and kept the eastern part, and so the island had two different colonies: the French "Saint-Domingue" and the Spanish "Santo Domingo". In 1795, France got the whole island but they could only control the eastern part because Haiti became independent very soon. In 1809, the French government gave back the old colony of "Santo Domingo" to Spain.
On 1 December 1821, the Spanish lieutenant governor José Núñez de Cáceres declared the independence from Spain. The new country had the name "Estado Independiente del Haití Español" ("Independent State of Spanish Haiti"). But on 9 February 1822, the Haitian army occupied the country and stayed for 22 years. Juan Pablo Duarte founded a secret society, "La Trinitaria", to fight for the Dominican independence. The Haitian occupation ended on 27 February 1844, when the inhabitants of the eastern part of the Hispaniola made a new country named "República Dominicana" ("Dominican Republic"). From 1861 to 1865, the country was again a Spanish colony. On 16 August 1863 began the "Restoration War" when the Dominicans fought to be free again. That war ended in 1865 when the Spanish left and the Dominican Republic was again an independent country.
The country was occupied by the United States from 1916 to 1924. In 1930, Rafael Trujillo became the president of the country through a coup d'état. Trujillo was a cruel dictator, killing thousands of persons, among them many Haitians. Trujillo was killed in 1961. After the death of Trujillo, Juan Bosch was elected in 1962 and became, in 1963, the first elected president since 1930. But was Bosch was in power for only seven months. In 1965, there was a civil war between those that wanted Bosch back on power and those that were opposed to him. Then the country was invaded again by the United States.
Since the end of the civil war, the presidents of the Dominican Republic have been:
The Dominican Republic is a presidential democratic republic. The government is divided in three branches: the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. The Executive branch is made up of the President, the Vice President and the Ministers who are called "Secretaries of State". The President is chief of state and head of government and is elected every 4 years. He nominates the cabinet. The current president is Danilo Medina Sánchez.
The Legislative branch makes the laws and is made up of the Congress, which is in Santo Domingo, the capital of the Dominican Republic. The Congress is divided into two groups: the Senate, with 32 members (one for every province and one for the National District), and the Chamber of Deputies with 178 members.
The Judicial branch is made up of the courts of the country, including the Supreme Court of Justice.
The Dominican Republic is a constitutional democracy ruled by a president. The president is elected every 4 years. The current president is Danilo Medina Sánchez, of the PLD.
There are 3 important political parties in the Dominican Republic:
There are several mountain chains in the Dominican Republic. The four main chains, from North to South, are:
Between those mountains, there are several important valleys, such as:
There are other smaller valleys in the mountains: Constanza, Jarabacoa, Bonao, Villa Altagracia.
The four most important rivers of the Dominican Republic are Yaque del Norte, Yuna, Yaque del Sur and Ozama. There are many lakes; the largest is the "Lake Enriquillo", in the "Hoya de Enriquillo".
The country has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean). At sea level, the average temperature is 25 °C, with small changes from one season to another. In the highest mountains, the temperature in winter can be as low as 0 °C.
There are two wet seasons: April-June and September-November. The most dry period is from December to March. Rainfall varies greatly; eastern regions, like the Samaná Peninsula, get an average of over 2,000 mm in a year, but less than 500 mm fall in the southwest (Hoya de Enriquillo).
From June to November, hurricanes are frequent and can do much damage in the island.
The Dominican Republic has a total population, estimated for July 2009, of 9,650,054 inhabitants, for a density of 236.30 inhabitants per km².
About 64% of Dominicans live in cities and towns and 87% of people that are 15 years old or more can read and write.
The two largest cities are Santo Domingo (the capital city) with 1,817,754 inhabitants, and Santiago, in the Cibao Valley and with 908,250 inhabitants.
The Dominican Republic is divided into 31 provinces. The national capital Santo Domingo de Guzmán is in the "Distrito National" that is like a province and elects one Senator.
The provinces are:
The Dominican Republic has a mixed economy based mainly on agriculture, services (including tourism and finance), trade and money sent from the many Dominicans that live in other countries (United States, Europe). Agricultural production (mainly sugarcane, with smaller amounts of coffee, cacao, and tobacco) was the main economic activity but now is in third place after tourism and manufacturing in "zonas francas" ("free zones" where the industries do not pay taxes and all the production is sent to other countries).
Mining is also important, mainly ferronickel (nickel with iron) and gold.
The Dominican Republic suffers from poverty, with 83.3% of the population living below the poverty line in 2012. The wealth distribution is uneven: the richest 10% gets nearly 40% of national income.
The culture of the Dominican Republic, like in other Caribbean countries, is a mix of Taíno, African and European (mainly Spanish) cultures.
There are not many Taíno traditions in the modern Dominican culture; many places keep their Taíno names: Dajabón, Bánica, Haina, Yaque, Samaná, etc. Also many objects, plants and animals have a Taíno origin and their names have been included in other languages; for example: "canoa" (canoe, a small boat), "hamaca" (hammock, a simple bed), "maíz" (maize, corn), "yuca" (cassava, that comes from the Taíno word "casabe", a kind of cassava bread eaten in the Caribbean), and "batata" (sweet potato).
That mix of different traditions created a culture that is known as Creole (in Spanish: "Criolla"), common to all countries in the Caribbean, Louisiana and some parts of South America and Central America.
In the Dominican Republic, only Spanish is spoken, however; there are 3 major languages that are also spoken such as Haitian Creole, Samana English, and the West African Yoruba language known as Lucumi spoken by few. There is a local dialect or patois which is spoken by all Dominicans - see Dominican Spanish Creole.
The official religion is Roman Catholicism but there is freedom of religion. Protestant groups are important, representing about 15% of the total population. Each year major festivities called "fiestas patronales" are held. They are Catholic festivities in honor of the Patron saints of the towns and villages; it is a Spanish tradition to associate every town with a Catholic saint. The festivities includes church services, street parades, fire works, dance contests and other activities. Dominican Voodoo or Santeria is also practiced in large numbers as well as Dominican Palo, Dominican Kongo religion, and others.
African influences have the strongest influences in Dominican culture, especially in language, religion, food, and music.
"Notes":

</doc>
<doc id="15649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15649" title="1856">
1856


</doc>
<doc id="15652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15652" title="Navassa Island">
Navassa Island

Navassa Island, or La Navase in Haitian Creole, is a small island without anyone living on it in the Caribbean Sea. It is located ninety miles south of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The United States government claims the two-square-mile island as a territory of the United States, and it is under control of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The island is also claimed by Haiti.
Some sailors sailing with Christopher Columbus named Navassa in 1504, because no fresh water could be found there.
A captain named Peter Duncan gave it to the U.S. in the late 1850s, for the purpose of guano mining. After a rebellion in 1889, and the Spanish-American War of 1898, the mining was put to an end.
With the opening of the Panama Canal in 1914, Navassa became important again, because of a lighthouse being built there. After World War II, no one lived on it again.
In 1996, Navassa's light was put out of use, and the island was transferred to the U.S. Department of the Interior. Three years later in 1999, the Fish and Wildlife Service received ownership of the island.
Navassa became a U.S. insular area in October 1857, when a representative of the Baltimore Fertilizer Company took possession of the island in the name of the United States pursuant to the Guano Act of August 18, 1856 (Title 48, U.S. Code, sections 1411-19). In 1889 the island's actual operation passed to the Navassa Phosphate Company. All operations were abandoned in 1898, when the island became effectively uninhabited.
Navassa Island is three square miles in area. Navassa lies about one hundred miles south of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, about thirty miles west of Cape Tiburon, Haiti, at the southwest entrance to the Windward Passage, east of Kingston, Jamaica. Navassa's climate is marine and tropical.
Its terrain is a raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to undulating, ringed by vertical white cliffs, approximately nine to fifteen yards high. Navassa's environment is mostly exposed rock. However, it has enough grassland to support goat herds. Dense stands of fig-like trees and scattered cactus also exist. Only one tenth of the island's land is meadows or pastures. Navassa has no ports and only off-shore anchorage.
In 1976, the U.S. Coast Guard determined that the lighthouse on Navassa was no longer of any value to the U.S. Government and was ceasing its exercise of any interest in the island. However, the U.S. Coast Guard's ceasing to administer Navassa's use did not have any bearing at all on the United States sovereignty over the island, which remained constant regardless of the administering Federal agency or office. Consequently, under the provisions of Title 43, U.S.Code, section 1458, the Department of the Interior assumed responsibility for the civil administration of the U.S. insular area.
Acting under the authority that the Secretary of the Interior delegated to him in Secretary's Order No. 3205 (January 16, 1997) and Amendment No. 1 (January 14, 1998) to Secretary's Order No. 3205 and in fulfillment of his responsibilities as the civil administrator of the United States insular area of Navassa Island, the Director of the Office of Insular Affairs advises all persons interested in visiting Navassa Island that, having made a preliminary review of the island's ecology, he has decided indefinitely not to allow visits to the island and its surrounding waters until he has received a further assessment of the island's environment and conservation status. As used in this notice, the term "surrounding waters" includes the waters surrounding Navassa Island seaward to a line twelve (12) nautical miles distant from Navassa Island's coastlines. The Director of the Office of Insular Affairs intends that nothing in this notice shall deny or impair the right of innocent passage in the waters surrounding Navassa Island.
On September 2, 1999, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service established the Navassa Island Wildlife Refuge as an overlay. As of December 3, 1999, the Office of Insular Affairs ceased to have any administrative responsibility for Navassa. A Secretary's order of that date transferred full administration of Navassa from the Office of Insular Affairs to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 

</doc>
<doc id="15661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15661" title="1648">
1648


</doc>
<doc id="15662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15662" title="Blink-182">
Blink-182

Blink-182 is a popular pop-punk band formed in 1992. The original band name was blink. They later had to add on the "182" suffix due to an Irish techno band who had the same name that had been around longer and threatened to sue the band. Although the change, fans still refer the band as just "Blink". Tom DeLonge, who played guitar, had been friends with Ann Hoppus while living in San Diego. He had often complained about wanting to start a band. Ann then introduced Tom to her younger brother, Mark Hoppus, who played bass. They later found drummer Scott Raynor to complete the trio. In 1998, midway through a North American tour, Raynor left the band to continue his education. Raynor was also rumoured as having been forced to leave the band by its remaining members, due to his drinking problem. Travis Barker, who had been drumming for The Aquabats at the time, filled in for Blink 182 on the drums to finish out the rest of the tour. Tom and Mark were so impressed that they had Barker become the bands full-time drummer. Blink-182 can be known for their catchy pop-punk songs and toilet Humor (their live album especially, which contained a song consisting entirely of swear words). In February 2005, the band announced that they were going on an "indefinite hiatus". They stated that they were going to take a break for a while. However now all three members have confirmed that they have no plans of getting back together in the future, due to DeLonge going on to create the band Angels & Airwaves and Hoppus and Barker to create the band +44.
During the 2009 Grammy Awards, the members of Blink-182 said that the band would be getting back together.
They have released 2 demos:-
Their full-length albums are:
They have also made a "Greatest Hits" album in 2005. That album contained two songs that had not been released in the United States before, "Not Now" and "Another Girl Another Planet". "Another Girl Another Planet" was a cover song; it was first sung by The Only Ones.

</doc>
<doc id="15666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15666" title="Doctor Who">
Doctor Who

Doctor Who is a BBC science fiction television series. The series is about an alien time-traveller known as "the Doctor". In his space-and-time-ship, the TARDIS (Time and Relative Dimension in Space), the Doctor and his companions travel through space and time.
The television series ran from 1963–1989 and started running again in 2005. It is the longest running science fiction television series in the world.
There were also two "Doctor Who" movies made in the 1960s. Peter Cushing played the Doctor in these movies, but he was not the Doctor in the television series. In 1996, there was also a television movie starring Paul McGann. There have been many print versions of "Doctor Who" in books, comics, etc.
The story is about a man who calls himself "The Doctor". He travels in his space-time-ship TARDIS ("Time And Relative Dimension In Space"), with which he can go anywhere in time and space. Because of an error in its "chameleon circuit", the outside of the TARDIS always looks like a 1960s-style British police public call box (similar to a blue telephone box), but on the inside the TARDIS is much bigger. 
The Doctor is an alien, a "Time Lord" from the planet Gallifrey. At first, he travelled only with his granddaughter Susan Foreman. Later, the Doctor took other people with him. They are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people. 
Some people think that it is not okay to call the Doctor "Doctor Who", but there is no mistake. The character was named Doctor Who in the titles until the Fifth Doctor, and after the 2005 restart the Ninth Doctor, played by Christopher Eccleston, is called Doctor Who in the titles too. The Second Doctor once signed a letter as "Dr W.".
"Doctor Who" was first shown in 1963, with William Hartnell as the Doctor. When Hartnell left the show in 1966, the writers came up with the idea that the Doctor would "regenerate" (at the time called "renewal") and transform into the Second Doctor, who was played by Patrick Troughton. In 1970, when Jon Pertwee took over as the Third Doctor, the series switched from black-and-white to colour. Before 1978, the BBC would sometimes throw away episodes they did not need. As a result, 97 of the 800 episodes are missing.
Seven actors played the Doctor from 1963 until 1989, when the series stopped. In 1996, the BBC teamed with Fox Broadcasting Company and Universal Pictures to create a film version, in which Paul McGann played the Eighth Doctor. It was hoped that the film would lead to a new series, but this did not happen.
Instead, the series started again in 2005, with Christopher Eccleston as the Ninth Doctor. He was replaced by David Tennant at the end of the series. The actor who now plays the Doctor is Peter Capaldi, who joined the show in the 2013 Christmas episode.
In the "Guinness World Records", "Doctor Who" is listed as the longest running science fiction television series in the world. In 2013, it celebrated its 50th birthday with a special episode.
The Doctor is the central character of "Doctor Who". He is an alien, a "Time Lord" from the planet Gallifrey. The Doctor often takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants" (or, due to a misunderstanding, "partners"). They are most often human. The most recent companion was Clara Oswald, played by Jenna Coleman. 
As a Gallifreyan, the Doctor looks human on the surface. However, there are differences. For example, he has two hearts. Also, if badly injured or dying, he can "regenerate". During the "regeneration", his body heals and renews itself. Then, he takes on a different appearance and personality. He is the same person (sort of) with the same memories and knowledge. But, he looks different and has a new personality. Because of this, the Doctor can be played by different actors. And in nearly fifty years, this is why the character has not actually "changed". 
Up until now, the Doctor has regenerated thirteen times, and each "incarnation" was played by a different actor (except for the Tenth Doctor, who used up two regenerations by using the regeneration energy from his hand that had been chopped of in The Christmas Invasion). (Numbers refer to incarnations that used up regenerations)
The Doctor has been played by 11 actors in other media: theatre plays, parodies, etc. These are not officially part of the "Doctor Who" story.
The movies "Dr.Who & the Daleks" and "Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D." star Peter Cushing as a human scientist named "Doctor Who." Shortly after it was announced that the series would return from its nineties hiatus, Richard E. Grant voiced The Doctor in an animated serial. The BBC issued press releases identifying Grant as the "ninth Doctor" but this was later disregarded by the revived BBC television series.
Sometimes different incarnations of the Doctor meet each other. Usually episodes with several Doctors are made when the program celebrates an anniversary. In 1973, when the show was 10 years old, the episode "The Three Doctors" was shown. It had the first three Doctors.
In 1983, there was the 20th anniversary special. "The Five Doctors". Patrick Troughton, John Pertwee, Peter Davison and Richard Hundall (replacing William Hartnell) played The Doctor. Tom Baker refused to play in it, so they used the old footage of the incomplete "Shada" episode to show him.
In 1985, there was the episode "The Two Doctors", with the Second and the Sixth Doctors.
The fifth Doctor met the tenth incarnation in mini-episode named "Time Crash". It was aired in 2007.
The Tenth, Eleventh, and War Doctors met each other in the 50th anniversary special in November 2013. That was the first time the War Doctor was seen. That special had short appearances by all the other Doctors with the use of old, recycled footage. It also had a mysterious version of the Doctor from the far off future played by Tom Baker. The Eighth Doctor also made a return in 2013 for a 50th anniversary special mini-episode.
On August 4, 2013, Peter Capaldi was revealed as the actor who would play the Twelfth Doctor.
The TARDIS is the Doctor's time machine. It can travel to any point in time and space, but the Doctor can never fully control it. The Doctor explains that TARDISes are not built, but they are grown like plants. The TARDIS is alive and has a mind of its own. In the episode "The Doctor's Wife" when the Doctor is able to communicate directly with its mind, the TARDIS explains that it did not always take him where he wanted to go,wanted to go but that "I always took you where you needed to go." 
On the inside, the TARDIS looks like a giant spaceship, but on the outside it looks like a police telephone box. These telephone boxes were still a common sight in many British cities when the series first began in 1963, but after the walkie-talkie was invented they were no longer needed. They were used by the police as workstations - and people could also use them to call the police. 
The Doctor stole the TARDIS from a Time Lord museum when he began his travels. It was described as being a rather old "Type 40" model, whereas the best version is the "Type 70" used by the upper class Time Lords. The TARDIS has a device called the "chameleon circuit" which is supposed to change its shape on the outside to allow it to disguise it. In the very first story, this device stopped working and left the TARDIS stuck in the shape of a police box. 
The farthest the Doctor has ever travelled in the TARDIS is to the Big Bang (the beginning of the Universe) and 100 trillion years into the future (the end of the Universe) (in the episode "Utopia"). The inside of the TARDIS is much bigger than its outside (it is "dimensionally transcendental"). It has a lot of different rooms. The most important of which is the "console room" where the Doctor pilots the TARDIS.
TARDIS stands for "Time And Relative Dimension/s In Space".
The Doctor usually takes other people with him, who are usually called "companions" or "assistants". The Doctor and his companions travel through space and time, have a lot of adventures, and often save many people. 
The character of the companion was there so that the people watching the series could identify and feel close to a character. The companions were often present-time humans, so people could feel close to them, and they knew as much as the viewers. Because of this, the Doctor could explain things to his companions, and at the same time to the viewers. Almost all the Doctor's companions have been human, or human-looking aliens. Two companions were robots.
The Daleks are one of the most powerful races in the Doctor Who history. They are the Doctor's worst enemies. They cry "EX-TER-MIN-ATE!" when they are about to kill someone. They look like small tanks or very large pepper pots. They first appeared in the first season episode "The Daleks". A more recent episode was "Into the Dalek" (2014). They are not robots, but horrible aliens kept in a metal casing. They were mutated from Kaleds by their creator Davros during a war on their planet, Skaro. They can not be easily hurt by guns because their casing reflects or destroys the bullets.
Cybermen are another enemy of the Doctor. They are one of his worst enemies. In the original series, they come from the planet Mondas. In the new series, they come from a parallel universe. Cybermen travel across the universe taking people and turning them into machines. They stomp around saying "DELETE!". They kill by electrocution. They are vulnerable to the metal gold, and can be killed by gold bullets. They change their look over time, but stay recognizable by "handlebars" on their heads.
The Doctor has faced them many times. The first was in "The Tenth Planet" (William Hartnell's final episode). A more recent episode was "Death in Heaven" (a Peter Capaldi episode).
The Sontarans are a group of aliens that believe in war over anything else. They must face their enemy in combat because of their weak spot on the back of their neck. They have been said to look like baked potatoes.
The Doctor first met them in "The Time Warrior" (Jon Pertwee). They have been on the show and its spinoffs repeatedly.
The Sea Devils and the Silurians lived in the time of the dinosaurs until the catastrophe of the Moon's approach drove them into hibernation. They slept longer than planned and emerged late in the 20th century. The human scientist who discovered the Silurians estimated their era incorrectly. A later "Doctor Who" story said that they should have been classified as the Eocenes. A second species of hibernating Earth reptiles lived primarily underwater. They were labeled "sea devils" by a frightened, superstitious construction worker who encountered them.
The Time Lords are the alien race which the Doctor belongs to. They have two hearts. They can avoid dying by "regeneration" (transforming their bodies). The Time Lords were in some episodes in the classic series. Sometimes they were allies of the Doctor (at one point he became their president). Other times they were enemies. The Time Lords came from the planet Gallifrey. 
When the series returned in 2005, the Time Lords had disappeared in the "Time War". This was a very big war with the Daleks. The Doctor explained that he stopped the war by destroying Gallifrey, killing all of the Time Lords and Daleks. He believed he was the last of the Time Lords, until he discovered that the Master had also survived. Jenny, who was created artificially in "The Doctor's Daughter," is not a true Time Lord. For many years, the Doctor felt sorry for destroying Gallifrey. In the 2013 episode "The Day of the Doctor", the Doctor learns that he did not actually destroy his planet, but that he had moved it to another universe.
The Master is a renegade Time Lord. He is the Doctor's nemesis. He was conceived as "Professor Moriarty to the Doctor's Sherlock Holmes". The character first appeared in 1971, played by Roger Delgado. He continued in the role until his death in 1973. The Master was briefly played by Peter Pratt and Geoffrey Beevers until Anthony Ainley took over. He continued to play the character until Doctor Who's "hiatus" in 1989. The Master returned in the 1996 television movie of "Doctor Who", played by Gordon Tipple in the ultimately unused pre-credits voiceover, then Eric Roberts. The Master was in the three-part finale of the 2007 series, portrayed by Derek Jacobi. He regenerated into John Simm at the end of the episode "Utopia". Simm next appeared in the last (and two-part) episode of the Tenth Doctor in 2009/2010. He then regenerated off-screen into a "Time Lady" (Michelle Gomez), who returned for the Twelfth Doctor's first series in 2014.
The Ice warriors are a species of war-like alien. They previously lived on the planet Mars and ate Martian fish. When their home planet became too hot for them to live in, they moved to planets such as Peladon.
As of 2015, the Doctor has been played by thirteen actors. They are William Hartnell, Patrick Troughton, John Pertwee, Tom Baker, Peter Davison, Colin Baker, Sylvester McCoy, Paul McGann, John Hurt, Christopher Eccleston, David Tennant, Matt Smith and Peter Capaldi. 
When Time Lords are dying, they "regenerate." This causes a Time Lord's body to completely change, healing itself at the same time. Each time this happens, Time Lords have a different appearance and a different personality. Even with such big changes, Time Lords do not become different people, and will keep their memories each time they "regenerate." This periodic change makes them live a very long time.
A Time Lord is believed to only be able to regenerate 12 times. This means that Time Lords can have a total of 13 different incarnations. This line became stuck in the public consciousness despite not often being repeated, and was recognised by producers of the show as a plot obstacle for when the show finally had to regenerate the Doctor a thirteenth time. The episode "The Time of the Doctor" depicted the Doctor acquiring a new cycle of regenerations, starting from the Twelfth Doctor, due to the Eleventh Doctor being the product of the Doctor's twelfth regeneration from his original set.
A criminal incarnation of the Doctor was somehow spawned between his 12th and final lives. It tried to sacrifice the sixth Doctor so that he could obtain more "regenerations," allowing himself to live even longer.
The Master was already in his 13th life when he was introduced to the series. His 14th and 15th (and possibly later) incarnations were obtained by taking over the bodies of innocent victims. When the character returned to the show in 2007, the Master was in his 16th (or later) incarnation. Soon, he regenerates into his (~)17th incarnation. Later, he explains that the Time Lords resurrected him to be a great soldier when the Time Lords were fighting the Daleks in the Time War. It is likely that, having been resurrected, he had 12 more regenerations available to him.
A Time Lord can choose not to regenerate. It appears that the process happens all on its own when a Time Lord is dying. But, it can be stopped if the Time Lord does not want to regenerate. This was seen when the (~)17th incarnation of the Master chose to die from a gunshot wound instead of living on as a prisoner in the Doctor's TARDIS.
A Time Lord's body makes a huge amount of energy when regenerating. There is so much of this "regeneration energy" that a Time Lord can regrow a body part that gets removed, as long as it happens soon enough after regenerating. When the Doctor regenerated into his 10th incarnation, his hand was cut off in a sword fight. Because it had been less than 15 hours since he had regenerated into this incarnation, he was able to quickly grow a new hand.
If a Time Lord has kept a part of his or her body that had been removed (like the 10th Doctor's hand, from before), it can be used to keep a Time Lord from changing during regeneration. The 10th incarnation of the Doctor kept the hand that was cut off in the sword fight in a jar on board the TARDIS. Eventually, he was shot by a Dalek, and his body began the regeneration process. After his body had finished healing, but before his body could change into a new one, the Doctor sent all of the extra energy into the hand in the jar.

</doc>
<doc id="15667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15667" title="Concentration camp">
Concentration camp

A concentration camp (or internment camp) is a place where a government forces many people to live. Usually, those people belong to groups that the government does not like. The government may think these people are its enemies. In the past, governments have also put people in concentration camps because they belonged to a certain religion, race, or ethnic group.
Usually, people are sent to concentration camps without having a trial or being found guilty of a crime.
Sometimes, governments send people to concentration camps to do forced labor or to be killed. For example, the best-known concentration camps were run by Nazi Germany during World War II. The Nazis used concentration camps to kill millions of people and force many others to work as slaves. However, many other countries have used concentration camps during wars or times of trouble.
The first modern concentration camps in the United States were created in 1838. Around this time, the United States was getting bigger. However, Native Americans lived in the lands that the United States wanted to take over.
In 1830, the United States Congress and President Andrew Jackson had passed a law called the Indian Removal Act. This law said that all Native Americans had to leave the United States and move to "Indian Territory," west of the Mississippi River. However, many Cherokee people would not leave their lands. In May 1838, the United States government decided to force the Cherokee to leave the United States. 
First, soldiers forced about 17,000 Cherokee people, and 2,000 of their African-American slaves, into concentration camps, where they had to live during the summer of 1838. 353 Cherokee people died in the camps from dysentery and other diseases. Finally, the Cherokee were forced to travel to the area that is now Oklahoma. (At the time, Oklahoma was not in the United States.) The government also forced other Native American tribes to leave their lands and move west.
Soon, many people from the United States started to move west. Now the United States was moving into Native American lands again. Starting around the 1860s, many Native American tribes fought back. These fights are now called the Indian Wars. The United States government reacted by forcing Native Americans to leave their lands again and move into concentration camps. The government called these camps "Indian reservations." (They were called "reservations" because some land had been put aside, or "reserved," for the Native Americans.) However, Native Americans were not allowed to leave their reservations. On some reservations, many people, especially children, died from hunger and sickness.
During the American Civil War in the 1860s, soldiers who been captured were sometimes put in camps. These camps were meant to be prisoner of war (POW) camps, with good conditions. However, as the war went on, both the Union and the Confederacy captured more enemy soldiers. The camps became very crowded, with terrible conditions. There was not enough food, and many men died from hunger. Also, there was also very little sanitation, which made it easy for diseases to spread. Many prisoners died from these diseases.
The deadliest prisoner of war camp during the Civil War was Andersonville prison. Andersonville was run by the Confederate States Army. At Andersonville, 12,920 Union Army prisoners died. This was over one out of every four prisoners at Andersonville. After the Civil War ended, Henry Wirz, the man in charge of Andersonville, was found guilty of war crimes and was killed.
Conditions at the Union's prisoner of war camps were also very bad. At four different Union camps, at least 15% of the prisoners in the camps died. At a camp called Fort Pulaski, Union soldiers starved 600 Confederate prisoners of war on purpose. 46 of them died. The Union soldiers did this to get revenge for how Union prisoners were treated at Andersonville Prison.
By the end of the Civil War, about 30,000 Union soldiers, and about 26,000 Confederate soldiers, had died in prisoner of war camps.
In the late 1800s, Cuba was a colony of the Spanish Empire. This meant Spain controlled Cuba. When Cuban people tried to rebel and fight for independence from 1895 to 1898, Spain created concentration camps and sent many Cuban people to live in them. This was called the "Reconcentrado" ("Reconcentration") Policy.
The people fighting for Cuban independence were guerrilla fighters. They did not wear military uniforms and could hide themselves in groups of civilians. They could also camp and hunt, without needing help from anybody to survive. To keep the guerrilla fighters from being able to do these things, the Spanish government decided to put Cuban people in concentration camps. The idea was that in the camps, Cuban people could be 'protected' by the Spanish Army until the Spanish Empire won the war. However, this idea did not work. At least 30% of the Cuban people in the camps died from hunger, disease, bad sanitation, and not having medicines. Also, the concentration camps did not help the Spanish win the war.
Between 1900 and 1902, the British Empire, led by Lord Kitchener, used concentration camps. At the time, they were fighting the Boer people in the Second Boer War in South Africa. At first, the British were not able to beat the Boers. They reacted by putting the Boer fighters' family members into concentration camps. They did this so these family members could not give food or help to the Boer fighters. The British soldiers also burned down the Boers' houses and farms, and destroyed all the crops they could find. They did this so the Boer fighters would not be able to find food or shelter anywhere.
Around 26,000 women and children died in these camps from disease and starvation.
Russia used prison camps, especially in places in the Arctic or Siberia, a long way from the main cities. The first prison camp in Russia was built in 1918. However, after the Soviet Union was formed in the 1922, the Soviet government started sending many more people to forced labor camps. By 1936, there were 5,000,000 inmates working as slaves in these camps.
These camps are called "zone" in Russian. They are also commonly called "gulags" (pronounced "GOO-logs"). "GULAG" is an acronym for the Russian words "Main Camp Administration." This was the government agency that was in charge of the prison camps while Josef Stalin led the Soviet Union. However, people who do not speak Russian often use the word "gulag" to talk about any forced labor camp in Russia or the Soviet Union.
People sent to the gulags included:
During World War II, Nazi Germany created many concentration camps, slave labor camps, and extermination camps (death camps). Nazi Germany's leader, Adolf Hitler, thought that certain groups of people were inferior (not as good as others). He even thought there were groups of people who did not deserve to live - he called them "life unworthy of life." These three groups were Jews, Roma people, and people with disabilities. Hitler wanted his Nazis to kill every Jew, Roma, and disabled person in Europe.
Hitler also wanted to get rid of other groups he did not like, including people who he thought might challenge or fight the Nazi government. These people included socialists, communists, people of certain religions, and members of resistance movements (groups who tried to fight the Nazis any way they could).
The Nazis sent many of these people to concentration camps to work as slave labor. After a few years, some camps were set up just to kill people. These are now called "extermination camps" or "death camps." At these camps, people were killed in gas chambers, shot, worked to death, and marched to death. Many people also died from disease and starvation in the camps.
More than half of the Jewish people who died in the Holocaust died at Nazi concentration camps. Just in the Auschwitz camps, at least 1.1 million people died (about 1,000,000 Jews and about 75,000 non-Jewish people, like Poles). Towards the end of World War II, the Nazis killed up to 20,000 people a day in the camps' gas chambers.
With Nazi Germany's support, the Ustaše government of the new Independent State of Croatia (ISC) created concentration camps and extermination camps. Mainly, the camps were for Serbs. The ISC hated Serbs and thought of them as the ISC's biggest enemy. However, the Ustaše also helped the Nazis with the "Final Solution" by killing many Jews in these camps. Other people the Ustaše forced into the camps included Roma, Croats, Yugoslavians who had fought against the ISC, and people who broke rules and laws set by the ISC.
During World War II, the United States forced over 110,000 Japanese-Americans into internment camps.
On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. In February 1942, the United States government ordered that nobody with Japanese ancestry could live on the West Coast. The government, led by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, thought that Japanese-American people might be spies for Japan, or might try to hurt the United States.
About 80% of the Japanese-American people who lived in the continental United States were forced to leave their homes and live in internment camps. More than three out of every five of these people were born in the United States, and were United States citizens. About half of the people sent to the camps were children.
After Canada declared war on Japan, it also forced people with Japanese ancestry into internment camps.
In the 1980s, the United States government admitted that Japanese-Americans were not a danger to the country during World War II. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed a law that apologized for the internment camps. The law said "there was no ... reason for the internment ... [and] the internment was caused by racial prejudice, war hysteria, and a failure of [government] leadership[.]"
During World War II, Italy's fascist government (led by Benito Mussolini) was Nazi Germany's ally. Italy had taken over Yugoslavia, Greece, and France. The Nazis told Italy to put Jews from these areas in concentration camps and then send them to the Nazis' death camps. However, Italy refused. The Italian military and police would not help kill or deport Jews.
However, in 1943, after Mussolini had lost power, Nazi Germany took over northern and central Italy. They also put Mussolini back in power. The Nazis created concentration camps to hold Italian Jews and other prisoners until they could be sent to death camps. In one of these concentration camps, called La Risiera di San Sabba, the Nazis tortured and murdered about 5,000 people. Many of these people were "political prisoners" - people who disagreed with the government.
When Josef Stalin and the Soviet Union invaded Poland at the start of World War II, the Red Army deported at least 1.5 million Poles at gunpoint. They were forced to get into cattle wagons, which took them to Siberia. Whole families were deported to concentration camps, including children and the elderly.
During the war, the Soviet Union also used gulags to hold prisoners of war from Nazi Germany and its allies.
During the 1970s and 1980s, many military dictatorships in Latin America set up concentration camps to imprison, torture, and kill their political opponents (people who disagreed with them). For example:
The Soviet Union kept using forced labour camps after World War II. In fact, the people they sent to the gulags after the war included Soviet soldiers and civilians who had been taken prisoner by the Nazis, or used as slave workers in Nazi Germany.
By 1956, between 15 million and 30 million people had died or been killed in the gulags.
In 1973, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, a Russian author, wrote "The Gulag Archipelago" about his experiences in a Soviet work camp.
The Soviet Union kept using gulags until the late 1980s. It closed its last forced labor camp in 1988.
Since January 2002, the United States has run the Guantánamo Bay prison camp. Some people have called Guantánamo a concentration camp or a gulag. These people have included Fidel Castro, the leader of Amnesty International, and other activist groups like CounterPunch.

</doc>
<doc id="15670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15670" title="Ribosome">
Ribosome

Ribosomes are important cell organelles. A ribosome is a large complex of RNA and protein. It does RNA translation, building proteins from amino acids using messenger RNA as a template. Ribosomes are found in all living cells, prokaryotes as well as eukaryotes.
A ribosome is a mixture of protein and RNA that starts its formation in the nucleolus of a cell. The nucleolus is found in the center of the nucleus. The nucleus is protected by the nuclear envelope, and lets things out through the nuclear pores. 
The job of the ribosome is to make new proteins. It does this by moving along a strand of RNA and building a protein based on the code it reads. Making a protein this way is called translation. Ribosomes are usually found in the rough endoplasmic reticulum, but can also be found throughout the cytoplasm.
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA, while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain. Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and a variety of proteins.
Eukaryotes have 80S ribosomes, each consisting of a small (40S) and large (60S) subunit. Their small subunit has a 16S RNA sub-unit (consisting of 1540 nucleotides) bound to 21 proteins. The large subunit has a 5S RNA (120 nucleotides), a 28S RNA (4700 nucleotides), a 5.8S RNA (160 nucleotides) subunits and 46 proteins. 

</doc>
<doc id="15672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15672" title="William Hartnell">
William Hartnell

William Henry Hartnell (January 8 1908 – April 23 1975) was an English actor. He best known for playing the First Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1963 to 1966.
He was born in St Pancras, London. In 1932, he was in a movie called "Say It With Music". He was in more than sixty movies. He usually played funny characters until 1944, when he was a sergeant in a movie called "The Way Ahead". After that, he played a lot of policemen and soldiers. He was the main character in a movie called "Carry on Sergeant" in 1958. From 1957 to 1961, he appeared on a television show called "The Army Game" and in 1963, gave up movies and became the first Doctor in "Doctor Who". "Doctor Who" was a new television show.
Hartnell was in "Doctor Who" for three years. In 1966, he got sick. He forgot some of his lines, and argued with the people who made the show. Then he left "Doctor Who". Patrick Troughton became the new Doctor.
Hartnell's health got worse and in December 1974, he went to hospital. On 23 April 1975, he died in his sleep at the age of 67.

</doc>
<doc id="15674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15674" title="Patrick Troughton">
Patrick Troughton

Patrick George Troughton (25 March 1920 – 28 March 1987) was a British actor. He played different sorts of characters and who was in a lot of movies. He is best known as the Second Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1966 to 1969. He also appeared in "Jason & the Argonauts" (1963) and "The Omen" (1976). His grandson, Harry Melling plays Dudley Dursley in the "Harry Potter" series of movies.

</doc>
<doc id="15675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15675" title="Jon Pertwee">
Jon Pertwee

John Devon Roland Pertwee (7 July 1919 – 20 May 1996), better known as Jon Pertwee, was an English actor. He is best known for playing the role of the Third Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1970 to 1974 and also the title scarecrow in the television children's comedy series "Worzel Gummidge". His son is actor Sean Pertwee.
He was a cousin of actor Bill Pertwee who played Chief Warden Hodges in the comedy "Dad's Army".

</doc>
<doc id="15676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15676" title="Tom Baker">
Tom Baker

Thomas Stewart Baker (born January 20 1934), or Tom Baker, is an English actor. He is best known for playing the Fourth Doctor in the long-running science fiction television series "Doctor Who".
Baker was born in Liverpool. His father was a sailor, and was Jewish. His mother was Roman Catholic. Baker was not very academic and struggled at school. He failed the eleven plus exam. Baker became a monk when he was 15. When he decided to change his life, he first worked in the Royal Army Medical Corps, and then as a construction worker. He took up acting first as a hobby, then professionally.
His first big part was as Grigori Rasputin in the 1971 movie, "Nicholas and Alexandra". Baker is best known for playing the Fourth Doctor in the long-running science fiction television series "Doctor Who". He played this role from 1974 to 1981. When he got the job, he was working on a building site, because it was hard to find work as an actor.
He is famous for playing the Doctor longer than any other actor. His version of the character is probably the best remembered by many people. As he thought of himself as a role model for children, he would always pretend to be the Doctor in real life, and sign autographs for them. He did not like to see too much violence in Doctor Who. He once changed the script so the Doctor threatened a character with a jelly baby instead of a knife.
He was a narrator for the comedy sketch show "Little Britain."
Baker has had many jobs as a voiceover artist. He is very recognized for his voice. In a 2005 survey of British adults, Baker's voice was the fourth most recognisable after the Queen, Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher.

</doc>
<doc id="15678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15678" title="Nazi Germany">
Nazi Germany

Nazi Germany is the widely-used name given to Germany between 1933 and 1945.
This is the period when Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party controlled Germany. It is also sometimes called the Third Reich (), which means the "Third Empire" or "Third Realm."
The Nazis said their empire would be the third great empire in history. The first was the Holy Roman Empire. The second was the Second Empire of 1871-1918. However, the term "Third Reich" was more popular in other countries. In Germany, it was merely called The Reich (pronounced "rike"). The Nazis renamed their empire the Greater German Reich ().
Hitler led Nazi Germany until it collapsed in 1945, when he killed himself. The Nazi Party was destroyed in the same year as its leaders ran away, were arrested, or killed themselves. Some were sentenced to death and executed by the Western and Soviet powers. Others survived and were able to get important jobs. However, their racial policies never again held power in Germany.
The Nazi government was formed under the idea that some races were better than others. The Nazis thought the "Aryan race" (pure Germans) were the best race of all, and that they deserved power and respect. This idea gained a lot of respect after the Great Depression made people who used to be important lose power. Hitler blamed the economic depression on Jewish capitalists and communist gangs. He was able to make Germans feel like they were innocent victims who had to take charge over Europe.
When the Nazi regime was destroyed at the end of World War II, Germany was split in two. The Soviet Union took over East Germany. The United Kingdom, France, and the United States took over West Germany.
In the late 1930s, Hitler began attacking many countries and taking them over. Later, on September 1st, 1939, German forces attacked Poland, which began World War II. With over a million troops, Hitler's army easily took over Poland, while losing just around 59,000 soldiers. Poland lost over 900,000 soldiers, because their army and weapons were not as good as the Nazis'.
On October 12, 1939, Hitler sent a letter to the United Kingdom promising peace. The British continued the war.
Hitler continued on and took over France in the Battle of France. Then he attacked England. Winston Churchill, now Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, did not surrender. The Battle of Britain lasted from July to October 1940. Many of the "Luftwaffe" (the German Air Force) were killed, and in early October they retreated back into Greater Germany. Hitler was unhappy, and ordered the mass bombardment of London. Thousands of civilians died, but the Royal Air Force regained strength. When Hitler decided to face east for his racial war of destroying the Slavs and Jews, he allowed Britain to regain power.
In 1941, Hitler gave orders to attack the Soviet Union. The first attack was code-named ""Operation Barbarossa."" It lasted from June 22, 1941 into winter of that year. Josef Stalin, the leader of the Soviet Union, had accidentally helped the Germans with his Great Purges, which had killed many Russian officers before the war even began.
During Operation Barbarossa, many more Soviet soldiers died than Germans. The winters were very cold, and many soldiers froze to death. At the Stalingrad this was not true. One million soldiers died on each side. Germany could not replace its losses, so Stalingrad was the turning point of the war.
After Stalingrad, the Germans lost their momentum. The Soviets learned from the long campaigns, fought better, and gained many new weapons from very efficient factories. The United States, Britain, France, and the Soviet Union fought together, and pushed against the smaller German army. In May 1945, they took over Berlin to win the war.
Many people from all sides of the war died fighting in Europe, including:
While fighting in the Soviet Union:
After the Allies took over Germany, the Soviets set up the German Democratic Republic. It was a socialist state that followed communism. The United Kingdom, the United States, and France set up the Federal Republic of Germany in the west. It was a democratic country.
When the Nazis took over Germany, most people in the country were Christians. The Nazis wanted to change the way people thought, and they did not like the Christian Churches. They closely watched priests, and often arrested or punished them. By 1940, priests from all over the Nazi Empire were being locked up together at Dachau Concentration Camp.
Nazi leaders like Martin Bormann, Joseph Goebbels, Heinrich Himmler, and Alfred Rosenberg, backed by Hitler, eventually wanted to destroy Christianity. Himmler and Rosenberg had some pagan ideas. Others, like Bormann, were atheist. Hitler himself hated Christianity, but he knew it was important in German politics and culture. Because of this, he usually said he wanted to wait until after the war to get rid of the Churches.
The Christian Churches were treated badly by the Nazis, but smaller religious groups, like the Jews and the Jehovah's Witnesses, were treated far worse. The Nazis tried to kill all of the Jewish people in Europe. They sent people of other religions, like Jehovah's Witnesses, to concentration camps and death camps. The Nazi campaign against the churches was called the "kirchenkampf".
The Nazis tried to take over the Protestant Churches of Germany, by bringing them together in a Nazi-friendly National Reich Church. Some Protestants supported the idea. However, when the Nazis tried to change the Bible to say Jesus wasn't Jewish, a group of pastors started the Confessing Church. The Confessing Church did not support Nazi ideas about controlling religion or changing the Bible. The Nazis made the Church illegal and arrested hundreds of its pastors.
Hitler did not like the Catholic Church, and was worried about its influence on German politics. In 1933, his new government signed a treaty (the Reich Concordat) with the Vatican. The treaty promised to let Catholics control their own Church, but said priests could not do politics. However, Hitler then closed down every Catholic organisation that was not a church - like Catholic political parties, groups for young people, trade unions, and newspapers. He murdered some of the leaders of these groups, and eventually closed all Catholic schools. Then the Nazis started attacking priests and nuns, and arrested many of them. Pope Pius XI protested strongly in "Mit brennender Sorge" (a 1937 papal encyclical), which said that Nazi ideas like racism were bad, and the Nazis were persecuting the Church.
Many Germans were angry that the government was interfering in their churches, but others did not care too much. A few tried to stop the government from killing religious minorities like Jews. Church leaders tried to stop the Nazis from interfering in their religion. Because they kept some independence from the state, they could publicly disagree with some government policies. For example, Catholic Bishop August von Galen and Protestant Bishop Theophil Wurm protested against the Nazis' program of killing disabled and sick people. Some religious leaders, like Martin Niemöller, spoke up for human rights in Germany. Several priests and pastors were executed for helping the 1944 plot to overthrow Hitler, including Pastor Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Fr. Alfred Delp SJ.

</doc>
<doc id="15708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15708" title="Jim Reeves">
Jim Reeves

James Travis "Jim" Reeves (August 20, 1923 in Galloway, Texas - July 31, 1964 in Nashville, Tennessee) was an American country singer. He died in a plane crash.

</doc>
<doc id="15709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15709" title="Dusty Springfield">
Dusty Springfield

Dusty Springfield (16 April 1939 – 2 March 1999) was a English pop singer. Her real name was Mary Isobel Catherine Bernadette O'Brien. Her musical career lasted from the late 1950s to the 1990s. She recorded over 200 songs during this time. She became one of the most successful female singers in Britain. She made soul music. Between 1963 and 1989, she had six top 20 singles on the United States "Billboard" Hot 100 chart and 16 on the United Kingdom Singles Chart. She is a member of both the US Rock and Roll and UK Music Halls of Fame. She is famous as a pop icon of the Swinging Sixties.
Springfield was born in London. She learned to sing at home. She liked American jazz music, and wanted to sound like that. In 1958, she joined her first professional group, The Lana Sisters. Two years later, she formed a singing trio, The Springfields. Her solo career began in 1963. Her first successful song was "I Only Want to Be with You". Other successful songs followed: "Wishin' and Hopin'" (1964), "I Just Don't Know What to Do with Myself" (1964), "You Don't Have to Say You Love Me" (1966), and "Son of a Preacher Man" (1968).
Later, she worked in Memphis, Tennessee on a soul album with Atlantic Records. The album was called "Dusty in Memphis". It was released in 1969. It has been ranked among the greatest albums of all time by the magazine "Rolling Stone", and in polls by VH1 artists, "New Musical Express" readers, and Channel 4 viewers. The album was also awarded a spot in the Grammy Hall of Fame.
Springfield was openly bisexual.
In March 1999 Springfield was going to go to Buckingham Palace to be given her award of Officer, Order of the British Empire. Springfield was given the award early in January 1999 in hospital.
Springfield died of breast cancer on 3 March 1999. Her name was added to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame two weeks later, on 16 March.

</doc>
<doc id="15711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711" title="The Offspring">
The Offspring

The Offspring is an American punk group formed in 1984 in Garden Grove, California. Their music has covered both punk rock and pop punk.
The band was founded by Dexter Holland and Greg Kriesel after a concert of Social Distortion as "Manic Subsidal". As soon as Kevin "Noodles" Wassermann joined the band as their second guitarist in 1985, they changed their name to "The Offspring".
It would not be until ten years after forming that The Offspring saw its first piece of commercial success in its third album, "Smash", which was released in 1994. Regarded by many as The Offspring's classic release, and Epitaph Records' best-selling album, "Smash" produced four successful hit singles: "Come Out and Play" (which reached #1 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart), "Self Esteem", "Gotta Get Away" and the radio-only single "Bad Habit". From there, The Offspring became one of the most important punk bands of the 1990s, along with ALL, Bad Religion, Face to Face, Green Day, Guttermouth, Lagwagon, NOFX, Pennywise, Rancid, Social Distortion, The Vandals, and many others.
Their most recent album was released in June 2008. The exact date of release depended on the country/region.

</doc>
<doc id="15712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15712" title="Aretha Franklin">
Aretha Franklin

Aretha Massacorale Franklin (born March 25, 1942) is an American soul and R&B singer. She is called the "Queen of Soul". She is best known for her songs "Respect", "Think", "Chain of Fools", and "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman".
Aretha Massacorale Franklin was born at a two-room house in Memphis located at 406 Lucy St. She was the third of four children born to Barbara (née Siggers) and C.L. Franklin and the fifth of six overall in between past relationships by her parents. Franklin's family moved to Buffalo, when Franklin was two, and then by four, had settled in Detroit. Following the move to Detroit, Franklin's parents, who had a troubled marriage, split. Due to her father's work as a Baptist minister, Franklin was primarily raised by her grandmother, Rachel. Franklin suffered a tragedy when her mother died in Buffalo when Aretha was ten. Franklin sang in church at an early age and learned how to play piano by ear. By her late preteens, Franklin was regularly singing solo numbers in her father's New Bethel Baptist Church. Franklin's father, C.L. (short for Clarence LaVaughn), was a respected and popular preacher. Franklin grew up with local and national celebrities hanging out at her father's home including gospel greats Albertina Walker and her group The Caravans, Mahalia Jackson and Clara Ward, three women who played a pivotal role in her vocal development as a child.
Franklin is one of the most honored artists by the Grammy Awards, with 18 competitive Grammys and two honorary Grammys. She had 20 #1 singles on the Billboard R&B Singles Chart and two #1 hits on the Billboard Hot 100: "Respect" (1967) and "I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)" (1987), a duet with George Michael. Since 1961, she had a total of 45 Top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100. She also had 14 singles that sold more than one million – more than any other female artist. Between 1967 and 1982 she had 10 #1 R&B albums – more than any other female artist. 
Rolling Stone magazine ranked her at top of its list "The Greatest Singers of All Time" In 2005, she was awarded The Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George W. Bush. On February 6, 2006, she performed, along with Aaron Neville, "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl XL. The same year she got an honorary Doctor of Music degree by the Berklee College of Music.2010, Franklin received an Honorary Doctorate in Music from Yale University.
In 1987, Franklin became the first female artist to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. She was the only featured singer at the 2009 presidential inauguration of Barack Obama.

</doc>
<doc id="15717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717" title="Tomato">
Tomato

Tomato is a red fruit. It is shiny and smooth, and has many small seeds. The tomato is green when it is unripe. It is very sour and it is good for you. It slowly changes color from green to red as it gets more ripe. There are many different types of tomatoes. Most tomatoes are red, but some special kinds are yellow or orange when they are ripe. Also, some tomatoes are as small as strawberries, and some will become as big as apples. Tomatoes are used a lot in Italian food. They are also used to make ketchup. Sometimes, people mistake tomatoes for vegetables, but they aren't, because they contain seeds. Tomato seeds are dispersed by being eaten by, and then passing through, animals. 

</doc>
<doc id="15719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15719" title="Pineapple">
Pineapple

The pineapple is a fruit. It is native to South America, Central America and the Caribbean. The word "pineapple" means "fragrance of perfumes". The meaning comes from an Amerindian language. The pineapple is also a tropical plant and it must not be kept under 10 degrees. It takes a long time for the pineapple to grow. It mainly depends on the location and the growing conditions it gets. If the temperature is warm, the pineapple will grow faster. On average, it takes about two to three years. If the fruit travels by boat, the fruit must be picked before ripening, since the trip takes a long time. Sometimes, pineapple has to travel by boat to be accessible to all. It is different for air travel. The pineapple can be picked when it is grown, since travel time is short.
Pineapple contains fiber and vitamin C. The stem of the pineapple contains an enzyme having healing effects, anti-inflammatory effects and it may reduce edema. The enzyme from the pineapple is also beneficial for a person who wants to go on a good diet. Pineapple contains a lot of manganese and the body needs manganese to build strong bones. 
In the world, there are a lot of varieties of pineapples. In fact, there are more than one hundred varieties and they grow in different sizes too. Four of those are the main varieties:
Early Europeans commonly called any kind of fruit an apple, and that is why the Spanish thought pineapples looked like pine cones. Pineapples have nothing to do with pine cones and apples, but because of the similar shape between the pineapple and the pine cone, most people change it into symbolism. Both have been used for symbolizing fertility. The pineapple symbolized friendship and hospitality to the Caribs. These people usually hung pineapples outside their huts to show their welcome.

</doc>
<doc id="15721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15721" title="Pear">
Pear

A pear is an edible fruit. Its shape is a teardrop. The flavor of pears is best when they are cool. They are juicy. Pears do not ripen well on trees. They can be soft in the center. They can be baked, canned, frozen, or eaten fresh. They can be made into jams, jellies or juice. They can also be made into pies and put into salads or baby food. They are eighty three percent water. It has a green, red, yellow, or brown skin. The pear originated from Europe, Africa and Asia. Pear trees grow in heavy soil.
Pears are in the subfamily Maloideae with apples. It is a subfamily of the family "Rosaceae".
The pear comes from the tree Pyrus communis, also called the common pear tree. The tree can be high. They live an average of 65 years. It starts as a pyramid-shaped tree. As it grows becomes rounded. It ends up becoming oval. This tree has gray bark covered with cracks. Its leaves are dark green and long. The flowers are pink or white and up to long.
The pear comes from Eastern Europe and Western Asia. It grew during the Neolithic era. Its standard form is the result of different hybridizations from wild specimens.
The pear needs soil that is neither too dry nor too wet. It grows best in temperate and humid climates. There are over 2000 varieties of pear but the most important are Blanquilla, ercolini, limonera, conference, bartlett, martini, castell, precocious fiorano. It is used in syrup, jam, jelly, spirits, recipes, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="15723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15723" title="Melon">
Melon

A melon is any kind of edible, fleshy fruit in the Cucurbitaceae family. Many different cultivars have been produced, especially of muskmelons. Botanically speaking, the melon is a fruit, but some kinds are often considered vegetables. Most melons belong to the genus "Cucumis", but there are also some that belong to "Benincasa", "Citrullus" and "Momordica". The muskmelon belongs to "Cucumis", while the watermelon belongs to "Citrullus".
The word "melon" comes from the Latin ', which itself comes from the Greek (').
Melons come from Africa and southwest Asia. They gradually began to appear in Europe toward the end of the Roman Empire. Melons were introduced to America by early settlers, who grew honeydew and casaba melons as early as the 1600s. A number of Native American groups in New Mexico have a tradition of growing their own kinds of melon cultivars, derived from melons originally introduced by the Spanish.
Melons are a nutritious food. The seeds of cantaloupe were used in China to moderate fevers and the digestive system. Elsewhere, seeds were ground into a powder and used to treat tuberculosis. Cantaloupes are particularly beneficial to people with heart disease, as they have large of amounts of an anticoagulant known as adenosine. They also have high levels of potassium, which benefits those with high blood pressure. Due to their high water content, all melons are considered diuretics.
There is also evidence that suggests that eating melons can lower the risk of cancer. USDA researchers discovered that melons have lycopene, an antioxidant found in a select group of fruits and vegetables. Lycopene treats and prevents cancer by trapping free-radicals in cells.

</doc>
<doc id="15724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15724" title="Raspberry">
Raspberry

A raspberry is an aggregate fruit, meaning it has many parts joined together. It is similar to a blackberry, but the fruit is hollow on the inside. There are many different species of raspberry plants, but only a few of them have fruit that are sold in stores. Leaves of the raspberry plant are also used fresh or dried in herbal teas. The raspberry is red when ripe, and is also a source of nectar for juices. Raspberries are a popular fruit in some parts of the world.
A raspberry plant typically grows in fields or in forest clearings where fire or wood-cutting has produced open space. As a cultivated plant in moist temperate regions, it is easy to grow. It has a tendency to spread unless cut back.
Two types of raspberry plants can be bought in stores: the older summer-bearing type and double- or "ever"-bearing plants. Raspberry plants make stalks each year. The fruit grows on these stalks. These stalks last for 2 years. Both the summer and everbearing plants create the fruit in the summer of the second year of the stalk. The stalks of the everbearing plant also creates fruit in the fall of the first year.
The raspberry fruit that are sold in stores come from plants that are hybrids between two species, "Rubus idaeus", European red raspberry, and "Rubus strigosus", American red raspberry. Fruit from "Rubus occidentalis", black raspberry, are sometimes available, and hybrids with purple fruit exist. These three species are in the same subgenus, "Rubus" subgenus "Idaeobatus".
Other raspberry species in "Rubus" subgenus "Idaeobatus" include:
Other raspberry species that are not in "Rubus" subgenus "Idaeobatus" include:

</doc>
<doc id="15726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15726" title="Plum">
Plum

A plum is a sweet fruit. Its scientific name is "Prunus". When dried, it is called a prune. The color "plum" takes its name from the fruit. Plum colored plums are called "purple plums" and are a deep purple color; other plums are reddish purple (these two varieties are shown in the picture at right). Some other plums can be yellow, red, green or even white. The fruit has a groove running down one side, and a smooth stone (seed). The flesh of the fruit is brownish and is very juicy. The skin can be eaten. It can also be used to make jam and the juice can be used to make wine. It is closely related to the apricot.
There are many cultivars of plum. 
Plums come in a wide variety of colors and sizes. Some are much firmer-fleshed than others, and some have yellow, white, green or red flesh, with equally varying skin color. These are some of the best-kown:

</doc>
<doc id="15727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15727" title="Peach">
Peach

The peach is a species of the "Prunus persica", and is a fruit tree of the rose family "Rosaceae". They grow in the warm regions of both the northern and southern hemispheres.
Peach blossoms are small to medium-sized. The tree is sometimes up to 6.5 m (21 feet) in height. When it is grown by people, the height it is usually kept between 3 and 4 m (10 and 13 feet) by pruning. Its leaves are green and pointy. They usually have glands that make a liquid to attract insects.
Peaches are also called stone fruits because they have a shell of hard wood around their seed, called a stone or a pit. The skin of a peach is an orange or yellow color, and it is covered in small hairs called "peach fuzz". A peach without the fuzz is usually called a nectarine. The inside of a peach is a golden color. It tastes sweet and sticky. Because of this, peaches are often part of desserts.
The peach first came from China. It has been grown from at least since 1000 B.C.E. In Chinese culture, the peach tree is considered to be the tree of life and peaches are symbols of immortality. Peach blossoms are carried by Chinese brides.
Because of the cold winter, diseases, and pests, peach trees can usually only live about 10 to 12 years. However, if a peach tree is fertilized properly, and taken care of in the right way, it may live more years.
"Brown rot" is a very dangerous kind of peach disease. It can attack the blossoms and stop the fruit from developing. If it is not stopped quickly, good quality fruit can not be produced from the peach tree.
"Peach leaf curl", which is another very serious disease, makes the leaves curl up and begin to die in spring. It can be stopped if it meets fungicide.
"Bacterial spot" gives harm to the leaves, twigs and fruit. By the time the disease is recognized, it is often too late to stop it. However, some kind of sprays may be used early in the next season to protect the peach tree.
"Cankers" is a kind of disease that infects the twigs and branches. They make large amounts of amber-colored gum spill out from the infected branch. Later, the bark will crack open completely and the tissue of the twig turns black. Cankers can be removed by pruning.
There are several kinds of insect pests that can be great trouble to the peach. The Oriental fruit moth can make the peaches filled with worms and young growing tips may die. The plum curculio lays its eggs on the fruit, and makes them drop off or become filled with worms. Insects like the tarnished plant bug and the stink bug eat up the fruit that is still developing. Borers attack the base of the trunk and the branches.

</doc>
<doc id="15729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15729" title="Fig">
Fig

Fig (genus "Ficus") is a soft, sweet fruit. Its skin is very thin and has many small seeds inside of it. There are more than 850 species of "Ficus", the fig tree.
The fruits can be eaten when ripe and when dried. Figs grow in warm climates. Sometimes, figs are made into jam. Figs are also in a popular snack.
Figs are pollinated by fig wasps.
The fig fruit is called a "synconium". Many figs are grown for their fruit, though only "Ficus carica", the Common Fig, is cultivated to any extent for human consumption.
The fig is a false fruit or multiple fruit, in which the flowers and seeds grow together to form a single mass. Depending on the species, each fruit can contain up to several hundred to several thousand seeds.
A fig "fruit" is derived from a specially adapted type of inflorescence (an arrangement of multiple flowers). In this case, it is a turned inwards, nearly closed receptacle, with many small flowers arranged on the "inner" surface.
Thus the actual flowers of the fig are unseen unless the fig is cut open. It is a fruit without a visible flower.
The fig fruits, important as both food and traditional medicine, contain laxative substances, flavonoids, sugars, vitamins A and C, acids and enzymes. However, figs are skin allergens, and the sap is a serious eye irritant.
Some parthenocarpic ('virgin fruit') cultivars of common figs do not require pollination at all, and will produce a crop of seedless edible figs without caprifigs or fig wasps.
The syconium often has a bulbous shape with a small opening (the ostiole) at the outward end used by pollinators. The flowers are pollinated by very small wasps which crawl through the opening in search of a suitable place to lay eggs.
Without this, fig trees cannot reproduce by seed. In turn, the flowers provide a safe haven and nourishment for the next generation of wasps. This has led to a co-evolutionary relationship.
Fig plants can be monoecious (hermaphrodite) or gynodioecious (hermaphrodite and female). Nearly half of fig species are gynodioecious, and have plants with inflorescences (syconium) with long styled pistillate flowers, or have plants with staminate flowers mixed with short styled pistillate flowers. The long flower styles tend to prevent wasps from laying their eggs within the ovules, while the short styled flowers are accessible for egg laying.
The common fig ("Ficus carica") is a gynodioecious plant, which means its fruits are either hermaphrodite and "inedible figs" or caprifigs. In traditional culture in the Mediterranean region they were considered food for goats ("Capra aegagrus"): 'caprifig' means 'goat fig'. In the female fig trees, the male flower parts fail to develop; they produce the "edible figs". [needs reference]
Fig wasps grow in caprifigs but not in the female syconiums. The female flower is too long for the wasp to successfully lay her eggs in them. Nonetheless, the wasp pollinates the flower with pollen from the caprifig it grew up in. When the wasp dies, it is broken down by enzymes inside the fig. This means you do not eat the wasp because it has been dissolved. The wasp does not transmit any diseases harmful to humans. [needs reference]
There is typically "only one species of wasp capable of fertilizing the flowers of each species of fig". For example, in Hawaii, some 60 species of figs have been introduced, but only four of the wasps that fertilize them have been introduced, so only four species of figs produce viable seeds there. This is an example of mutualism, in which each organism (fig plant and fig wasp) benefit each other, in this case reproductively.
The intimate association between fig species and their wasp pollinators, and the one-to-one plant-pollinator ratio are a clear example of co-evolution. Recent genetic and molecular dating analyses have shown a close correspondence in the evolution and speciation of these two clades, figs and wasps.

</doc>
<doc id="15730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15730" title="Grapefruit">
Grapefruit

Grapefruit is a citrus fruit grown in sub-tropical places. It is bigger than an orange and is often more sour, but many types of grapefruit have other flavors.
The tree which the grapefruit grows on is normally 5-6 meters tall but can reach up to 15 meters tall. It has dark green leaves that measure up to 150mm and has white flowers that grow 5cm in length. The fruit itself can grow 10-15cm in diameter. In 2007, there were about 5,061,023 tons of grapefruits made worldwide, most of the tons coming from the U.S. There are many different kinds of grapefruits with different color pulp. The most popular colors are red, white and pink. There are also a wide range of flavors grapefruits have, from highly acidic and bitter to sweet.

</doc>
<doc id="15731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15731" title="Grape">
Grape

Grapes are the fruit of a woody grape vine. Grapes can be eaten raw, or used for making wine, juice, and jelly/jam. Grapes come in different colours; red, purple, white, and green are some examples. Today, grapes can be seedless, by using machines to pit the fruit. Wild grapevines are often considered a nuisance weed, as they cover other plants with their usually rather aggressive growth.
Raisins are the dried fruit of the grapevine, and the name actually comes from the French word for "grape."
Since the early 21st century in the United States and other countries, and the global functional food industry, there has been a fast-growing recognition of red grapes for their popularity, nutrient content and antioxidant qualities. This has given them commercial status as a "superfruit".
The leaves of the grapevine itself are considered edible (eatable). They are used to make dolmades.
Grapevines are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species.
According to the "Food and Agriculture Organization" (FAO), almost 76,000 square kilometres of the world is used to grow grapes. About 71% of grapes are used for wine. 27% are used as fresh fruit, and 2% are used as dried fruit. A part of grape production goes to making grape juice to be used as a sweetener for fruits canned "with no added sugar" and "100% natural". The area dedicated to vineyards is increasing by about 2% per year. 
The following list of top wine-producers shows the areas used to grow grapes for wine making, although of course country size is a limiting factor, as well as the economic demand for their product.
Comparing diets among western countries, researchers have found that although the French usually eat more animal fat than other countries, the number of cases of heart disease remains low in France. Many scientists think this is because the French drink more red wine than other countries. Something in the grape helps lower the amount of cholesterol in the body. This helps prevent clogging of the arteries. Doctors do not recommend drinking a lot of red wine, but three or four glasses a week is good and encouraged.
Grapes of all colors offer benefits. Red wine offers health benefits that are not found in white wine. This is because many of the good nutrients are found in the skins of the grapes, and only red wine is fermented with the skins.
White grapes are derived from the green grape by evolution. Changes in two genes turn off creation of anthocyanin. Anthocyanin is what makes red grapes the color green.
A "raisin" is any dried grape. A "currant" is a dried Zante grape. The name is a corruption of the French "raisin de Corinthe" (Corinth grape). A "sultana" was originally a raisin made from a specific type of grape of Turkish origin. The word is now used for raisins made from common North American grapes and chemically treated to resemble the traditional sultana.
Note that, while "raisin" is a French loanword, the word in French means the fresh fruit. "Grappe" (Where the English word "grape" comes from) means the bunch (as in "une grappe de raisin").
Note also that "currant" has also come to mean to the blackcurrant and redcurrant. These two berries completely unrelated to grapes.

</doc>
<doc id="15732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15732" title="Blackberry">
Blackberry

The blackberry is an edible fruit made by any of several species in the "Rubus" genus of the Rosaceae family. The blackberry shrub is called "bramble" in Britain, but in the western U.S. "caneberry" is the term is used for both blackberries and raspberries. 
It is a widespread and well known group of over 375 species which reproduce by apomixis. They are native all over the temperate Northern hemisphere and South America. The blackberry grows to about 3 m in height. It makes an edible black fruit, known by the same name. The plant tolerates poor soil very well. 
The plant down its strong suckering roots amongst garden hedges and shrubs. It will grow fast, taking over uncultivated spots very quickly. In some parts of the world, such as in Australia, Chile, New Zealand, and the Pacific Northwest of North America, some blackberry species are regarded as weeds.

</doc>
<doc id="15733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15733" title="Lychee">
Lychee

A lychee (pronounced LEE-ji) is a tropical fruit in the genus "Litchi". It comes from southern China. Since it is tropical, it will only grow in a warm, wet climate.
The inside of a lychee is a clear, pinkish-white colour. The outside of the fruit is a hard spiky shell. Its seed is brown in colour and very hard. The seeds are poisonous and should not be eaten. The lychee has a sweet taste, and may be frozen, made into sauces, jam, puree, or preserves. When frozen, the lychee tastes similar to sorbet. 

</doc>
<doc id="15734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15734" title="Cherry">
Cherry

Cherry is a fruit that grows on a tree or a bush. It belongs to the genus "Prunus". It is usually red, with a seed in the middle. It tastes slightly sour, and is often used to flavour cakes and ice cream, or is baked in a pie or cobbler. Cherries are also a good source of Vitamin B.
In Japan, Yamagata is top producer of cherries.
Top Cherry Producing Nations - 2009
Turkey 417.7 
USA 390.7
Iran 225.0

</doc>
<doc id="15736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15736" title="Blackcurrant">
Blackcurrant

Blackcurrant ("Ribes nigrum") is a small, bitter-tasting fruit. It can be found in central and northern Europe and northern Asia.
Blackcurrant has a lot of vitamin C in it. Blackcurrant gets its name from its dark color. It is also used to make jelly, ice cream, and cordial. Blackcurrant is a popular flavor in the United Kingdom. Blackcurrants are also used in salads and in baking, similar to raisins.

</doc>
<doc id="15739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15739" title="Date">
Date

The word date can mean :

</doc>
<doc id="15740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15740" title="Date Palm">
Date Palm

The Date Palm is a tree. It has been cultivated for a very long time because of its edible fruit. This fruit is called "date". The tree is between 15m and 25m high. It has long leaves that look like feathers. Such leaves are called pinnate. The leaves can grow to 3–5 metres in length. The leaves have visible spines. There are about 150 leaflets. Each leaflet can be up to 30 cm in length and 2 cm in breadth. The full span of the crown of the tree is 6 to 10 metres.
The tree has one or more trunks, that all come from a single system of roots. 
World production of dates was approximately 6.7 Mio tonnes in 2004 (FAO statistics). The major producers are:
The First International Date Conference was held in Tripoli in 1959. In that conference, it was decided to develop a special program under the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to promote the commercial use of substandard or physically defective dates.

</doc>
<doc id="15741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15741" title="Cherimoya">
Cherimoya

Cherimoya is a sweet fruit that comes mostly from Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Bolivia. The inside of a cherimoya is soft, and it is white in color. The skin of the cherimoya fruit is green when it is ripe, and brown if it becomes too ripe. The cherimoya has large, black seeds. They are poisonous, and should not be eaten, like the skin. The cherimoya is special because it can be grown in high places.
In India, especially in North India, this fruit is known as "sitafal" (named after Sita). In Sri Lanka it is known as "Wali Anoda (වැලි අනෝදා)" 

</doc>
<doc id="15742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15742" title="Blueberry">
Blueberry

A blueberry is a berry, a very small fruit. It grows in a type of woody plant called a shrub. Many types of blueberries grow in North America and eastern Asia. Blueberries are more common between May and October.
Blueberries have a sweet taste, with a little acidic hint. Wild blueberries have a stronger taste. Blueberries are good for making jelly, jam, pie, muffins, and many other foods.The most widely cultivated species of blueberry is Vaccinium corymbosum. Some similar kinds of berries are called blueberry or huckleberry in different places. 

</doc>
<doc id="15743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15743" title="Momentum">
Momentum

Momentum can be considered the "power" when an object is moving, meaning how much force it can have on another object. For example, a bowling ball (large mass) pushed very slowly (low velocity) can hit a glass door and not break it, while a baseball (small mass) can be thrown fast (high velocity) and break the same window. The baseball has a larger momentum than the bowling ball. Because momentum is the product of the mass and the velocity of an object, that both mass and velocity affect the momentum of an object. As shown, an object with a large mass and low velocity can have the same momentum as an object with a small mass and large velocity. A bullet is another example where the momentum is very-very high, due to the extraordinary velocity. Another beautiful example where very low-velocities cause greater momentum is the push of Indian subcontinent towards the rest of Asia, causing serious damages, such as earth quakes in the portions of himalayas. In this example, the subcontinent is moving as slow as few inches per year but the mass (imagine weight of India) of Indian-subcontinent is very high. 
As defined by Newton, momentum of an object (p) is the product of the mass (m) and velocity (v) of the object. It is a vector quantity, which has both direction and magnitude. Its unit is "kg m/s" (kilogram metre per second) or "N s" (newton second). Momentum is sometimes referred to as linear momentum which is different from its related subject angular momentum.
Momentum is a conserved object, meaning that the total initial momentum of a system must be equal to the total final momentum of a system. Total amount of momentum remains unchanged.
In Newtonian physics, the usual symbol for momentum is the letter p ; so this can be written
where p is the momentum, "m" is the mass and v is the velocity
<br>
If we apply Newton's 2nd Law, we can derive
The meaning is that the net force on an object is equal to the rate of change in momentum of the object.
In order to use this equation in special relativity, m has to change with speed. That is sometimes called the "relativistic mass" of the object. (Scientists who work with special relativity use other equations instead.)
Impulse is the change in momentum caused by a new force: this force will increase or decrease the momentum depending on the direction of the force; towards or away from the object that was moving before. If the new force (N) is going in the direction of the momentum of the object (x), the momentum of x will increase; therefore if N is going towards object x in the opposite direction, x will slow down and its momentum will decrease.
In understanding conservation of momentum, the direction of the momentum is important. Momentum in a system is added up using vector addition. Under the rules of vector addition, adding a certain amount of momentum together with the same amount of momentum going in the opposite direction gives a total momentum of zero.
For instance, when a gun is fired, a small mass (the bullet) moves at a high speed in one direction. A larger mass (the gun) moves in the opposite direction at a much slower speed. The momentum of the bullet and the momentum of the gun are exactly equal in size but opposite in direction. Using vector addition to add the momentum of the bullet to the momentum of the gun (equal in size but opposite in direction) gives a total system momentum of zero. The momentum of the gun-bullet system has been conserved.
A collision also shows conservation of momentum: if a car (1000 kg) is going right at 8 m/s, and a truck (6000 kg) is going left at 2 m/s, the car and truck will be moving left after the collision. This exercise shows why:
Momentum = Mass x Velocity
The car's momentum: 1000 kg x 8 m/s = 8000kgm/s (Going right)
The truck's momentum: 6000 kg x -2 m/s = -12000kgm/s (Going left)
This means their total momentum is -4000kgm/s. (Going left)

</doc>
<doc id="15751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15751" title="Malmö">
Malmö

Malmo (, ) is the third largest city in Sweden. About 311,514 people lived there in 2013. It is in the south west part of the Sweden, by the sea. The Öresund bridge goes from Malmö to Copenhagen. In the 15th century, Malmö was one of Denmark's largest cities.
Malmö has the biggest Middle Eastern community in Sweden. It is warm in the summer. In winter it is not quite as cold as in other parts of Sweden.
 Newcastle upon Tyne (UK)

</doc>
<doc id="15752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15752" title="Skull">
Skull

A skull, or cranium, is a set of bones that make up the head of a vertebrate and keep in place all body parts in the head. It supports the structures of the face and forms a protective cavity for the brain. 
As well as protecting the brain, the skull fixes the distance between the eyes and between the ears. This allows stereoscopic vision, and helps help the brain judge direction and distance of sounds. In some animals, the skull also has a defensive function (e.g. horned ungulates). The frontal bone is where horns are mounted. 
The skull is made of a number of joined (fused) flat bones. In humans, the adult skull is normally made up of 28 bones. 

</doc>
<doc id="15762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15762" title="Mark Hoppus">
Mark Hoppus

Mark Hoppus is an American musician better known by his pseudonym, "Heezy".
He was born March 15, 1972. He is most famous for being a member of the band Blink 182. He played the bass guitar and sang. After Blink 182 broke up, he started another band, called "+44", with Blink 182's drummer, Travis Barker. When he was younger he played in bands called Pier 69 and the Attic Children. He has a wife named Skye and a son named Jack. Today he plays in +44 and produces music for other bands.

</doc>
<doc id="15769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15769" title="Sandstone">
Sandstone

Sandstone is a sedimentary rock. It is a rock made of compacted sand. Sand is small grains of rocks and minerals (such as quartz and feldspar). These are the most common minerals in the Earth's crust.
Sandstone which is resistant to weathering is used for building in many countries. It can be a hard rock. For example, paving slabs can be made out of hard sandstone. 
Sandstone is converted into quartzite through heating and pressure. This happens when rocks are squeezed and heated under a mountain chain.
Sandstone forms in two stages. First, layers of sand build up as sediment, either from water or from air (as in a desert). 
Then sand particles are compacted by pressure of overlying deposits, and cemented ('glued' together). The 'cement' is either calcite (calcium carbonate), quartz (silica), or clay. Iron oxide often makes sandstone a reddish colour.

</doc>
<doc id="15772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15772" title="Pseudonym">
Pseudonym

A pseudonym (soo-do-nim) is a fake name a person uses instead of their real name. Many people use pseudonyms, including authors (pen names) and performers (stage names). People use pseudonyms for several different reasons: to hide identity, gender, and/or race. People (such as rappers) also use pseudonyms to match their stage personality better. Pseudonyms can include stage names, screen names, ring names, pen names, nicknames, aliases, superhero identities and code names.
"Pseudonym" comes from the Greek word ("pseudṓnymon"), which means "false name".
There are three main types of pseudonyms: pen names, stage names and user-names. Pen names are used by authors, usually to hide identity. Many famous books, such as The Outsiders and A Series of Unfortunate Events, have been written by authors using a pseudonym. Daniel Handler wrote A Series of Unfortunate Events under the pseudonym Lemony Snicket both because he wanted to make the author a character in the story and because he wanted to hide his real name. When she published The Outsiders, Susan Eloise Hinton decided to use her initials, S. E., instead of her first and middle names, because she did not want readers to guess her gender. The Brontë sisters (Anne, Emily and Charlotte) used pseudonyms to hide the fact that they based many of their characters on their neighbors.
Musicians, actors and performers also use pseudonyms, called stage names, both to hide their identity and to give themselves a "cooler" name. For example, rapper Sean Combs is currently known by Diddy, but used to call himself P Diddy and Puff Daddy. He says that he changed his name from P Diddy to Diddy because the name "caused confusion and he wanted to 'simplify things'." 
Many people on the Internet use pseudonyms. There are many names for these pseudonyms, including user-names, user IDs and handles. These pseudonyms help people stay anonymous on the internet, and they also protect people from identity theft and phishing. When people log into an account on sites like Wikipedia, MySpace or Facebook, their user-name helps identify them without entering their real name. If people used their real name instead of a user-name, it would create confusion for two people with the same name. Usernames make this simple, because people create their own user-names. Also, if someone used their real name, it would make it easier for people to guess their passwords and for other people to find them in real life.
Sometimes criminals would use a pseudonym. For example, com man Jefferson R. Smith was also known as Soapy Smith.

</doc>
<doc id="15773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15773" title="Pen name">
Pen name

A pen name, also known as a pseudonym, is a name an author uses in the place of their real name, when they write and publish things. For example, the Brontë sisters (Anne, Emily and Charlotte) who were famous authors in the 19th century used them, because they feared that people would make fun of (say bad things about) a book written by a woman. Charles Dodgson, an English math professor took the name Lewis Carroll, when he wrote fantasy stories. Erle Stanley Gardner, a best-selling American author, wrote books under numerous pseudonyms, including A. A. Fair, Kyle Corning, Charles M. Green, Carleton Kendrake, Charles J. Kenny, Les Tillray and Robert Parr, as well as under his real name.

</doc>
<doc id="15775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775" title="Stage name">
Stage name

A stage name is a name an entertainer like a movie star or a musician takes in the place of their real or birth name, they might like this name better than their real one or it's easier for people to remember. Professional wrestlers use stage names also, in their case it's called a "Ring name".
Actors and actresses choose stage names for a variety of reasons. Their real names may be the same as or similar to those of other people, or they may be difficult to say or spell.

</doc>
<doc id="15778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15778" title="Fermat's Last Theorem">
Fermat's Last Theorem

Fermat's Last Theorem is a very famous idea in mathematics. It says that:
Pierre de Fermat wrote about it in 1637 inside his copy of a book called "Arithmetica". He said "I have a proof of this theorem, but there is not enough space in this margin". However, no correct proof was found for 357 years. Mathematicians everywhere think that Fermat, in fact, did not have a good proof of this theorem.
Fermat's Last Theorem is a more general form of the equation: formula_2.
(This comes from the Pythagorean theorem). A special case is when a, b, and c are whole numbers. Then they are named a "pythagorean triple". There are an infinite number of them (they go on forever). Fermat's Last Theorem talks about what happens when the 2 changes to a bigger whole number. It says that then there are no triples when a, b, and c are integers greater than or equal to one (meaning that if n is more than three, a,b and c cannot be natural numbers).
The proof was made for "some" values of n (like "n"=3, "n"=4, "n"=5 and "n"=7). Fermat, Euler, Sophie Germain, and other people did this. 
However, the full proof must show that the equation has no solution for all values of n (when n is a whole number bigger than 2). The proof was very difficult to find, and Fermat's Last Theorem needed lots of time to be solved.
An English mathematician named Andrew Wiles found a solution in 1995, 358 years after Fermat wrote about it. Richard Taylor helped him find the solution. The proof took eight years of research. He received the Wolfskehl Prize from Göttingen Academy in June 1997: it amounted to about $50,000 U.S. dollars.
After a few years of debate, people agreed that Andrew Wiles had solved the problem. Andrew Wiles used a lot of modern mathematics and even created new maths when he made his solution. This mathematics was unknown when Fermat wrote his famous note, so Fermat could not have used it. This leads one to believe that Fermat did not in fact have a complete solution of the problem.

</doc>
<doc id="15779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15779" title="Lewinsky scandal">
Lewinsky scandal

The Lewinsky scandal was an American political sex scandal in 1998. United States President Bill Clinton was said to have had oral sex with 22 year old Monica Lewinsky. 
Lewinsky said that she had sex with Bill Clinton nine times from November 1995 to March 1997. According to her published schedule, First Lady Hillary Clinton was at the White House for some of the time on seven of those days.
Clinton did not admit his affair until the annual White House prayer on September 11, 1998, in the presence of several ministers, priests and his wife, Hillary Clinton, in his "I have sinned" speech. The speech was hand-written by Clinton himself and was delivered on the day of publication of the first report by Independent Counsel Ken Starr, which threatened to impeach President Clinton in the grounds of perjury and his sexual affair with former White House intern, Monica Lewinsky. Then-President of South Africa Nelson Mandela personally helped President Clinton during his impeachment hearing. 

</doc>
<doc id="15780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15780" title="Console">
Console

Console can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15782" title="323">
323


</doc>
<doc id="15783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15783" title="Guam">
Guam

Guam is an island in Micronesia in the Pacific Ocean that is part of the United States. It is a territory and not one of the 50 U.S. States. The people that first lived there are called "Chamorros". The capital of Guam is the city of Hagåtña. The largest city is Dededo. Guam has important United States Air Force and Navy bases, which use a lot of Guam's land. Guam also has a lot of tourists.
Guam was one of the first islands in the Pacific Ocean to be visited by Europeans. In 1521, the first European to visit Guam was Ferdinand Magellan, on his voyage around the World. Spain took over Guam in 1668, and it was an important place for Spanish delivery boats every year going between Mexico and the Philippines, known as the Manila Galleon. During this time the people on Guam learned a great deal about the Spaniards.
In 1898, the United States had a war with Spain and took Guam under the Treaty of Paris, which also brought the giving of Cuba, the Philippines and Puerto Rico from Spain. Guam continued to be important due to its strategic location, both for shipping and air travel in the Pacific. During World War II, Japan captured Guam in 1941, but the U.S. fought to get it back in 1944. This meant that the Chamorro people on Guam were on a different side of the war than the Chamorro people on the nearby Northern Mariana Islands. Even though the Northern Mariana Islands were also taken over by America, they still feel different from the Chamorro people on Guam.
In 1950, the US Congress passed a law making the people of Guam American citizens. Also they make money.Yea
Most people on Guam are happy to be Americans. The American military bases make some jobs for a lot of Guam people. Being part of America also helps bring visitors from Japan who spend money.
But some people on Guam do not like Guam continuing its status as a U.S. territory. They want to be a more important part of America. Some of these people want Guam to be a "commonwealth", like Puerto Rico. A few others want Guam to be a U.S. State, or for Guam to be its own country. But the United States does not think this would be a good idea. Guam needs a lot of money from the U.S. government, which it would lose if it changed into a commonwealth, a state, or its own country. Also, changing Guam might mean the U.S. would have to give up some of the important military bases. 
Guam being a part of the United States is also important to the security of the United States with its position as a power projection hub in the event of a conflict with any Asian powers, such as China or North Korea. 
Guam gets most of its money from the United States government. Much of that money is spent on the military bases, but there are also federal grants given to the Guam government for various programs. Because it is only a territory, federal income taxes paid by Guam residents are given to the Guam government for its operations. 
Guam also gets a lot of money from visitors on vacation. Almost all of these visitors are from Japan. Japanese tourists like Guam because it is closer to Japan than other American places. Guam has lots of hotels and other fun places for people to visit. Tumon Bay is Guam's biggest beach. It has lots of pretty white sand, and the water has lots of fish. Tumon is becoming a busy city.
Today, Guam has less visitors than it did a few years ago, because Asia has had some trouble. This means there are fewer jobs on Guam, and it has lost money.
Guam is 212 square miles (549 square kilometers) large. In the north part, it has a flat area of coral and limestone rock. The south part has mountains. Around the island is a coral reef.
Guam is next to the Marianas Trench, which is the deepest part of the Earth and underwater. It sometimes has earthquakes, some of which have been very strong.
Guam is a tropical island. It is usually quite warm and wet and the temperature does not change very much. From February to July it is dry, but the rest of the year it is rainy. Sometimes Guam has very strong and dangerous storms in October and November.

</doc>
<doc id="15786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15786" title="Warren G. Harding">
Warren G. Harding

Warren G. Harding (November 2, 1865–August 2, 1923) was the 29th President of the United States (Republican Party). Before becoming president, he was a senator and the assistant governor of Ohio. Before he was in government, he was an important newspaper manager. He was the president starting in 1921 until his death in 1923.
After World War I, he was elected on the promise to return the United States back to normal. He supported limited government in the economy. During his term, he lowered taxes and believed that the economy should not be regulated too much.
Warren G. Harding made the mistake of appointing his friends to high political positions. In result, they corruptly abused their power for their personal gain and several scandals happened during his presidency (Harding himself was innocent). 
He died of a heart attack in 1923 while he was the president. 
His vice president Calvin Coolidge became president after he died. 
Historians generally consider him one of the worst presidents due to his lack of political skill.

</doc>
<doc id="15789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15789" title="Honduras">
Honduras

Honduras is a country in Central America. Its capital is Tegucigalpa. Most people of Honduras speak the Spanish language. 7,483,763 people live in Honduras and it is in size. It is next to El Salvador. To one side is the Caribbean Sea and to the other in the Pacific Ocean.
The ethnic makeup of Honduras is 80% mestizo, 17% amerindian, 2% black, and 1% white.
Honduras has the world's highest murder rate.
Honduras is divided into 18 departments. The capital city is Tegucigalpa in the Central District.

</doc>
