<doc id="100682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100682" title="Super Mario Bros. 2">
Super Mario Bros. 2

Super Mario Bros. 2 is the second game of the "Mario" series. It is the name of two different games. In Japan, the game was created by Nintendo. Shigeru Miyamoto thought that the original "" was too hard for Americans, and decided to take a game called "", and replaced the old characters with the "Mario" characters Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, and Toad. The game was much different from other "Mario" games because of this.
This game features four characters: Toad, Luigi, Mario, and Princess Peach. Each one has different characteristics. Luigi can jump higher than the other characters, Peach can stay afloat for longer when jumping, Toad can pull items out of the ground quicker whilst Mario has generic all-round abilities.
Peach can stay afloat for a few seconds longer than the others.
The player can pick the character at the start of each level.
Unlike the regular "Mario" games, Mario and his friends have vegetables and can pick up some enemies and throw them.

</doc>
<doc id="100683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100683" title="Sierra Mist">
Sierra Mist

Sierra Mist is a lemon lime soft drink similar to 7 Up and Sprite. It is made by the Pepsi Company. It was released in 2000. Their rival soft drink is Sprite which is made by the Coca-Cola company.
Sierra Mist comes in many flavors such as:

</doc>
<doc id="100684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100684" title="Mario Kart: Double Dash!!">
Mario Kart: Double Dash!!

Mario Kart: Double Dash‼ is a racing game made by Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development and Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube in 2003. This is the fourth "Mario Kart" game. The third game was "Mario Kart Super Circuit". The fifth game is "Mario Kart DS" and the sixth is "Mario Kart Wii". The seventh is "Mario Kart 7" for the Nintendo 3DS.
New things have been added in this game. The most popular change is that you can play as two characters at a time. If you have a special cable for the Nintendo GameCube, you can plug it in to play against up to 15 people. Nine characters returned, while 11 new characters appeared. A special item for each character has also been added.
Lots of people liked Mario Kart: Double Dash!!. Its score on Metacritic was 87 out of 100. People liked the looks and the new characters, modes etc., but people did not like the character's voices. Lots of people liked this game. 3.8 million Mario Kart: Double Dash!! CDs were sold in the United States, and more than 802,000 Double Dash!! CDs were sold in Japan.
Double Dash‼ is different to the other "Mario Kart" games. You can now use two characters at a time. One drives and the other one uses items. You can not put an item at the back of the kart as a shield against shells, so you will have to quickly move away from them instead. This is the first game where the characters lose their items when they get hit. Players can also steal items from other characters. If a character makes blue sparks, they get a small boost (called a mini-turbo). 
Up to four people can go against each other in this game. As well as the other games, the race tracks have lots of twists and turns and things to try to drive away from. There are some mini-games in Mario Kart: Double Dash‼. Double Dash lets 16 people play against each other if one of them has a special type of cable.
There are 20 characters that you can play as. Eleven of them are new to the series. Characters have their own items/special abilities. The characters speed, acceleration etc. depends on the weight. There are 16 race tracks. There is also a "150cc Mirror Cup". In Mirror Cup mode, you are still playing the normal game but looks like you are looking into a mirror and playing Mario Kart (minus your own face).
"Double Dash‼" was first shown in 2001. People saw Mario and Luigi driving their karts on a flat floor for seven seconds. It was being made and was basically "Mario Kart" at the time. In April 2003, Nintendo showed pictures of the game and said that the game would be called "Mario Kart: Double Dash!!". In 2003, some people were able to play a demo of the game (not all characters and tracks were in it). New things, like having two characters drive one kart, had been added. A new demo with some new things was shown at the Games Convention in August 2003. In September, Nintendo showed people a nearly complete and more sped up version of "Double Dash!!". The Gamers' Summit also said that the game would be out in North America on the 17th of November, 2003.
The guys who made the game struggled to come up with new stuff the fans would like. Kiyoshi Mizuki, the main director, had a hard time with was how to hook new fans into the game; he decided to make it as simple as possible. Producer Shigeru Miyamoto gave the staff some pointers about stuff to put in the game the best they could. He let them pick out how they wanted to do the graphics.
The staff wanted to let people play online but the technology was not good enough for that yet. They also wanted to do something with a Game Boy Advance connection for this game but they decided "Double Dash!!" did not fit anything like that. They wanted to make sure the really good plaers and the not-so-good players were all able to have fun with this game, so they took out things like not slipping when you hit a banana.
The game music was made by Shinobu Tanaka and Kenta Nagata. A lot of the main "Mario" voice actors came back for this game, like Charles Martinet as Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, Baby Mario, and Baby Luigi; Jen Taylor as Princess Peach, Toad, Toadette, and Birdo; Deanna Mustard as Princess Daisy; Kazumi Totaka as Yoshi; Scott Burns as Bowser; and Dolores Rogers as Bowser Jr.
Most people liked "Mario Kart: Double Dash!!", and it sold a lot. This game got the "Multiplayer Game" award from ITV's "Game Stars" in 2004. It's sold about 4.67 million times around the world, 3.8 million in the United States, and over 802,000 in Japan. The NPD Group says "Double Dash!!" was the best-selling game of November 2003. It's also the third best-selling GameCube game in Australia. In October 2006, the NPD Group said this game sold seventh best for the GameCube in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="100697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100697" title="Khan">
Khan

Khan should not be confused with Kahn, which is a German surname.
Khan may mean:
In fiction:
In music:
Khan may also be:

</doc>
<doc id="100698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100698" title="Khan (title)">
Khan (title)

Khan (sometimes spelled as "Xan", "Han", "Ke-Han", , ) is an originally Central Asian title for a sovereign or military ruler. It was used by the Mongols who brought it to all over Asia. It now has many equivalent meanings such as commander, leader, or ruler. Presently, khans exist mostly in South Asia, Central Asia and Iran. The female alternatives are Khatun and Khanum.
A khan controls a khanate (sometimes spelled "chanat"). Whenever appropriate as ruler of a monarchy, "khan" is also translated as king or prince. (But that translation is not quite correct.) Originally khans only headed relatively minor tribes.
The title "Khan" became well known when the tribal Mongol Temüjin proved himself a military genius by creating the Mongol Empire, the greatest land empire the world ever saw, which he ruled as Genghis Khan. His title was khagan 'Khan of Khans', see below, but is often 'shortened' to Khan (rather like the Persian "Shahanshah" – also meaning 'King of Kings' – is usually called Shah, equally incorrect, in most Western languages) or described as 'Great Khan' (like the Ottoman Padishah being called 'Great Sultan').
There have been several variations on the title used in modern times. "Khan Bahadur" or "Khan Sahib" was a title of honour, granted by the British Raj to Muslims who had done major deeds of valour, or service to the nation or government. The Hindu counterpart for this title was "Rai Bahadur" or "Rai Sahib". This title was normally granted in addition to other awards and decorations and added either before or after a person's actual name as a prefix or suffix.

</doc>
<doc id="100715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100715" title="Crime in Russia">
Crime in Russia

Crime in Russia has many different types. Organized crimes include drug trafficking, money laundering, human trafficking, extortion, murder for hire, and fraud. Many criminal operations take part in corruption, black marketeering, terrorism and abduction. Other forms of crime done by criminal groups are arms trafficking, export of contraband oil and metals, and smuggling of radioactive materials. Crime rate in Russia sharply increased since the late 1980s. The fall of communism in Eastern Europe had tremendous influence on the political economy of organized crime. Approximately 8,000 criminal groups are in the country. Almost 50% of the nation's economy is connected to organized crime.
Drug trafficking and illegal drug use is a big problem in the nation. The disintegration of the Soviet Union, the civil war in Afghanistan, the civil war in Tajikistan, and the conflicts in the North Caucasus have made the favorable conditions for the development of illegal drug trade. But measures have been taken to fight drug trafficking. Russia is a party of the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. In March 2003, Russian President Vladimir Putin established the Russian State Committee for Control over the 
Illegal Trafficking of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances for combating drug trafficking with more coordinated manner.
Russia is a supply, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children being trafficked for various purposes. The trafficking is multidimensional and it involves both commercial sexual exploitation and labor exploitation. Russia is a significant source of women trafficked to over 50 nations. Internal trafficking is a problem in the country; women are trafficked from rural areas to urban settlements for commercial sexual exploitation. Men are trafficked internally and from Central Asia for forced labor in the construction and agricultural industries. Debt bondage is common among the trafficking victims. Arms trafficking has become a significant problem in Russia following the disintegration of the Soviet Union.
Arms trafficking in Russia stemmed from corruption in the armed forces and the illegal sale of military equipments. In 2000, the number of seized unregistered firearms was 300,000, which was a 37% increase compared with 1999. Many Russian criminal organizations, aside from arms trafficking in Russia, provide weapons to the terrorist groups in Chechnya. Poaching was rare in the Soviet Union,
Poaching is now a major problem in the country. The main cause for poaching in Russia is the consequence of the social and political changes since the collapse of the Soviet Union. State-controlled farms stopped functioning due to the fall of the previous system resulting in high unemployment. Unemployment, poverty, inflation, shortage of food and demand for foreign currency have major impact on the wildlife in the country. Animals being poached are bear, musk deer, tiger etc. Approximately 50,000 cases of poaching are registered annually in Russia.
Between 1992 and 1996, law enforcement agencies in Russia mainly focused on drug trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering and 
the First Chechen War, and environmental crimes like poaching and illegal timber smuggling were generally not treated as national security issues. During the post-perestroika transition, the government agencies for environment and wildlife protection experienced severe budget cuts which led to layoffs and salary reductions for wildlife rangers in places like Primorski Krai and it reduced the resources of the rangers to fight against the poachers. There has been an increasing demand for bear parts, especially bile, and it led to an increase in poaching of bears in the Russian Federation. The collapse of communism in the country had significant influence on the average Russian's economic ability to maintain his or her family. There are a large population of bears in Russia, and Russia's trade in bear parts is primarily with nearby Asian countries like South Korea and the People's Republic of China. Because of these poaching of bears become easy for Russians. Poaching of the snow leopard is a serious problem in Russia along with Afghanistan, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, People’s Republic of China, Russia, Tajikstan and Uzbekistan.
The murder rate in Russia has become three times as big between 1988 and 1994 and is now among the highest in the world. In 1998, a total of 24,537,600 crimes happened in United States, while in Russia a total of 2,581,940 crimes were recorded. In 1999, the number was 23,677,800 and 3,001,748 respectively. Total recorded rapes in the United States was 93,140 and 89,110 for the years 1998 and 1999, while this number was 7,724 and 7,314 respectively for Russia. 
Following is a comparison of various crimes per 1000 people from 1998 to 2000:

</doc>
<doc id="100716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100716" title="Crime in India">
Crime in India

Crime in India is very common and happens in many different ways. Along with violent crimes (like homicide, robbery, and assault), and property crimes (like burglary, theft, motor vehicle theft, and arson), there are major problems with organized crime, the illegal drug trade, arms trafficking, corruption, and many other forms of crime. The most common types of crimes in India are listed below.
Organized crime is planned and done by groups of people. Their goals are to gain power and make money in Illegal ways. Common organized crimes in India include:
Many criminal organizations also commit these crimes:
India is located between the Golden Crescent (made of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Iran) and the Golden Triangle (made of Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos). The Golden Crescent and the Golden Triangle are the two biggest makers of opium in Asia. (Opium can be smoked on its own, or it can be made into heroin.) But their opium-making is illicit - secret and illegal. Because of India's location, a lot of this illegal opium is trafficked (snuck illegally) through India's borders.
India is the world's largest maker of legal opium. But its opium gets diverted (taken away by drug traffickers) to other countries where opium and heroin are illegal.
India is a common starting point for drug traffickers who take heroin on ships from Southwest Asian countries like Afghanistan and Pakistan, and from Southeast Asian countries like Myanmar, Laos, and Thailand. The heroin is then smuggled from Pakistan and Myanmar, with some heroin also shipped through Nepal. Most heroin shipped from India goes to Europe. There have been reports of heroin smuggled from Mumbai to Nigeria to get the drugs to more countries.
In Maharashtra, Mumbai is an important centre where people sell heroin. The most commonly used drug in Mumbai is "Indian heroin" (called "desi mal" by the local population). Both public transportation (road and rail transportation) and private transportation are used for this drug trade.
The Government of India has tried a few ways of fighting drug trafficking in the country. India is a party to (meaning it signed onto and agreed to follow):
According to a report published together by Oxfam, Amnesty International, and the International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA) in 2006, there are around 40 million illegal small arms in India. This would mean that India had over half of the small arms in the entire world (the world had 75 million, according to the report).
Most of the illegal small arms end up in the states of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh. In India, an used AK-47 costs $3,800 on the illegal black market. But a large amount of illegal small arms are made in illegal arms factories in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and sold on the black market for as little as $5.08.
Chinese pistols are in demand in the illegal small arms market in India because they are easy to get and cheaper. This creates a major problem for the states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. These states are affected by Naxalism. Naxalites are groups of Communist guerrilla fighters in India. (Guerrilla fighters are people who attack a regular army.) Many Chinese pistols, AK-47s, and M-16 rifles are smuggled into India through the border between India and Nepal. These weapons are then used by the Naxalites, who have ties to Maoists in Nepal.
Illegal wildlife trade in India has increased. There are laws against killing some animals, taking rare plants, and smuggling them into other countries. But a report published by the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) in 2004 said that more traders of wildlife skins go to India than any other country. Between 1994 and 2003, there were 784 cases where the skins of tigers, leopards, or otters have been seized (taken away from illegal traders by police). Also between 1994 and 2003, police seized 698 otters who had been poached (illegally taken or killed).
Poaching of elephants is a big problem in Southern India and in the North-Eastern states of Nagaland and Mizoram. Most tiger poaching happens in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh.
Once they are poached, leopards, rhinoceros, reptiles, birds, insects, and rare species of plants are smuggled into the countries in Southeast Asia and the People's Republic of China. Often, poachers bring illegal animal skins from India to Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal, ion the way to Tibet and China. In its report in 2004, the Environmental Investigation Agency said that there was not enough cooperation between India, Nepal, and the People's Republic of China. Because these countries were not cooperating, they could not work together to enforce anti-poaching laws, and were not interested enough in fighting wildlife crime together.
On April 1, 1973, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi launched Project Tiger, which was first started in 1972. Project Tiger was a wildlife conservation project - a project that tried to protect wildlife from being poached. Project Tiger created 23 tiger reserves (protected areas for tigers), said they had been successful, since the amount of tigers in India had increased. But critics like conservationist Billy Arjan Singh said that tigers had only moved to India from Nepal because their habitat in Nepal had been destroyed - not because of wildlife policy in India.
Cyber crime - crimes done by computer - are very, very common in India. Examples of cyber crime include: 
India has tried many things to decrease cyber crime. In May of 2000, the Parliament of India passed a law called The Information Technology Act 2000 was passed by the Parliament of India in May 2000. Its goal was to decrease cyber crimes and start setting up laws to allow e-commerce (where many)ey could be exchanged electronically. However, Pavan Duggan, a lawyer with the Supreme Court of India and cyber law expert, complained that the IT act focused too much on promoting e-commerce and not enough on dealing with cyber crimes. Cyber crime cells have been set up in major cities. But Duggal said the problem is that most cases are never reported because people do not know their rights under Indian law.
In 2001, India and United States joined together in an Indian-US cyber security forum as part of a counter-terrorism dialogue. In 2006, India and the US agreed to have their law enforcement agencies work together more in fighting cyber crimes. They saw this as an important as part of counter-terrorism efforts.
In 2006, U.S. President George W. Bush and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh met to discuss cyber security. Afterward, they held a press conference together. They said that because cyber security and cyber forensic research (like finding evidence in computers) are so important, India and the United States were also talking about a draft protocol on cyber security.
Corruption is very common in India. It is common in every section and every level of Indian society. Corruption has also become a big part of Indian politics. In India, corruption takes many forms, including: 
India has state laws that make it illegal for police to torture people. But these laws are not often obeyed. Torture is often used when people are arrested or jailed by the police. This torture is a major cause of deaths in police custody. The police often torture innocent people until they 'confess' (they say they did the crime). This false confession is then used to save important, rich people who have actually committed crimes. One major problem that keeps police violence possible is a lack of accountability (meaning no one gets in trouble if they torture a person), according to G.P. Joshi. Joshi runs the Indian branch of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative in New Delhi.
In 2006, the Supreme Court of India decided a case called "Prakash Singh vs. Union of India". In its decision, the Court ordered central and state governments to begin police reform. The Court had two goals with its decision. The first was to give tenure to police officers, and to make it simpler for police officers to get hired or transfer to a different area. The second was to increase police accountability.
In 2006, seven policemen were charge-sheeted (officially accused of having done a crime) for police misconduct, and eleven were convicted.
Criminals visit markets and other places that are popular with tourists, with the goal of committing crimes against foreigners (people from other countries). Westerners have become victims of robbery, rape, and other violent attacks.
Because foreigners often have more money than most people in India, they are often criminals' favorite target for robbery and other serious crimes.
In April 1999, a group of Indians made friends with Swaraj Damree, a tourist from Mauritius. The group later kidnapped Damree and held him captive for 25 days. They robbed him of cash worth $1,500 in U.S. dollars, and stole his traveller's cheques, wrist watch, gold chain, bracelet, two bags and suitcase. In 2000, two German tourists were shot in Himachal Pradesh. A few weeks later, two Spanish tourists were killed by robbers in the same state.
Many foreign tourists are victims of violent crime in Kolkata. In September 2006, criminals robbed the wallet of a British woman in Kolkata. The same month, a Japanese tourist was robbed on his way to Sudder Street. In October 2006, a foreigner was robbed during the day on Park Street.
Petty crime, like stealing people's wallets and bags, is common in India. Stealing valuable things from foreigners' luggage on trains and buses is also common. People traveling alone are especially likely to have their things stolen by pickpockets and purse snatchers, who usually work in crowded areas.
In India, stealing tourists' passports from their luggage on trains and buses is very common. Theft of U.S. passports happens often, especially in major tourist areas.
Criminals run many scams against tourists, especially in Jaipur, the capital of Rajasthan. The criminals usually pick younger tourists to try to scam. They tell the tourists that they can make a lot of money if they move gems or gold, or if they take expensive carpets back home in their luggage to avoid customs duties.
If a tourist agrees, the scam continues for a few days. Then a new scam artist offers to show the tourist interesting places in the area. The scammers also offer cheap places to stay and meals to the tourist. They do this so that the tourist ends up being with the scam artist all the time. The scam artist is then threatened and may be hurt, until he gives up his passport to the scammers.
In 2006, an American became victim of a scam at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport in Mumbai. She lost $77 U.S. dollars.
Taxi drivers also run scams in India. These scams are run on tourists who do not know their way around India or Indian airports. Some taxi drivers will drive tourists around the whole airport, so they can charge a lot of money for the ride, when the part of the airport that the tourist wants to go to was actually very close by. In a report, the Overseas Security Advisory Council talked about taxi scams and how to avoid them.
There have been more and more rapes of tourists at popular tourist spots. In March 2006, Biti Mohanty, the son of a senior police official in Orissa, raped a German tourist in Alwar, Rajasthan. The next month, a Japanese woman was raped in Pushkar, Rajasthan. In June 2007, a South Korean tourist was raped near Manali. In September 2007, two Japanese women were gang-raped in Agra, a popular tourist spot in India where the Taj Mahal is located.
The Indian state of Rajasthan is a popular place among foreign tourists. One out of every three tourists that go to India visit this state. Rajasthan has been rattled by rape cases of foreign tourists. The Indian Bureau of Consular Affairs has warned women from the United States not to travel alone in India.
A report published by the National Crime Records Bureau compared crime rates from 1953 to 2006. The report found that: 
In 2006, 51,02,460 cognizable crimes were committed. In India, cognizable crimes are serious crimes, where a police officer could make an arrest without needing a warrant first. Examples of cognizable crimes include rape, murder, and theft.
Among the cognizable crimes committed in 2006, there were 18,78,293 Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes and 32,24,167 Special & Local Laws (SLL) crimes. The IPC crime rate in 2006 was 167.7 compared to 165.3 in 2005, showing an increase of 1.5% in 2006 over 2005. SLL crime rate in 2006 was 287.9 compared to 290.5 in 2005, showing a decrease of 0.9% in 2006 over 2005.
SOURCE: National Crime Records Bureau
Different places in India have different amounts and types of crime. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="100723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100723" title="Birthmark">
Birthmark

A birthmark is a mark on skin that some people are born with. Names given to types of birthmarks are: stork bites, Mongolian blue spots, strawberry marks, café au lait spots, nevus|congenital melanocytic nevi, and port-wine stains.
A birthmark was once thought of as the mark of the devil, and today it is often considered a birth defect. In some cases this mark is considered to be the mark of God applied to his chosen few.

</doc>
<doc id="100726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100726" title="Pskov">
Pskov

Pskov (, ancient Russian spelling Пльсковъ ("Pleskov")) is an old city in the northwest of Russia. It is about east of the Estonian border, on the Velikaya River.
Pskov is twinned with the following cities: 

</doc>
<doc id="100728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100728" title="Perth, Scotland">
Perth, Scotland

Perth () is a city and the main part of the Perth and Kinross council area in Scotland, with around 43,450 people living there. The town was a large burgh before 1975.
Perth is named by some people as "The Fair City", though the city status in the United Kingdom said that Perth was no longer a city, until 2012 when, along with Chelmsford (in Essex, England) and St. Asaph (in north Wales), it was given city status to mark Queen Elizabeth II's 60 years on the throne.
Scotland's other six cities are Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Dundee, Stirling and Inverness.
Perth also has its own football team, St. Johnstone F.C., which plays in the Scottish Premiership, as the Scottish Premier League had its name changed in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="100729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100729" title="Nevermore">
Nevermore

Nevermore is an American metal band from Seattle, Washington. Their style of metal is a mixture of many different types like Thrash metal, Groove Metal and Death Metal. They formed in 1991. The members right now are: Warral Dane (vocals), Jeff Loomis (guitar), Jim Sheppard (bass), Van Williams (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="100736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100736" title="Machine Head">
Machine Head

Machine Head is a metal band from Oakland in California. They play a mixture between Thrash metal and Groove metal. The band members right now are: Rob Flynn (guitar, vocals), Adam Duce (bass), Dave McClain (drums) and Phil Demmel (guitar).

</doc>
<doc id="100743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100743" title="Fritz Haber Institute of the MPG">
Fritz Haber Institute of the MPG

The Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society is a science research group in Dahlem, Berlin, Germany. 
The original was called Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry and Electrochemistry, and it was founded in 1911. That became part of the Max Planck Society and took the name of the first director, Fritz Haber, in 1953.
The Institute has researched many kinds of physics including chemical kinetics and reaction dynamics, colloid chemistry, atomic physics, spectroscopy, surface chemistry and surface physics, chemical physics and molecular physics, theoretical chemistry, and materials science.
During World War I and World War II, the Institute was used and by Germany's military.
Some of the most important members in the Institutes past are: Herbert Freundlich, James Franck, Paul Friedlander, Rudolf Ladenburg, Michael Polanyi, Eugene Wigner, Ladislaus Farkas, Hartmut Kallmann, Otto Hahn, Robert Havemann, Karl Friedrich Bonhoeffer, Ernst Ruska, Max von Laue, Rudolf Brill, Kurt Moliere, Jochen Block, Heinz Gerischer, Rolf Hosemann, Kurt Überreiter, Alex Bradshaw, and Gerhard Ertl.
Nobel Prize winners involved with the Institute include Max von Laue (1914), Fritz Haber (1918), James Franck (1925), Otto Hahn (1944), Eugene Wigner (1963), Ernst Ruska (1986), Gerhard Ertl (2007). 

</doc>
<doc id="100744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100744" title="Microformat">
Microformat

A Microformat is an attempt to re-use existing content in HTML and XML documents. Such content may be information on how to contact someone, or it may be geographical coordinates, for example. This information can then be processed by software more easily.
Technically, this kind of information is already there. A microformat aims at making this information accessible more easily. That way, tags might be added to flag the information. 
In this example, the contact information is presented as follows:
With hCard microformat markup, that becomes:
Here, the formatted name ("fn"), organisation ("org"), telephone number ("tel") and web address ("url") have been identified using specific class names and the whole thing is wrapped in codice_1, which indicates that the other classes form an hCard (short for "HTML vCard") and are not merely coincidentally named. Other, optional, hCard classes also exist. It is now possible for software, such as browser plug-ins, to extract the information, and transfer it to other applications, such as an address book.

</doc>
<doc id="100745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100745" title="VCard">
VCard

vCard is a standard document format for electronic business cards. Very often, vCards are attached to E-Mail messages, but they can also be exchanged in other ways. There are also extensions to it, known as vCalendar or iCalendar. hCard is a broader format to do the same thing.

</doc>
<doc id="100746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100746" title="British War Medal">
British War Medal

The British War Medal was a medal given to people who had fought in the First World War. The medal was originally meant to be for people who had fought in the war between 5th August 1914 and 11th November 1918, but this was later changed to the years between 1914 and 1920. This was because a lot of people still lost their lives in the armed forces even after the war had ended, because they were clearing landmines or mines at sea.
The British War Medal (often shortened to BWM) was awarded to both officers and men of the Royal Marines, Royal Navy, the Army and also the Dominion and Colonial Forces. The Dominion and Colonial Forces were the armed forces for the rest of the British Empire. To qualify for (be allowed to have) the medal, a member of the fighting forces had to have left his native country in any part of the British Empire whilst on military duty.
There were over six and a half million British War Medals given out. Most of them are made of silver, but some rarer ones are made of bronze instead. They are all circular, and have different designs on each side. Each side of a medal is called a "face". The face that usually has a picture of the side view of a person's head on it is called the "obverse", and the other side of the medal is called the "reverse". The picture of the person's head is more commonly known as a "bust", which is a type of statue that only shows the head, neck and tops of the shoulders of the person it is meant to be.
The "obverse" side of the medal shows a bust of King George V (V is a Roman numeral. Here it means 'the fifth'). The picture shows him facing left. There is also lettering around the picture of the King, which reads 'GEORGIVS V BRITT : OMN : REX ET IND : IMP :'. The 'V' in 'GEORGIVS' is actually read as a 'U'. The whole message is abbreviated, or shortened, and is supposed to read 'Georgius V Britanniarum Omnium; Rex Et Indiae; Imperator'. The message is written in Latin, but in English it says 'George 5th of all the Britons (British people); King of India; Emperor'.
The "reverse" side of the medal shows a man riding on a rearing horse. The man shown is Saint George, the patron saint of England. He is shown naked, and is holding a short sword. This was supposed to symbolise the mental and physical strength that was needed to win the First World War. The horse is trampling a shield that showns the emblem of Prussia and the Central Powers, which were the enemies the British and other Allies were fighting during World War One (the First World War). The horse is also trampling on a skull and cross-bones, and the rising sun, known as the Victory Sun can be seen by St. George's head. The dates '1914' and '1918' are on the left and right sides of his head.
The name of the soldier whose medal it was had his name, regiment and armed forces identification number put around the rim (edge) of the medal. The medal also came with a ribbon made of silk. It had a thick line of golden-yellow down the middle of it, with stripes on either side of it that were white, then black, then Royal blue on the outside edges of the ribbon.

</doc>
<doc id="100762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100762" title="Michel Fourniret">
Michel Fourniret

Michel Fourniret (born April 4, 1942 in Sedan, France) is a French criminal. He was convicted of voyeurism and other crimes in 1986. He abducted and raped 14 year old Daphne Le Gennan. He was convicted to serve 7 years in prison. He was released on bail shortly after the process, because he had already served most of this time in custody. Shortly thereafter, he committed his first murder. He murdered the 17 year old Isabelle Laville. He then moved to Belgium and led a normal life. He was responsible for a canteen at a school in Gedine. 
On July 26, 2003, he tried to abduct a 13 year old girl named Marie-Ascension. The girl escaped by leaping out of his car. Fourniret was arrested in Belgium in the same year. Belgian police had grown suspicious earlier though; in April 2001, a woman said she had been chased and harassed in southern Belgium. She gave a description that matched Fourniret, and also cited the license plate of his car. Only 3 weeks later, a thirteen-year old girl named Mananya Thumpong vanished in Sedan. Since then, Fourniret has confessed he killed her. 
On July 1, 2004, Fourniret's wife, Monique Olivier, confessed. According to her account, Michel Fourniret had killed ten people. She said she had helped him with the abductions. She had also watched him rape his victims. The day after her confession, Michel said he had indeed killed eight people. Later he confessed to killing his ninth victim. Today, people believe he might have killed many more. He is currently detained in Belgium. His trial began on March 27, 2008. He is sometimes referred to as the "Ogre of the Ardennes".
His wife Monique denounced him following the conviction of Michelle Martin, wife of convicted child murderer Marc Dutroux, for helping him with the crimes. Fourniret has been charged with the abduction of minors and sexual misconduct, and has been in detention since June 2003 for the attempted kidnapping of a 14-year-old girl in 2000. Monique has been charged with one murder and for helping him with six others. 
Fourniret's wife has also said that he killed a 16-year-old girl who had worked as an au pair at their house. Fourniret allegedly killed her in 1993, but this has not been confirmed. The identity of this alleged victim is not known.
Fourniret has been sentenced to life in prison. This is the most severe punishment the judges can give. He can apply for parole after 30 years. His wife Olivier was found to be the driving force behind the murders. She has also been given a life sentence. She can ask for parole for the first time after 28 years.

</doc>
<doc id="100764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100764" title="Amber-coloured Salamander">
Amber-coloured Salamander

The Amber-coloured Salamander (Hynobius stejnegeri) is a kind of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals. It can only be found in Japan. It likes to live in forests in rivers that are warm. Because of habitat loss, it is losing its place to live.

</doc>
<doc id="100765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100765" title="Clouded Salamander">
Clouded Salamander

The Clouded Salamander (Hynobius nebulosus) is a type of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals. It can only be found in Japan. The places they like to live are warm forests, rivers, swamps, freshwater springs, and land that is being watered.

</doc>
<doc id="100767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100767" title="Pontius Pilate">
Pontius Pilate

Pontius Pilate ( or ; Latin: "Pontius Pīlātus", , "Pontios Pīlātos") was the governor of the Roman province of Judaea from AD 26 until 36. 
He was the sixth Procurator of Judaea. In modern times he is best known as the man who presided over the Trial of Jesus and ordered his crucifixion.
Pilate appears in all four canonical Christian Gospels. Mark, showing Jesus to be innocent of plotting against Rome, portrays Pilate as extremely reluctant to execute Jesus. The Jewish hierarchy was responsible for his death. In Matthew, Pilate washes his hands of Jesus and reluctantly sends him to his death. In Luke, Pilate not only agrees that Jesus did not conspire against Rome but King Herod also finds nothing treasonous in Jesus' actions. In John, Jesus states: 'my kingdom is not of this world' when held by Pilate. (John 18:36)
Tacitus mentions in his Annales (15,44): "Christus, from whom the name had its origin, suffered the extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at the hands of one of our procurators, Pontius Pilatus".
Philo of Alexandria (Leg. ad Caj. 38) and Flavius Josephus (Antiq. 18:3, 4 and Bell. II:9, 2-4) also mention him.
Pilate's biographical details before and after his appointment to Judaea are unknown, but have been supplied by tradition, which include the detail that his wife's name was Procula (she is canonized as a saint in the Greek Orthodox Church).
Pilate's term serves as a reliable historical benchmark for Jesus' death.

</doc>
<doc id="100768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100768" title="Ezo Salamander">
Ezo Salamander

The Ezo Salamander or Hokkaido Salamander (Hynobius retardatus) is a kind of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals. It can only be found in Japan. The places where it likes to live are forests, shrubland, marshes, and swamps.

</doc>
<doc id="100769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100769" title="Asiatic salamander">
Asiatic salamander

The Asiatic salamanders (family Hynobiidae) are a primitive kind of salamander which can be found throughout Asia. Unlike other salamanders, Hynobiid salamanders do external fertilization, or "spawning". The females lay egg-sacs, and the males pour sperm onto the sacs.
They and the giant salamanders (family Cryptobranchidae), make up the suborder Cryptobranchoidea. About half of hynobiids are unique to Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="100772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100772" title="Stockbroker">
Stockbroker

A stockbroker is someone who buys and sells stock on the stock exchange. They buy and sell stock, as a normal person cannot walk into the stock exchange for example, and ask to buy stock. They can also advise people the best way to manage their stock.

</doc>
<doc id="100774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100774" title="Kori salamander">
Kori salamander

The Kori salamander, "Hynobius yangi", is a kind of salamander found in southeastern South Korea. It has only been found around the rural areas of South Korea.

</doc>
<doc id="100777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100777" title="Hynobius amjiensis">
Hynobius amjiensis

Hynobius amjiensis is a kind of salamander in the Hynobiidae family of animals. It can only be found in China. It lives in swamps and freshwater marshes. It is very endangered and it could become extinct because of habitat loss. 

</doc>
<doc id="100779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100779" title="Zutphen">
Zutphen

As of 1 January 2010, it had 46,877 inhabitants. It is linked to Deventer and Arnhem by rail.

</doc>
<doc id="100780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100780" title="Satu Mare">
Satu Mare

Satu Mare (pronunciation in Romanian: ; is a city with a population of 160,421 people and is the capital of Satu Mare County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="100781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100781" title="Schwaz">
Schwaz

Schwaz is a city in Tyrol, Austria. Schwaz can be found in the lower Inn valley, and it has a population of about 13,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="100784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100784" title="Philadelphia Phillies">
Philadelphia Phillies

The Philadelphia Phillies are a Major League Baseball team. They play in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania at Citizens Bank Park in the National League East. The Phillies were founded in 1883. Their manager is Ryne Sanberg, and their general manager is Ruben Amaro, Jr. The Phillies were named for the city Philadelphia, which is often called "Philly", and have kept their name and city for over 125 years.
The Phillies' history has included several spans during which they played very poorly. Several years ago they became the first team to have lost 10,000 games overall. 
In 1980, the Phillies won their first World Series. In 1993, they made it once more to the Series, but they lost to the Toronto Blue Jays. They did not make the playoffs again until 2007 when they won the National League East division championship. However, they were swept by the Colorado Rockies in the National League Division Series. In 2008, the Phillies won their second World Series.
The Phillies' home uniforms are white with red pinstripes and a red hat with a white cursive "P". The hat is the same for them on the road, but they wear gray pants with one red stripe and a gray shirt. They also have an alternate uniform that has a blue hat with a red "P" and cream-colored jerseys.

</doc>
<doc id="100785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100785" title="Marc Dutroux">
Marc Dutroux

Marc Dutroux (born 6 November 1956) is a Belgian criminal. He has been convicted because he kidnapped and tortured six girls, between eight and 19 years old. He murdered four of them, two eight year old girls starved while he was in prison. He was arrested in 1989 for abducting and raping five young girls. For this he was imprisoned; he was released in 1992. He was imprisoned from December 1995 until March 1996. He was arrested in August 1996 and has remained imprisoned since then. The court convicted him in June 2004 and sentenced him to serve life in prison for the three murders (girls of 17 and 18 years old, and of his accomplice 43 years old). His wife was convicted of serving 30 years, for starving the 8 year olds. 
Dutroux has committed many crimes, including theft, robbery and drug dealing. The media showed him mostly as a pedophile. The final report compiled by four doctors said he was not a pedophile, rather he was a psychopath, who had lost feelings when he was confronted with violence.

</doc>
<doc id="100787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100787" title="Trento">
Trento

Trento is an Italian city in the Adige River valley in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol.
Districts of Trento are twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="100788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100788" title="Znojmo">
Znojmo

Znojmo (; ) is a town in the South Moravian Region of the Czech Republic, near the border with Lower Austria.

</doc>
<doc id="100792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100792" title="Candelaria Municipality">
Candelaria Municipality

Candelaria is one of the 11 municipalities that make up the Mexican state of Campeche

</doc>
<doc id="100796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100796" title="Šilalė">
Šilalė

Šilalė () is a city in Tauragė County, Lithuania. It is found 30 km north of Tauragė.

</doc>
<doc id="100804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100804" title="Rosignano Solvay">
Rosignano Solvay

Rosignano Solvay (shortly just Rosignano) is a small town in the Italian comune of Rosignano Marittimo in the province of Tuscany, Livorno. Rosignano is 22 km from Livorno. About 20,000 people live there. The town is famous for the "white beaches" (formed by the Solvay a big industry of chemistry), the beaches are a "mix" of 90% limestone and 10% calcium chloride. Rosignano has a port for 750 boats.
The first villages in this area were those of the Etruscans and Romans. The history of the town begins at the beginning of the 20th century.
An early name for the town was "Paese Novo" (New Country in Italian). In 1917 the city changed name to Rosignano Solvay, where the name "Solvay" originates from the name of a big chemical factory from Belgium, the Solvay Group, which in 1914 built many buildings for treating and making chemicals, such as: Sodium hydroxide, Sodium bicarbonate and Sodium carbonate. 
Now the Solvay treats and producing this group of element:
Sodium carbonate
Since few years there is in the Solvay two big Gas Turbines for producing about 900 megawatts.
The town has 11 (elementary and high schools) schools and 2 schools for childs.

</doc>
<doc id="100805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100805" title="Rolando Filidei">
Rolando Filidei

Rolando Filidei (Navacchio, 1914 – Rosignano Solvay, 1980) was an Italian artist. Filidei went to the school of art to Florence, until 1937 when he finished school. After school he became a soldier. After serving as a soldier he returned in Rosignano where he worked with wood, stone and bronze. Filiedei showed his art in more than 50 festivals and meeting about art in Italy and in many cities in the word. He worked too as a teacher from 1947 until 1977 in the school of "Ernesto Solvay of Rosignano".

</doc>
<doc id="100807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100807" title="Diplom">
Diplom

Diplom (from Greek "diploma") is a high level degree awarded for learning. It is awarded in European countries such as Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Estonia, Croatia, Serbia, Ukraine, Belarus and Greece. It is a similar award to the Bachelor's and Master's degrees in other countries. 
The Diplom was first awarded when the "Technische Hochschulen" became a university. 
The diplom is slowly being replaced by a system that awards Bachelor's and Master's degrees. Bachelor's degrees, sometimes called "Bakkalaureus" in Germany, are thought of as a "small Diplom".
The Diplom may be awarded by the two types of German university. At a University of Applied Sciences (Fachhochschule), the diploma degree is called a "Diplom (FH)" and normally takes four years to study and gain work experience. At a "Universität" the degree is called a "Diplom" or sometimes a "Diplom (Univ.)" and takes four or five years. These years are called "regular study time" ("Regelstudienzeit") but study for the universität normally takes longer.
The "Diplom" is the first university award for many students. There has been no Bachelor's degree in the German/Austrian educational system. 
To win the Diplom certificate, a student must pass the tests for the "Hauptstudium" (main study time) after the "Vordiplom", then one or more "Studienarbeit" (study research projects), and then write a "Diplomarbeit" (diploma thesis). The of diplom studies at a University of Applied Sciences (Fachhochschule) is focused on using (applying) the science. The Universität is focused on learning.
A student must have a "Diplom" before studying for a PhD ("Doctorate"). The diplom qualifies a student to study for a doctorate in most other countries.
This chart is a guide to the number of years of university study needed in a diplom system to begin studying for a doctorate:
Note: For the Diplom (FH) a student has to spend two years with a company where he or she does not study before studying for a doctorate. These years are shown as "additional work" in the table.
Also note: A Diplom student can begin the doctorate without the additional work if their work has been good enough. Normally a Master's course is taken before a doctorate.

</doc>
<doc id="100812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100812" title="Traralgon, Victoria">
Traralgon, Victoria

Traralgon is a regional city in the Latrobe Valley of the Gippsland area of Victoria, Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="100828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100828" title="Yerzin, Salih Yusupovich">
Yerzin, Salih Yusupovich

Yerzin, Salih Yusupovich (circa 1830 - 1911) - prominent Tatar businessman and patron of the arts who financed the construction of the largest mosque in Moscow (built in 1904).

</doc>
<doc id="100829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100829" title="Tatars">
Tatars

Tatars are a Turkic-speaking ethnic group. Most Tatars live in Russia (forming the majority in Tatarstan), as well as in such countries as Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Bulgaria, China, Kazakhstan, Romania, Turkey, and Uzbekistan.
Russian historian D. Iskhakov wrote in 2000:“the real history of Tatars, of the people in every respect historical, is not written yet”. However, a book by independent Tatar historian Galy Yenikeyev about the unwritten history of the Tatars 
claims to have new facts.

</doc>
<doc id="100831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100831" title="Gupta Empire">
Gupta Empire

The Gupta Empire was ruled by members of the Gupta dynasty from around 320 to 550 AD and covered most of North-central India, Gupta Empire (never included Pakistan); and what is now western India and Bangladesh. The time of the Gupta Empire is referred to as Golden Age of India in science, mathematics, astronomy, religion and philosophy. Historians place the Gupta dynasty alongside with the Empire]] as a model of a classical civilization.
Most probably the Guptas is that the Guptas came from Bengal. 
At the beginning of the 4th century the Guptas ruled a few small Hindu kingdoms in Magadha and around modern-day Uttar Pradesh.
We get plenty of information about this dynasty through coins, inscriptions, monuments and Sanskrit writings. 
The Gupta rulers were great conquerors and good administrators. This brought on economic prosperity which led to cultural expansion.
Gupta society was ordered in accordance with Hindu beliefs. This included a strict class system (varna system). A series of invasions weakened the empire, but many of their cultural and intellectual achievements were saved and transmitted to other cultures and live on today.
The Gupta dynasty ruled the Gupta Empire of India, from around 320 to 550.
Some of its main rulers were:
+Golden Coins
The Guptas were the first to introduce a coinage across their empire.This showed both their wealth-as some coins were trying to unify the empire by using the same coins over the empire.

</doc>
<doc id="100832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100832" title="North Melbourne Football Club">
North Melbourne Football Club

The North Melbourne Football Club is a Australian football club. It is nicknamed "The Kangaroos".

</doc>
<doc id="100840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100840" title="England national football team">
England national football team

The England national football team are a team who play association football for England. They play their matches in England at Wembley Stadium. They won the football World Cup in 1966 when they beat West Germany by 4 goals to 2 at the old Wembley Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="100841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100841" title="Portman Road">
Portman Road

Portman Road is an association football stadium in Ipswich, Suffolk, England. It has been the home ground of Ipswich Town F.C. since 1884. The stadium has also hosted one senior England friendly international match. It has staged several other sports events including athletics meetings and international hockey matches. The stadium has also held several music concerts, including performances from R.E.M. and Elton John. 
The stadium was changed a lot in the early 2000s. This increased the number of people it could hold from 22,600 to 30,311. It is the largest capacity football stadium in East Anglia. The record number of people in the ground of 38,010 was set in an FA Cup match against Leeds United in 1975. The stadium also has conference and food facilities, the "Sir Bobby Robson Suite", "Legends Bar" and a club store selling Ipswich Town souvenirs.
Portman Road was used by the local cricket team since 1855. In 1884 Ipswich Town F.C. moved from another area of Ipswich to ground. Both teams shared the ground during the summer. The first professional football team to play at the ground was Preston North End in 1892. They played a match against a Suffolk County Football Association team. A temporary bleacher was built for the visit of Aston Villa in 1898. Over 5,000 people watched the match. In 1901, a tobacco factory was built along one side of the pitch.
A wooden bleacher called "The Chicken Run" was built along the side of the pitch in 1906. Four years later, two amateur England international games were played at Portman Road. The First World War led the British Army to use the ground for training. A lot of work had to be done to repair the pitch when they left in 1920. During the 1920s, the ground hosted greyhound races to raise money. In 1936, when Ipswich Town F.C. turned professional, the cricket club left the ground.
Portman Road was home to Ipswich Town's first Football League match on 27 August 1938. Ipswich won 4–2 against Southend United in front of more than 19,000 spectators. The fans helped pay for more improvements like concrete bleachers in 1952 which meant the ground could hold over 29,000 people. Floodlights were built in 1960, and Ipswich's first televised match was held two years later.
The "Portman Stand" was built in 1971. This increased the ground's capacity to over 37,000. After the Hillsborough disaster, all bleachers had to be all-seater by law. This meant all terraces had to be converted and the capacity was reduced to about 22,000. Statues of previous Ipswich Town managers Bobby Robson and Sir Alf Ramsey were put outside the stadium in the 1990s. After Ipswich were promoted in 2000 to the Premier League, the ground was expanded to its current capacity of just over 30,000.
The pitch is surrounded by four all-seater bleachers: the Sir Bobby Robson Stand (North), the Cobbold Stand, the Sir Alf Ramsey Stand (formerly the South Stand) and the East of England Co-operative Stand Stand. The main section of Cobbold Stand, which used to be called the Portman Stand, was built in 1971. The East of England Co-operative Stand was built in 1952 as a concrete seating area. It was updated in 1990. The North Stand was completely rebuilt in 2001 and has a capacity of around 7,500.
The current groundsman, Alan Ferguson, has been given several awards. They include both Premiership and Championship Groundsman of the Year. The pitch was voted the best in the Championship for two consecutive seasons in 2004 and 2005.
The stadium is about from Ipswich railway station. The station is on the main line from London Liverpool Street to Norwich. The stadium has no parking facilities for supporters.
On 20 August 2003, Portman Road hosted its only senior England match. It was a friendly against Croatia, which finished 3–1 to England in front of 28,700 people. The stadium has been used by England youth teams several times. The first time was on 24 November 1971. The England U23 team drew 1–1 with Switzerland. 
Other sports have been hosted at Portman Road, including athletics in 1927, an American football match in 1953, and several international hockey matches in the 1960s and 70s.
The stadium has also hosted several music concerts, including performances by Elton John, R.E.M., Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Rod Stewart. In March 2005, around 8,000 Christians went to the stadium. This was the largest act of Christian worship in Suffolk since American evangelist Billy Graham used Portman Road on part of his tour in 1984.
The most people to watch a football match at Portman Road is 38,010 for a match against Leeds United in the FA Cup sixth round on 8 March 1975. The record modern (all-seated) attendance is 30,152, set on 21 December 2003 against Norwich City in the Football League Championship. The largest ever crowd for a non-competitive game at the ground was 23,284 for Bobby Robson's testimonial match where Ipswich, including George Best, played against an England XI.
The highest seasonal average at the stadium since Ipswich turned professional was 26,431 in the 1976–77 season. The lowest average attendance at Portman Road was 8,741 in the club's first professional season, the 1936–37 season. The highest total seasonal attendance was in the 1980–81 season when the total was more than 814,000. 
Portman Road hosted Ipswich Town's first appearance in European football competition when they defeated Floriana of Malta 10–0 in the European Cup in 1962. Since then, Ipswich Town remain undefeated at Portman Road in all European competitions. They have played a total of 31 matches over 40 years, a world record until it was beaten by AZ Alkmaar in December 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="100844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100844" title="Norwich City F.C.">
Norwich City F.C.

Norwich City F.C. is an English football club based in Norwich, Norfolk. The club was started in 1902 and as of the 2015-16 season play in the Premier League.

</doc>
<doc id="100845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100845" title="G-Man (Half-Life)">
G-Man (Half-Life)

The G-Man is the mysterious character that constantly appears and interferes in the Valve Software games Half-Life, Half-Life 2, and .
As of yet it is not yet certain who the suit-wearing man is, although it is commonly agreed that he has a pivotal role to play in the upcoming . Avid followers of the series will know that he appears in almost every game level (see G-Man Locations), and lots of fan sites have been set up in his honor. 
Many speculate that the G-Man is actually Gordon Freeman, the star of the games and who you play as.

</doc>
<doc id="100846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100846" title="Queens Park Rangers F.C.">
Queens Park Rangers F.C.

Queens Park Rangers Football Club is an English football club from London. Their players wear a blue and white hooped shirts for home games which they play at a ground called Loftus Road. The club are also known as QPR.
League
Cup

</doc>
<doc id="100854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100854" title="List of Bangkok universities">
List of Bangkok universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Bangkok, Thailand.

</doc>
<doc id="100856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100856" title="List of palaces in Bangkok">
List of palaces in Bangkok

Bangkok, Thailand has many palaces:
Thai royal family private residences
Former private residences of the Thai royal family

</doc>
<doc id="100859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100859" title="List of sport venues in Bangkok">
List of sport venues in Bangkok

Bangkok, Thailand, is home to a number of stadiums and sport clubs:

</doc>
<doc id="100863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100863" title="Watford F.C.">
Watford F.C.

Watford F.C. are an English football club who play in Watford, near London. They currently play in the Football League Championship. They wear yellow shirts and black shorts when they play at their home ground, Vicarage Road. When playing away games they wear black and white shirts and black shorts with a Football Manager logo on the back of the shirts above the player name. The club was started in 1881. Graham Taylor, who was once manager, is the chairman. Slavisa Jokanavic is the manager. 
The team started in 1881, and was called "Watford Rovers". It changed its name to "West Hertfordshire" in 1893, and "Watford F.C." in 1898. Watford won the Southern League in 1915, and joined the Football League in 1920. They stayed in the Football League's bottom division until 1960, when they won the Fourth Division. Watford played in the Second Division for the first time in 1969, when Ken Furphy was the manager. 
Watford are best known for what they did between 1977 and 1987. Singer Elton John bought the club in the 1970s, and made Graham Taylor manager in 1977. The team won the Fourth Division in 1978. They then came 2nd in the Third Division in 1979, and 2nd in the Second Division in 1982. Finally, they came 2nd in the First Division in 1983, and Luther Blissett was the league's top scorer. Watford also got to the FA Cup final in 1984. John Barnes, Ian Bolton, Nigel Callaghan, Tony Coton, Ross Jenkins, Nigel Gibbs John McClelland and Wilf Rostron were some of Watford's other players between 1977 and 1987. 
Graham Taylor left Watford in 1987, and Watford went down to the Second Division in 1988. In the last 25 years have played most of their football in that division. They last played in the Premier League in the 2006/07 season, when Aidy Boothroyd was manager. Within the previous season Watford were promoted to the Premier League, under manager slavisa jokanovic. Who almost immediately after getting the club promoted was replaced by Quique Sánchez Flores who will manage the club in the Premier League next season.

</doc>
<doc id="100868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100868" title="Sheffield United F.C.">
Sheffield United F.C.

Sheffield United F.C. is an English football club who play in Sheffield, Yorkshire, England. They play their home games at a stadium called Bramall Lane and have the nickname "Blades". Their nickname comes from Sheffield's reputation for producing steel.

</doc>
<doc id="100869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100869" title="Barnsley F.C.">
Barnsley F.C.

Barnsley F.C. is an English football club who play in Barnsley, Yorkshire. Undoubtably the best football club in Yorkshire because of the passion of the club and fans. 
The club was founded in 1887 and play its home games at a stadium called Oakwell

</doc>
<doc id="100873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100873" title="Burnley F.C.">
Burnley F.C.

Burnley F.C. are an English football club who play in Burnley, Lancashire. They were started in 1882 and play their home games at the Turf Moor stadium.
 

</doc>
<doc id="100878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100878" title="Azua Province">
Azua Province

Azua is a Dominican province; it is in the southern part of the country, along the Caribbean coast. Its capital is Azua de Compostela.
After the Dominican independence from Haiti, Azua was one of the five original provinces of the country; all the southwestern part of the country was part of this province, including some regions that now are part of Haiti.
The province takes the name from its capital city, Azua de Compostela. "Azua" was the Taíno name of the region where the city was founded
Azua has the La Vega province to the northeast, the San José de Ocoa and Peravia provinces to the east, the Caribbean Sea to the south, the Barahona and Baoruco provinces to the west, and the San Juan province to the northwest.
There were people living in the region since a very long time, most of them along the coast. When the Spanish people came here, only Taínos were living here.
During colonial times, Azua de Compostela was one of the most important city of the Hispaniola island because there were several factories to produce sugar. Hernán Cortés, conquistador of Mexico, was one of the persons who lived here for some time.
After the independence in 1844, there were several important battles in this region between the Haitian and Dominican armies and Azua de Compostela was burned several times by the Haitian armies.
In (last national census), there were people living in the Azua province, and 165,703 () living in towns and cities. The population density was persons/km².
Its population represents 2.3% of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 23th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.
The largest city of the province is Azua de Compostela, its head municipality or capital, with a population (in 2010) of 59,319 inhabitants.
The Azua province has a total area of . It has 5.2% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 5th (out of 31 provinces plus the National District) largest province. The altitude of Azua de Compostela, provincial capital, is .
Most of the Azua province is in a very dry valley (the "Azua Valley" or "Azua Plain"); cacti and other plants of dry regions are common in this valley.
The "Cordillera Central" ("Central mountain range") runs along the northern half of the province. To the east, there is the "Sierra de Ocoa" (part of the Cordillera Central) that separates this province from the Peravia province. To the west, there are the "Sierra Martín García" and "Sierra de Neiba".
The most important rivers are the Yaque del Sur and its tributaries Las Cuevas and Grande or Del Medio. Other rivers are Ocoa, Jura and Vía (that flows through the city of Azua de Compostela).
The only important road in the province is the "Carretera Sánchez" (Sánchez National Road) that goes through the southern part of the province; the road goes from Santo Domingo to the western part of the country, to the border with Haiti.
The other roads are not so important and they go from the different municipalities or municipal districts to the Carretera Sánchez or to the city of Azua de Compostela.
The Azua port is in the municipal district of Puerto Viejo; it is a small port. 
There are 10 municipalities and 22 municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:
The main economic activity in the province is farming. In the valley, the most important crops are and the main products are banana, plantain, vegetables and fruits like mango. High on the northern mountains, coffee and beans are important products.
Fishing is important along the Caribbean coast.

</doc>
<doc id="100895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100895" title="Cardiff City F.C.">
Cardiff City F.C.

Cardiff City F.C. is a Welsh football club who play in Cardiff. They play at the Cardiff City Stadium, (formerly at Ninian Park) and have the nickname "The Bluebirds".
They are the only non-English side to win the FA Cup, in 1926-27. They were also runners up in 1924-25 and 2007-08.

</doc>
<doc id="100901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100901" title="Colchester United F.C.">
Colchester United F.C.

Colchester United F.C. are an English football team who play in Colchester, Essex. They were started in 1937 and play games at their stadium which is called Colchester Community Stadium. They currently play in the Football League One.
Their only major honour was in 1998 when they won the F.A. trophy

</doc>
<doc id="100902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100902" title="Coventry City F.C.">
Coventry City F.C.

Coventry City F.C. is an English football club. They play in Coventry in the West Midlands. They first played football in 1883 and have the nickname "Sky Blues" named after the colour of the shirts they wear. They play their home matches at the Ricoh Arena stadium.
Coventry City won the FA Cup in 1987 against a team from London, Tottenham Hotspur F.C..

</doc>
<doc id="100903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100903" title="Crewe Alexandra F.C.">
Crewe Alexandra F.C.

Crewe Alexandra F.C. is an English football club from Crewe, Cheshire. They played their first game in 1877 and are now famous because of their manager Dario Gradi. He has been in charge of an English football club longer than anyone else.

</doc>
<doc id="100904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100904" title="Crystal Palace F.C.">
Crystal Palace F.C.

Crystal Palace Football Club (Crystal Palace) is an English football club. It is based in South Norwood in the London Borough of Croydon. who play their games in London. The club was founded in 1905. The home stadium of the club is Selhurst Park.
Crystal Palace has played in the Premier League since 2013. Right now, the manager is Alan Pardew.

</doc>
<doc id="100907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100907" title="Hull City A.F.C.">
Hull City A.F.C.

Hull City A.F.C. are an English football club who are based in Kingston upon Hull. They started in 1904 and currently play in the Football League Championship. Their stadium is called the KC Stadium. The club are currently managed by Roy Hodgson.
On 24 May 2008 Hull City achieved promotion to the Premier League by beating Bristol City 1-0 in the Football League Championship play-off final at Wembley stadium. Dean Windass scored the winning goal in the 38th minute.
Hull made a remarkable start to their first ever season in the Premier League and reached as high as 2nd in the table in October 2008. They recorded impressive wins away from home against established Premier League teams- Newcastle, Arsenal and Tottenham. 

</doc>
<doc id="100922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100922" title="Golden Age of India">
Golden Age of India

Many periods have been called golden periods in the History of India, because there were different important achievements at different times. 
The period between the 4th century and 6th century CE is known as the Golden Age of India because of the large achievements Indians made in the fields of mathematics, astronomy, science, religion and philosophy during the Gupta Empire. The decimal numeral system, including the concept of zero, was invented in India during this period. The peace and prosperity created under leadership of Guptas made remarkable scientific and artistic activities in India possible. The Golden Age in India came to an end when the Hunas invaded the Gupta Empire in the 6th century CE.
South India in the 10th and 11th century AD under the imperial Chola Dynasty has been called Golden Age as well. The period saw extensive achievements in architecture, literature, sculpture and bronze working, maritime conquests with extensive trade, and quasi-democratic reforms

</doc>
<doc id="100934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100934" title="Enoch Powell">
Enoch Powell

John Enoch Powell, MBE (16 June 1912 – 8 February 1998) was a British politician in the Conservative Party.
Powell was born on June 16, 1912 in Birmingham, England and raised there. He studied at Trinity College, Cambridge and at School of Oriental and African Studies.
Before becoming a politician, Powell was a professor of Ancient Greek at Sydney University, Australia. When World War II, started he joined the British Army in 1939 as a private but, by 1945, had been promoted to Brigadier.
He was elected to the House of Commons in 1950, and was a government minister in 1957-1958 and again between 1960 and 1963.
He made a speech in 1968 in which he said that if the United Kingdom let too many immigrants live there, there would be fighting in the streets.
In 1974 he left the Conservative Party before the February election, and became an MP in Northern Ireland for the Ulster Unionist Party in October 1974.
Powell was married to Pamela Wilson from 1952 until his death in 1998. They had two daughters.
Powell was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1992. He died on February 8, 1998 in London, England from an illness, aged 85. He is buried at Warwick Cemetery, Warwick, Warwickshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="100935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100935" title="Monetarism">
Monetarism

Monetarism is the belief that the right way for a government to manage a country's economy is to control how much money it prints. The most famous monetarist economist was Milton Friedman.

</doc>
<doc id="100945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100945" title="Super Mario All-Stars">
Super Mario All-Stars

Super Mario All-Stars is a video game made by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game console. It was released in 1993. It puts together four old games into one package. The four games are "Super Mario Bros.", "Super Mario Bros. 2", "Super Mario Bros. 3", and "". "The Lost Levels" was originally called "Super Mario Bros. 2" in Japan and was the original sequel to "Super Mario Bros.". The old games feature new graphics and improved sound. It was later re-released in 1994 with "Super Mario World" as "Super Mario All-Stars + Super Mario World".
In 2010, Nintendo released Super Mario All-Stars 25th Anniversary Edition for the Nintendo Wii in celebration of Mario's 25th anniversary. It includes a port of "Super Mario All-Stars". It also includes a Mario history book and a CD with music from the series. It was released on October 21, 2010 in Japan, on December 3, 2010 in Europe, and on December 12, 2010 in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="100948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100948" title="Super Mario Sunshine">
Super Mario Sunshine

In this game, Mario and his friends have landed in Delfino Isle for a vacation. However, the people on the island imprison Mario. Someone who looks like Mario has been making the island dirty. A judge tells Mario to clean up the island. He is given a device called FLUDD (Flash Liquidizer Ultra Dousing Device), which Mario straps on his back. FLUDD is a powerful water device that can clean up the mess that the fake Mario has caused.
Eventually, Mario learns that Bowser Jr., the son of Bowser, was the one who was dirtying the island. Bowser Jr. thinks that Princess Peach is his mother and kidnaps her. Mario must rescue her.
Like "Super Mario 64", there are many worlds and each world has several goals to meet. Instead of stars, Mario captures Shine Sprites that will help restore the island. Each world has a boss to defeat. As Mario clears each world, he unlocks others.
Mario must clean up acres and acres of sludge and flith that is on the island. FLUDD allows him to do this. FLUDD only has a small quantity of water and Mario must jump into a pool of water after the water runs out. FLUDD also has several other things it can do. If Mario aims the nozzles down, Mario can float for a few seconds until the water runs out.
There are also areas where Mario takes FLUDD off and jumps around himself without assistance. The first time he goes he has to go through the area with no assistance. The second time he goes, he has to collect eight red coins in a time limit.
FLUDD always has two nozzles.
FLUDD has three nozzles:
The Squirt Nozzle (the default nozzle) and the Hover Nozzle, the Rocket Nozzle, and the Turbo Nozzle.
Nintendo had been working on a sequel to "Super Mario 64" for many years; the cancelled video games "Super Mario 64 2" and "Super Mario 128" were some ideas Nintendo had for a direct sequel. "Super Mario Sunshine" was first shown at Nintendo Space World 2001. The game was later shown again at E3 2002.
Work on the game began with the idea of gameplay involving a water pump. However, at first the developers thought that the world was too daringly out of character with Mario. Therefore, they tried using a man-type character, but thought this was too odd and that "if there was a man next to Mario, there is a sense of incongruity." There were ten candidates for possible water nozzles, and FLUDD was chosen because of fitting in the game's setting, despite it not being one of the favorites. Some preliminary gun-like water nozzles were removed due to all the controversy in the United States. They also stated that several Yoshi features were omitted, such as Yoshi vomiting juice fed to him.
Koji Kondo and Shinobu Tanaka composed the musical score to "Super Mario Sunshine". The soundtrack features various arrangements of classic "Mario" tunes, including the underground music and the main stage music from the original "Super Mario Bros." "Super Mario Sunshine" featured many of the usual voice actors for the various Nintendo characters. This is the only Mario game which features full English voice acting in cut-scenes. The voice cast consisted of Charles Martinet as Mario and Toadsworth, Jen Taylor as Princess Peach and Toad, Scott Burns as Bowser, and Dolores Rogers as Bowser Jr. Other voice actors included Kit Harris.
"Super Mario Sunshine" did well at the shops, having sold 5.5 million copies as of June 2006. In 2002, "Super Mario Sunshine" was the tenth best-selling game in the United States, according to the NPD Group. It was released again in 2003 as part of the Player's Choice line, a selection of games with high sales sold for a reduced price.
"Super Mario Sunshine" received positive reviews by game reviewers. IGN praised the addition of the water backpack for improving the gameplay, and GameSpy commented on the "wide variety of moves and the beautifully [made] environments". The game received a perfect score from "Nintendo Power", who commended the "superb graphics, excellent music, clever layouts, funny cinema scenes and [clever] puzzles". "GamePro" also gave "Super Mario Sunshine" a perfect score, stating that the game was "a masterpiece of superior game design, infinite gameplay variety, creativity, and life." "Game Informer" said that the game is arguably "the best "Mario" game to date." ComputerAndVideoGames.com also mentioned the game is "better than "Super Mario 64"." The game placed 46th in "Official Nintendo Magazine"'s 100 greatest Nintendo games of all time.
Despite it's positive reviews, some reviewers criticized the game. GameSpot criticized the various additions, including the water backpack and Yoshi, calling them "mere gimmicks." They also criticized the virtual camera system, and noted that the game seemed somewhat unpolished and rushed. They also criticized the voices, stating that "Super Mario Sunshine's FMV also houses some of the lousiest voice-over work to be found on the GameCube. None of the voices fit particularly well. Princess Peach sounds too ditzy, Mario is limited to grunts and other nonverbal communications, and the game's bad guys are completely miscast and downright disappointing." Matt Wales accused the game of having a "distinct lack of polish."
"Super Mario Sunshine" has introduced many elements which were carried over to newer Mario titles. This was the first game in the Mario series to introduce the Shine Sprites. These Shine Sprites have appeared in later Mario titles games like "Mario Kart DS". This was the first game in the Mario series which included Bowser Jr; he has since appeared in "New Super Mario Bros.", "New Super Mario Bros. Wii", "Super Mario Galaxy" and "Super Mario Galaxy 2", and in Mario sports games such as the "Mario Kart series" since "" and Mario Kart Wii. Also, Toadsworth appeared for the first time on the game. He has later appeared on various Mario games such as "" and "Super Princess Peach". The recurring character Petey Piranha, known as in Japan, was also introduced. He also appears in "New Super Mario Bros.", "Super Princess Peach" and several spin-off games.
This game was the first Mario platformer game to be released for the Nintendo GameCube. It was also the first 3D Mario platformer which included the ability to ride Yoshi and to have him change colors. This feature reappeared in the Wii 3D platformer "Super Mario Galaxy 2".

</doc>
<doc id="100969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100969" title="African elephant">
African elephant

African elephants are the two species of elephant in the genus Loxodonta. This is one of the two living genera in Elephantidae. 
Fossil "Loxodonta" have only been found in Africa, where they developed in the middle Pliocene.
Males of the African bush elephant can grow to 3.64 meters (12 feet) tall at the shoulder and weigh 5455 kg (12,000 lbs). It is the largest living elephant. Females may reach 3 meters (10 feet) and weigh 3636 kg to 4545 kg (8,000 to 10,000 lbs).
At any one time, elephants have one molar in each jaw bone (two upper, two lower). Each weighs about 11 lbs and measures about 12 inches long. As they wear away at the front, new molars emerge in the back of the mouth and gradually replace the old ones. Elephants replace their teeth six times. If it survives to 60 years of age the elephant no longer has teeth and will die of starvation.
Their tusks are also teeth, the second set of upper incisors become the tusks. They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food, and, fighting each other during mating season, or defending themselves against predators. They weigh from 50-100 pounds and may be from 5 to 8 feet long. However, a result of poachers killing elephants with the biggest tusks has been a survivor population with much smaller tusks. Both bulls and cows have tusks.
Bush and forest elephants are nowadays generally considered to be two distinct species. The African forest elephant has a longer and narrower mandible, rounder ears, a different number of toenails, straighter and downward tusks, and considerably smaller size. With regard to the number of toenails: the African bush elephant normally has 4 toenails on the front foot and 3 on the hind foot, the African forest elephant normally has 5 toenails on the front foot and 4 on the hind foot (like the Asian elephant). Hybrids between the two species do occur.
Poaching greatly reduced the population of elephants in Africa in the 20th century. In the eastern region of Chad, elephant herds were substantial as recently as 1970, with an estimated population of 400,000. However, by 2006 the number had dropped to about 10,000. The African elephant nominally has governmental protection, but poaching is a serious issue. 
People moving into or near areas where elephants occur naturally is a problem. There is research into methods of safely driving groups of elephants away from humans. Playing recorded sounds of angry honey bees is remarkably effective at prompting elephants to flee an area. Sometimes elephant communities have grown so large that culling was needed to sustain the ecosystem.

</doc>
<doc id="100992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100992" title="History of the United Kingdom">
History of the United Kingdom

The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is the sovereign state. England, Scotland, Wales (together Great Britain) and Northern Ireland are parts of this state. 
It began to take its present shape with the Acts of Union in 1707, which united the crowns and Parliaments of England and Scotland to create the Kingdom of Great Britain. A further Act of Union in 1800 joined the Kingdom of Great Britain and the Kingdom of Ireland to create the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
In 1922, the territory of what is now the Republic of Ireland gained independence, and only Northern Ireland continued to be part of the United Kingdom. As a result, in 1927 Britain changed its formal title to "The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland", usually shortened to "the United Kingdom", "the UK" or "Britain".
The first step towards political unification were taken on 1 May 1707, shortly after the parliaments of Scotland and England had approved Acts of Union which combined the two parliaments and the two royal titles. 
Perhaps the greatest single benefit to Scotland of the Union was that Scotland could enjoy free trade with England and her colonies overseas. For England's part, a possible ally for European states that were hostile to England had been neutralized. 
Certain aspect of the former independent kingdoms remained separate. Examples of Scottish and English institutions which were not merged into the British system include: Scottish and English law which remain separate, as do Scottish and English banking systems, the Presbyterian Church of Scotland and Anglican Church of England also remained separate as did the systems of education and higher learning. 
As the Scots were better educated than the average Englishman, they made a disproportionate contribution to both the government of the United Kingdom and the administration of the British Empire.
The second stage in the development of the United Kingdom took effect on 1 January 1801, when the Kingdom of Great Britain merged with the Kingdom of Ireland to form the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
The legislative union of Great Britain and Ireland was completed under the Act of Union 1800. The country's name was changed to "United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland". The Act was passed in the British and therefore unrepresentative Irish Parliament with substantial majorities achieved in part (according to contemporary documents) through bribery, namely the awarding of peerages and honors to critics to get their votes. The separate Parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland were abolished, and replaced by a united Parliament of the United Kingdom. Ireland thus became part of an extended United Kingdom. Ireland sent around 100 MPs to the House of Commons at Westminster and 28 peers to the House of Lords. 
Hostilities between Great Britain and France recommenced on 18 May 1803. The Coalition war-aims changed over the course of the conflict: a general desire to restore the French monarchy became closely linked to the struggle to stop Napoleon.
The Napoleonic conflict had reached the point at which subsequent historians could talk of a "world war". Only the Seven Years' War offered a precedent for widespread conflict on such a scale.
The Victorian era marked the height of the British Industrial Revolution and the of the British Empire. Although commonly used to refer to the period of Queen Victoria's rule between 1837 and 1901, scholars debate whether the Victorian period–as defined by a variety of sensibilities and political concerns that have come to be associated with the Victorians–actually begins with the passage of Reform Act 1832. The era was preceded by the Regency era and succeeded by the Edwardian period. The latter half of the Victorian era roughly coincided with the first portion of the Belle Époque era of continental Europe and other non-English speaking countries.
Prime Ministers: William Pitt the Younger | Lord Grenville | Duke of Portland | Spencer Perceval | Lord Liverpool | George Canning | Lord Goderich | Duke of Wellington | Lord Grey | Lord Melbourne | Sir Robert Peel | Lord John Russell | Lord Derby | Lord Aberdeen | Lord Palmerston | Benjamin Disraeli | William Ewart Gladstone | Lord Salisbury | Lord Rosebery
Marquess of Salisbury | Arthur Balfour | Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman | Herbert Henry Asquith | David Lloyd George | Andrew Bonar Law | Stanley Baldwin | Ramsay MacDonald | Stanley Baldwin | Ramsay MacDonald | Stanley Baldwin | Neville Chamberlain | Winston Churchill
Britain's control over its Empire loosened during the interwar period. Nationalism became stronger in other parts of the empire, particularly in India and in Egypt. 
Between 1867 and 1910, the UK granted Australia, Canada, and New Zealand "Dominion" status (near complete autonomy within the Empire). 
The end of the Second World War saw a landslide General Election victory for Clement Attlee and the Labour Party. 
As the country headed into the 1950s, rebuilding continued and a number of immigrants from the remaining British Empire were invited to help the rebuilding effort. During the 1950s the UK lost its place as a superpower and could no longer maintain its large Empire. This led to decolonization, and a withdrawal from almost all of its colonies by 1970. 
Though the 1970s and 1980s saw the UK's integration to the "European Economic Community" which became the European Union in 1992 and a strict modernization of its economy.
After the difficult 70s and 80s the 1990s saw the beginning of a period of continuous economic growth that has to date lasted over 15 years. The Good Friday Agreement saw what many believe to be the beginning of the end of conflict in Northern Ireland; since this event, there has been very little armed violence over the issue.
In the 2001 General Election, the Labour Party won a second successive victory.
Despite huge anti-war marches being held in London and Glasgow, Tony Blair gave strong support to the United State's invasion of Iraq in 2003. Forty-six thousand British troops, one-third of the total strength of the British Army (land forces), were active to assist with the invasion of Iraq and after that British armed forces were responsible for security in southern Iraq in the time before the Iraqi elections of January 2005. 
2007 sees the conclusion of the premiership of Tony Blair, followed by the premiership of Gordon Brown (from 27 June 2007).
¹ The term "United Kingdom" was first used in the 1707 Act of Union. However it is generally seen as a descriptive term, indicating that the kingdoms were freely united rather than through conquest. It is not seen as being actual "name" of the new United Kingdom, which was the "Kingdom of Great Britain". The "United Kingdom" as a name is taken to refer to the kingdom that emerged when the Kingdom of Great Britain and Kingdom of Ireland merged on 1 January 1801.
² The name "Great Britain" (then spelt "Great Brittaine") was first used by James VI/I in October 1604, who indicated that henceforth he and his successors would be viewed as Kings of Great Britain, not Kings of England and Scotland. However the name was not applied to the "state" as a unit; both England and Scotland continued to be governed independently. Its validity as a name of the Crown is also questioned, given that monarchs continued using separate ordinals (e.g., James VI/I, James VII/II) in England and Scotland. To avoid confusion, historians generally avoid using the term "King of Great Britain" until 1707 and instead to match the ordinal usage call the monarchs kings or queens of England and Scotland. Separate ordinals were abandoned when the two states merged with the Act of Union 1707, with subsequent monarchs using ordinals apparently based on English not Scottish history (it might be argued that the monarchs have simply taken the higher ordinal, which to date has always been English). One example is Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom, who is referred to as being "the Second" even though there never was an Elizabeth I of Scotland or Great Britain. Thus the term "Great Britain" is generally used from 1707.
³ The number changed several times between 1801 and 1922.

</doc>
<doc id="100996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100996" title="Leeds United A.F.C.">
Leeds United A.F.C.

Leeds United A.F.C. are an English Association football club in Leeds, West Yorkshire. They play their home matches at a stadium called Elland Road. The club has spent much of its time since it was founded in the top division of English football.
Leeds United was established in 1919, having previously been known as Leeds City.
Leeds United won the League Cup in 1968
Leeds United won the FA Cup in 1972
Leeds United currently holds rivalries with Manchester United FC, Chelsea FC, Liverpool FC, Hull City FC, and other clubs that could be considered as rivals are Manchester City FC, Sheffield United FC, Sheffield Wednesday FC, Doncaster Rovers, Millwall FC and Barnsley FC.

</doc>
<doc id="101006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101006" title="Acts of Union 1707">
Acts of Union 1707

The Acts of Union were a pair of Parliamentary Acts passed in 1706 and 1707 by, respectively, the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland, to make effective the Treaty of Union which had been negotiated between the two countries. The Acts joined the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland which had been separate states before, with separate legislatures but with the same monarch into a single Kingdom of Great Britain.
The two countries had shared a monarch for about 100 years (since the "Union of the Crowns" in 1603, when James VI of Scotland inherited the English throne from his cousin, Queen Elizabeth I).
The Acts took effect on 1 May 1707. 

</doc>
<doc id="101013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101013" title="G-Man">
G-Man

G-Man can be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="101014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101014" title="El Paso, Guyana">
El Paso, Guyana

El Paso is a village in the Potaro-Siparuni region of Guyana. It can be found to the west of Tumatumari Landing.

</doc>
<doc id="101017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101017" title="Provinces of Iran">
Provinces of Iran

Iran is divided into 30 provinces (Persian: استان "ostān", plural استان‌ها "ostānhā"). Each is ruled from a local center. These local centers can usually be found in the biggest local city, called the capital (Persian: مرکز "markaz") of that province.
The following is a table with information on the provinces of Iran:

</doc>
<doc id="101019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101019" title="Counties of Iran">
Counties of Iran

The provinces of Iran are divided more into counties called shahrestan (Persian: شهرستان "shahrestān"). This is an area inside an ostan. They usually contain a city center, a few bakhsh (Persian: بخش "bakhsh"), and a bunch of villages around them. They are also usually some cities in each county. As of the year 2005, Iran had 324 counties.
The following is a list of counties by province:

</doc>
<doc id="101020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101020" title="Tehran Province">
Tehran Province

Tehran Province (Persian: استان تهران;) is one of the 30 provinces of Iran. It has an area of 18,909 square kilometers. It can be found to the north of the center plateau in Iran. As of June 2005, this province contains 13 townships, 43 municipalities, and 1,358 villages.
Absard, Andishe, Baghershahr, Baghestan, Boumehen, Chahardangeh, Damavand, Eshtehard, Eslamshahr, Ferdowsieh, Firouzkouh, Garmdarreh, Gharchak, Ghods, Golestan, Shahriar, Hashtgerd, Hashtgerd New City, Javadabad, Hassan Abad, Kahrizak, Kamalshahr, Karaj, Kilan, Lavasan, Mahdasht, Malard, Meshkindasht, Mohammadshahr, Nasimshahr, Nazarbad, Owshan Fasham Meygoun, Pakdasht, Pardis, Pishva, Robat Karim, Roudehen, Sabasharh, Safadasht, Shahedshahr, Shahriar, Sharifabad, Tehran, Vahidieh, Varamin,

</doc>
<doc id="101021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101021" title="Leicester City F.C.">
Leicester City F.C.

Leicester City F.C. are an English football club. They are based in Leicester in the county of Leicestershire. Leicester won the 2015–16 Premier League, their first Premier League title.
They are probably most famous for producing players like Gary Lineker and Peter Shilton. They have won 3 Football League Cups and hold the record for appearing in the most FA Cup finals without ever winning one. Their current chairman is Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha and their manager is Claudio Ranieri.

</doc>
<doc id="101023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101023" title="Damavand County">
Damavand County

Damavand County () is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Damavand.

</doc>
<doc id="101025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101025" title="Eslamshahr County">
Eslamshahr County

Eslamshahr County (Persian: اسلام‌شهر) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Eslamshahr.

</doc>
<doc id="101029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101029" title="Firouzkouh County">
Firouzkouh County

Firouzkouh County (Persian: فیروزکوه) is a county in the east of the Tehran Province in Iran. In English it can also be spelt as Firuzkuh. The capital of the county is Firouzkouh. About 39,284 people live in the county. It is a mountain area with many lakes and rivers. It is famous for its mineral water.

</doc>
<doc id="101030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101030" title="Karaj County">
Karaj County

Karaj County () is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Karaj.

</doc>
<doc id="101042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101042" title="Luton Town F.C.">
Luton Town F.C.

Luton Town Football Club are an English football club that are based in Luton in the county of Bedfordshire. They started in 1885 and play their home games at a stadium called Kenilworth Road.

</doc>
<doc id="101068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101068" title="Millwall F.C.">
Millwall F.C.

Millwall F.C. are a English Association football club in London. They play their home games at a stadium called The New Den which is in London. The club started in 1885 and their nickname is "The Lions". In 2015 the name is changed to London F.C.
Millwall was founded in 1885.
The following is a list of important footballers who have played for Millwall. The list includes players who have been honoured in Millwall's Hall of Fame.
|width="33"| 
|width="33"| 
|width="33"| 

</doc>
<doc id="101069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101069" title="Nazarabad County">
Nazarabad County

"Nazarabad County"' (Persian: نظرآباد) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Nazarabad.

</doc>
<doc id="101070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101070" title="Pakdasht County">
Pakdasht County

Pakdasht County () is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Pakdasht.

</doc>
<doc id="101071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101071" title="Preston North End F.C.">
Preston North End F.C.

Preston North End F.C. are an English football club. They are based in Preston, Lancashire. They play in the Football League Championship at their stadium which is called Deepdale. The club began in 1880. It has the nicknames "The Lilywhites", "PNE" and "The North End".
Preston North End was part of the twelve football teams that made up the English Football League in 1888, and were the first team ever to win the English Football League. Preston North End and Arsenal are the only two teams ever to win the Championship without losing a match.
They have played in the FA Cup final seven times and won twice.
The last time they won a major trophy was the FA Cup in 1938 and the club has not been in the Premier League for many years, but they are one of the most successful Championship clubs and regularly finish high up in the league.

</doc>
<doc id="101073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101073" title="Rey County">
Rey County

Rey County (Persian: ری) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Rey.

</doc>
<doc id="101074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101074" title="Robat-Karim County">
Robat-Karim County

Robat-Karim County (Persian: رباط‌کریم) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Robat-Karim.

</doc>
<doc id="101076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101076" title="Savojbolagh County">
Savojbolagh County

Savojbolagh County (Persian: ساوجبلاغ) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Hashtgerd.

</doc>
<doc id="101077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101077" title="Shahriar County">
Shahriar County

Shahriar County (Persian: شهریار) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Shahriar. The county has a population of 400,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="101078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101078" title="Shemiranat County">
Shemiranat County

Shemiranat County () is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Shemiranat.

</doc>
<doc id="101080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101080" title="Tehran County">
Tehran County

Tehran County (Persian: شهرستان تهران) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Tehran.

</doc>
<doc id="101081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101081" title="Varamin County">
Varamin County

Varamin County (Persian: ورامین) is a county of the Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Varamin.

</doc>
<doc id="101102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101102" title="The New Den">
The New Den

The New Den is a stadium in London, England. It is the stadium where Millwall F.C. are based.

</doc>
<doc id="101129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101129" title="Les Cayes">
Les Cayes

Les Cayes (Kréyòl: "Okay"; ) is a town in southwest Haiti near the river "Ravine du Sud", on the Caribbean coast. It is the capital of the Sud "Département".
Les Cayes is at about 196 km southwest of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an "arrondissement" (a part of a department) with the same name. The "arrondissement" has six "communes" (a "commune" is like a municipality): Les Cayes, Camp-Perrin, Chantal, Île à Vache, Maniche and Torbeck.
The town had the name of "Aux Cayes" ("On the cays") because the small "Île à Vache" island and other cays (Grande Caye and Petite Caye) are near the town. Now the name is just "Les Cayes"; Kréyòl still keeps the old name.
In 1504, Diego Velázquez founded the town of "Salvatierra de la Sabana" (or Salvatierra de la Zabana) where is now Les Cayes. From here, he left for Cuba to take control of that island on 7 November 1511.
But people left completely the town in 1540 and the French Monsier de la Lance founded the modern town of Les Cayes in 1726. The town was destroyed by two hurricanes in 1781 and 1788.
On 28 December 1815, Simón Bolívar came to Les Cayes looking for help to fight against the Spanish government in South America. Bolívar left Haiti on 10 April 1816 for Venezuela, but came back in September of that year to this Haitian town when he lost some battles in South America. He went back to South America in December of the same year.
Les Cayes is one of the most important port of Haiti, where coffee, sugar, bananas and timber are sent to other countries and other parts of Haiti. There is also an airport, Antoine Simon Airport, with the name of a president of Haiti that was born in Les Cayes.

</doc>
<doc id="101131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101131" title="Spitz (dog)">
Spitz (dog)

Spitz-type breeds of dog have a long thick coat of fur that is often white, and pointed ears and noses. Many times, the tail is over the dog's back.
No one knows where Spitz-type dogs came from, though most seen today live in the Arctic. There is no archaeological signs showing stages between the wolf and Spitz-type dogs, but Spitz-like skeletons have been found up to 5,000 years old.
Though it is not certain for how long wolves have bred with Spitz-type dogs, it is known that humans have bred Spitz types with wolves in more recent times to get wolf-like breeds such as the Alaskan Malamute.
About 3000 years ago, dogs began to migrate from the Arctic into temperate Europe, North America, Asia, and sometimes Africa. Skeletons from around 2,000 years ago in Switzerland show that Spitz-type dogs have lived in central Europe for thousands of years. These dogs are the ancestors of the European Spitz-types, such as the German Spitz and Schipperke. Many Spitz-types also migrated into Korea and China. Later, many of these dogs were moved by humans to Japan, most likely from Korea. These Asian Spitz types are the ancestors of today's breeds such as the Chow Chow and the Akita Inu.
Through special breeding, Spitz types have evolved to help humans in three ways: hunting, herding, and pulling sleds. Smaller breeds such as the Finnish Spitz and the Lundehund were used in Scandinavia to hunt birds and smaller mammals. Larger breeds such as the Karelian Bear Dog and the Norwegian Elkhound were used for hunting large animals like moose and elk. The largest of all the Spitz types, notably the Canadian Eskimo Dog and the Greenland Dog, were used to pull sleds up until the 19th century.
Spitz types are good at living in cold northern climates. They often have a warm, water-proof layer of fur that is thicker than the outer layer of fur. Small ears help reduce the risk of frostbite, and thick fur that grows on the paws protects the dogs from sharp ice.
Many Spitz-type breeds behave like wolves in their independence and aggression towards new humans and animals. They may need much training before they become friendly. Some, like the Karelian Bear Dog, are not friendly enough to ever become companion dogs.
The cuteness of the Spitz-type have caused people to create companion dog breeds from them. The very small Pomeranian was at first a much larger dog similar to a Keeshond before being bred to make a small court animal. The Keeshond, is a friendly and loyal, though very lively, pet. Other companion Spitz-type dog breeds is the American Eskimo Dog.

</doc>
<doc id="101134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101134" title="Spitz">
Spitz

Spitz can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="101150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101150" title="Southampton F.C.">
Southampton F.C.

Southampton F.C. is an English football club. They were found in 1885 and play their home games at St Mary's Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="101151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101151" title="Southend United F.C.">
Southend United F.C.

Southend United F.C. are an English football club. They are based in Southend-on-Sea in the county of Essex. They started in 1906 and play their home games at a stadium called Roots Hall.

</doc>
<doc id="101152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101152" title="Stoke City F.C.">
Stoke City F.C.

Stoke City F.C. is an English football club based in Stoke-on-Trent. They started in 1863 as "Stoke Ramblers" which makes them the second oldest Football League club in the world. Stoke City play their home games at a stadium called the bet365 Stadium.
One of Stoke City's most famous players was Stanley Matthews.

</doc>
<doc id="101153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101153" title="Stanley Matthews">
Stanley Matthews

Sir Stanley Matthews CBE (born 1 February 1915 - 23 February 2000) was an English footballer. He was born in Stoke-on-Trent. Matthews played football for Stoke City and Blackpool. He was knighted in 1965 and died in 2000.
701||71||86||10||187||81
701||71||86||10||187||81
!Total||54||12

</doc>
<doc id="101154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101154" title="Blackpool F.C.">
Blackpool F.C.

Blackpool F.C. is an English football club. They currently play in the Championship. The club is based in Blackpool in the county of Lancashire. They started in 1887 and play their home games at a stadium called Bloomfield Road. The club won the FA Cup in 1953.

</doc>
<doc id="101158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101158" title="Asylum">
Asylum

Asylum may refer:
In music:
In entertainment:
In fiction:
In non-fiction:
In gaming
In radio

</doc>
<doc id="101168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101168" title="Articles of Confederation">
Articles of Confederation

The Articles of Confederation, formally named the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, was an agreement among all thirteen original states in the United States of America that served as its first constitution. All thirteen states ratified the Articles in early 1781. 
In 1789, the Founding Fathers replaced the Articles with the United States Constitution and a federal form of government.
Even though the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution were created by many of the same people, the two documents were very different. The original five-paged Articles contained thirteen articles, a conclusion, and a section for signatures. The following list contains short summaries of each of the thirteen articles.
(1) The name of the confederation will be "The United States of America."
(2) Each state will continue to rule itself, except for the specific things the Articles allow the confederation government to do: "Each state [keeps] its sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not [given to the confederation government] by this Confederation..."
(3) The United States is a group of states that has come together to protect each other and help each other. The states have united "for their common defense, the security of their liberties, and their mutual and general [well-being], [coming together] to assist each other, against all force offered to, or attacks made upon them..."
(4) People in the United States have freedom of movement: anyone can pass freely between states, except for "paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice." When a person travels into one state, he gets all of the rights that state gives to people that live there. If a person commits a crime in one state and runs away to another state, he will be extradited to the state where the crime happened, and tried there.
(5) Each state gets one vote in the Congress of the Confederation (called the "United States in Congress Assembled"). Each state can bring a group of two to seven delegates to the Congress. Each state's legislature chooses its Members of Congress. Members of Congress cannot serve for more than three out of any six years.
(6) Only the confederation government is allowed to conduct foreign policy (work with other countries) and to declare war. Without Congress's permission, no states may have navies or full-time armies, and no states may fight in any war. However, the Articles encouraged each state to have militias.
(7) When an army is raised for common defense, the state legislatures will choose Colonels and military ranks below Colonel.
(8) The United States will pay for things using money that the state legislatures will raise. Not every state will have to pay the same amount. States with higher property values will pay more.
(9) The confederation government has these powers: to declare war; to set weights and measures (including coins); and for Congress to serve as a final court for disagreements between states.
(10) A Committee of the States will be the government when Congress is not meeting.
(11) Nine states must agree before a new state is accepted into the Confederation. Canada is already approved, if it applies for membership.
(12) The Confederation accepts war debt from before the Articles.
(13) The Articles can only be changed if Congress and "all" of the state legislatures agree.

</doc>
<doc id="101169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101169" title="History of the United States">
History of the United States

The history of the United States is what happened in the past in the United States, a country in North America. Native Americans have lived there for thousands of years, long before Europeans went there. Mainly English people went. In 1607, they went to Jamestown, Virginia. This was the first successful English town in North America. The colonies were settled mostly by England and later Great Britain. France, Spain, and the Netherlands also colonized America. Many Native Americans died of disease or lost their land.
By 1733, there were 13 colonies. In 1775, a war between the colonies and Britain called the Revolutionary War started. This war started because the American colonists were upset over changes in British policies. On July 4, 1776, people from the thirteen colonies created the United States Declaration of Independence. This said that they were free from Great Britain. George Washington helped lead the Revolutionary War, which the Americans won.
After the Revolution, the leaders of the states created a constitution in 1787 and a Bill of Rights in 1791. These were based on the idea of "social contracts". George Washington became its first president. In the early 1800s, the new nation faced many controversial issues, such as slavery.
During the 1800s, the United States gained much more land in the West and began to become industrialized. In 1861, several states in the South left the United States to start a new country called the Confederate States of America. This caused the American Civil War. After the war, Immigration resumed. Some Americans became very rich in this Gilded Age and the country developed one of the largest economies in the world.
In the early 20th century, the United States became a world power, fighting in World War I and World War II. Between the wars, there was an economic boom called the Roaring Twenties when people became richer and a bust called the Great Depression when most were much poorer. The Great Depression ended with World War II.
The United States and the Soviet Union entered a time known as the Cold War. This was very expensive. The wars in Korea and Vietnam cost even more. During this time, African-Americans, Chicanos, and women fought for more rights. In 1974, President Richard Nixon resigned as president due to the Watergate Scandal. In the 1970s and 1980s, the United States started to make fewer things in factories than they used to. The United States then went through the worst recession it had since the Great Depression.
During the 1980s, the American economy grew and American-Soviet relations became better during the presidency of Ronald Reagan. The Cold War ended, helping the United States out of recession by reducing inflation. The Middle East became important in American foreign policy, especially after the September 11 attacks in 2001. In 2009, Barack Obama became the first black president of the United States.
The Pre-Columbian Era is the time before Christopher Columbus went to America in 1492. At that time, Native Americans lived on the land that is now the United States. They had different cultures: Native Americans in the Eastern United States hunted game and deer; Native Americans in the Northwest fished; Native Americans in the Southwest grew corn and built houses called pueblos; and Native Americans in the Great Plains hunted buffalo. Around the year 1000, many people think that the Vikings visited Newfoundland. However, they did not settle there.
The English tried to settle at Roanoke Island in 1585. The settlement at Roanoke Island did not last, and no one knows what happened to the people there. In 1607, the first lasting English settlement was made at Jamestown, Virginia, by John Smith, John Rolfe and other Englishmen interested in money and adventure. In its early years, many people in Virginia died of disease and starvation. The colony lasted because it made money by planting tobacco.
In 1621, a group of Englishmen called the Pilgrims settled at Plymouth, Massachusetts. A bigger colony was built at Massachusetts Bay by the Puritans in 1630. The Pilgrims and the Puritans were interested in making a better society, not looking for gold. They called this ideal society a "city on a hill". A man named Roger Williams left Massachusetts after disagreeing with the Puritans, and started the colony of Rhode Island in 1636.
England was not the only country to settle what would become the United States. In the 1500s, Spain built a fort at Saint Augustine, Florida. France settled Louisiana, and the area around the Great Lakes. The Dutch settled New York, which they called New Netherland. Other areas were settled by Scotch-Irish, Germans, and Swedes. However, in time England controlled all of the colonies, and most American colonists adopted the English way of life. The growth of the colonies was not good for Native Americans. Many of them died of smallpox, a disease brought to America by the Europeans. The ones who lived lost their lands to the colonists.
In the early 1700s, there was a religious movement in the colonies called the Great Awakening. Preachers such as Jonathan Edwards preached sermons. One of them was called "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God". The Great Awakening, along with the Salem Witch Trials, was a reaction to what America was like around 1700 and may have led to the thinking used in the American Revolution.
By 1733, there were thirteen colonies. The colonies are often divided into three groups. The northern group was called New England and included New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. There were four Middle Colonies: New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. The South had five colonies: Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. New England had small farms and focused on fishing, forestry (trees and lumber), shipping, and small industry to make money. The South had large plantation farms that grew tobacco and later cotton. Plantations were farmed first by indentured servants (people who would work for a period of years in return for passage to America and land), and later by slaves. The Middle Colonies had medium-sized farms. These colonies also had people from many different cultures with many different beliefs. All three regions were tied to the "Atlantic economy". Atlantic merchants used ships to trade slaves, tobacco, rum, sugar, gold, spices, fish, lumber, and manufactured goods between America, the West Indies, Europe and Africa. New York, Philadelphia, Boston, and Charleston were the largest cities and main ports at that time.
From 1754 to 1763, England and France fought a war over their land in America called the Seven Years' War or the French and Indian War, which the English won. After the war, they issued the Proclamation of 1763. It said that people who lived in the thirteen colonies could not live west of the Appalachian Mountains. Many colonists who wanted to move to the frontier did not like the Proclamation.
After the French and Indian War, the colonists began to think that they were not getting their "rights as freeborn Englishman". This meant they wanted to be treated fairly by the English government. This was mainly caused by new taxes the British made the colonies pay to pay for the war. Americans called this "No taxation without representation", meaning that the colonists should not have to pay taxes unless they had votes in the British Parliament. Each tax was disliked, and replaced by another which led to more unity between the colonies. In 1770, colonists in Boston known as the Sons of Liberty got in a fight with British soldiers. This became known as the Boston Massacre. After the Tea Act, the Sons of Liberty dumped hundreds of boxes of tea in a river. This was known as the Boston Tea Party (1773). This led to the British Army taking over Boston. After that, leaders of the 13 colonies formed a group called the Continental Congress. Many people were members of the Continental Congress, but some of the more important ones were Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Hancock, Roger Sherman and John Jay.
In 1776, Thomas Paine wrote a pamphlet called "Common Sense". It argued that the colonies should be free of English rule. This was based on the English ideas of natural rights and social contract put forth by John Locke and others. On July 4, 1776, people from 13 colonies agreed to the United States Declaration of Independence. This said that they were free and independent states, and were not part of England any more. The colonists were already fighting Britain in the Revolutionary War at this time. The Revolutionary War started in 1775 at Lexington and Concord. Though American soldiers under George Washington lost many battles to the British, they won a major victory at Saratoga in 1777. This led to France and Spain joining the war on the side of the Americans. In 1781, an American victory at Yorktown helped by the French led Britain to decide to stop fighting and give up the colonies. America had won the war and its independence.
In 1781, the colonies formed a confederation of states under the Articles of Confederation, but it lasted only six years. It gave almost all the power to the states and very little to the central government. The confederation had no president. It could not remove Native Americans or the British from the frontier, nor could it stop mob uprisings such as Shays' Rebellion. After Shays' Rebellion, many people thought the Articles of Confederation were not working.
In 1787, a constitution was written. Many of the people who helped write the Constitution, such as Washington, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and Gouverneur Morris, were among the major thinkers in America at the time. Some of these men would later hold important offices in the new government. The constitution created a stronger national government that had three branches: executive (the President and his staff), legislative (the House of Representatives and the Senate), and judicial (the federal courts).
Some states agreed to the Constitution very quickly. In other states, many people did not like the Constitution because it gave more power to the central government and had no bill of rights. To try and get the Constitution passed, Madison, Hamilton and Jay wrote a series of newspaper articles called the "Federalist Papers". Very soon after, the Bill of Rights was added. This was a set of 10 amendments (changes), that limited the government's power and guaranteed rights to the citizens. Like the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution is a social contract between the people and the government. The main idea of the Constitution is that the government is a representative democracy elected by the people, who all have the same rights. However, this was not true at first, when only white males who owned property could vote. Because of state laws as well as the 14th, 15th, 19th, 24th and 26th Amendments, almost all American citizens who are at least 18 years old can vote today.
In 1789, Washington was elected the first President. He defined how a person should act as President and retired after two terms. During Washington's term, there was a Whiskey Rebellion, where country farmers tried to stop the government from collecting taxes on whiskey. In 1795, Congress passed the Jay Treaty, which allowed for increased trade with Britain in exchange for the British giving up their forts on the Great Lakes. However, Great Britain was still doing things that hurt the U.S., such as impressment (making American sailors join the British Royal Navy).
John Adams defeated Thomas Jefferson in the election of 1796 to become the second President of the United States. This was the first American election that was between two political parties. As president, Adams made the army and navy larger. He also got laws passed to stop people and newspapers from saying bad things about him. These were included within the Alien and Sedition Acts.
In the election of 1800, Jefferson defeated Adams. One of the most important things he did as President was to make the Louisiana Purchase from France, which made the United States twice as big. Jefferson sent Lewis and Clark to map the Louisiana Purchase. Jefferson also tried to stop trade with England and France so that the United States would not become involved in a war the two countries were fighting. Fighting broke out between the United States and England in 1812 when James Madison was President. This was called the War of 1812.
One of the problems of this period was slavery. By 1861, over three million African-Americans were slaves in the South. This means that they worked for other people, but had no freedom and received no money for their work. Most worked picking cotton on large plantations. Only a few white people in the South owned plantations. Most white people in the South owned no slaves at all. Cotton became the main crop in the South after Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin in 1793. There were a few slave rebellions against slavery, including one led by Nat Turner. All of these rebellions failed. The South wanted to keep slavery, but by the time of the Civil War, many people in the North wanted to end it. Another argument between the North and South was about the role of government. The South wanted stronger state governments, but the North wanted a stronger central government.
After the War of 1812 the Federalist Party faded away, leaving an "Era of Good Feelings" in which only one party was important, under Presidents James Madison and James Monroe. Under Monroe, the United States' policy in North America was the Monroe Doctrine, which suggested that Europe should stop trying to control the United States and other independent countries in the Americas. Around this time, Congress called for something called the "American System". The American System meant spending money on banking, transportation and communication. Due to the American System, bigger cities and more factories were built. One of the big transportation projects of this time was the Erie Canal, a canal in the state of New York. By the 1840s, railroads were built as well as canals. By 1860, thousands of miles of railroads and telegraph lines had been built in the United States, mostly in the Northeast and Midwest.
In the early 19th century, the industrial revolution came to America. Many factories were built in Northern cities such as Lowell, Massachusetts. Most of them made clothes. Many factory workers were women, and some were children or people from Ireland or Germany. Despite this industrialization, America was still a nation of farmers.
In the early and mid-1800s, there was a religious movement called the Second Great Awakening. Thousands of people gathered at large religious meetings called revivals. They thought they could bring about a Golden Age in America through religion. New religious movements such as the Holiness Movement and the Mormons started, and groups like the Methodist Church grew. The Second Great Awakening led to two movements in reform, that is, changing laws and behaviors to make society better. One of these was the Temperance Movement, which believed that drinking alcohol was evil. The other was abolitionism, which tried to end slavery. People such as Harriet Beecher Stowe and William Lloyd Garrison wrote books and newspapers saying that slavery should stop. They also formed political movements, which included the Liberty Party, the Free Soil Party and the Republican Party. Some abolitionists, such as Frederick Douglass, were former slaves. By 1820, slavery was very rare in the North, but continued in the South.
In the 19th century, there was something called the “cult of domesticity” for many American women. This meant that most married women were expected to stay in the home and raise children. As in other countries, American wives were very much under the control of their husband, and had almost no rights. Women who were not married had only a few jobs open to them, such as working in clothing factories and serving as maids. By the 19th century, women such as Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton thought that women should have more rights. In 1848, many of these women met and agreed to fight for more rights for women, including voting. Many of the women involved in the movement for women’s rights were also involved in the movement to end slavery.
In 1828, Andrew Jackson was elected President. He was the first president elected from the Democratic Party. He changed the government in many ways. Since many of his supporters were poor people who had not voted before, he rewarded them with government jobs, which is called "spoils" or "patronage". Because of Jackson, a new party was formed to run against him called the Whigs. This was called the “Second Party System”. Jackson was very much against the National Bank. He saw it as a symbol of Whigs and of powerful American businessmen. Jackson also called for a high import tax that the South did not like. They called it the "Tariff of Abominations". Jackson’s Vice-President, John C. Calhoun, was from the South. He wrote that the South should stop the tariff and perhaps leave the Union (secession). These words would be used again during the Civil War.
People started to move west of the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains at this time. The first people who moved west were people who caught and sold animal skins such as John Colter and Jim Bridger. By the 1840s, many people were moving to Oregon by wagon, and even more people went west after the California Gold Rush of 1849. Many new states were added to the first thirteen, mostly in the Midwest and South before the Civil War and in the West after the Civil War. During this period, Native Americans lost much of their land. They had lost military battles to the Americans at Tippecanoe and in the Seminole War. In the 1830s, Indians were being pushed out of the Midwest and South by events such as the Trail of Tears and the Black Hawk War. By the 1840s, most Native Americans had been moved west of the Mississippi River.
In 1845, Texas, which was a nation after it left Mexico, joined the United States. Mexico did not like this, and the Americans wanted land Mexico had on the West Coast (“Manifest Destiny”). This led to the U.S. and Mexico fighting a war called the Mexican-American War. During the war, the U.S captured the cities of San Francisco, Los Angeles, Monterrey, Veracruz and Mexico City. As a result of the war, the U.S. gained land in California and much of the American Southwest. Many people in the North did not like this war, because they thought it was just good for Southern slave states.
In the 1840s and 1850s, people in the Northern states and people in the Southern states did not like each other very much, mostly due to the issues of slavery in the territories (parts of the United States that were not yet states) and the power of the federal government. People in the government tried to make deals to stop a war. Some deals were the Compromise of 1850 and the Kansas-Nebraska Act, but they did not really work to keep the Union together. People in the South were angry at books like "Uncle Tom’s Cabin" that said that slavery was wrong. People in the North did not like a Supreme Court decision called Dred Scott that kept Scott a slave. People from the South and people from the North started killing each other in Kansas over slavery. This was called "Bleeding Kansas". One of the people from Bleeding Kansas, John Brown, took over a town in Virginia in 1859 to make a point about slavery being wrong and to try to get slaves to fight their owners.
In the election of 1860, the Democratic Party split and the Republican candidate for President, Abraham Lincoln, was elected. After this, many Southern states quit the Union. Eventually, eleven states quit. They started a new country called the Confederate States of America, or the "Confederacy". A war broke out between the Union (North) and the Confederacy (South). The South had better generals than the North, but it had fewer railroads and almost no weapons factories. Not having factories made it harder for Southern soldiers to get guns or uniforms. The South could not get supplies because Northern ships blockaded the Southern coast.
Early in the war, Confederate generals such as Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson won battles over Union generals such as George B. McClellan and Ambrose Burnside who were not as good. In 1862 and 1863, the Union Army tried to take the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia several times, but failed each time. Lee's army invaded the North twice, but was turned back at Antietam and Gettysburg. In the middle of war, Lincoln made the Emancipation Proclamation, which supposedly freed all slaves in the Confederacy, and started letting black men fight in the Union Army. The war started going the Union’s way after the battles of Gettysburg and Vicksburg in 1863. Gettysburg stopped Lee from invading the North, and Vicksburg gave the Union control over the Mississippi River. In 1864, a Union Army under William T. Sherman marched through Georgia and destroyed much of it. By 1865, Union General Ulysses S. Grant had taken Richmond and forced Lee to give up the fight at Appomattox.
In April 1865, Lincoln was shot and killed while watching a play. The new president, Andrew Johnson, had to go through the process of Reconstruction, which was putting the United States back together after the Civil War. During this time, the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments to the Constitution were passed, freeing slaves, making them citizens and allowing them to vote. Congress was run by "Radical Republicans", who wanted to punish the South after the Civil War. They did not like Johnson, and almost removed him from office. They also sent many soldiers to the South, installed unpopular "scalawag" governments, and made the South pass the 14th and 15th Amendments. The South did not like this, so they made "Jim Crow" laws that placed blacks in lower roles and made them work as sharecroppers. White Southerners started a group called the Ku Klux Klan that attacked blacks and stopped them from voting.
During this time, many people moved to the United States from other countries, such as Ireland, Italy, Germany, Eastern Europe, and China. Many of them worked in large factories and lived in big cities, such as New York City, Chicago, and Boston, often in small, poor, close-together apartments called "tenements" or "slums". They often were used by "political machines", who gave them jobs and money in exchange for votes.
Major politicians were chosen by political machines and were corrupt. The government could do little, because the Presidents did not have control of Congress. Leaders of big businesses often had more power than the government. At this time, there were several very big businesses called trusts. People who ran trusts made millions of dollars while paying their workers low wages. Some of these people were John D. Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie, and J.P. Morgan.
After the Civil War, people continued to move west where new states were formed. People now could get free land in the West due to an 1862 law called the Homestead Act. Most of the land in the West was owned by the government, railroads, or large farmers. The Transcontinental Railroad, finished in 1869, helped get people and goods from the west to the rest of the country. Chicago became the center of trade between West and East because many rail lines met there. There were problems between the white settlers and the native Indians as more people began to move west. Because of this, many more Indians were killed at battles such as Wounded Knee. Almost all the Indians' land was taken away by laws like the Dawes Act.
Many Americans thought the railroads charged farmers so much money that it made them poor. Workers led several strikes against the railroad that were put down by the army. Also, farmers started groups to fight the railroad, such as the Grange. These groups became the Populist Movement, which almost won the presidency under William Jennings Bryan. The Populists wanted reforms such as an income tax and direct election of Senators. The Populist Party died out after 1896. Many of the things the Populists wanted would happen during the Progressive Era.
In the United States, progressivism is the belief that the government should have a larger role in the economy to provide good living standards for people, especially workers. Imperialism was the belief that the U.S. should build a stronger navy and conquer land.
In the late nineteenth and early 20th centuries, the U.S. started being more active in foreign affairs. In 1898, the United States fought a war with Spain called the Spanish-American War. The United States won, and gained Puerto Rico, Guam, Guantanamo and the Philippines. Combined with the purchase of Alaska and the taking-over of Hawaii, the United States had gained all the territory it has today, plus some it would later lose after World War II. Around this time, the U.S. and European nations opened up trade with China. This was because they had beaten China in the Opium Wars and the Boxer Rebellion. The U.S. and Europe were able to trade with China through the Open Door Policy. 
In 1901, Theodore Roosevelt became President. He had been a soldier in the Spanish-American War. He called for a foreign policy known as the “Big Stick”. This meant having a large navy and exercising control over Latin America. Between 1901 and 1930, the United States sent soldiers into Latin America several times. When Roosevelt was president, work was begun on the Panama Canal, a link between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans that made travel around the world much faster.
During this time, people started to notice the poor condition of American cities. A group of people called the “muckrakers” wrote books and newspaper articles about subjects like the power of big business, unclean practices in factories, and the condition of poor people. Roosevelt and Congress answered their concerns with laws such as the Pure Food and Drug Act. The Act controlled the way food was made to make sure it was safe. Another response to the muckrakers was something called “trust-busting”, where big businesses were broken up into smaller ones. The biggest business broken up this way was the Standard Oil Company in 1911.
In 1912, Woodrow Wilson became President. He was a Progressive, but not quite the same as Roosevelt. He fought the “triple wall of privilege”, which was big business, taxes, and fees on goods coming into the United States. During this time, the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution were passed. They allowed for a federal income tax and direct election of U.S. Senators.
The United States did not want to enter World War I. they eventually entered the war in 1917 for two reasons. One was that a ship carrying Americans called the "Lusitania" was blown up by the Germans. The other was the Zimmerman Telegram, a message Germany sent to Mexico about invading the U.S. The United States fought on the side of Britain and France, and the war ended a year later. Wilson worked to create an international organization called the League of Nations. The main goal of the League was preventing war. However, the United States did not join because isolationists rejected the peace treaty. At the end of World War I, a flu pandemic killed millions of people in the U.S. and Europe. After the war, the United States was one of the richest and most powerful nations in the world.
There was a lot of racism in the 1920s. The Ku Klux Klan was powerful once again, and attacked blacks, Catholics, Jews and immigrants. People blamed the war and problems in business on immigrants and labor leaders, whom they said were Bolsheviks (Russian communists). Many people also thought that the United States had lost touch with religion. They dealt with that by changing religion, and some of them by attacking science.
The 1920s were an era of boom and prosperity for the United States. Many Americans began buying consumer products, such as Model T Fords and appliances. Advertising became very important to American life. During this time, many African-Americans moved out of the South and into large cities such as New York City, Chicago, St. Louis and Los Angeles. They brought with them jazz music, which is why the 1920s are called the "Jazz Age". The 1920s were also the Prohibition Era after the Eighteenth Amendment passed. During the 1920s, drinking alcohol was illegal, but many Americans drank it anyway. This led to much rum-running and violent crime.
After World War I, the United States had an isolationist foreign policy. That meant it did not want to enter into another global war. It passed laws and treaties that supposedly would end war forever, and refused to sell weapons to its former allies.
In 1921, Warren G. Harding became President. He believed that the best way to make the economy good was for the government to be friendly to big business by cutting taxes and regulating less. While the economy was doing very well under these policies, the gap between how much money the rich had and how much money the poor had was as big as it had ever been. Harding's presidency had several problems. The biggest one was Teapot Dome over oil drilling in the Navy Oil Reserve. Harding died in 1923, and Calvin Coolidge became President. Coolidge believed that the government should keep out of business, just like Harding, and continued many of Harding's policies. Coolidge chose not to run again in 1928 and Herbert Hoover became president.
In 1929, a Great Depression hit the United States. The stock market crashed (lost much of its value). Many banks ran out of money and closed. By 1932, over a quarter of the nation had no jobs, and much of the nation was poor or unemployed. Many people were driven off farms, not only because of the Depression, but also because of a storm known as the "Dust Bowl" and because farmers had not been doing well during the 1920s.
President Hoover tried to do something about the Depression, but it did not work. In 1932, he was defeated and Franklin D. Roosevelt became President. He created the New Deal. It was a series of government programs which would give relief (to the people who were hurt by the bad economy), recovery (to make the economy better), and reform (to make sure a depression never happens again).
The New Deal had many programs such as Social Security, the National Recovery Administration (regulated wages), Works Progress Administration (built thousands of roads, schools, government buildings and works of art), the Civilian Conservation Corps (gave young people jobs to help the environment), and Tennessee Valley Authority (built dams and electric lines in the South). These programs put millions of Americans to work, though often at low pay. Many of these programs were started early in Roosevelt's term in a time called the "Hundred Days" or in 1935 in a time called the "Second New Deal". Programs like Social Security grew out of populist movements by people such as Huey Long that were called "Share Our Wealth" and "Ham and Eggs". The New Deal also led to the rise of worker's unions such as the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
The New Deal is often called the period that "saved capitalism", and stopped America from becoming a Communist or Fascist state. Although the New Deal improved the economy, it did not end the Great Depression. The Great Depression was ended by World War II.
As World War II was beginning, the United States said they would not get involved in it. Most Americans thought the United States should remain neutral, and some people thought the United States should enter the war on the side of the Germans. Eventually, the U.S. did try to help the Allied Powers (Soviet Union, Britain, and France) with the Lend Lease Act. It gave the Allies a lot of money and guns in trade for use of air bases throughout the world.
On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, a U.S. base in Hawaii. The U.S. was no longer neutral, and it declared war on the Axis Powers (Germany, Japan, Italy). The U.S. entering World War II ended the Great Depression because the war created many jobs. While some of the battles the U.S. fought in were air and naval battles with Japan, the U.S. mainly fought in Europe and Africa. The U.S. opened up several fronts, including in North Africa and Italy. The U.S. also bombed Germany from airplanes, blowing up German cities and factories. On June 6, 1944 (D-Day), American and British forces invaded Normandy. A year later, the Allies had freed France and taken Berlin. In 1945, Roosevelt died, and Harry Truman became president. The U.S. decided to drop two atomic bombs on Japan. Japan gave up soon afterwards, and the war ended. 
The war meant different things for women and minorities. During the war, many women worked in weapons factories. They were symbolized by a character called "Rosie the Riveter". Many African-Americans served in the army, but often in segregated units with white officers. Japanese-Americans on the West Coast were forced to live in internment camps, though a few also served in the Army.
After World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States were the two most powerful countries left in the world. The Cold War was a period of tension between the two countries over ways of life. The two countries tried to get other countries on their side. The Soviet Union tried to get countries to become Communist and the United States tried to stop them from being Communist. American and Soviet soldiers never fought in battles, but they fought indirectly in the Korean War (1950s) and the Vietnam War (1950s–1970s).
The Korean War lasted only a few years, but led to American soldiers being in Korea since then. The Vietnam War lasted much longer. It started with a few American troops in Vietnam, but by the 1960s thousands of Americans were being sent to Vietnam. Both wars were between a Northern Communist government helped by the Soviet Union and Communist China and a Southern government helped by the U.S. The Korean War resulted in a split Korea, but the Vietnam War resulted in a Communist Vietnam after the United States left due to American people wanting to end the war. Over a quarter million Americans died or were wounded in Vietnam, which was very much a military failure. The U.S. and Soviet Union argued about where they could place nuclear weapons. One of these arguments was the Cuban Missile Crisis. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, the U.S. and Soviet Union came very close to attacking each other with nuclear weapons.
During the Cold War, the United States had a "Red Scare" where the government tried to find people it thought were Communist. The House of Representatives had a group called the House Un-American Activities Committee to deal with this, and Joseph McCarthy led hearings in the Senate. The Red Scare led to people losing their jobs, going to jail, and even being executed. Many actors and authors were put on blacklists, which meant they could not get jobs in movies or get credit for their writings.
The Cold War began with an arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union to see who could have more and better weapons. This started after the Soviets were the second country to develop an atomic bomb. In the United States, this started something called the "Military Industrial Complex", which meant business and government working together to spend a lot of money on large-scale weapons projects. Business and government helped each other to get more money and more power. Part of the Complex was something called the Marshall Plan, which rebuilt Europe while making them buy American goods. The Complex allowed for a growing middle class, but also kept the Cold War going.
Besides the arms race, another part of the Cold War was the "Space Race". This started when the Soviets launched a satellite into space called "Sputnik" in 1957. Americans became worried that the United States was falling behind the Soviet Union, and made their schools focus more on mathematics and science. Within a few years, both the United States and the Soviet Union had sent satellites, animals and people into orbit. In 1969 the "Apollo 11" mission put Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin on the Moon.
United States foreign policy changed in the 1970s when the United States left Vietnam and Richard Nixon left office due to a political scandal called Watergate. In the 1970s and 1980s, the United States had a policy of "detente" with the Soviet Union. This meant that the two countries signed treaties to stop use of weapons. Under Nixon and Reagan, the United States sent troops and money to many Latin American governments to stop them from being Communist. This led to violence in Latin America. Around this time, the economy suffered because the United States was not making as many things as it used to, and because some countries in the Middle East were not giving the U.S. as much oil as it wanted (this was called an "oil embargo"). The Middle East became very important in American foreign policy after several Americans were kidnapped in Iran in 1979. In the 1980s, people in the U.S. government sold weapons to people in Iran and gave the money to "contra" soldiers in Nicaragua. This was called the "Iran-Contra affair". In the 1970s and 1980s, the U.S. normalized relations with China. The Cold War came to an end as Communist governments in the Soviet Union and other countries fell apart.
The United States once again had prosperity. Millions of white people moved out of the cities and into suburbs, and into Southern and Western states known as the "Sunbelt". They bought new cars and television sets. The birth rate in the 1940s and 1950s rose, in what was called the "Baby Boom" The "Space Age" inspired "Googie" style art and architecture. Many more people became part of the middle class, but there were still many people who were poor.
Poverty was most common among African-Americans. Most lived in poor neighborhoods in Northern cities, or in the South where they faced racism and "Jim Crow" segregation. These conditions led to the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s, led by Martin Luther King Jr. and others. In 1954, the Supreme Court found school segregation illegal in "Brown v. Board of Education", though it would be several years before school segregation was ended. In 1955, King led a bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama. In the late 1950s and 1960s, King got help from Presidents John F. Kennedy, who was shot, and Lyndon B. Johnson. In 1963, he led a march on Washington calling for civil rights. Soon after, Congress passed laws that made most segregation illegal. Johnson also a program called the Great Society that helped poor and minorities.
Gays and lesbians, who had often been persecuted, also started to ask for rights, beginning with the Stonewall riots in 1969. Chicanos, Native Americans, old people, consumers, and people with disabilities also fought for rights, as did women. Though women had had jobs during World War II, most of them went back to the home after the war. Women did not like that they often held jobs that paid less than men or that fewer opportunities were open to them. People like Betty Freidan and Gloria Steinem founded groups such as the National Organization for Women to try and solve these problems. NOW and other groups wanted an Equal Rights Amendment that would guarantee them equality in all areas. In the 1970s and 1980s, many more jobs and opportunities were opened to women. There were some women like Phyllis Schlafly who opposed Freidan and Steinem and were known as "anti-feminists". It was partly because of the anti-feminists that the Equal Rights Amendment was defeated, but also because women had already gained equality in many areas and they did not want to be drafted into the army.
In the 1960s, the counterculture was created. Some of the followers of the counterculture were called hippies. They had long hair, and lived communally, smoking marijuana and practicing free love. The counterculture, along with college students, were the groups most against the Vietnam War. They also were the groups that listened to new music known as rock and roll.
In 1973, the Supreme Court issued a decision called "Roe v. Wade", which made many abortions legal. The many changes led to a reaction by Jerry Falwell and other conservatives who called themselves the "Religious Right" and the "Moral Majority".
Ronald Reagan was elected President in 1980. He defeated incumbent Jimmy Carter by winning 44 out of the 50 American states. During the Reagan Era, the country was facing through inflation, a bad economy, and the American foreign policy were not as good. When Ronald Reagan became president, he signed the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 which helped the economy. Afterwards more and more jobs began to appear. More people were getting jobs. The inflation decreased. During Reagan's presidency, he also helped expand the American military. This also created more jobs, but also raised the deficit. During his first term, the economy went from a 4.5% to 7.2%.
In 1984, Reagan won in a major landslide by winning 49 out of the 50 American states. During his second term, Reagan focused on ending the Cold War. He held many meetings between Margaret Thatcher, Pope John Paul II, and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. They first met at the Geneva Summit in 1985. Later they both discovered their passion of ending the war. Reagan met four times with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who ascended to power in 1985, and their summit conferences led to the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.
Also during his second term, Reagan's Invasion of Grenada and bombing of Libya were popular in the US, though his backing of the Contras rebels was mired in the controversy over the Iran–Contra affair that revealed Reagan's poor management style.
Since leaving office in 1989, Reagan became one of the most popular Presidents of the United States.
In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Cold War came to an end. This was due to the Russian leader Mikhail Gorbachev starting a policy called perestroika, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the Soviet Union breaking into different countries. Around this time, the United States did not make as many things as it used to, and had many people working in service jobs. Part of these service jobs were in computers and the internet, which came into wide use in the 1990s. By this time, the United States had a very large trade deficit, meaning it received more goods from other countries, such as China, than it sent to other countries.
The Middle East became the main focus of U.S. foreign policy. In 1991, the United States fought a war with Iraq called the First Gulf War or Operation Desert Storm. This was to stop Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein from occupying Kuwait, a small oil-producing country.
In 1992, Bill Clinton became President. Under Clinton, the United States sent soldiers into Bosnia as part of a United Nations mission. The United States also agreed to a trade pact called the North American Free Trade Agreement (and repealed Glass–Steagall Legislation). Clinton was impeached for lying in court about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky, but the Senate voted against removing him as President.
In 2000, George W. Bush was elected President, even though Al Gore got more votes. Soon into Bush's term, terrorists attacked the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. They took control of four airplanes and crashed two of them into the World Trade Center and one into the Pentagon. Thousands of people died.  Soon after the attacks, the U.S. and NATO went to Afghanistan to find Osama bin Laden and others who they believed planned the September 11 attacks. In 2003, the United States invaded Iraq because some people thought Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. Millions of people from around the world did not like the War in Iraq. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have lasted many years and have been called a "Long War" or a new American Empire. By 2011, most American soldiers had left Iraq, and combat there was over.
In 2005, the southern United States was hit by a huge hurricane called Hurricane Katrina. Much of the city of New Orleans was destroyed. In 2006, the Democrats won back Congress because Americans did not like the way Bush dealt with War in Iraq or Katrina. At the end of Bush's term, the United States entered the worst recession since the Great Depression. Barack Obama was elected President in 2008. He became the first African-American President of the United States. During his first years in office, Obama and Congress passed reforms onhealth care and banking. They also passed a large stimulus bill to help the economy during the recession. During the recession, the government used large amounts of money to keep the banking and auto industries from falling apart. Obama not only had to deal with the recession, but also a large oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. A movement called the "Tea Party" started during Obama's presidency. This group opposes Obama's health care plan and other policies they see as "big government." Due to the recession, the Tea Party and a dislike of what Obama did, Republicans won a large number of House and Senate seats in the 2010 election. In 2011, Tea Party members of Congress almost shut down the government and sent the U.S. into default (not being able to pay people the government owes money). A few months later, many young people protested against big business. They thought big business made too much money. In 2012, Obama was reelected to a second term.
The United States faces many political issues. One of these is what kind of government the United States should become. Liberals want a large government, while the Tea Party and other groups want a smaller government. One of these debates is over health care. Health care costs have risen. Conservatives and liberals also disagree on social issues such as abortion and gay marriage. Many more people have come to accept gays and gay marriage as an acceptable part of American society. There are also many trends and developments that the U.S. must deal with. One of these is immigration. Many people are coming to the U.S. from Latin America and Asia, especially Mexico. This is called the "browning of America". Baby Boom Americans are getting older and a larger fraction of the people are retired. Other issues facing the United States are a growing concern about the environment. This has led to the creation of many "green jobs," or jobs that create clean or renewable energy.

</doc>
<doc id="101179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101179" title="Exponential function">
Exponential function

In mathematics, an exponential function is a function that quickly grows. More precisely, it is the function formula_1, where e is Euler's constant, an irrational number that is approximately 2.71828. 
Because exponential functions use exponentiation, they follow the same rules. Thus,
The natural logarithm is the inverse operation of an exponential function.
This may also seem unintuitive because of a fundamental property in differential calculus:
This means that the slope of an exponential function is an exponential function itself, and subsequently this means it has a slope of 1 at formula_7. These properties are the reason it is an important function in mathematics.
The exponential function is among the most useful of mathematical functions. It is used to represent exponential growth, which has uses in virtually all science subjects and it is also prominent in Finance.
One example of an exponential function in real life would be interest in a bank. If a person deposits £100 into an account which gets 3% interest a month then the balance each month would be (assuming the money is untouched):
Notice how the extra money from interest increases each month. The greater the original balance, the more interest the person will get.
Two mathematical examples of exponential functions are shown below.
a=2
a=3
Even though the base (formula_8) can be any number bigger than zero, for example, 10 or 1/2, often it is a special number called e. The number "e" cannot be written exactly, but it is almost equal to 2.71828.
The number "e" is important to every exponential function. For example, a bank pays interest of 0.01 percent every day. One person takes his interest money and puts it in a box. After 10,000 days (about 30 years), he has 2 times as much money as he started with. Another person takes his interest money and puts it back into the bank. Because the bank now pays him interest on his interest, the amount of money is an exponential function. After 10,000 days, he does not have 2 times as much money as he started with, but he has 2.718145 times as much money as he started with. This number is very close to the number "e". If the bank pays interest more often, so the amount paid each time is less, then the number will be closer to the number "e".
A person can also look at the picture to see why the number "e" is important for exponential functions. The picture has three different curves. The curve with the black points is an exponential function with a base a little smaller than "e". The curve with the short black lines is an exponential function with a base a little bigger than "e". The blue curve is an exponential function with a base exactly equal to "e". The red line is a tangent to the blue curve. It touches the blue curve at one point without crossing it. A person can see that the red curve crosses the "x"-axis, the line that goes from left to right, at -1. This is true only for the blue curve. This is the reason that the exponential function with the base "e" is special.

</doc>
<doc id="101185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101185" title="Computer file">
Computer file

A computer file is a means to store information that belongs together. Computer files can be opened (read and written) by computer programs. Usually they are stored on some kind of file system.
There are different kinds of computer files that hold different kinds of data (information):
The way the information is organized in a file is called the file format.

</doc>
<doc id="101187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101187" title="Data format">
Data format

Data format in information technology can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="101189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101189" title="File (tool)">
File (tool)

A file is a tool. It is used to shape materials, by cutting away some of it. Today, files are usually made of a steel bar that has a rough surface. By rubbing the surface against a material, some of the material is cut away. There are also nail files used to shape a person's fingernails.Files also make the surface of the area smooth so that when it comes to the building process there are no gaps or anything. 

</doc>
<doc id="101192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101192" title="Sheffield Wednesday F.C.">
Sheffield Wednesday F.C.

Sheffield Wednesday F.C. is an English football club. They are based in Sheffield, South Yorkshire. They play their home matches at a stadium called Hillsborough Stadium. They originally played at a stadium called Olive Grove Stadium and were called The Wednesday.
The club plays in the English Football League Championship.
Fans of Sheffield Wednesday are referred to as Owls. The team's symbol is an owl.

</doc>
<doc id="101194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101194" title="De Wallen">
De Wallen

De Wallen (""thin walls"") are the biggest and most famous red-light district in Amsterdam. It is in the very old (14th century) part of the city around the Oude Kerk and Oudezijds Achterburgwal/Vorburgwal.
In December 2007, the mayor of Amsterdam and his government decided to buy many of brothelhouses within De Wallen. By doing this, the area used for prostitution and coffee shops gets smaller and smaller.

</doc>
<doc id="101195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101195" title="Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.">
Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.

Wolverhampton Wanderers are an English association football club. They are based in Wolverhampton, West Midlands. The club started in 1877 and play their home games at a stadium called Molineux Stadium. They have won the FA Cup four times.
According to Football365, Wolves are the fourth most successful team in the history of English football. They have only twice been in the lowest of the league system.
In 2009 they won the Football League Championship. This meant they were promoted into the Premier League for the following season. Also promoted were runners-up Birmingham City F.C., and Burnley F.C. from the play-offs. 

</doc>
<doc id="101200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101200" title="A.F.C. Bournemouth">
A.F.C. Bournemouth

A.F.C. Bournemouth are an English football club. They are based in Bournemouth and play their home games at a stadium called the Fitness First Stadium. They started in 1899 and have had Harry Redknapp as a manager and his son Jamie Redknapp as a player. In the 2015–2016 season, Bournemouth are playing in The English Premier League.

</doc>
<doc id="101203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101203" title="Jamie Redknapp">
Jamie Redknapp

Jamie Redknapp (born 25 June 1973) is an English footballer. He was born in Barton on Sea, Hampshire. He played for Liverpool F.C., Tottenham Hotspur F.C., A.F.C. Bournemouth and Southampton F.C.. His father, Harry Redknapp, is the manager of Portsmouth F.C. 
Redknapp married singer Louise Nurding in 1998. 

</doc>
<doc id="101215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101215" title="Bradford City A.F.C.">
Bradford City A.F.C.

Bradford City A.F.C. is an English football club. They are based in Bradford, West Yorkshire. They began in 1903 and play their home games in a stadium called Valley Parade.

</doc>
<doc id="101221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101221" title="Arenal Volcano National Park">
Arenal Volcano National Park

Arenal Volcano National Park is a national park in the northwest region of Costa Rica. It is between the mountain pass of the Tilarán Mountain Range and the Plains of San Carlos. A part of the park belongs to San Ramón.
The main characteristic of this national park is the Arenal Volcano. It is an almost perfect cone with a height of 1633 m. The volcano has regular eruptions which create one of the most extraordinary natural landscapes of Costa Rica.
The park many different types of plants and animals. Some of the more interesting plants are Guayabo mountain, Ceiba, Cirri, Laurel, Higuerones, Pilon, Guarumo, Balsa, different species of palms, heliconias, orchids, ferns and bromeliads including "Pitcaimia Funkiae".
The main species of animals are sloths, birds like lapas, parrots and quetzals, snakes like lora snake, velvet snake and the boa constrictor, 35 species of fish and 135 species of reptiles including turtles. There are also tapirs, deers, jaguars, sahínos, pizotes, Congo monkeys, and cappuccino monkeys. Most of the animals that live in the park are birds. This makes the park a very good place for bird watchers.
This national park has a great tourist attraction because of the beautiful scenery and forests. It is also a very good place for extreme sports practice like canopy which hundreds of peoples both foreigners and locals like a lot. Many people like to watch the view created by the volcano when it is making small eruptions at night.

</doc>
<doc id="101228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101228" title="Faded (song)">
Faded (song)

"Faded" is a 2006 song by Kate DeAraugo, the winner of "Australian Idol" in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="101233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101233" title="Emergency (song)">
Emergency (song)

Emergency is a 2005 song by Paramore. It came off the album "All We Know Is Falling".
The song is about Hayley Williams' parents, and she could remember standing between them yelling at them to shut up. 

</doc>
<doc id="101235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101235" title="Roger D. Kornberg">
Roger D. Kornberg

Roger David Kornberg (born ) is an American biochemist. He is a professor of Structural Biology at Stanford University School of Medicine. Kornberg was given the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2006 for studying eukaryote transcription. This is copying of information from DNA to RNA. His father, Arthur Kornberg, who was also a professor at Stanford University, was given the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1959.
Kornberg was born in St. Louis, Missouri to a Jewish family. He was the first of three children born to Arthur Kornberg and his wife, Sylvy. The parents worked together as biochemists. Roger Kornberg earned his bachelors degree from Harvard University in 1967 and his PhD from Stanford University in 1972. He then became a Fellow at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology at the University of Cambridge, England.
All heredity is controlled by genes. For the cells to make use of the information in the genes, a copy of part of the gene must be made. The copying is called transcription. Transcription makes an RNA copy of part of the DNA. The RNA is moved out of the cell nucleus, to ribosomes, where it does its work. This is called messenger RNA and it gives the amino acid sequence for protein production. This second process is called translation. The RNA with the instructions for proteins is called RNA polymerase II. This process works in all eukaryotes, including all plants and animals.
Kornberg worked with Aaron Klug and Francis Crick at the MRC in the 1970s. He discovered the nucleosome, a very important protein structure in chromosomes. Nucleosomes form the basic repeating units of eukaryotic chromatin. This packs the large eukaryotic genomes into the nucleus and allows it to be controlled. 
Kornberg made the discovery that signals to the RNA are made by another protein that they called "Mediator". The Nobel Prize committee said, "the great complexity of eukaryotic organisms is enabled by the fine interplay between tissue-specific substances, enhancers in the DNA and Mediator. The discovery of Mediator is therefore a true milestone in the understanding of the transcription process".
After long effort, Kornberg was able to use X-ray crystallography to take 3D pictures of RNA molecules, lipids and proteins. With these studies, Kornberg has created a picture of how DNA works. The Nobel Prize committee said, "the truly revolutionary aspect of the picture Kornberg has created is that it captures the process of transcription in full flow. What we see is an RNA-strand being constructed, and hence the exact positions of the DNA, polymerase and RNA during this process".
In 1959, Roger Kornberg's father, Arthur Kornberg, received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for studies of how genetic information moves from one DNA molecule to another. This is called DNA replication. Arthur Kornberg found the first enzyme that could make DNA. This was the first known enzyme to take its instructions from a DNA copy. Roger Kornbergs younger brother, Thomas Bill Kornberg, discovered DNA polymerases II and III in 1970 and is now a geneticist at the University of California, San Francisco. All three Kornbergs have worked to understand how genetic information is used in cells. Arthur and Roger Kornberg are the sixth father and son to win Nobel Prizes.
Professor Kornberg has received these awards:

</doc>
<doc id="101250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101250" title="All We Know Is Falling">
All We Know Is Falling

All We Know Is Falling is the first album of the band Paramore. It was recorded in just three weeks. In April 2006, the CD was released in the UK. In 2005, a Japanese version was released, with the bonus track "O, Star".
Paramore released three videos from this album. The first was for the single "All We Know", followed by "Pressure", and "Emergency".

</doc>
<doc id="101265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101265" title="Businessperson">
Businessperson

A businessperson (also businessman or businesswoman) is someone who works at a job that focuses on making money. Generally, it is someone who works in the management (at any level) of a company. Sometimes the word means an entrepreneur or a merchant. 
Many businessmen wear standard business clothes: a suit with collar, shirt, and necktie. However, this depends on the company, the local culture, and the country. In more informal places, neckties need not be worn. 
Businesswomen's clothes have gone through many changes. Dresses and suits are common today.

</doc>
<doc id="101266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101266" title="Werl">
Werl

Werl is a town found in the district of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.
Werl is made up of the following districts:
Werl was the birthplace of Franz von Papen (1879–1969), German soldier, politician and diplomat.

</doc>
<doc id="101269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101269" title="Tangent (geometry)">
Tangent (geometry)

In geometry, a tangent is a straight line that touches a curve at one point. At the place where they touch, the line and the curve both have the same slope (they are both "going in the same direction"). For this reason, a tangent line is a good approximation of the curve near that point. The curve and the tangent line are almost exactly the same near the intersection point.
A straight line which touches a circle at a single point is perpendicular to the circle's radius and is considered tangent to the circle.
Tangent lines are useful in calculus because they can magnify the slope of a curve at a single point. The slope of some curve at the point P is often called the instantaneous rate of change of the curve at P. The instantaneous rate of change at a specific point on the curve can be found by evaluating the derivative function for the curve at that point.

</doc>
<doc id="101270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101270" title="History of North America">
History of North America

The History of North America deals with an area where humans came to live relatively recently, compared to Africa, Europe, and Asia. 
Scientists have different theories as to the origins of the early human population of the continent. The indigenous peoples of North America themselves have many creation stories, that tell that native Americans have been present on the land since its creation.
Before contact with Europeans the natives of North America were divided into many different communities, from small bands of a few families to large empires. They lived in several culture areas, which roughly correspond to geographic and biological zones of North America and give a good indication of the main occupation of the people who lived there (e.g. the Bison hunters of the Great Plains, or the farmers of Mesoamerica). Native groups can also be classified by their language family. It is important to note that peoples with similar languages did not always share the same material culture, nor were they always allies.
Scientists believe that the Inuit people of the high Arctic came to North America much later than other native groups, as evidenced by the disappearance of Dorset culture artifacts from the archaeological record, and their replacement by the Thule people.
During the thousands of years of native inhabitation on the continent, cultures changed and shifted. Archaeologists often name different cultural groups they discover after the site where they are first found. One of the oldest cultures yet found is the Clovis culture of modern New Mexico. A more recent example is the group of related cultures called the Mound builders (e.g. the Fort Walton Culture), found in the Mississippi river valley. They flourished from 3000 BC to the 1500s AD.
The more southern cultural groups of North America were responsible for the domestication of many common crops now used around the world, such as tomatoes and squash. Perhaps most importantly they domesticated one of the world's major staples, maize (corn).
As a result of the development of agriculture in the south, important cultural development was possible there. For example, the Maya civilization developed a writing system, built huge pyramids, had a complex calendar, and developed the concept of zero 500 years before anyone in the Old World. The Mayan culture was still present when the Spanish arrived in Central America, but political dominance in the area had shifted to the Aztec Empire farther north.
Upon the arrival of the Europeans in the "New World", native peoples found their culture changed drastically. As such, their affiliation with political and cultural groups changed as well, several linguistic groups went extinct, and others changed quite quickly. The name and cultures that Europeans recorded for the natives were not necessarily the same as the ones they had used a few generations before, or the ones in use today.
There was limited contact between North American peoples and the outside world before 1492. Several theoretical contacts have been proposed, but the earliest physical evidence comes to us from the Norse or Vikings. Norse captain Leif Ericson is believed to have reached the Island of Newfoundland circa 1000 AD. They named their new discovery Vinland. The only Norse site yet discovered in North America is at L'Anse aux Meadows, Newfoundland and Labrador. The Norse colonies were later abandoned.
The Viking voyages did not become common knowledge in the Old World, and Europeans remained ignorant of the existence of the Americas, until 1492. As part of a general age of discovery Italian sailor Christopher Columbus proposed a voyage west from Europe to find a shorter route to Asia. He eventually received the backing of Isabella I and Ferdinand II, Queen and King of newly united Spain. In 1492 Columbus reached land in the Bahamas. 
Almost 500 years after the Norse, John Cabot explored the east coast of what would become Canada in 1497. Giovanni da Verrazzano explored the East Coast of America from Florida to presumably Newfoundland in 1524. Jacques Cartier made a series of voyages on behalf of the French crown in 1534 and penetrated the St. Lawrence River.
Initially, European activity consisted mostly of trade and exploration. Eventually Europeans began to establish settlements. The three principal colonial powers were Spain, England, and France, although eventually even small powers like the Netherlands and Sweden received minor holdings on the continent. 
Settlement by the Spanish started the European colonization of the Americas, involving genocide of the native Indians. They gained control of most of the largest islands in the Caribbean and conquered the Aztecs, gaining control of present-day Mexico and Central America. This was the beginning of the Spanish Empire in the New World. The first successful Spanish settlement in continental North America was Veracruz in 1519, followed by many other settlements in colonial New Spain and Spanish Florida.
The first successful English settlements were at Jamestown (1607) (along with its satellite, Bermuda in 1609) and Plymouth (1620), in what are today Virginia and Massachusetts respectively. The first French settlements were Port Royal (1604) and Quebec City (1608) in what is now Nova Scotia and Quebec. The Fur Trade soon became the primary business on the continent and as a result transformed the Native Americans lifestyle.
Farther to the south, plantation slavery became the main industry of the West Indies, and this gave rise to the beginning of the Atlantic slave trade.
By 1663 the French crown had taken over control of New France from the fur-trading companies, and the English charter colonies gave way to more metropolitan control. This ushered in a new era of more formalized colonialism in North America.
Rivalry between the European powers created a series of wars on the North American landmass that would have great impact on the development of the colonies. Territory often changed hands multiple times. Peace was not achieved until French forces in North America were vanquished at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham at Quebec City, and France ceded most of her claims outside of the Caribbean.
Viceroyalty of New Spain was the name of the viceroy-ruled territories of the Spanish Empire in Asia, North America and its peripheries from 1535 to 1821.
The coming of the American Revolution had a great impact across the continent. Most importantly it directly led to the creation of the United States of America. However, the associated American Revolutionary War was an important war that touched all corners of the region. The flight of the United Empire Loyalists led to the creation of English Canada as a separate community. Meanwhile, Spain's hold on Mexico was weakening. Independence was declared in 1810 by Miguel Hidalgo, starting the "Mexican War of Independence". In 1813, José María Morelos and the Congress of Anáhuac signed the Solemn Act of the Declaration of Independence of Northern America, the first legal document where the separation of the New Spain with respect to Spain is proclaimed. Spain finally recognized Mexico's independence in 1821.
From the time of independence of the United States, that country expanded rapidly to the west, acquiring the massive Louisiana territory in 1803. An attempt at northern expansion was blocked by Britain during the War of 1812. At the same time, British settlement in Canada increased. 
US expansion was complicated by the division between "free" and "slave" states, which led to the Missouri Compromise 1820. Likewise, Canada faced a division between French and English communities that led to the outbreak of civil strife in 1837. Mexico faced constant political tensions between liberals and conservatives, as well as the rebellion of the English-speaking region of Tejas, which declared itself the Republic of Texas 1836. In 1845 Texas joined the United States, which would later lead to the Mexican–American War. As a result of conflict with Mexico, the United States made further territorial gains in California and the Southwest.
In Mexico, the entire era was dominated by the dictatorship of Porfirio Díaz.
As a part of the British Empire Canada immediately was at war in 1914. Canada bore the brunt of several major battles during the early stages of the war including the use of poison gas attacks at Ypres. Losses became grave, and the government eventually brought in conscription, despite the fact this was against the wishes of the majority of French Canadians. In the ensuing Conscription Crisis of 1917, riots broke out on the streets of Montreal. In neighboring Newfoundland, the new dominion suffered a devastating loss on July 1, 1916, the First day on the Somme.
The United States stayed apart from the conflict until 1917, joining the Entente powers. The United States was then able to play a crucial role at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 that shaped interwar Europe.
Mexico was not part of the war as the country was embroiled in the Mexican Revolution at the time.
The 1920s brought an age of great prosperity in the United States, and to a lesser degree Canada. But the Wall Street Crash of 1929 combined with drought ushered in a period of economic hardship in the United States and Canada.
From 1936 to 1949, this was a popular uprising against the anti-Catholic Mexican government of the time, set off specifically by the anti-clerical provisions of the Mexican Constitution of 1917.
Once again Canada found herself at war before her neighbours, however even Canadian contributions were slight before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
The entry of the United States into the war helped to tip the balance in favour of the allies.
Two Mexican tankers, transporting oil to the United States, were attacked and sunk by the Germans in the Gulf of Mexico waters, in 1942. The incident happened in spite of Mexico's neutrality at that time. This led Mexico to declare war to the Axis nations and entered the conflict.
The destruction of Europe wrought by the war vaulted all North American countries to more important roles in world affairs. The United States especially emerged as a "superpower".
The early Cold War era saw the United States as the most powerful nation in a Western coalition of which Mexico and Canada were also a part. At home, the United States witnessed convulsive change especially in the area of race relations. In Canada this was mirrored by the Quiet Revolution and the emergence of Quebec nationalism.
Mexico experienced an era of huge economic growth after World War II, a heavy industrialization process and a growth of its middle class, a period known in Mexican history as the ""El Milagro Mexicano"" (Mexican miracle).
The Caribbean saw the beginnings of decolonization, while on the largest island the Cuban Revolution introduced Cold War rivalries into Latin America.

</doc>
<doc id="101272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101272" title="Brentford F.C.">
Brentford F.C.

Brentford F.C. is an English football club. They are based in Brentford in London and they play their home games at a stadium called Griffin Park. Brentford were formed in 1889 and have the nickname "The Bees".

</doc>
<doc id="101273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101273" title="Harry Redknapp">
Harry Redknapp

Harry Redknapp (born 2 March 1947) is an English association football manager. He was born in Poplar, London. He is currently in charge of English club Queens Park Rangers football club. Before he became a manager he used to play football, mainly for West Ham.
He managed A.F.C. Bournemouth, West Ham, Portsmouth, Southampton and Portsmouth again before he got an offer to manage Tottenham Hotspur.
Redknapp is related to two Premier League stars. He is the father of Jamie Redknapp who played under him at Bournemouth and Southampton. He is also the uncle by marriage of Frank Lampard who played under him at West Ham United.

</doc>
<doc id="101277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101277" title="PDF (disambiguation)">
PDF (disambiguation)

PDF commonly refers to the Portable Document Format in computing.
Other uses could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="101278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101278" title="Cough">
Cough

A cough, also known as tussis, is an action the body takes to get rid of anything that irritates the lungs or throat. To do this, muscles in the thoracic cavity contract to make air leave the lungs with a lot of force. Coughs often happen quickly and more than once, and are usually accompanied by a unique sound, also called a cough.
Coughs are more likely to happen when a person is sick, because infections often irritate breathing passages. Another cause of coughs is a person breathing air that is not clean.

</doc>
<doc id="101285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101285" title="Creation">
Creation

A "Creation" is something that was made. More specifically, Creation may refer to:
In religion and philosophy:
In science:
In the arts:
In media:

</doc>
<doc id="101287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101287" title="Creation myth">
Creation myth

A creation myth or creation story explains how the universe started, how the earth came to be, and why there are humans. Creation myths are usually part of religions and mythologies. Very often, creation myths say that humans were made by a god, spirit or other supreme being. 
In the beginning, there was just water. All the animals lived above it and the sky was overcrowded. They were all curious about what was beneath the water and one day Dayuni'si, the water beetle, volunteered to explore it. He explored the surface but could not find any solid ground. He explored below the surface to the bottom and all he found was mud which he brought back to the surface. After collecting the mud, it began to grow in size and spread outwards until it became the Earth as we know it. 
In the beginning nothing existed, darkness was all around. Suddenly from the darkness came a thin disc, one side yellow and the other side white, appearing suspended in midair. Within the disc sat a small bearded man, Creator, the "One Who Lives Above". When he looked into the endless darkness, light appeared above. He looked down and it became a sea of light. To the east, he created yellow streaks of dawn. To the west, tints of many colours appeared everywhere. There were also clouds of different colors. He also created three other gods: a little girl, a sun god and a small boy. Then he created celestial phenomena, the winds, the tarantula, and the earth from the sweat of the four gods mixed together in the Creator's palms, from a small round, brown ball, not much larger than a bean. The world was expanded to its current size by the gods kicking the small brown ball. Creator told Wind to go inside the ball and to blow it up. The tarantula, who knew what to do, spun a black cord and, attaching it to the ball, crawled away fast to the east, pulling on the cord with all his strength. Tarantula repeated with a blue cord to the south, a yellow cord to the west, and a white cord to the north. With mighty pulls in each direction, the brown ball stretched to immeasurable size--it became the earth! No hills, mountains, or rivers were visible; only smooth, treeless, brown plains appeared. Then the Creator created the rest of the beings and features of the Earth.
In the Judeo-Christian-Islamic story, it is believed that an entity referred to as God created the universe in six days.
Christians that believe God created the Universe in exactly the way described in the Bible are called "creationists". Other Christians think that the biblical creation story has fundamental truths and messages, but should not be taken literally.
Many cultures have stories describing the origin of the world, which may be roughly grouped into common types. In one type of story, the world is born from a world egg; such stories include the Finnish epic poem "Kalevala", the Chinese story of Pangu or the Indian Brahmanda Purana. In related stories, the creation is caused by a single entity emanating or producing something by his or herself, as in the Tibetan Buddhism concept of Adi-Buddha, the ancient Greek story of Gaia (Mother Earth), the Aztec goddess Coatlicue myth, the ancient Egyptian god Atum story, or the Genesis creation myth. In another type of story, the world is created from the union of male and female deities, as in the Maori story of Rangi and Papa. In other stories, the Universe is created by crafting it from pre-existing materials, such as the corpse of a dead god — as from Tiamat in the Babylonian epic Enuma Elish or from the giant Ymir in Norse mythology – or from chaotic materials, as in Izanagi and Izanami in Japanese mythology. In another type of story, the world is created by the command of a divinity, as in the ancient Egyptian story of Ptah or the Genesis creation myth as a part of Jewish and Christian mythology. In other stories, the universe emanates from fundamental principles, such as Brahman and Prakrti, or the yin and yang of the Tao.
Although Heraclitus argued for eternal change, his quasi-contemporary Parmenides made the radical suggestion that all change is an illusion, that the true underlying reality is eternally unchanging and of a single nature. Parmenides denoted this reality as το εν (The One). Parmenides' theory seemed implausible to many Greeks, but his student Zeno of Elea challenged them with several famous paradoxes. Aristotle resolved these paradoxes by developing the notion of an infinitely divisible continuum, and applying it to space and time.
The Indian philosopher Kanada, founder of the Vaisheshika school, developed a theory of atomism and proposed that light and heat were varieties of the same substance. In the 5th century AD, the Buddhist atomist philosopher Dignāga proposed atoms to be point-sized, durationless, and made of energy. They denied the existence of substantial matter and proposed that movement consisted of momentary flashes of a stream of energy.
The theory of temporal finitism was inspired by the doctrine of creation shared by the three Abrahamic religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The Christian philosopher, John Philoponus, presented the philosophical arguments against the ancient Greek notion of an infinite past. Philoponus' arguments against an infinite past were used by the early Muslim philosopher, Al-Kindi (Alkindus); the Jewish philosopher, Saadia Gaon (Saadia ben Joseph); and the Muslim theologian, Al-Ghazali (Algazel). They employed two logical arguments against an infinite past, the first being the "argument from the impossibility of the existence of an actual infinite", which states:
The second argument, the "argument from the impossibility of completing an actual infinite by successive addition", states:
Both arguments were adopted by later Christian philosophers and theologians, and the second argument in particular became more famous after it was adopted by Immanuel Kant in his thesis of the first antinomy concerning time.
Fakhr al-Din al-Razi (1149–1209) criticized the idea of the Earth's centrality within the universe. In the context of his commentary on the Qur'anic verse, "All praise belongs to God, Lord of the Worlds," he raises the question of whether the term "worlds" in this verse refers to "multiple worlds within this single universe or cosmos, or to many other universes or a multiverse beyond this known universe." He rejected the Aristotelian and Avicennian notions of a single universe revolving around a single world, and instead argued that there are more than "a thousand thousand worlds ("alfa alfi 'awalim") beyond this world such that each one of those worlds be bigger and more massive than this world as well as having the like of what this world has." He argued that there exists an infinite outer space beyond the known world, and that God has the power to fill the vacuum with an infinite number of universes.

</doc>
<doc id="101288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101288" title="Tarantula">
Tarantula

Tarantula is the common name for a group of "hairy" and often very large spiders belonging to the family Theraphosidae, of which approximately 900 species have been found. Some tarantulas hunt prey in trees and some hunt on the ground. All tarantulas can make silk. They use silk to make shelters like tube tents in trees, to line burrows if they live on the ground, and they all use silk to wrap up prey before they eat it. It is easy to see a tarantula turning around and around in one spot with the prey in its mouth, but it is hard to see the silk coming out because it is small in diameter (thickness) and transparent. These spiders are found in warmer regions around the world. 
Tarantulas' predators are normally big snakes or creatures such as the Tarantula Eating Wasp. Defenses are camouflage and fangs.

</doc>
<doc id="101291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101291" title="Hunter-gatherer">
Hunter-gatherer

A hunter-gatherer society is one who lives from edible plants and animals from the wild, by foraging and hunting. 
The line between hunter-gatherers and other societies like those who have agriculture as their basis is not a clear-cut one.

</doc>
<doc id="101295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101295" title="File format">
File format

File formats are also known as file types. A computer stores data in a computer file in the shape of a file format. For example: images are stored in a different shape than music files. 
Also, most types of data (for example text, image or sound) have many varieties of file formats, all with their own special strengths and weaknesses.
There are, for example, more than five ways to store text as a file. Two of the most known ways are: the plain ".txt" format and the simplest of the "HTML" formats. The difference is that a .txt file can only store a sequence of characters but an HTML file can also store links to other files and the formatting of the text, for example whether the text is bold, underlined or italic (but usually HTML should say whether the text is very important, a link, or not very important; whether important text should be bold, italic or red is then specified using a file in a special format called CSS).
Often a file in a file which can store more information is bigger than a file in a format which can only store simple basic data. But the file in the more functional (complex, with can store more information) format can be more difficult to use with more simple programs, and a faster computer can be needed to use it.
File formats made for commercial proprietary software are sometimes a secret, so that people who do not work in the company which made the proprietary software cannot use their own and others' files in the format without buying their software. That action is called vendor lock-in, and can be used to make a monopoly. Because of that, it is sometimes a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="101301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101301" title="Lascaux">
Lascaux

Lascaux is the name given to a cave in the Vézère Valley of southwestern France. The Lascaux cave is famous for its cave paintings. 
There are a number of caves near the village of Montignac, in the Dordogne "département". One of these caves contains some of the best-known Upper Paleolithic art. Most of the paintings are realistic images of large animals. Many of these animals are known from fossil evidence to have lived in the area at the time. The site of Lascaux was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Sites list in 1979, under the name of the Vézère Valley.
Montignac is about from Périgueux, and about from Sarlat-la-Canéda
Unfortunately, none of the colors used in Lascaux is based on coal. Therefore, a direct dating of the paintings is not possible. Despite this, Lascaux was one of the first sites, where radiocarbon dating was used. That way, the coal in the fireplaces was dated to about 17,000 years ago. H.Breuil himself thought that the site was older, about 31.000 to 22.000 years old.
Norbert Anjoulat looked at the style and the theme of the paintings, and found these were close to Solutréen, rather than Magdalénien. 
There are some disagreements about dating the site. The paintings seem to date from 17,000 to 15,000 years ago. Artifacts were also found in the cave, which seem to be older. The original dating was to about 26,000 years ago. 
Most archaeologists believe that the age of about 17,000 years is accurate, for the following reasons: 
The caves were discovered in 1940. By 1955, about 2000 people visited them every day. In 1968, the original cave was closed to the public, and a system of air conditioning was installed. The cave paintings were restored and replicas of several paintings were created in other caves nearby, known as Lascaux II and Lascaux III. Today, the original cave is no longer accessible to the public. 
In 2000, another problem emerged: Certain kinds of fungi started to grow in the original cave. These are extremely resistant to the usual fungicides used, even to formaldehyde. The fungus lives in symbiosis with a bacterium which is capable of destroying the fungicide. Therefore, the fungicide needs to be combined with an antibiotic to kill the bacterium as well.
As of 2006, the situation is more or less under control. The original caves are now sprayed with the fungicide/antibiotic every fortnight. Special workers need to clear the cave walls by hand, removing the mycelium which grows despite the treatment.

</doc>
<doc id="101314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101314" title="Bobby Charlton">
Bobby Charlton

Bobby Charlton (born 11 October 1937) is a retired English footballer who played for the England national team. He played over 600 times for Manchester United. He also played for England over 100 times and scored more goals than any other player. He played for England when they beat Germany in the World Cup final in 1966.
His elder brother is Jack Charlton.
642||202||82||20||27||8||45||22||796||252
31||18||||||||||||||31||18
673||220||82||20||27||8||45||22||827||270
!Total||106||49

</doc>
<doc id="101315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101315" title="Gary Lineker">
Gary Lineker

Gary Lineker (born 30 November 1960) is an English retired footballer. He has played for the English national team. He scored 48 goals for the English national team. He is now on television on the BBC on Match of the Day.
340||192||28||14||30||13||8||2||406||221
103||43||10||4||colspan="2"|-||25||6||138||53
18||3||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|-||18||3
461||238||38||18||30||13||33||8||562||277
!Total||80||48

</doc>
<doc id="101317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101317" title="Geoff Hurst">
Geoff Hurst

Geoff Hurst (born 8 December 1941) is an English retired professional footballer. He was born in Ashton-under-Lyne, Lancashire and moved to Chelmsford, Essex when he was eight. He played football for West Ham United F.C. over 400 times. He also played for the England national football team and scored a hat trick (three goals) in the 1966 World Cup final which England won 4–2.
529||212
24||9
553||221
!Total||49||24

</doc>
<doc id="101319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101319" title="Parliament of Scotland">
Parliament of Scotland

The Parliament of Scotland, officially the Estates of Parliament, was the legislature of the independent Kingdom of Scotland.
The parliament of Scotland had only one house (cf. House of Commons, House of Lords) and was mentioned for the first time during the early thirteenth century, and the first meeting one knows of was in 1235, during the reign of Alexander II of Scotland.
The parliament, which is also referred to as the Estates of Scotland, the Three Estates the Scots Parliament or the auld Scots Parliament (), met until the Acts of Union in 1707.

</doc>
<doc id="101328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101328" title="Coco Island">
Coco Island

Coco Island is a tropical island. The island covers . It has two bays in the north. It is southwest of Costa Rica. It was declared a World Heritage Site in 1997 for its animals and its beauty. 
Today, the only people who live there are four national park guards who patrol the park. Ships leave from Puntarenas, a port in the Pacific Ocean. The island is one of the world's best diving spots. It is famous for its massive schools of different fish, hammerhead sharks, manta rays, and whale sharks. The island is also famous because of the legend about pirates. It is said that this island was chosen by them to hide their treasures. Many people have gone there to look for this hidden treasures but they didn’t find any.
The island has waterfalls, some of them high. There are also a few animals which were brought from other places because there are no native mammals. Also some birds were brought. The island has just one kind of butterfly and two lizard species. The highest point, called Mount Iglesias, is high.

</doc>
<doc id="101329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101329" title="Decoritidae">
Decoritidae

Decoritidae is one of five families of the Gastriocerataceae superfamily. They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are similar to squids and cuttlefish.

</doc>
<doc id="101330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101330" title="Gastriocerataceae">
Gastriocerataceae

Gastriocerataceae is one of 17 superfamilies of the Goniatitina suborder. They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are similar to squids and cuttlefish.

</doc>
<doc id="101331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101331" title="Goniatitina">
Goniatitina

Goniatitina is one of 2 suborders of the Goniatitida order. They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are similar to squids and cuttlefish.

</doc>
<doc id="101332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101332" title="Alf Ramsey">
Alf Ramsey

(Sir) Alf Ramsey (22 January 1920 - 28 April 1999) was an English footballer and football manager. He was born in 1920 and played for Southampton F.C. and Tottenham Hotspur F.C. He also played for the England national football team 32 times and scored three goals. Alf Ramsey was in charge of Ipswich Town F.C. for nearly ten years, Ipswich are the only team to win the First Division title in their first season in the top division. Ramsey then became manager of the England team. He was manager when England beat Germany 4–2 in the World Cup final at Wembley Stadium. He is the only England manager to win a World Cup.
In recognition of his achievement in leading England to victory in the World Cup Alf Ramsey was knighted in 1967.
He died of a heart attack.
In tribute to Ramsey, Ipswich Town F.C. commissioned a life-size statue of him which is positioned directly in front of Portman Road (home ground of Ipswich Town F.C.).
316||32
316||32
!Total||32||3

</doc>
<doc id="101336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101336" title="Qom Province">
Qom Province

Qom is one of the 30 provinces of Iran with an area 11,237 km². About 2 million people live in the Qom Province. The capital of the province is Qom.
The following lists some of the sights of the Qom Province of Iran that are the most visited:

</doc>
<doc id="101338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101338" title="Qom County">
Qom County

Qom County (Persian: قم) is a county of the Qom Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Qom.

</doc>
<doc id="101340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101340" title="Markazi Province">
Markazi Province

Markazi (Persian: استان مرکزی) is one of the 30 provinces of Iran. The word "markazi" means "central" in Persian. There are about 1,350,000 people living in the Markazi Province currently.
Some of the biggest cities of the province are: Saveh, Arak, Mahallat, Khomein, Delijan, Tafresh, Ashtian, and Shazand.
The Markazi Province is split into 10 different counties:

</doc>
<doc id="101342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101342" title="Ashtian County">
Ashtian County

Ashtian County (Persian: آشتیان) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Ashtian.

</doc>
<doc id="101343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101343" title="Arak County">
Arak County

Arak County (Persian: شهرستان اراک) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Arak.

</doc>
<doc id="101344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101344" title="Delijan County">
Delijan County

Delijan County () is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Delijan.

</doc>
<doc id="101345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101345" title="Khomein County">
Khomein County

Khomein County () is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Khomein.

</doc>
<doc id="101346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101346" title="Komeijan County">
Komeijan County

Komeijan County () is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Komeijan.

</doc>
<doc id="101347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101347" title="Mahallat County">
Mahallat County

Mahallat County (Persian: شهرستان محلات) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Mahallat.

</doc>
<doc id="101348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101348" title="Saveh County">
Saveh County

Saveh County (Persian: شهرستان ساوه) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Saveh.

</doc>
<doc id="101349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101349" title="Shazand County">
Shazand County

Shazand (Persian: شهرستان شازند) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Shazand.

</doc>
<doc id="101350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101350" title="Tafresh County">
Tafresh County

Tafresh County (Persian: شهرستان تفرش) is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Tafresh.

</doc>
<doc id="101351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101351" title="Zarandieh County">
Zarandieh County

Zarandieh County () is a county of the Markazi Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Zarandieh.

</doc>
<doc id="101363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101363" title="E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial">
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial

E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial is a 1982 American science fiction movie. It was directed by Steven Spielberg and written by Melissa Mathison. It tells the story of Elliott, a lonely boy who makes friends with an extraterrestrial, called "E.T.", who is stranded on Earth. Elliott and his siblings help the extraterrestrial return home. They have to keep it hidden from their mother and the government.
"E.T." was a very popular movie. It did better than "". The movie became the highest-grossing movie of all time, a record it held for ten years.
Having worked with Cary Guffey on "Close Encounters of the Third Kind", Spielberg felt confident in working with a cast of mostly child actors. 
The major voice work for E.T. was Pat Welsh, an elderly woman who lived in Marin County, California. Welsh smoked two packets of cigarettes a day, which gave her voice a quality that sound effects creator Ben Burtt liked. Burtt also recorded 16 other people and various animals to create E.T.'s "voice". These included Spielberg; Debra Winger; Burtt's sleeping wife, who had a cold; a burp from his USC movie professor; and raccoons, sea otters, and horses.
Doctors working at the USC Medical Center were recruited to play the doctors who try to save E.T. Spielberg felt that actors in the roles, performing lines of medical talking, would come across as unnatural. 
The movie was first shown at the closing gala of the 1982 Cannes Film Festival. It started in the United States on June 11, 1982. It opened at number one with a gross of $11 million. The movie was re-released in 1985 and 2002.
On September 17, 1982, the movie was shown at the United Nations, and Spielberg received the U.N. Peace Medal.
The movie was nominated for nine Oscars at the 55th Academy Awards, including Best Picture. It won four Academy Awards: Best Original Score, Best Sound, Best Sound Effects Editing, and Best Visual Effects. At the Golden Globes, the movie won Best Picture in the Drama category and Best Score; it was also nominated for Best Director, Best Screenplay, and Best New Male Star for Henry Thomas. The Los Angeles Film Critics Association awarded the movie Best Picture, Best Director, and a "New Generation Award" for Melissa Mathison. The movie won Saturn Awards for Best Science Fiction Film, Best Writing, Best Special Effects, Best Music, and Best Poster Art, while Henry Thomas, Robert McNaughton, and Drew Barrymore won Young Artist Awards. Composer John Williams won a Grammy and a BAFTA for the score. It was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
In 1994, "E.T." was selected to keep in the U.S. National Film Registry.

</doc>
<doc id="101364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101364" title="Alex Ferguson">
Alex Ferguson

Sir Alex Ferguson (born 31 December 1941) is a retired Scottish football manager. He has managed Manchester United, Aberdeen and St. Mirren. He was born in 1941 and has won more trophies than anyone else in the history of English football.

</doc>
<doc id="101378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101378" title="Tocharians">
Tocharians

The Tocharians were an ancient people who lived in the Tarim basin. They spoke an Indo-European language. The region they live in was closer to the Far East than that of any other Indo-European-speaking regions.

</doc>
<doc id="101380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101380" title="Information technology">
Information technology

Information technology (IT) is a term that encompasses all forms of technology used to create, store, exchange, and use information in its various forms (business data, voice conversations, still images, motion pictures, photos, multimedia presentations, and other forms, including those not yet conceived).
Now, people have been using it with many other words from computing and other electronical words. It now covers many more fields of study than it has covered in the past.
Four basic periods
Characterized by a principal technology used to solve the input, processing, output and communication problems of the time:
<br>One of the very first information processors.
Early 1600s, William Oughtred, an English clergyman, invented the slide rule.
The discovery of ways to harness electricity was the key advance made during this period. Knowledge and information could now be converted into electrical impulses.
2. Electromechanical Computing
3. The First "Stored-Program" Computer(s)
3. The Four Generations of Digital Computing.
The First Generation (1951-1958).
The Second Generation (1959-1963).
The Third Generation (1964-1979).
Individual transistors were replaced by integrated circuits.
A Bachelor of Information Technology (abbreviations BIT, BInfTech, B.Tech(IT) or BE(IT)) is an undergraduate academic degree that generally requires three to five years of study. While the degree has a major focus on computers and technology, it differs from a Computer Science degree in that students are also expected to study management and information science, and there are reduced requirements for mathematics. A degree in computer science can be expected to concentrate on the scientific aspects of computing, while a degree in information technology can be expected to concentrate on the business and communication applications of computing. There is more emphasis on these two areas in the electronic commerce, e-business and business information technology undergraduate courses. Specific names for the degrees vary across countries, and even universities within countries.
This is in contrast to a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology which is a bachelor's degree typically conferred after a period of three to four years of an undergraduate course of study in Information Technology (IT). The degree itself is a Bachelor of Science with institutions conferring degrees in the fields of information technology and related fields.
Many employers require software developers or programmers to have a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree; however, those seeking to hire for positions such as network administrators or database managers would require a Bachelors of Science in Information Technology or an equivalent degree. Graduates with an information technology background are able to perform technology tasks relating to the processing, storing, and communication of information between computers, mobile phones, and other electronic devices. Information technology as a field emphasizes the secure management of large amounts of diverse information and its accessibility via a wide variety of systems both local and world-wide.

</doc>
<doc id="101382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101382" title="History of Asia">
History of Asia

The history of Asia can be seen as the history of several distinct regions, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East that have more or less context depending of the situation in the central Eurasian steppe.
The coastal periphery was the home to some of the world's earliest known civilizations, with each of the three regions developing early civilizations around fertile river valleys. The civilizations in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley, and China had much in common. Therefore it is likely that they exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel. Other aspects such as that of writing developed individually in each area. Cities, states and then empires developed in these lowlands.
The steppe region had long been inhabited by nomads, and from the central steppes they could reach all areas of the Asian continent. The earliest known expansion out of the steppe is that of the Indo-Europeans which spread their languages into the Middle East, India, and in the Tocharians to the borders of China. The northern part of the continent was not accessible to the steppe nomads due to the dense forests and the tundra. These areas had very few people.
The centre and periphery were kept separate by mountains and deserts. The Caucasus, Himalaya, Karakum Desert, and Gobi Desert formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could only cross with difficulty. The city dwellers were more advanced in civilisation but they could do little militarily to defend against the mounted hordes of the steppe. Because the lowlands did not have enough open grasslands to support a large horsebound force the nomads who conquered states in China, India, and the Middle East were soon forced to adapt to the local societies. 
Alexander the Great conquered an area from Turkey to India in the 4th century BC. The Roman Empire would later control parts of western Asia. The Achaemenid, Seleucid, Parthian and Sassanian empires were based in Ancient Persia. Many ancient civilizations were influenced by the Silk Road, which connected China, India, the Middle East and Europe. The religions of Hinduism and Buddhism, which began in India, were an important influence on South and East Asia.
The Islamic caliphate and other Islamic states took over the Middle East starting in the 7th century, and later expanded into India and Indonesia. The Crusades would be fought from the 12th century, in Christian Europe's attempt to retake the Holy Land from the Muslims. The Mongol Empire conquered a large part of Asia in the 13th century, an area extending from China to Europe. 
The Russian Empire began to expand into Asia from the 17th century, eventually taking control of all of Siberia and most of Central Asia by the end of the 19th century. The Ottoman Empire controlled Turkey and the Middle East from the 16th century onwards. In the 17th century, the Manchu conquered China and established the Qing Dynasty, although this was in decline by the nineteenth century and had been overthrown in 1912. 
Several European powers had control of other parts of Asia by the 1900s, such as British India, French Indochina and Portuguese Macau and Goa. Russia and Britain struggled for power in the Central Asian region in the nineteenth century. The Trans-Siberian Railway that crossed Asia by train was complete by 1916. Parts of Asia remained free from European control, although not influence, such as Persia, Thailand and most of China. In the twentieth century, Imperial Japan expanded into China, Korea and Southeast Asia during the Second World War. After the war, many Asian countries became independent from European powers. During the Cold War, the northern parts of Asia were communist controlled with the Soviet Union and People's Republic of China, while western allies formed pacts such as CENTO and SEATO. Conflicts such as the Korean War, Vietnam War and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan were fought between communists and anti-communists. In the decades after the Second World War, a massive restructuring plan drove Japan to become the world's second-largest economy, a phenomenon known as the Japanese post-war economic miracle. The Arab-Israeli conflict has dominated much of the recent history of the Middle East. After the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991, there were many new independent nations in Central Asia.
listed by area in alphabetical order

</doc>
<doc id="101385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101385" title="Periphery">
Periphery

Generally, a periphery is a boundary or outer part of any space or body. It is derived from the Greek word , meaning a circumference or outer surface.

</doc>
<doc id="101397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101397" title="International Mathematical Olympiad">
International Mathematical Olympiad

The International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) is a six-question two-day math competition for students that have not yet went to college and are under 20 years old. Any country may take part in it by sending a team of six students to compete.
The IMO has been held every year since 1959. It takes place in a different country (which is called the "host country") from year to year.

</doc>
<doc id="101398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101398" title="Edmund Phelps">
Edmund Phelps

Edmund Strother "Ned" Phelps, Jr. is an American economist. He was born on July 26, 1933 in Evanston, Illinois. He was given the 2006 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. He is best known for his work on economic growth at Yale University's Cowles Foundation in the 1960s. This includes the idea of the Golden Rule savings rate, which is about how much money should be spent and how much should be saved for the future. Some of his best work is on microeconomics of full employment and how prices affect wages. Part of this work is about the natural rate of unemployment.
Phelps has been the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia University since 1982. He is also the director of Columbia's Center on Capitalism and Society.
His Nobel Prize award was announced on October 9, 2006. He received the award on his own, breaking the recent pattern of awarding the prize to two or more winners at the same time.
Edmund Phelps was born in 1933 near Chicago, but he grew up and went to school in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, where his family had moved when he was six years old. In 1951, he went to Amherst College as an undergraduate student. At his fathers advice, Phelps took his first economics course in his second year at Amherst. His economics teacher was James Nelson and his studies were based on a famous textbook by Paul Samuelson. Phelps was very interested in studying business. He knew of important unsolved problems and had new ideas, such as the gap between microeconomics and macroeconomics.
After receiving his B.A. at Amherst in 1955, Phelps went to Yale University for graduate studies. There, his professors were some of the greatest economists, such as Nobel prize winners James Tobin and Thomas Schelling, and he studied with Arthur Okun. William Fellner and Henry Wallich were very important in his study courses. Phelps received his Ph.D. from Yale in 1959. The work for his Ph.D. was based on an idea by Tobin, that peoples need in an emergency has more effect than sudden price changes.
After receiving his Ph.D., Phelps went to work as an economist for the RAND Corporation. His main interest was macroeconomics, but RAND focused on defense work so Phelps decided to return to the his studies the next year, 1960. He took a research job at the Cowles Foundation, and a teaching job at Yale. At the Cowles Foundation, his research was mainly on future prices and wages, following the work of Robert Solow. As part of this research, Phelps published in 1961 a famous paper on the golden rule savings rate, one of his most important works for economic science. He also wrote papers about other economic theories, such as monetary economics (Ricardian equivalence) and its importance when producing the best economic growth.
Work at the Cowles Foundation gave Phelps the chance to meet with other important economists who were working on growth theory, such as David Cass and Nobel Prize winner Tjalling Koopmans. Also, during the academic year of 1962-63 Phelps visited MIT, where he met with Nobel prize winners Paul Samuelson, Robert Solow and Franco Modigliani.
In 1966, Phelps left Yale and moved to University of Pennsylvania, where he was offered a permanent job as professor of economics. While at Pennsylvania, most of Phelps' research was on the links between employment, wages and inflation. He wrote about this in 1968: "Money-Wage Dynamics and Labor Market Equilibrium". This research had important new ideas about the Phillips curve. It was the first idea of the natural rate of unemployment and said that inflation rates did not affect labour market. In January 1969, Phelps held a meeting at Pennsylvania University to support the research on inflation and employment. The story of the meeting was published the next year in a book which was very important and is known as the "Phelps volume". During this time Phelps worked with other economists on research of economic growth, the effects of monetary and policy and best population growth.
In the year 1969-1970 Professor Phelps worked for the Center for Advanced Study in Behavioral Science at Stanford University. Meeting with Nobel prize winners Amartya Sen and Kenneth Arrow, and reading the work of John Rawls, whom he met during that year, gave Professor Phelps an interest to research outside of macroeconomics. In 1972 he published research he named "statistical discrimination". He also published research on economic justice, using ideas from Rawls book "A Theory of Justice".
In 1971, Phelps moved to the Economics Department at Columbia University, where Nobel prize winners William Vickrey and James J. Heckman were studying. Nobel Prize winner Robert Mundell joined three years later, as well as Phoebus Dhrymes, Guillermo Calvo and John B. Taylor. Professor Phelps published research on the inflation tax and the effects of fiscal policy on inflation. In 1972, Phelps published a book about his new theory. The book had many ideas about the effects of being unemployed for a long time and made him more popular.
In the next years, Keynesian economics were thought of as less important after the publication of John Muth's work called rational expectations. Phelps, with Calvo and John Taylor, started a programme to rebuild Keynesian economics with new ideas about prices and wages being kept the same for certain time. Professor Phelps and John Taylor published research in 1977, about how to calculate wages ("Staggered Wages). During the '70s, Phelps and Calvo worked on research for making contracts using asymmetric information.
In the late '70s, Professor Phelps researched with Roman Frydman, who was taught by Phelps. They worked on rational expectations and showed problems in it. A book was published in 1983 about what people said at a big meeting they had to talk about rational expectations in 1981. This book was not thought of as very important.
In 1982 Phelps was made the McVickar Professor of Political Economy at Columbia. During the early '80s he wrote a textbook about economics knowledge. The book, "Political Economy", was published in 1985, but was not used in a lot of schools.
In the 1980s Professor Phelps worked with European universities and institutions, such as Banca d'Italia (most of his 1985-86 holidays were spent in Italy) and Observatoire Français des Conjonctures Économiques (OFCE). He became interested in the continuing high unemployment in Europe and published some work about it with Jean-Paul Fitoussi (the director of OFCE). During the next years, Professor Phelps worked to calculate the natural rate of unemployment. He published some of his research in a 1994 book. Phelps also worked with Luigi Paganetto at the University of Rome Tor Vergata and, between 1988-98, they held the Villa Mondragone International Seminar.
In 1990 Phelps took part in a mission from the EBRD to Moscow, where he and Kenneth Arrow worked on the reform of the USSR. He became a member of the EBRDs Economic Advisory Board, and stayed there until 1993. Professor Phelps became interested in the Eastern European transition economies while there.
In its announcement, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said Phelps' work had "deepened our understanding of the relation between short-run and long-run effects of economic policy."
George Mason University Professor Tyler Cowen wrote in the Marginal Revolution blog that "his main contribution is a better understanding of the Phillips curve and the dynamics of short-run unemployment and the concept of the natural rate of unemployment." Cowen also wrote that "his 1960s macro work was true, important, and extremely influential. The capital theory work endures and provides a foundation for subsequent theory. The overall scope is impressive, and Phelps's concerns never strayed far from the real world." Cowen by writing that the award to Phelps meant: "The big questions still matter. Unemployment, economic growth, labor markets, capital accumulation, fairness, discrimination, and justice across the generations are indeed worthy of economic attention."
Professor Cowen and Berkeley's Professor Brad DeLong both said the choice of Phelps was a good noe, and Harvard Professor Gregory Mankiw said it was "a wonderful choice".

</doc>
<doc id="101408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101408" title="Nanotechnology">
Nanotechnology

Nanotechnology is a part of science and technology about the control of matter on the atomic and molecular scale - this means things that are about 100 nanometres or smaller.
Nanotechnology includes making products that use parts this small, such as electronic devices, catalysts, sensors, etc. To give you an idea of how small that is, there are more nanometres in an inch than there are inches in 400 miles.
To give a international idea of how small that is, there are as many nanometres in a centimetre, as there are centimetres in 100 kilometres.
Nanotechnology brings together scientists and engineers from many different subjects, such as applied physics, materials science, interface and colloid science, device physics, chemistry, supramolecular chemistry (which refers to the area of chemistry that focuses on the non-covalent bonding interactions of molecules), self-replicating machines and robotics, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, biology, biological engineering, and electrical engineering.
Generally, when people talk about nanotechnology, they mean structures of the size 100 nanometers or smaller. There are one million nanometers in a millimeter. Nanotechnology tries to make materials or machines of that size.
People are doing many different types of work in the field of nanotechnology. Most current work looks at making nanoparticles (particles with nanometer size) that have special properties, such as the way they scatter light, absorb X-rays, transport electrical currents or heat, etc. At the more "science fiction" end of the field are attempts to make small copies of bigger machines or really new ideas for structures that make themselves. New materials are possible with nano size structures. It is even possible to work with single atoms.
There has been a lot of discussion about the future of nanotechnology and its dangers. Nanotechnology may be able to invent new materials and instruments which would be very useful, such as in medicine, computers, and making clean electricity (nanotechnology) is helping design the next generation of solar panels, and efficient low-energy lighting). On the other hand, nanotechnology is new and there could be unknown problems. For example if the materials are bad for people's health or for nature. They may have a bad effect on the economy or even big natural systems like the Earth itself. Some groups argue that there should be rules about the use of nanotechnology.
Ideas of nanotechnology were first used in talk "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom", a talk given by the scientist Richard Feynman at an American Physical Society meeting at Caltech on December 29, 1959. Feynman described a way to move individual atoms to build smaller instruments and operate at that scale. Properties such as surface tension and Van der walls force would become very important.
Feynman's simple idea seemed possible. The word "nanotechnology" was explained by Tokyo Science University Professor Norio Taniguchi in a 1974 paper. He said that nanotechnology was the work of changing materials by one atom or by one molecule. In the 1980s this idea was studied by Dr. K. Eric Drexler, who spoke and wrote about the importance of nano-scale events . "Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology" (1986) is thought to be the first book on nanotechnology. Nanotechnology and Nano science started with two key developments: the start of cluster science and the invention of the scanning tunneling microscope (STM). Soon afterwards, new molecules with carbon were discovered - first fullerenes in 1986 and carbon nanotubes a few years later. In another development, people studied how to make semiconductor nano crystals. Many metal oxide nanoparticles are now used as quantum dots (nanoparticles where the behaviour of single electrons becomes important). In 2000, the United States National Nanotechnology Initiative began to develop science in this field.
Nanotechnology has nanomaterials which can be classified into one, two and three dimensions nanoparticles. This classification is based upon different properties it holds such as scattering of light, absorbing x rays, transport electric current or heat. Nanotechnology has multidisciplinary character affecting multiple traditional technologies and different scientific disciplines. New materials which can be scaled even at atomic size can be manufactured.
At nano scale physical properties of system or particles substantially change. Physical properties such as quantum size effects where electrons move different for very small sizes of particle. Properties such as mechanical, electrical and optical changes when macroscopic system changes to microscopic one which is of utmost importance.
Nano materials and particles can act as catalyst to increase the reaction rate along with that produce better yield as compared to other catalyst.
Some of the most interesting properties when particle gets converted to nano scale are substances which usually stop light become transparent (copper); it becomes possible to burn some materials (aluminum); solids turn into liquids at room temperature (gold); insulators become conductors (silicon). A material such as gold, which does not react with other chemicals at normal scales, can be a powerful chemical catalyst at nanoscales. These special properties which we can only see at the nano scale are one of the most interesting things about nanotechnology.

</doc>
<doc id="101412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101412" title="Hattem">
Hattem

Hattem is a municipality and a city in the eastern Netherlands.
Hattem became a city in 1299. That is one year before Amsterdam.

</doc>
<doc id="101413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101413" title="Alex McLeish">
Alex McLeish

Alex McLeish is a Scottish association football manager. He was born in 1959 and is currently manager of Aston Villa F.C. after his reign in Birmingham City F.C.. He also managed Rangers F.C. and the Scotland national football team.

</doc>
<doc id="101415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101415" title="Óscar Arias">
Óscar Arias

Oscar Arias was born on 13 September 1940 in the city of Heredia. He is a former President of Costa Rica. He was president two times. First in 1986 to 1990, later in 2006 to 2010. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1987 for his efforts to end civil wars in Central America. He is also a winner of the Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism and a trustee of Economists for Peace and Security.
In 2003, he was elected to the Board of Directors of the International Criminal Court's TrustFund for Victims. He is also a member of the "Club de Madrid". It is a nonprofit organization. It is made up of 81 former leaders of democratic nations. They work to strengthen democracy.
Arias started his political career in the 1970s.
In January of 2005 Arias was selected as the candidate for the National Liberation party. He was reelected as president of Costa Rica. There was a lot of criticism for his support towards the Free Trade Agreement process in Costa Rica. Because of his political background and determination, many Costa Ricans still trust and respect Arias.

</doc>
<doc id="101427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101427" title="Universal history">
Universal history

Universal history, world history or global history examines history from a global perspective.
It looks for common patterns that one can find across all cultures. Universal historians use a thematic approach. That means they look at history from two viewpoints: On the one hand they look at processes of world history that have drawn people of the world together, on the other hand they want to find out how patterns of world history reveal the diversity of the human experience).
The study of universal or global history is in some ways a product of the current period of accelerated globalization. This period has two tendencies: it integrates various cultures and it shows their differences when people of different cultures and civilizations have to live with each other.
To discuss "the history of the world" in a unified framework is not that new. For example, it was a genre popular in the 19th century, and with Christian historians going back to at least the 4th century.

</doc>
<doc id="101429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101429" title="Brewery">
Brewery

A brewery is a building, where beer is made or a business (brewing company) whose trade is the production and sale of beer. 
Breweries can take up several city blocks, or be a collection of equipment in a homebrewer's kitchen. The diversity of size in breweries is matched by the diversity of processes, degrees of automation, and kinds of beer produced in breweries. Typically a brewery is divided into distinct sections, with each section reserved for one part of the brewing process. 
The oldest brewery in the world still in operation is believed to be the Bavarian State-owned brewery Weihenstephan, found in the German city of Freising, which can trace its history back to 1040. Although the Zatec brewery in the Czech Republic claims it can prove paying beer tax in 1004. 

</doc>
<doc id="101430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101430" title="Butane">
Butane

Butane is an alkane. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. Usually, Butane is a flammable gas, it burns very well. 
Butane is sold in canisters, for cooking and camping. It is also used as fuel in cigarette lighters, and as propellant in aerosol sprays or deodorants. Some kinds of Butane are used in refrigerators. 
Mixtures with Propane are known as LPG.
Butane is dangerous. Inhalation can lead to death by asphyxiation. Contact with the skin can lead to frostbite. If the liquid comes in contact with the air, it will explode. 

</doc>
<doc id="101431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101431" title="Liquefied petroleum gas">
Liquefied petroleum gas

Liquefied petroleum gas (also known as LPG, LP Gas or autogas) is a mixture of hydrocarbon gases. It is commonly used in the household, for example for cooking, or as fuel for heating. LPG is replacing Chlorofluorocarbons more and more, also because it is less harmful to the ozone layer.
Very often, mixes of propane and butane are sold.

</doc>
<doc id="101433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101433" title="Aerosol spray">
Aerosol spray

Aerosol spray is a system used in certain containers, like spray cans. The contents of the can, like color or deodorant are pressurized. The can has a valve. When this valve is opened, the liquid is forced out. It will emerge as an aerosol or mist. Apart from the liquid, there is another substance in the container, usually called propellant. When the valve is opened, some propellant will be forced inside the container. That way the pressure in the container is kept constant.

</doc>
<doc id="101434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101434" title="Max Born">
Max Born

Max Born (11 December 1882 – 5 January 1970) was a German physicist and mathematician who was important in the development of quantum mechanics. He also made contributions to solid-state physics and optics and supervised the work of a number of important physicists in the 1920s and 30s. Born became a British subject in 1939. He won the 1954 Nobel Prize in Physics.
Born's descendants include his grandaughter Olivia Newton-John and his great-granddaughter Chloe Rose Lattanzi.

</doc>
<doc id="101444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101444" title="United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs">
United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs

The United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) is a branch of the United Nations General Assembly. UNOOSA creates, maintains and carries out the General Assembly's rules about space.
The building for UNOOSA is located in the United Nations Office in Vienna in Austria.
UNOOSA operates the Programme on Space Applications and maintains a list of objects sent into space - the Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space. UNOOSA also helps developing nations develop space technology to help their economies.

</doc>
<doc id="101450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101450" title="Craig Mello">
Craig Mello

Craig Cameron Mello (born October 18, 1960) is an American biologist and Professor of Molecular Medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.
He was awarded the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Andrew Fire for the discovery of RNA interference. Mello has been a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator since 2000.
Mello was born in New Haven, Connecticut on October 18 1960. He was the third child of James and Sally Mello. His father, James Mello, was a paleontologist and his mother, Sally Mello, was an artist. His fathers parents moved to the US from the Portuguese islands of Azores. His parents met while at the Brown University and were the first children in their families to go to college. James Mello was awarded his PhD in paleontology from Yale University in 1962. The Mello family moved to Falls Church in northern Virginia so that James could take a job with the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in Washington, DC. 
After a short time in Falls Church, the family moved to Fairfax, Virginia, when James Mello began work as Assistant Director at the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History. Some of his happiest early memories were holidays with his whole family in Colorado, Wyoming and more often to the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia. 
The Mello family enjoyed long talks at the dinner table and this was very important to young Craig Mello. He learned to argue, to listen, and to accept if he was wrong about something. Mello's first few years of grade school were difficult. He was five years old when he started first grade in a local private school. He was too young to enter first grade in the public system. He does not know if he was a slow learner, or just not interested, but he did not do well in school until the seventh grade. In second grade, Mello only pretended that he could read and he was embarrassed of being talked to by the teacher. He enjoyed playing outdoors, in the woods and creeks, more than time spent in the classroom. At this time, his older siblings were great students, so his teacher's wanted him to do well. During these early years, Mello had no doubt that he would be a scientist when he grew up.
After he got his high school diploma, Mello went to Brown University, where he studied biochemistry and molecular biology. After finishing his studies at Brown, Mello went to Boulder, Colorado for more studies, and then to Harvard University. He was awarded his PhD at Harvard in 1990.
In 2006, Mello and Fire were awarded the Nobel Prize for work published in 1998. The paper reports that tiny snippets of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) effectively shut down specific genes, and so caused the destruction of messenger RNA (mRNA) with sequences matching the dsRNA. As a result, the mRNA cannot be translated into protein. 
Fire and Mello found that dsRNA was much more effective in gene silencing than the previously described method of RNA interference with single-stranded RNA. Because only small numbers of dsRNA molecules were required for the observed effect, Fire and Mello proposed that a catalytic process was involved. This hypothesis was confirmed by later research.
The Nobel Prize citation, issued by Sweden's Karolinska Institute, said: "This year's Nobel Laureates have discovered a fundamental mechanism for controlling the flow of genetic information". The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) quoted Nick Hastie, director of the Medical Research Council's Human Genetics Unit, on the scope and implications of the research:
By year of award:

</doc>
<doc id="101454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101454" title="Vicar of Bray">
Vicar of Bray

"The Vicar of Bray" is a satirical song about the career of the Vicar of Bray and how he changes his principles so that he can keep his job in a changing world. Changes are taking place in the state religion through the course of several English monarchs.

</doc>
<doc id="101455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101455" title="Maharishi Mahesh Yogi">
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi

Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (12 January 1918 5 February 2008) was an Indian guru (a teacher of spirituality). He was most famous for his development of Transcendental Meditation. He also was well-known for his association with the rock bands, The Beatles and The Beach Boys.
His birth name was either Mahesh Verma Shrivastava or Mahesh Prasad Varma. His parents were Hindus from the.
He was born in Raipur, India. He graduated from Allahabad University in Uttar Pradesh, and began his career as a physicist. His physics work made him interested in the sound vibrations made by spoken syllables, and how those vibrations could change a person's body or consciousness. In time, he became a disciple of Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, who was called "Guru Dev". He later became the swami's secretary. He could not become the swami's , because of India's caste system, but he could become a guru on his own. Guru Dev gave him the name "Bal Brahmachari Mahesh". Later he adopted the name Maharishi ("great teacher"), while "yogi" was a name given to teachers of yoga.
Transcendental Meditation (sometimes shortened to "TM") grew out of Guru Dev's teachings, and the Maharishi's own physics studies. A person practices Transcendental Meditation by sitting quietly, and mentally repeating a "", of syllables or names considered or holy in Hinduism. In Transcendental Meditation, the sounds are used purely as sounds independent of any associated meanings in any language. Meditating helps a person to relax, and to concentrate on important things. During this meditation a person transcends conscious thought to a quieter state of mind, and this gives the technique its name.
The Maharishi began what he called the "Spiritual Movement" in 1958. He traveled around the world, teaching Transcendental Meditation to ordinary people. Unlike many gurus, he did not require followers to give up their everyday lives, or move to an to live and study. He believed that helping people to relieve stress and learn how to focus would improve their lives, and in time make a better world. He taught for nearly ten years, with little public notice. He also published a book, "The Science of Being and the Art of Living", and recorded a spoken-word album, that explained his beliefs.
During 1967, during the last months of his ten-year "world tour", he visited England, and people there began to join his Spiritual Regeneration Movement. One person who joined was Pattie Boyd, the wife of George Harrison, who was a member of The Beatles. Harrison had learned to play the sitar, an Indian musical instrument, and was interested in Hinduism. He had not found a guru whose teachings interested him. When Pattie told him about the Maharishi, he became interested, and all four Beatles went to a lecture given by the Maharishi. They sent a message to him, asking to meet in person. All of the Beatles were interested in TM, because it was simple and they could continue on as musicians, instead of having to change their lifestyle. They each joined the movement, and began to promote the Maharishi and his teachings. They even announced that they gave up the use of drugs, which had earlier caused for the band, because of what they learned.
Brian Epstein, manager of the Beatles, was also interested in TM, but had many problems in his personal life. He decided not to join the Beatles when they traveled to Wales to attend a weekend class given by the Maharishi, and stayed home. Later that weekend, Epstein overdosed on sleeping pills, and died in his sleep. The Beatles were very hurt by the news, and worried about what would happen to their careers. Maharishi tried to comfort them, telling them to think happy thoughts about Epstein, and let his spirit find peace.
The Beatles wanted to study with the Maharishi in India. They had just started their own company, Apple Corps, and with Epstein gone they had to work out many details for themselves. They could have found another manager, but decided they did not want one, and looked after Apple personally, until their helpers could take over running the company. Finally in early 1968, they made the trip to India.
The Beatles enjoyed the atmosphere in India, and the free time they had between classes, and began to write songs for a new album, which was later called the "White Album". One by one the Beatles lost interest. Ringo Starr, who had a sensitive stomach, became sick from the spicy food served at the ashram, and headed home after just a few days. Paul McCartney in time became bored, and also headed home. George Harrison and John Lennon stayed longer, but were upset when "Magic Alex", a friend who came to India with them, began to tell them stories about the Maharishi trying to have sexual intercourse with some of the women who came to the ashram. This Harrison and Lennon, and they went home the next day.
The Beatles were earlier interested in making a movie about the Maharishi and his work. When they began to talk with him about it, he surprised them by knowing more about business matters than they ever expected, and by asking questions about his share of the movie's profits. They did not think a "holy man" would be interested in such things. Between this and Magic Alex's stories, the band decided the Maharishi was a . They publicly him, telling the media they thought he was something other than what he proved to be. Lennon wrote a song about him, whose words went "Maharishi, what have you done? You made a fool of everyone." He later changed the name "Maharishi" to "Sexy Sadie", to keep the Maharishi from seeking revenge of some kind, or a lawsuit, against him.
Years later, the Beatles realized Magic Alex's were false. McCartney and Harrison began again to say good things about the Maharishi, and to promote his work. Starr called him "one of the I met in my life." Lennon never forgave Maharishi for letting him down personally, but still used TM from time to time. Lennon realized that he had been looking for a , and that any father figure he found was going to let him down in the end, so he was better off to work out his own problems.
The Beatles were not the only celebrities to get involved with the Maharishi and his work. Actress Mia Farrow, folk-rocker Donovan and Mike Love of the Beach Boys also studied with the Maharishi in India, and the Beach Boys later promoted TM, much more than the Beatles ever had. They toured together with the Maharishi, and Mike Love insisted people who worked for them meditate daily. The association did not work well for the Beach Boys, and an album they recorded at a school started by the Maharishi sold poorly. In time most of the Beach Boys lost interest, but Love continued to promote the Maharishi and his works.
Magician Doug Henning also became a follower of Transcendental Meditation. He campaigned to open a theme park called "Vedaland", based on Hinduism and the Maharishi's teachings. after his death, Doug Henning's widow continued the campaign.
Scientists studied people who meditated, and learned that TM really did help them to relax, and to think more clearly. A few Christian ministers and writers denounced TM, calling it "a into Eastern religions", and said that mantras were really a way of invoking the Devil or demons. Other Christians saw no harm in it, or encouraged people who wanted to meditate to instead chant the name of Jesus Christ, or a name for God, or a line from a psalm or Christian prayer. In any case, TM went on to help many people around the world, and it is still taught as a form of meditation.
The Maharishi continued his teachings and work, later promoting the "Maharishi Technology of the " and other ideas. In time, he gave up his ashram in India, moving to The Netherlands in Europe. He announced his retirement in January 2008, only weeks before he died from natural causes.

</doc>
<doc id="101461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101461" title="Bristol City F.C.">
Bristol City F.C.

Bristol City F.C. are an English football club. They are based in the city of Bristol. They play at Ashton Gate Stadium. They were formed in 1897.

</doc>
<doc id="101462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101462" title="Chesterfield F.C.">
Chesterfield F.C.

Chesterfield F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1867 and are based in Chesterfield in the county of Derbyshire. They play at a stadium called the Recreation Ground.

</doc>
<doc id="101463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101463" title="Doncaster Rovers F.C.">
Doncaster Rovers F.C.

Doncaster Rovers F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1879 and play their home games at a stadium called Keepmoat Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="101464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101464" title="Huddersfield Town F.C.">
Huddersfield Town F.C.

Huddersfield Town F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1908 and are based in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire. The club plays their home games at a stadium called the Galpharm Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="101470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101470" title="Sanskara">
Sanskara

In Hinduism and Buddhism, Sanskaras are the faint memories left on your mind by experiences you had in your present life or in past lives. Sanskaras change how you look at things in the future and how you act.

</doc>
<doc id="101471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101471" title="Supernanny">
Supernanny

Supernanny is a British and American television program about a nanny, or baby sitter, named Jo Frost who helps parents in taking care of their often disruptive or ill-behaved children.

</doc>
<doc id="101477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101477" title="Keyboard (computer)">
Keyboard (computer)

A computer keyboard is an input device that allows a person to enter symbols like letters and numbers into a computer. It is the main input device for most computers.
There are different types of keyboards, and different arrangements of keys. The most popular is the QWERTY design, which is based on typewriter keyboards. The QWERTY design was made so the most frequently used letters would not jam a mechanical typewriter. Now typewriters are rare but the design stayed because people were used to it. An ergonomic keyboard is made to be easier for people to use, without hurting their hands or arms. The keyboard can type letters, numbers and punctuation, and also lets you control the computer, using special keys like the START button, and the arrow keys. A Dvorak keyboard is an alternative layout.
A keyboard is most commonly attached to a computer via USB port. Some use Bluetooth instead.
Keystroke logging is capturing a record of each key that is pressed. Keystroke logging can be used to measure employee activity. Hackers can also use keystroke logging. Scientists discovered that most keyboards give off electromagnetic radiation that can be used to tell which keys have been pressed. Spies could determine what has been typed by remotely sensing such signals.
Researchers are studying if keyboards can spread diseases. Some keyboards were found to contain five times more germs than a toilet seat.
Characters available on a keyboard are generally those of the local language, although ASCII characters tend to be available everywhere.
Characters on an English language keyboard are
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0,-,=,q,w,e,r,t,y,u,i,o,p,[,],a,s,d,f,g,h,j,k,l,;,',#,\,z,x,c,v,b,n,m.,/,!,",£,$,%,^,&,*,(,),_,+,Q,W,E,R,T,Y,U,I,O,P,{,},A,S,D,F,G,H,J,K,L,:,@,~,|,Z,X,C,V,B,N,M,<,>,? and some keys are not for a character.

</doc>
<doc id="101480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101480" title="Rhythm guitar">
Rhythm guitar

The term rhythm guitar refers to the style of playing guitar chords, and sometimes playing repeated riffs instead of using the guitar to play melody lines or solos (this kind of playing is called lead guitar). Rhythm guitarists add to the sound of a band, whether they play rock and roll, or other kinds of music.
John Lennon of The Beatles usually played rhythm guitar for the band, with George Harrison playing lead guitar. However, Lennon sometimes played keyboards, and once in a while took the lead guitar role, as he did in the songs "You Can't Do That" and "Get Back".
Sheet music for rhythm guitar is usually written above the classical notes. It is written in Guitar chord format.

</doc>
<doc id="101481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101481" title="Book of Revelation">
Book of Revelation

The Book of Revelation, which is sometimes called Revelation to John, Apocalypse of John, or Revelation of Jesus Christ is the last book of the New Testament in the Bible.
The last book of the New Testament is usually called the "Book of Revelation" or simply "Revelation". Some of the earliest manuscripts have the title of "The Revelation of John"(). Later manuscripts usually have the title of "The Revelation of the Theologian" (). This is why the Authorized King James Version calls Revelation the "Revelation of Saint John the Divine" ("divine" was a seventeenth century word for "theologian".
In Greek, the word "apocalypse" means "revealing" or "unveiling".
Some people consider Revelation to be the most difficult book in the Bible. Over the course of the book the author has two visions. There are many different ways to interpret these visions, and there have been many arguments over which way is right.
There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person. The person writing Revelation called himself "John". He also wrote that he was on Patmos, an island in the Aegean Sea, when he saw his first vision.

</doc>
<doc id="101492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101492" title="Keyboard">
Keyboard

Keyboard may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="101494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101494" title="Theodor Fontane">
Theodor Fontane

Theodor Fontane (; 30 December 1819 – 20 September 1898) was a German novelist and poet, regarded by many to be the most important 19th-century German-language realist writer. 
Fontane was born in Neuruppin into a Huguenot family. At the age of sixteen he became apprentice in a pharmacy and then a pharmacist himself (like his father). In 1839, at the age of 20, wrote his first work ("Heinrichs IV. erste Liebe", now lost). His first published work, the novella "Geschwisterliebe" (or "Sibling Love"), appeared in the "Berlin Figaro" in December 1839. 
His first job as apothecary was in Dresden after which he returned to his father's shop, now in the provincial town of Letschin in the Oderbruch region. In this time Fontane published articles in the Leipzig newspaper "Die Eisenbahn" (railway) and translated Shakespeare. In 1843, he joined a literary club called Tunnel über der Spree (i.e. Tunnel over the river Spree) in Berlin where he came into contact with many of the most important German writers such as Theodor Storm, Joseph von Eichendorff and Gottfried Keller.
In 1844 Fontane enrolled in the Prussian army and set out on the first of many journeys to England. There he learned about old English ballads. Soon afterwards he wrote ballads himself. At that time he became engaged to his future wife, Emilie Rouanet-Kummer, whom he had first met when still at school. 
He was - very short - enganged in the revolutionary events of the revolution of 1848. In 1849 he quit his job as an apothecary and became a full-time journalist and writer. In order to support his family he took a job as a writer for the Prussian intelligence agency "Centralstelle für Preßangelegenheiten" which was meant to influence the press towards a German national cause. Again he specialised in British affairs, and the agency sent him as correspondent to London for a couple of years. His wife and two sons followed him there. While still in London he quit his government job and, on his return to Berlin, became editor of the conservative "Kreuzzeitung" (newspaper).
His books about Britain include "Ein Sommer in London" (1854); "Aus England, Studien und Briefe" (1860) and "Jenseits des Tweed, Bilder und Briefe aus Schottland" (1860). At the period, and following the fashion of Walter Scott, traditional British stories were still "en vogue" on the continent. His "Gedichte" (1851) and ballads "Männer und Helden" (1860) tell of Britain's glories in days gone by. 
Back in Germany, Fontane became particularly interested in the Mark Brandenburg region. He was especially proud of its past achievements and delighted in the growth of its capital city, Berlin. His fascination with the countryside surrounding Berlin may be seen in his delightfully picturesque "Wanderungen durch die Mark Brandenburg" (1862-1882, 5 vols.).
In 1870, he quit his job at the "Kreuzzeitung" and became theater critic for the liberal "Vossische Zeitung" (newspaper). This job he kept until retirement. He had already written about Prussia's war against Denmark and the Austro-Prussian War. Then he went to write about the Franco-Prussian War in 1870 and was taken prisoner. He remained in French captivity for three months. His experiences there are set down in "Kriegsgefangen Erlebtes 1870 (1871)"; subsequently he published his observations on the campaign in "Der Krieg gegen Frankreich 1870-71" (1874-1876).
At the ripe age of 57 Fontane finally took to what he would be remembered for, the novel. His fine historical novel "Vor dem Sturm" (1878) was followed by a series of novels of modern life, notably "L'Adultera" (1882), a book about adultery which was considered so risqué that it took Fontane two years to find a publisher. In his novels "Frau Jenny Treibel", "Irrungen, Wirrungen", and "Effi Briest" (1894), he found his very own tone, he wrote about insights into the lives of the nobility as well as the "common man"; his achievement there was later described as poetic realism. In "Der Stechlin" (1899), his last finished novel, Fontane adapted the realistic methods and social criticism of contemporary French fiction to the conditions of Prussian life.
See Thomas Mann's 1910 essay, "The Old Fontane," in "Essays of Three Decades" (Knopf, 1947). Very fine.

</doc>
<doc id="101498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101498" title="Pachelbel's Canon">
Pachelbel's Canon

Pachelbel's Canon (also known as Canon in D major or just Canon in D) is the most famous piece of music by Johann Pachelbel. It was written in or around 1680, as a piece of chamber music for three violins and basso continuo, but it has been arranged for many other instruments since then. It is well known for its chord progression.
Pachelbel's Canon is often played at weddings.
This is Pachelbel's Canon played on a piano:

</doc>
<doc id="101502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101502" title="Damme">
Damme

Damme is a municipality in the Belgian province of West Flanders, six kilometres northeast of Brugge (Bruges). It is made up of the city of Damme proper and the towns of Hoeke, Lapscheure, Moerkerke, Oostkerke, Sijsele, Vivenkapelle, and Sint-Rita.
In 2007, 10853 people lived there.
It is at 51° 15 North, 03° 17 East.

</doc>
<doc id="101503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101503" title="Hit record">
Hit record

A hit record is a recording (either a single or an album) that becomes very popular, through large sales of copies, repeated airplay on the radio. or presence in the media. One aspect usually promotes one or more of the others.
The Beatles, Elvis Presley, The Eagles and Michael Jackson all had many hit records. They are among the biggest-selling musical acts of all time. Not every recording artist has a hit record. Many artists and groups lose their recording contracts, if their records do not become hits.
Not all hit records feature music. Some spoken word records also become hits, including comedy recordings. Bill Cosby, George Carlin, and Cheech & Chong are comedians who have all had hit records. A recording of speeches by the late American President John F. Kennedy became one of the biggest-selling albums of the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="101506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101506" title="Pauline epistles">
Pauline epistles

The Pauline epistles are the fourteen New Testament books which most Christians think were written by the Apostle Paul. Some of them are the earliest Christian documents. They show many of the beliefs and controversies of Christianity. Many Christians think these letters are very important for theology and ethics.
The First Timothy, Second Timothy, and Titus are sometimes known as the pastoral epistles.
In the order they appear in the New Testament, the Pauline epistles are:

</doc>
<doc id="101508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101508" title="Viljandi">
Viljandi

Viljandi (, ) is a town and municipality in southern Estonia. As of 2012, 19,150 people lived there. It is the capital of Viljandi County. The town was first mentioned in 1283, after being given its town charter by Villekinus de Endorpe.

</doc>
<doc id="101509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101509" title="Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God">
Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God

Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God is famous sermon that was preached by Jonathan Edwards in 1741. He was an important Calvinist minister. The sermon is often used in American high schools and college English classes as an example of the Puritan writings.
Edwards taught the sermon many times. The first time was in Northampton, Massachusetts, but it did not get much attention. But on the second time in Enfield, Connecticut, it made many people weep, swoon, cry out, and have convulsions.
Deuteronomy 32:35 says, "Their foot shall slide in due time." That verse was the main focus of the beginning of the sermon. As was normal in 18th century New England, the sermon was printed and many copies were made. It has proven to be the main reason of his theology and preaching that was taught by many people in the first Great Awakening.

</doc>
<doc id="101510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101510" title="Physical constant">
Physical constant

In science, a physical constant is a number (physical quantity) that does not change. This is different from a mathematical constant, which is not based on a real measurement.
There are many physical constants in science. Some famous ones are the speed of light, Planck's constant, the gravitational constant, and Avogadro's number.
Some scientists think that physical constants may decrease as the universe gets older. There has been no evidence to support this yet.
Constants that do not have units (like length or speed) are called fundamental physical constants.
Some believe that if the physical constants were different, there would be no life in the universe. They say that the universe seems to be fine-tuned for intelligent life.

</doc>
<doc id="101513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101513" title="Cookstown">
Cookstown

Cookstown is a small town in Northern Ireland which is in the United Kingdom. 10646 people live in the town. The main street in Cookstown is the longest and widest in Ireland.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found out that there were 10,646 people living in Cookstown. They also found that:

</doc>
<doc id="101515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101515" title="Dungannon">
Dungannon

Dungannon is a town in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that were 11,139 people living in Dungannon. Of these:

</doc>
<doc id="101517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101517" title="Coagh">
Coagh

Coagh is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 545 people living in Coagh. They also found that:

</doc>
<doc id="101518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101518" title="Stewartstown">
Stewartstown

Stewartstown is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is 5 miles from Cookstown and 7 miles from Dungannon.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 608 people living in Stewartstown. They also found that:

</doc>
<doc id="101519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101519" title="Ballymena">
Ballymena

Ballymena is a town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. The actor Liam Neeson used to live in the town.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 28,717 people living in Ballymena. They also found that:

</doc>
<doc id="101520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101520" title="Society of St. John the Evangelist">
Society of St. John the Evangelist

The Society of St. John the Evangelist is an Anglican order. The monks make a vow: They say they want to live in poverty and that they will not marry anyone. The order was founded by Father Richard Meux Benson, an Anglican priest in 1866. Because they were founded in Cowley, near Oxford in England they are also known as the Cowley fathers. 
It has two branches, the original one in England, and one in the United States. The house in the United States was founded around the year 1874. The American branch of the society has 2 houses for their monks. Today, there are monasteries in Scotland, India, South Africa, Japan, and Canada. 
The monks live under The Rule of the Society of Saint John the Evangelist. The monks spend a lot of time in prayer and they also go on missions. They are one of the first monasteries founded after the Protestant Reformation.
The fellowship of the Society of St.John the Evangelist is a group of people who want to live there lives in close a relation with the monks at the society. They give money to the society and pray for the monks there. They make a rule of life that is similar to The Rule of the Society of St.John the Evangelist. There are about 1,000 men and woman who are apart of the fellowship. One of the most famous members is Frank Griswold.

</doc>
<doc id="101526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101526" title="Magherafelt">
Magherafelt

Magherafelt is a small town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and found that there were 8,372 people living in Magherafelt. They also found that:

</doc>
<doc id="101527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101527" title="Constituent country">
Constituent country

A constituent country is a country which makes up a part of a larger country, or federation.
The United Kingdom is made of 4 constituent countries. They are England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands is also made of 4 constituent countries. They are the Netherlands proper, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten.
Earlier (before 10 October 2010) it had 3 constituent countries: the Netherlands proper, Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles.

</doc>
<doc id="101528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101528" title="Leyton Orient F.C.">
Leyton Orient F.C.

Leyton Orient F.C. are an English football club. They started in 1881 and are based in Leyton, London. Their nickname is "The O's" and they play their home games at a stadium called Brisbane Road.

</doc>
<doc id="101529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101529" title="Northampton Town F.C.">
Northampton Town F.C.

Northampton Town F.C. is an English football club. They started in 1897 and are based in Northampton in the county of Northamptonshire. They play their home games at a stadium called Sixfields Stadium and are nicknamed "The Cobblers".

</doc>
<doc id="101530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101530" title="Counties of Northern Ireland">
Counties of Northern Ireland

There are six counties which make up Northern Ireland. They are County Antrim, County Armagh, County Down, County Fermanagh, County Londonderry and County Tyrone. The six counties in Northern Ireland and the 26 counties in the Republic of Ireland make up the 32 counties of the island of Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="101531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101531" title="Nottingham Forest F.C.">
Nottingham Forest F.C.

Nottingham Forest F.C. is an English football club. They are based in Nottingham in the county of Nottinghamshire and started in 1865. They play their home matches at a stadium called City Ground. Brian Clough was one of their managers and when he was in charge, Nottingham Forest won two European Cups and four League Cups. Since then they have dropped down to the 3rd division and back up to the second, they have had managers like Gary Megson, Joe Kinnear, David Platt and Frank Clark. They have no manager now. Their last one was Colin Calderwood.

</doc>
<doc id="101532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101532" title="Brian Clough">
Brian Clough

Brian Clough was an English footballer turned manager. During his career he was in charge of Nottingham Forest F.C. and Derby County F.C. He won a lot of trophies, including the European Cup in 1979 and 1980.
Clough was an alcoholic. He had a liver transplant in 2003. He died of stomach cancer.
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="101533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101533" title="Irish national grid reference system">
Irish national grid reference system

The Irish national grid reference system is the system of grid references used in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. It overlaps the British national grid reference system. In the grid references, Ireland is divided into 20 squares, of 100 kilometres length and 100 kilometres width. Each grid square is given a letter as its name.

</doc>
<doc id="101534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101534" title="Districts of Northern Ireland">
Districts of Northern Ireland

Since 1 October 1973, Northern Ireland is made of 26 districts. Each district has a council which looks after local services. The 26 districts are made of 582 wards. Each ward elects 1 councillor. There 582 councillors in Northern Ireland and there is an election every 4 years. The voting system used to elect each councillor is Single Transferable Vote. Some of the councils are known as "Borough" or "City" councils. Every year, each council elects a chairman. In "Borough" and "City" councils, the chairman is called the Mayor. In Belfast City Council, the chairman is called the Lord Mayor. In "Borough" and "City" councils, up to 25% of councillors are given the title Alderman.

</doc>
<doc id="101535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101535" title="Post town">
Post town

In the United Kingdom, a post town is the town that you must write on a letter if you want it to go to that area. There are around 1500 post towns in the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="101536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101536" title="Hudson Motor Car Company">
Hudson Motor Car Company

The Hudson Motor Car Company was an American automobile , founded in Detroit, Michigan in 1909. They were well known for producing low-priced cars of good quality. They also features in their cars, like warning lights for pressure and generator power. Hudson's production peak was in 1929, with 300,000 cars built in their factories in America, Belgium and England.
In 1954, Hudson merged with the Nash-Kelvinator Company, to form American Motors Corporation. American Motors (also known as AMC) became famous for their line of Jeep vehicles (a civilian version of military Jeeps), and later Ramblers, Gremlins, and Pacer cars. AMC was finally bought out by the Chrysler Corporation, which still makes Jeep brand vehicles.
Jack Kerouac's novel "On the Road" describes made by Kerouac and his friend Neal Cassady, driving a 1949 Hudson automobile. (Cassady ruined his car, driving at speeds over 100 miles per hour, without giving the car the maintenance it needed.)

</doc>
<doc id="101537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101537" title="BT postcode area">
BT postcode area

The BT postcode area (also called the Belfast postcode area) is how each area in Northern Ireland has postcodes. Northern Ireland was the last part of the United Kingdom to get post codes. The BT postcode area was made between 1970 and 1974. 
The Belfast post town districts are BT1 to BT17, BT58 and part of BT29. "BT" is short way of saying "Belfast". The postcode for Belfast city centre starts "BT1". The Royal Mail office in Belfast has a postcode of BT1 1AA. 
The rest of Northern Ireland has 43 other post towns. The post town districts for the 43 post towns are BT18 to BT57, BT60 to BT82, BT92 to BT94 and part of BT29.

</doc>
<doc id="101538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101538" title="Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service">
Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service

The Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service (NIFRS) is the fire service for Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. 2000 people work for the NIFRS. There are 67 fire stations in Northern Ireland. Sometimes bad people throw stones at the firemen. Some firemen were killed in the Troubles.

</doc>
<doc id="101539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101539" title="BT">
BT

BT is an abbreviation and can stand for:

</doc>
<doc id="101540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101540" title="Northern Ireland Ambulance Service">
Northern Ireland Ambulance Service

The Northern Ireland Ambulance Service (NIAS) is the ambulance service for Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. It was created on 1 April 1995. Around 1000 people work for the NIAS.

</doc>
<doc id="101541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101541" title="Września">
Września

Września is a small town in Wielkopolska province in Poland. 30,000 people live in Września and the mayor is Tomasz Kałużny.

</doc>
<doc id="101542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101542" title="Police Service of Northern Ireland">
Police Service of Northern Ireland

The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) () is the police service that covers Northern Ireland. It was started on 4 November 2001. The old police service for Northern Ireland was the Royal Ulster Constabulary. The service is based in Cherryvalley, east Belfast. The current Chief Constable is Sir Hugh Orde OBE. The old Chief Constables were Sir Ronnie Flanagan OBE and Colin Cramphorn.
All the big political parties in Northern Ireland support the PSNI. Earlier, the political party Sinn Féin, who have many supporters, did not support the police. But after the St Andrews Agreement they decided to support them after a special Ard Fheis about the police on 28 January 2007.
In September 2005 the PSNI started the Historical Enquiries Team to help solve 3,269 murders that happened during the Troubles. The Northern Ireland Policing Board make sure that the PSNI are fair and do a good job. The Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland investigates complaints about the police. The current Police Ombudsman is Al Hutchinson. The last Ombudsman was Nuala O'Loan. She was the Ombudsman until November 2007.
The PSNI gives 50% of its jobs to Roman Catholics and 50% of its jobs to people who are not Roman Catholic. This is because many people think there are not enough Roman Catholics in the PSNI. By 2006, 20% of PSNI policemen were Roman Catholic. Only 8.3% of policemen in the old Royal Ulster Constabulary were Roman Catholic. About 30% of the force will be Roman Catholics by 2011. 
The colour of the PSNI uniform is green. The PSNI badge has Saint Patrick's saltire on it and six other symbols. They are the scales of justice, the harp, the torch, the olive branch, the shamrock and a crown.
The flag of the PSNI is the badge in the centre of a dark green field.

</doc>
<doc id="101544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101544" title="Grameen Bank">
Grameen Bank

The Grameen Bank is a community development bank started in Bangladesh. They give small loans (known as microcredit or "grameencredit" ) to poor people without asking for money before the loan is given. The word "Grameen", is made of the word "gram" or "village", and means "of the village". The system of this bank is based on the idea that the poor have skills but have no chance to use their skills without some money. The bank also controls some businesses, such as fabric, telephone and energy companies. Most of the banks loans go to women.
The Grameen Bank was started 1976 when Professor Muhammad Yunus, a Fulbright scholar and Professor at University of Chittagong, researched how to provide banking for the rural poor. In October 1983, the Grameen Bank Project was made into an independent bank by the government. The group and its first member, Muhammad Yunus, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006.
Some people have said the banks prices are too expensive and put people in a debt-trap. Some have also said that the bank would not work if people did not give donations. At the same time, it is often seen as a success story in microfinance and as the guide for other groups around the world.
Muhammad Yunus, the banks first member, earned a Ph.D. in economics from Vanderbilt University in the United States. During the Bangladesh famine of 1974 he gave a small loan of USD 27 to a group of 42 families so that they could make small items and sell them without owing too much money. Yunus believed that a lot less people would be poor around Bangladesh if they could find small loans.
The Grameen Bank ("Bank of the Villages", in the Bengali language) is the product of Yunus' ideas. The bank began as a research project by Yunus and the Rural Economics Project at Bangladesh's University of Chittagong. They gave out some small loans and waited to know what would happen. In 1976, the village of Jobra and other villages surrounding the University of Chittagong became the first places where Grameen Bank loaned money to people. The Bank was very successful and with support from the main Bangladesh Bank, gave loans for the Tangail District (to the north of the capital, Dhaka). The bank's success continued and it soon gave loans in many areas of Bangladesh. On 2 October 1983, the project was made into an independent bank, by the Bangladeshi government. Bankers from ShoreBank, a community development bank in Chicago, helped Yunus by making Grameen Bank a part of Shorebank with money from the Ford Foundation. After the 1998 flood of Bangladesh, many people could not pay their debts to Grameen for a few years. By the beginning of 2005, the bank had loaned over USD 4.7 billion to poor people. 
Grameen Bank now loans money to poor people all over India. By 2006, India had over 2,100 Grameen Bank branches. Its success has inspired similar projects in more than 40 countries around the world and has made World Bank to take an initiative to finance Grameen-type schemes.
The bank gets help with money. In the mid-1990s, the bank started getting most of its funding from the central bank of Bangladesh. More recently, Grameen has been borrowing money. The Government of Bangladesh guarantees that money borrowed by the Grameen Bank will be repaid.
Grameen Bank is best known for solidarity lending. The Bank also incorporates a set of values embodied in Bangladesh by the "Sixteen Decisions". At every branch of Grameen Bank the borrowers recite these Decisions and vow to follow them.
There is solidarity lending in over 43 countries. Each borrower must belong to a five-member group, the group does not need to give a guarantee for a loan. The loan is made to only one person but the whole group is to make sure that the money is repaid. Each member has to pay for their own loan but if they have problems the group may help them pay because the group would not get any more loans from Grameen if all the groups loans were not paid.
Grameen Bank does not take people to court if they cannot pay, the system works on trust only. Solidarity groups agree with Grameen to save enough for extra payments in case they cannot pay every time.
Not many women in India can have loans from big banks so 97% of Grameens loans go to women. Women get treated very badly in some countries and groups, such as the World Bank are researching to know if small loans are helping women around the world. 
Over 98 percent of Grameens loans have been paid back but the Wall Street Journal says that 20% of the loans took more than a year longer than the time agreed to pay the loan back. Grameen says that more than half of its borrowers in Bangladesh (close to 50 million) now: have all children of school age in school, all household members eating three meals a day, a clean toilet, a rainproof house, clean drinking water and can pay 300 taka-a-week (around 4 USD) towards their loans.
One of the things Grameen Bank does for poor people is the Village Phone program. Women entrepreneurs can start a business providing a payphone service in rural areas of Bangladesh. The Village Phone Program was awarded the 2004 Petersburg Prize of EUR 100,000 for Technology to Development. The Development Gateway Foundation said:
...Grameen has created a new class of women entrepreneurs who have raised themselves from poverty. Moreover, it has improved the livelihoods of farmers and others who are provided access to critical market information and lifeline communications previously unattainable in some 28,000 villages of Bangladesh. More than 55,000 phones are currently in operation, with more than 80 million people benefiting from access to market information, news from relatives, and more.
In 2003, Grameen Bank started a new loan program, different from the Solidarity Group, to help the beggars in Bangladesh. This program is made to give small loans to beggars. The loans cost only the amount of the loan and the repayment take a long time, for example, a beggar taking a small loan of around 100 taka (about US $1.50) can pay only 2.00 taka (about 3.4 US cents) per week and only repays 100 taka. 
The bank does not force the beggars to give up begging but tries to get them selling low-priced items. The Global Microcredit Summit in 2006 by one of the banks managers says that by May 2006, around 73,000 beggars have taken loans of about 58.32 million taka (approx. USD 833,150) and repaid 34.78 million taka (about USD 496,900).
Grameen Bank is owned by the people who borrow the money, mostly women. The borrowers own 94% of the bank, and the other 6% is owned by the Government of Bangladesh. 
In October 2007, the bank had 7.34 million borrowers, and 97% of those are women. 
The number of borrowers has more than doubled since 2003, when the bank had only 3.12 million members. In October 2007, the Bank had a staff of over 24,703 employees and 2,468 branches covering 80,257 villages. There were 43,681 villages covered in the year 2003.
Since its start, the bank has loaned 347.75 billion taka (USD 6.55 billion). 313.11 billion taka (USD 5.87 billion) has been repaid. The bank says 98.35% of loans are repaid. In 1998 95% of loans were repaid. However, many critics doubt this recovery rate and the definition that Grameen uses to come up with this rate.
Grameen Bank received awards such as, the Bangladesh Independence Day Award, in 1994. The bank got its best known award on 13 October 2006, when the Nobel Committee awarded Grameen Bank and its first member, Muhammad Yunus, the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize "for their efforts to create economic and social development from below." The Nobel Foundation says: 
From modest beginnings three decades ago, Yunus has, first and foremost through Grameen Bank, developed micro-credit into an ever more important instrument in the struggle against poverty. Grameen Bank has been a source of ideas and models for the many institutions in the field of micro-credit that have sprung up around the world.
Mosammat Taslima Begum, used her first loan of 16-euro (20-dollar) from the bank in 1992 to buy a goat and subsequently became a successful entrepreneur and one of the elected board members of the bank. She collected the Nobel Prize for Grameen Bank on 10 December 2006, at the prize awarding ceremony in Oslo City Hall.
Grameen Bank is the only business to have won a Nobel Prize. In a speech given at the presentation ceremony, Professor Ole Danbolt Mjøs, Chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, said that, by giving the prize to Grameen Bank and Muhammad Yunus, the Norwegian Nobel Committee wanted to make more contact with the Muslim world, to help women, and on to fight against poverty.
The people in Bangladesh were very happy with the Nobel Prize. Some critics asserted that the award affirms neoliberalism.
The Grameen Bank has grown into over two dozen groups called the Grameen Family of Enterprises. These groups include Grameen Trust, Grameen Fund, Grameen Communications, Grameen Shakti (Grameen Energy), Grameen Telecom, Grameen Shikkha (Grameen Education), Grameen Motsho (Grameen Fisheries), Grameen Baybosa Bikash (Grameen Business Development), Grameen Phone, Grameen Software Limited, Grameen CyberNet Limited, Grameen Knitwear Limited, and Grameen Uddog (owner of the brand Grameen Check).
On 11 July 2005 the Grameen Mutual Fund One (GMFO), was listed as an Initial Public Offering. One of the first mutual funds of its kind, GMFO will allow the over four million Grameen bank members, as well as non-members, to buy into Bangladesh's capital markets. The Grameen group is worth over USD 7.4 billion. 
The Grameen Foundation was based on the work of Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and they want to share the Grameen ideas and hurry microfinance to the worlds poorest people. Grameen Foundation USA, which has an A- rating from Charity Watch, supports microfinance institutions worldwide with loan guarantees, training, and technology transfer. As of 2006, Grameen Foundation supports microfinance institutions in the following regions:
Sudhirendar Sharma, a development analyst, says that the Grameen Bank has "landed poor communities in a perpetual debt-trap", and that its ultimate benefit goes to the corporations that sell capital goods and infrastructure to the borrowers. Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina, who said, "There is no difference between usurers [Yunus] and corrupt people." Hasina also says the bank wants too much in return for the loans. Loans from Grameen Bank cost more than bigger banks, around 20% interest. The Mises Institute's Jeffrey Tucker says that Grameen Bank is not good enough for Indias economy and is a way of giving money to people who are not working.
<div class="references-small">

</doc>
<doc id="101545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101545" title="United Kingdom Census 2001">
United Kingdom Census 2001

On Sunday 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom Government held a census. This was the 19th UK Census. United Kingdom Census 2001 was started by the Office for National Statistics in England and Wales, the General Register Office for Scotland and the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency. It was the first census to ask people in England, Scotland and Wales about their religion.

</doc>
<doc id="101546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101546" title="Hug">
Hug

A hug is an between two or more people. It is usually a sign of affection or love.
In several cases observed by psychologists around the globe, hugs are often used to solidify relationships in both sexual and platonic cases and often lead to further physical encounters.
A hug is very good for people. Hugging can release a chemical called Oxytocin, which helps make a person feel less stressed. It also helps a person's immune system, and makes them feel less pain. Hugs can even help a person stay calm in a stressful situation. 

</doc>
<doc id="101547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101547" title="WWE Intercontinental Championship">
WWE Intercontinental Championship

The WWE Intercontinental Championship is a professional wrestling championship in WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment). It is the first secondary title of WWE. For more than two years (April 2009 to August 2011), it was the secondary championship on the "SmackDown" brand. Since August 29, 2011, all WWE programming has been "Supershows", featuring wrestlers from both "Raw" and "SmackDown". As such, the Intercontinental Championship can now be defended on both shows, as well as at WWE pay-per-view events.
The WWE Intercontinental Championship was first known as the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Intercontinental Championship, until the WWE/WWF 2002 Lawsuit. Following the title's introduction in 1979, Pat Patterson became the inaugural champion on September 15. The title's creation came as a result of Patterson defeating Ted DiBiase to win the WWF North American Championship and defending the title in a fictional tournament held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to be unified with a South American Championship.
In March 2001, the World Wrestling Federation bought World Championship Wrestling. Soon after, "The Invasion" took place in which the WCW/ECW Alliance was ultimately dismantled. At Survivor Series 2001, the title was unified with the WCW United States Championship. The United States Champion, Edge, won against the Intercontinental Champion, Test, and became the new Intercontinental Champion while the United States Championship became inactive. 
After the WWF/WWE name change in 2002, the championship became known as the WWE Intercontinental Championship. It was then unified with the European Championship in a ladder match on July 22, and later the Hardcore Championship on August 26. The Intercontinental Champion, Rob Van Dam, won against the European Champion, Jeff Hardy, and the Hardcore Champion, Tommy Dreamer. As a result, Rob Van Dam was named the last European and Hardcore Champion. Then at No Mercy 2002, it was unified with the World Heavyweight Championship. The World Heavyweight Champion, Triple H, won against the Intercontinental Champion, Kane, and continued to be the World Heavyweight Champion while the Intercontinental Championship became inactive. In May 2003, after fan protests of the retirement of the Intercontinental Title, the title was reactivated by RAW Co-General Manager, Stone Cold Steve Austin, and was recommissioned to be the secondary championship for the RAW brand. Shortly after, the WCW United States Championship was reactivated as the WWE United States Championship by the SmackDown! brand, making the Intercontinental Championship its equal counterpart for the RAW brand. During the 2009 WWE Draft the two title swapped brands, making the Intercontinental Championship SmackDown property and the US Title Raw property. On August 29, 2011, all WWE programming became "Supershows" that feature wrestlers from both brands, ending the brand extension. All WWE titles can now be defended at any WWE event. 
the current intercontinental champion is the miz he defeated Zack Ryder at Monday night raw because of destraction on 5april 2016

</doc>
<doc id="101548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101548" title="Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom 2004-2009">
Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom 2004-2009

This is a list of Members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom who were voted to serve from 2004 to 2009.
<br>
"This table can be sorted by constituency, party or party group: click the symbol at the top of the appropriate column."

</doc>
<doc id="101592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101592" title="Polygamy">
Polygamy

Polygamy is a word that comes from late Greek. It can be translated as "many marriages". It refers to any form of marriage where a person has "more than one spouse". There is also a concept called group marriage. In group marriage, all the (adult) members of the group are responsible for all the children.
A man being married to more than one woman at the same time is called polygyny. A woman being married to more than one man at the same time is called polyandry. 
Both forms have occurred in humans. Polygyny is much more common, and is practised by millions of people, mostly in Muslim countries, where a man can have up to four wives at the same time. In most non-Muslim countries, polygamy is illegal, and a person who has more than one spouse can be prosecuted for bigamy. Some countries, including India, only permit Muslims to be polygamous.
Polygamy is one of the beliefs of Mormon Fundamentalists. These are Mormons (members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints) who strictly follow the teachings of Joseph Smith. Smith felt it was his job to restore plural marriage to the earth. He was married to 33 women. In 1890 the Mormon church officially stopped "celestial marriages" (polygamy). Church members who continue to practice plural marriage are excommunicated from the church.
Isithembu (Sethepu) is the African practice of a man being able to have more than one wife at the same time. A man may marry again if his current wife or wives cannot have children. He keeps his current wife or wives as divorce is not allowed. A man may marry again if his current wife or wives have not produced male children. He can marry again if a wife does not want children. In some places, if a man dies, his wife or wives are married to his brother. This way his family is cared for. The Swazi culture says a man should have many wives. Polygamy (Isithembu) is normal for men. Woman should have children, which is normal for them.

</doc>
<doc id="101599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101599" title="Rickenbach, Solothurn">
Rickenbach, Solothurn

Rickenbach is a municipality in the district Olten in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="101601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101601" title="Rickenbach">
Rickenbach

Rickenbach can be the name of any of the following places:
In Germany:
In Switzerland:

</doc>
<doc id="101609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101609" title="Neal Cassady">
Neal Cassady

Neal Cassady (February 8, 1926 - February 4, 1968) was an American writer. He was a member of the Beat Generation circle of writers and poets, of the 1950s and 1960s. He was a close friend of Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac, and was the main inspiration behind Kerouac's breakthrough novel "On the Road". Later he was the of Ken Kesey's "Merry Pranksters", during the hippie era.
Cassady was born in Salt Lake City, literally "on the road", as his mother gave birth to him while his parents rode in a car. They later separated, with his father raising young Cassady in Denver, Colorado. He got into trouble often as a boy, and spent part of his teen years in a facility. While locked up, he began to write letters back and forth with Hal Chase, another member of the (then-future) Beat Generation. Chase told his friends Kerouac and Ginsberg about Cassady, who wanted to meet him. After he was released, Cassady traveled to New York, marrying sixteen-year-old LuAnne Henderson on the way. He met Ginsberg, and began a homosexual relationship with him (despite Cassady's marriage), and a friendship with Kerouac, recently divorced, who began to teach Cassady about writing. Kerouac's mother, whom he lived with, did not like Cassady, sensing he was just a . Kerouac knew this was at least partly true, but he did not mind, since he enjoyed Cassady's company. They looked a little like each other, and strangers who met them often guessed the two were brothers. They became very close personally, and felt that they really were brothers, though they came from different parents.
Cassady was a person, and his wife got tired of him not giving their marriage the attention it needed. She left him, and returned to her family. Cassady soon forgot about her, and started relationships with other women, and also with men. (He and LuAnne got back together later, but their did not last.) Before long, he decided he wanted to travel. Cassady was an expert driver, and had no trouble driving cars at over 100 miles per hour, over long stretches of highway. Kerouac left his mother behind, and joined Cassady on many road trips, across the United States and even into Mexico. When Kerouac got sick in Mexico City, Cassady could not wait for him to get better, and left Kerouac behind at a hospital. Kerouac had to find his own way home, and was angry at Cassady, while Kerouac's mother thought it just proved her suspicions about him. Cassady turned up later, asking Kerouac's forgiveness, which he gave him. Good or bad, Kerouac's experiences with Cassady were what he needed to finish a novel about travel, which he had wanted to write for years.
Kerouac was now married again, to Joan Haverty, and in trying to explain his friendship with Cassady to his new wife, he typed a long , using a roll of paper so he did not have to stop to change pages. He spent three weeks working on the narrative almost non-stop. It became the manuscript for his new novel, which he called "On the Road". His wife was bothered by the fact that he spent more time working on the manuscript than with her, and separated from him not long after it was finished. Kerouac spent the next six years making changes and improvements to the manuscript, until a publisher agreed to print it as a book. Cassady's name was changed to "Dean Moriarty", to make the book appear more fictional than it really was. Kerouac delivered one of the first printed copies of "On the Road" in person to Cassady, who did not give Kerouac the reaction he expected. Instead of being happy and proud, Cassady seemed and scared, by knowing that part of his life was now in print, and his character documented for the public to see.
"On the Road" was published in 1957, and it made both Kerouac and Cassady famous. It did not do much to help their personal lives, however. Both men suffered from public , as the book became a . A mistake on the book's jacket made readers think that both men were much younger than they were. Their adventures in the book had happened years earlier, but many people thought they were recent. Some readers wanted to travel with them, or invite them to wild parties, or have sexual intercourse with them. Cassady enjoyed the attention for awhile, but it took its toll on him personally. Fame did not help his second marriage, to Carolyn Robinson, or the family they had together. Kerouac himself hated all the attention he got, and spent most of his time at home with his mother, working on new books, or drinking alcohol. In time, he became an alcoholic, and it ruined his health.
Cassady also partly inspired Allen Ginsberg's "Howl", and was mentioned in the poem as "N.C.", the "secret hero" of Ginsberg's latest writings. "Howl" became a landmark work of the 1950s, and added to Ginsberg's and Cassady's fame. Ginsberg handled fame more easily than either Cassady or Kerouac, and had a long public career.
Cassady himself wanted to become a writer, or a jazz musician, but he was not a success at either. He tried to take saxophone lessons, but did not stay with them very long. He mostly worked as a laborer or a on railroads, before and after "On the Road" was published. Some of what he did write was published as a , titled "The First Third", but it was his only book. He was more successful at writing letters to friends. One was about his of different women during a train trip. He recorded long talks with Kerouac and Carolyn, about their lives and thoughts, and parts of these went into a later book by Kerouac, titled "Visions of Cody". ("Cody Pomeray" became Cassady's new fictional name, as Kerouac changed publishers.)
Cassady also sold marijuana to help pay his bills. One customer turned out to be an undercover policeman, who arrested Cassady. He spent a long time in jail. Carolyn had to both work, and try to raise their children alone.
Freed from jail, Cassady began to travel again. During the 1960s, he joined Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters, who traveled back and forth across the United States in a bus, holding "acid tests", a name for LSD parties. Cassady drove the bus. He acted as merrily as anyone, and as full of energy as a young man, when the Pranksters were around. In private, though, he was not enjoying his life, and old friends noticed he looked very tired.
Cassady had tried to commit suicide a few times when he was younger, and was unhappy. Once he tried to freeze himself to death, waiting outside in cold temperatures during a car trip, but it took too long, and he got back in the car. Early in 1968, while revisiting Mexico, he was found lying alongside a railroad track, where he had been for a long time. Exposure to harsh weather caused his death, just days short of his 42nd birthday. Nobody knew if he was trying to kill himself or not, this time. A few people who knew him felt that he wanted to die, and had for awhile as he got older, and that Cassady finally got his wish.
Cassady left an mark on the world of the 1950s and 1960s, through his documented adventures in the works of Kerouac, Ginsberg, and their friends. He also turned up in Kesey's writings about the Merry Pranksters. He inspired later characters, like Jim Morrison of The Doors. People today still read about his life and times, and wish they were able to meet Cassady, or make friends with him. The people who knew Cassady remembered him fondly later, even if he let them down personally, because he was such a unique (special) person. People loved watching Cassady live his life to the fullest, while he encouraged them to do the same with theirs.
Neal Cassady: Behind the Myth (official site)

</doc>
<doc id="101612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101612" title="Riedholz">
Riedholz

Riedholz is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="101613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101613" title="Northern Ireland (European Parliament constituency)">
Northern Ireland (European Parliament constituency)

Northern Ireland is a constituency of the European Parliament. The Northern Ireland Members of the European Parliament are chosen using Single Transferable Vote. The constituency is all of Northern Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="101615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101615" title="Feldbrunnen-St. Niklaus">
Feldbrunnen-St. Niklaus

Feldbrunnen-St.Niklaus is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="101617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101617" title="Rodersdorf">
Rodersdorf

Rodersdorf is a municipality in the district Dorneck in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland, on the border of Alsace, France. 

</doc>
<doc id="101618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101618" title="Beat Generation">
Beat Generation

The Beat Generation was a movement of writers, poets, and artists during the 1950s and 1960s, who liked the beat of jazz and bebop music, which became a kind of soundtrack to much of their lives and work. People associated with the movement were called "Beats", or sometimes "Beatniks", a reference to Communism. (A few Beats supported Communism, but most did not.) The term came from novelist Jack Kerouac, who was sometimes called "The King of the Beats". Other Beat writers were William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg.

</doc>
<doc id="101620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101620" title="Brill Building">
Brill Building

The Brill Building in New York City was a headquarters for many songwriters in the 1950s and 1960s. The building had offices for the writers, and also a small recording studio to make demo recordings. Don Kirshner hired the writers who worked there, and helped promote their works.
The Brill Building writers included many pop stars and future pop stars, including Jeff Barry, Neil Diamond, Carole King, Carole Bayer Sager, and Neil Sedaka. The Monkees recorded a large number of Brill Building songs, but they also wrote songs of their own.

</doc>
<doc id="101625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101625" title="Chris Stewart">
Chris Stewart

Christopher "Chris" Stewart (born 1950), is an English musician and writer. He was the first drummer for rock band Genesis. He is now a writer and a farmer.
Stewart went to school with Tony Banks, Peter Gabriel, Mike Rutherford and Anthony Phillips. The five of them formed a band called Anon. This band eventually became Genesis in January 1967. Stewart appears on the band's first two singles, "The Silent Sun"/"That's Me" and "A Winter's Tale"/"One-Eyed Hound".
Stewart was asked to leave the band in the summer of 1968, because he was not skilled enough. He was replaced by John Silver. After travelling and working throughout Europe, Stewart settled and bought a farm named "El Valero" in Andalusia, Spain.
He is now better known for his autobiograpical books: "Driving Over Lemons: An Optimist in Andalucia" (1999, ISBN 0-9535227-0-9) and the sequels, "A Parrot In The Pepper Tree" (ISBN 0-9535227-5-X) and "The Almond Blossom Appreciation Society" (2006, ISBN 0-9548995-0-4). They are all about his work farming in Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="101627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101627" title="John Silver">
John Silver

Jonathan "John" Silver (born 1950) was the second drummer for the English rock band Genesis. He replaced Chris Stewart in the summer of 1968. Silver left the band in August 1969. He was replaced by John Mayhew. Silver appears on the band's first full length album, "From Genesis to Revelation" and on the "Genesis Archive 1967-75" box set. 
Silver lives in London with his wife, Lucy, and children, Leo, Max, and Libby.

</doc>
<doc id="101628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101628" title="John Mayhew">
John Mayhew

John Mayhew (27 March 1947 - 26 March 2009) was an English - Australian musician. He was the third drummer for the progressive rock band Genesis. Mayhew was a part of the band from September 1969 until July 1970. He replaced John Silver as the drummer for the band in August 1969 . Mayhew appears on the album "Trespass" and the "Genesis Archive 1967-75" box set. He was replaced in 1970 by Phil Collins.
For many years Mayhew's life after playing for Genesis was a mystery to most fans. It was said that his "Trespass" royaltycheque had gone unclaimed. There were rumors that he was dead or missing. In 1979, he moved to Australia. He eventually found work as a carpenter. He is now an Australian citizen. In 2006, Mayhew attended the Genesis Convention in London along with Anthony Phillips and Steve Hackett. He even played drums for a tribute band's performance of "The Knife" (from "Trespass"). He died a day before his birthday from a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="101636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101636" title="Larch">
Larch

Larches are conifers in the genus Larix. They grow on the northern hemisphere. Unlike other conifers, larches lose their leaves during autumn and winter.
There are 10–14 species, for example the European Larch, the North American Larch and the Japanese Larch. Scientists usually divide them into two main groups, New World species (North America) and Old World species (Europe and Asia). Inside this one, there are two more groups, Northern (Central Europe, Siberia, Japan, north of China) and Southern (south of China, Himalaya, Myanmar).
"Larix decidua" or "Larix europaea" European Larch.
"Larix sibirica" Siberian Larch.
"Larix gmelinii" Dahurian Larch.
"Larix kaempferi" or "Larix leptolepis" Japanese Larch.
"Larix principis-rupprechtii" Prince Ruppretch's larch.
"Larix potaminii" Chinese Larch.
"Larix himalaica" Langtang Larch.
"Larix mastersiana" Masters' Larch.
"Larix speciosa" Yunnan Larch.
"Larix griffithii" or "Larix griffithiana" Himalayan Larch.
"Larix laricina" Tamarack Larch or American Larch.
"Larix lyallii" Subalpine Larch.
"Larix occidentalis" Western Larch.
There is also a hybrid, the Dunkeld Larch, which is a mix of the European Larch and the Japanese Larch.
Larch wood is very valuable because it is resistant and it grows quickly. It is used for boats as well as houses.
Larches are also used in herbal medicine and in bonsai.
The tree appeared in many Monty Python sketches as a joke.

</doc>
<doc id="101642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101642" title="Louise Goodman">
Louise Goodman

Louise Goodman is one of two pitlane reporters for ITV's Formula One coverage. Before this she worked in marketing for the Jordan team. She started television broadcast in 1997.
She is said to be the first woman of Formula One live coverage. Louise Goodman has been ITV's roving pitlane reporter since ITV took the broadcast in 1997. She usually does driver interviews, while Ted Kravitz brings news from the teams about technical or tactical matters. She is taller than many F1 drivers, and is known for wearing much jewellery on her arm.
Goodman became the first female to be part of a pit stop when she removed the left rear tire in a Midland pit stop for Tiago Monteiro in 2006 British Grand Prix.
During Q3 in Hungaroring 2006 she interviewed David Coulthard. Coulthard had been knocked out in Q2. She asked him how the cold weather was affecting him. He answered," Ummm...well, it’s a lot nicer to look at you in your tight t-shirts first out." Goodman sounded startled when she replied, " Thank you so much DC. I'll have a word with you later." They then went back to the main commentary team who also sounded rather .
In 2007, she became the presenter of ITV's coverage of the British Touring Car Championship. Her co-presenter was Ted Kravitz.

</doc>
<doc id="101647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101647" title="Second Epistle to the Corinthians">
Second Epistle to the Corinthians

The Second Epistle to the Corinthians is one of the books in the New Testament. It is an epistle (letter) written to the Church at Corinth by the Apostle Paul.
Paul begins by greeting the people in Corinth and reminding them that he is serving the Lord Jesus Christ. He then spends a lot of time explaining to the people why he is an apostle. Some of the people are mad at him because in 1st Corinthians he told them to stop doing bad things. He explains that he told them to stop because he loved them. He also teaches them that it is very important to forgive others.

</doc>
<doc id="101651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101651" title="Visby">
Visby

Visby is the only city on the Swedish island of Gotland. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 2005, its population is 22,236.

</doc>
<doc id="101661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101661" title="Kollam">
Kollam

Kollam (Malayalam:കൊല്ലം) (known to the Portuguese as Quilon, pronounced "koy-lon") is a city and a municipal corporation in Kollam district in the Indian state of Kerala. It is north of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum). It is also the headquarters of the Kollam District, one among the 14 districts in Kerala. To the south is Thiruvananthapuram district, to the north is Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha, to the east is Tamil Nadu and to the west by the Arabian Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="101676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101676" title="Aiglun, Alpes-Maritimes">
Aiglun, Alpes-Maritimes

Aiglun is a town and commune of the Alpes-Maritimes "département", in southeastern France.

</doc>
<doc id="101680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101680" title="Alpes-Maritimes">
Alpes-Maritimes

Alpes-Maritimes () is a department in the southeast corner of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101681" title="Communes of France">
Communes of France

The commune is the lowest administrative division in France. It represents all parts of a town or a village under the same name, for example Paris, Bordeaux or Rennes. As of January 1, 2008, there were 36,781 communes in France, 36,569 of them in metropolitan France and 212 of them in overseas France. This is much more than in any other European country. Every commune in France elects a mayor. The French word "commune" was first used in the 12th century, from Medieval Latin "communia", meaning a small gathering of people sharing a common life, from Latin "communis", things held in common.

</doc>
<doc id="101683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101683" title="Cantons of France">
Cantons of France

The cantons of France are area divisions of the French Republic's 341 arrondissements and 100 departments. 

</doc>
<doc id="101685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101685" title="Arrondissements of France">
Arrondissements of France

The 100 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements. This means districts in English. Most departments in France only have 3 or 4 arrondissements, but some may have more or less than this.

</doc>
<doc id="101686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101686" title="List of arrondissements of France">
List of arrondissements of France

The following is the current list of arrondissements of France with their INSEE codes, the chief town (or capital), the 2013 population, the area, the population density and the number of communes. The chief town of an arrondissement is the seat of a prefecture or subprefecture.
Overseas departments of France

</doc>
<doc id="101688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101688" title="Lists of cantons of France">
Lists of cantons of France

This is a list of cantons of France, by department:
Overseas departments of France

</doc>
<doc id="101689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101689" title="Cantons of the Ain department">
Cantons of the Ain department

This is a list of the 43 cantons of the Ain department, in France, by arrondissement:

</doc>
<doc id="101690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101690" title="Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh">
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh

Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (Philip Mountbatten; born Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark, 10 June 1921) is the husband of Queen Elizabeth II. Philip was born in Mon Repos, Corfu, Greece. He was originally a royal prince of Greece and Denmark.
After he changed his nationality, he became known as Philip Mountbatten.
On 19 November 1947, he was made a Knight of the Garter, and given the style of "Royal Highness". On 20 November 1947 he married Princess Elizabeth, the heiress presumptive to King George VI, he became the Duke of Edinburgh. He was made a Prince of the United Kingdom in 1957. 
Prince Philip was on active service in the Royal Navy throughout the Second World War. At the end of the war he was on the destroyer "HMS Whelp" in the Pacific, and was in Tokyo Bay for the Japanese surrender on 2nd September 1945. He was the first member of the Royal Family to be interviewed on television, in May 1961. He has traveled with the Queen on all 251 of her royal trips.
The Queen and Prince Philip have four children: Charles, Prince of Wales, Anne, Princess Royal, Prince Andrew, Duke of York and Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex. The couple have eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.

</doc>
<doc id="101692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101692" title="George IV of the United Kingdom">
George IV of the United Kingdom

George IV (born as George Augustus Frederick on 12 August 1762, died on 26 June 1830) was king of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Hanover from 29 January 1820 until his death. The Regency, George's nine-year time as "Prince Regent", which started in 1811 and ended with George III's death in 1820, included winning the Napoleonic Wars in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="101693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101693" title="William IV of the United Kingdom">
William IV of the United Kingdom

William IV (William Henry; 21 August 1765 – 20 June 1837) was King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of Hanover from 26 June 1830 until his death. William, the third son of George III of the United Kingdom and younger brother and successor to George IV was the last person to rule both the United Kingdom and Hanover. His niece, Victoria, only ruled the United Kingdom and not Hanover.
He lived for 20 years with Sophia Jordan. They had ten children.
All William IV's legitimate children (children with his wife) died before he became king, so they were therefore styled as Prince/Princess of Clarence with the style of "Royal Highness".

</doc>
<doc id="101703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101703" title="Cantons of the Aisne department">
Cantons of the Aisne department

This is a list of the 42 cantons of the Aisne department, in France, by arrondissement:

</doc>
<doc id="101705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101705" title="Communes of the Alpes-Maritimes department">
Communes of the Alpes-Maritimes department

This is a list of the 163 communes of the Alpes-Maritimes "département" in France:

</doc>
<doc id="101707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101707" title="Nice (disambiguation)">
Nice (disambiguation)

Nice can be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="101712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101712" title="Energy (society)">
Energy (society)

The use of energy is important to human society for handling problems in the environment. Developed societies use energy resources for agriculture, transportation, garbage collection, information technology and human communication. The use of energy has increased since the Industrial Revolution. This has brought a number of serious problems such as global warming.
Production and use of energy resources is important to the economy of the world. Making sure energy is used well is needed for any society.

</doc>
<doc id="101717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101717" title="Transformer">
Transformer

A transformer is a device that moves electrical energy from one circuit to another through electromagnetism and without change in frequency. They are an important part of electrical systems. 
Transformers can come in many different sizes, from a very small coupling transformer inside a stage microphone to big units that carry hundreds of MVA used in power grids.
The main reason to use a transformer is to make power of one voltage level into power of another voltage level. High voltage is easier to send a long distance, but less voltage is easier and safer to use in the office or home.
Transformers are used to increase or decrease alternating current (AC) voltage in circuits. The transformer is usually built with two coils around the same core. The primary coil or input coil is connected to supply side while secondary coil supplies power to load. The second one is called the output coil. The electromagnetism in a transformer is the energy source for the transformer. In power grids many transformers are used. These are networks for delivering electricity from the generator and to the user. 
Transformers are a major part of a smart grid. A smart grid is a power grid with a system that automatically controls the flow of electricity. The transformers in your neighborhood, on electricity poles, or the ones connected to underground wires, usually transform high voltage of 7,200 volts to 220-240 volts of electricity to power lights and appliances such as refrigerators in homes and businesses. Some countries, such as America use different voltages in homes, such as 120 volts. Transformers cannot increase power, so if the voltage is raised, the current is proportionally lowered. If the voltage is lowered, the current is proportionally increased.
There are several basic types of transformers:

</doc>
<doc id="101725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101725" title="Ballycastle, County Antrim">
Ballycastle, County Antrim

Ballycastle is a small town in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom.
On 29 April 2001, the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 5,089 people living in Ballycastle. They also saw that:

</doc>
<doc id="101727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101727" title="Bangor, County Down">
Bangor, County Down

Bangor is a town in County Down, Northern Ireland.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 58,388 people living in Bangor. They also saw that:

</doc>
<doc id="101729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101729" title="Munich Rural District">
Munich Rural District

Munich is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany. However the district does not include the city of Munich, which is an urban district itself.

</doc>
<doc id="101742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101742" title="Act of Union 1800">
Act of Union 1800

With Act of Union 1800 (or sometimes Act of Union 1801) (Irish: "Acht an Aontais 1800") is used to describe two Acts are meant. Their official titles are the Union with Ireland Act 1800 (1800 c.67 39 and 40 Geo 3), an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, and the Act of Union (Ireland) 1800 (1800 c.38 40 Geo 3), an Act of the Parliament of Ireland.
These two Acts merged the Kingdom of Ireland and the unified Kingdom of Great Britain, (being itself a merger of the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland under the Acts of Union 1707), to create the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. 
The flag created as a consequence of the merger combined the flags of England and Scotland with "St Patrick's Cross" to represent Ireland. However, Wales is not included on the Union Flag, as when the original Union Flag was devised Wales was considered a part of the Kingdom of England.

</doc>
<doc id="101754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101754" title="Ebersberg Rural District">
Ebersberg Rural District

Ebersberg is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="101756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101756" title="Freising Rural District">
Freising Rural District

Freising is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="101757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101757" title="Starnberg Rural District">
Starnberg Rural District

Starnberg is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="101760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101760" title="Traunstein Rural District">
Traunstein Rural District

Traunstein is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="101762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101762" title="Berchtesgadener Land Rural District">
Berchtesgadener Land Rural District

Berchtesgadener Land is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="101764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101764" title="Rosenheim Rural District">
Rosenheim Rural District

Rosenheim is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="101776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101776" title="Banne">
Banne

Banne is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in southern France.

</doc>
<doc id="101778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101778" title="Ardèche">
Ardèche

Ardèche (Occitan and Arpitan: "Ardecha") is a department in the center of southern France. It was named after the Ardèche River.

</doc>
<doc id="101793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101793" title="Cantons of the Ardèche department">
Cantons of the Ardèche department

This is a list of the 33 cantons of the Ardèche department, in France, by arrondissement:

</doc>
<doc id="101794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101794" title="Arrondissements of the Ardèche department">
Arrondissements of the Ardèche department

There are 3 arrondissements of the Ardèche department. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="101795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101795" title="Communes of the Ardèche department">
Communes of the Ardèche department

This is a list of the 339 communes of the Ardèche "département" in France.

</doc>
<doc id="101796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101796" title="Accons">
Accons

Accons is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the south part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101797" title="Ailhon">
Ailhon

Ailhon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the south part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101798" title="Aizac">
Aizac

Aizac is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101799" title="Muhammad Yunus">
Muhammad Yunus

Muhammad Yunus is a Bangladeshi banker and economist who was born on 28 June 1940. He was a professor of economics and is famous for his work in microcredit. Microcredit is a name for giving small loans. These loans are given to people with very little money. Most banks do not give microcredit. Yunus started the Grameen Bank. In 2006, Yunus and the bank together, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, "for their efforts to create economic and social development from below." Yunus himself has received several other national and international awards. He published a book called "Banker to the Poor" and helped start the Grameen Foundation. In 2007 Yunus planned to start a political group called Nagorik Shakti ("Citizen Power") in Bangladesh, but he has chosen not to start this group. He is one of the founding members of Global Elders.
Yunus was one of 20 Nobel Laureates who signed the "Stockholm memorandum" at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011.
Muhammad Yunus born on 28 June 1940. He was the third child born to a Muslim family in the village of Bathua near the Boxihrat Road in Hathazari, Bangladesh (Bangladesh was called British India at that time). Six more children were born in Muhammads family making nine altogether. His father was called Hazi Dula Mia Shoudagar, and worked as a jeweller. His mother was called Sofia Khatun. His early childhood years were spent in his village. In 1944, his family moved to the city of Chittagong, and he went to Lamabazar Primary School. By 1949, his mother had a mental illness. Muhammad went to Chittagong Collegiate School and became the 16th best student out of 39,000 in East Pakistan. During his school years, he was a Boy Scout, and travelled to West Pakistan and India in 1952, and to Canada in 1955 to attend Jamborees. When Yunus was studying at Chittagong College, he won awards for drama acting. In 1957, he started studying at the department of economics of Dhaka University. Chittagong College awarded him with a BA in 1960, and a MA in 1961.
After his MA studies, Yunus became part of the Bureau of Economics as a research assistant for Professor Nurul Islam and Rehman Sobhan. In 1961 he was given work as a lecturer in economics in Chittagong College. During that time he started a packaging factory. He was given a Fulbright scholarship in 1965, to study in the United States. He was awarded his Ph.D. in economics from Vanderbilt University in the United States, in 1969. From 1969 to 1972, Yunus was an assistant professor of economics at Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro, Tennessee.
During the Liberation War of Bangladesh in 1971, Yunus and other people from Bangladesh living in the United States started a citizens committee and controlled the Bangladesh Information Center to find help for the war. He published the "Bangladesh Newsletter" from his home in Nashville. After the War, Yunus returned to Bangladesh and was given a job with the governments' Planning Commission which was controlled by Nurul Islam. He thought the job was boring so he took a job at Chittagong University as Head of the Economics department. He worked with poverty reduction after he saw the Bangladesh famine of 1974, and started a research project to help people who lived in the countryside. In 1975, he starteded a Nabajug Tebhaga Khamar (new era three share farm) which the government called the Packaged Input Programme. Yunus and his friends started the "Gram Sarkar" (the village government) programme to make the farm project better. 
Ziaur Rahman,(the president of India in the late 1970s), was in control of starting 40,392 village governments (gram sarkar) in 2003. On 2 August 2005, after a petition by the Bangladesh Legal Aids and Services Trust (BLAST) the High Court had declared Gram Sarkar illegal and unconstitutional.
In 1976, Yunus visited the poorest households in the village of Jobra near Chittagong University. He discovered that very small loans could be a lot of help to a poor person. Some Jobra women were making bamboo furniture and had to take loans for buying bamboo but all their profits were being paid towards the loans. The first loan Muhammad Yunus gave was USD 27.00 from his pocket. This $27 was loaned to 42 women in the village, who made a profit of $00.02 each from the loan
In December 1976 the government bank Janata Bank gave Yunus a loan that he could use to make lots of small loans to very poor people. His group got more loans from other banks and by 1982, 28,000 people had jobs with Grameen. On 1 October 1983, Grameen was made a full bank and renamed the Grameen Bank ("Village Bank") to give loans to poor Bangladeshis. Yunus and his workers were threatened and women were told they would not have a Muslim burial if they borrowed money from the Grameen Bank, but they have given many, many loans to poor people. As of July 2007, Grameen Bank has loaned US$6.38 billion to 7.4 million people. The bank loans money to "solidarity groups". These small groups are given loans together and if one person can not pay, the rest of the group pays for them.
The Grameen Bank started other groups in the 1980s to do things such as keeping fishing ponds clean and building irrigation pumps. In 1989, these groups started to get their own names. The fisheries project became Grameen Motsho (Grameen Fisheries Foundation) and the irrigation project became Grameen Krishi (Grameen Agriculture Foundation). The Grameen group has grown into many groups of profitable and non-profit, such as the Grameen Trust, the Grameen Fund, Grameen Software Limited, Grameen CyberNet Limited, Grameen Knitwear Limited, Grameen Telecom, and Grameenphone (GP) (Grameenphone is the biggest private sector phone company in Bangladesh). The Village Phone (Polli Phone) project of Grameenphone has made it possible for 260,000 poor people in over 50,000 villages to own mobile phones since March 1997.
The Grameen ideas have been used in many countries throughout the world, such as the United States. More than 94% of Grameen loans have been given to women, who have less money and give more to their families. For his work with the Grameen Bank, Yunus was named an Global Academy Member in 2001.
Muhammad Yunus was awarded the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize, along with Grameen Bank, for their efforts to create economic and social developments. The Norwegian Nobel Committee said:
Muhammad Yunus has shown himself to be a leader who has managed to translate visions into practical action for the benefit of millions of people, not only in Bangladesh, but also in many other countries. Loans to poor people without any financial security had appeared to be an impossible idea. From modest beginnings three decades ago, Yunus has, first and foremost through Grameen Bank, developed micro-credit into an ever more important instrument in the struggle against poverty.
Muhammad Yunus was the first Bangladeshi and third Bengali to ever get a Nobel Prize. After being told of the important award, Yunus said that he would use part of his share of the $1.4 million award money to create a company that makes good food that the poor can afford and the rest would go toward starting an eye hospital for the poor in Bangladesh.
Former U.S. president Bill Clinton was one of the people who said the Nobel Prize should go to Muhammed Yunus. He said this in "Rolling Stone" magazine and in his autobiography: "My Life." In a speech given at University of California, Berkeley in 2002, President Clinton said Dr. Yunus was "a man who long ago should have won the Nobel Prize [and] I’ll keep saying that until they finally give it to him."
He has won many other awards, such as the Ramon Magsaysay Award, the World Food Prize the Sydney Peace Prize, the Four Freedoms Award in the category "Freemdom from want" in 2006, and the Ecuadorian Peace Prize in December 2007. Dr. Yunus has been awarded 26 honorary doctorate degrees, and 15 special awards. The Bangladesh government made a postage stamp to honour his Nobel Award. In January 2008, Houston, Texas declared 14 January as "Muhammad Yunus Day".
In 2006 Doctor Yunus and other important people, such as Professor Rehman Sobhan, Justice Muhammad Habibur Rahman, Doctor Kamal Hossain, Matiur Rahman, Mahfuz Anam and Debapriya Bhattchariya, tried to find good people to be elected for government. Yunus thought about joining government himself that year. On 11 February 2007, Yunus wrote a letter, published in the Bangladeshi newspaper "Daily Star", and he asked what people thought of creating a good government. The letter asked everyone to give ideas for this and to offer him help Dr. Yunus started a political group called Citizens' Power ("Nagorik Shakti") on 18 February 2007. There was speculation that the army supported a move by Yunus into politics. but on 3 May, Yunus stopped the group after a meeting with Fakhruddin Ahmed (government politician).
On 18 July 2007 in Johannesburg, South Africa, Nelson Mandela, Graça Machel, and Desmond Tutu began a group of world leaders to help the world. Nelson Mandela announced this new group, The Global Elders, in a speech he on his 89th birthday. Archbishop Tutu is to serve as the Chair of The Elders. Yunus is one of the first members of this group. Other members include Machel, Kofi Annan, Ela Bhatt, Gro Harlem Brundtland, Jimmy Carter, Li Zhaoxing, and Mary Robinson. The Elders are to be funded by some of its first members, such as Richard Branson, Peter Gabriel, Ray Chambers, Michael Chambers, Bridgeway Foundation, Pam Omidyar, Humanity United, Amy Robbins, Shashi Ruia, Dick Tarlow, and The United Nations Foundation.
In 1967 Yunus studied at Vanderbilt University. He met Vera Forostenko, a student of Russian literature there. Vera is the daughter of Russian immigrants to Trenton, New Jersey in the United States. They were married in 1970. Yunus marriage with Vera ended a few months after the birth of their baby girl, Monica Yunus (b. 1979 Chittagong). Vera returned to New Jersey and said that Bangladesh was not a good place to raise a baby. After some time, Yunus married Afrozi Yunus, who was a researcher in physics at Manchester University. She was appointed as a professor of physics at Jahangirnagar University. Their daughter Deena Afroz Yunus was born in 1986.
Professor Yunus brother Muhammad Ibrahim is a professor of physics at Dhaka University and the founder of The Center for Mass Education in Science (CMES). They teach science to girls in villages. His younger brother Muhammad Jahangir is a popular television presenter. Yunus oldest daughter, Monica, is an soprano singer in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="101812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101812" title="John Keats">
John Keats

John Keats (31 October 1795 – 23 February 1821) was an English poet. He is often ranked as one of the five most important poets of the Romantic movement in English literature; the other four are William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Lord Byron, and Percy Bysshe Shelley. Though Keats was the youngest of these poets, he also died before the others: he suffered from tuberculosis and died in Rome at the age of 25.
Keats was the son of an inn-keeper who died when Keats was nine years old; and his mother died of tuberculosis in 1810. The young Keats began studying to be a surgeon, though his interest in literature grew stronger than his interest in medicine. He became a friend and follower of the poet and editor James Henry Leigh Hunt, and made his first attempts to write his own poetry. Keats's active writing life lasted only about six years, from the spring of 1814 through 1819. 
His short life meant that he wrote less than many other poets. His longest poems, "Endymion" and "Hyperion", tell stories from ancient Greek mythology. Many of his shorter poems are among the best known in English literature, including the ballad "La Belle Dame sans Merci" and his sonnets and odes.
Keats was an active letter-writer throughout his life, like many people of his time. Hundreds of his letters to friends and relatives have survived, and Keats is often called one of the great letter writers in the English language.

</doc>
<doc id="101813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101813" title="Endymion (poem)">
Endymion (poem)

Endymion is one of the major poems of the English Romantic poet John Keats. It is his longest poem. Keats wrote the poem in 1817, and it was printed in a book in 1818. The poem's opening line is one of the most famous lines of poetry in English literature:
Keats called the poem "A Poetical Romance." He wrote in four sections or "Books," and each section is about a thousand lines long. The poem is written in a form called rhymed couplets, which means that every two lines rhyme together. The story is based on the tale of Endymion from Greek mythology.
"Endymion" was criticized harshly when it was first published. Some of Keats's friends and admirers, like the poet Shelley, believed that the stress of this hostile reaction had a bad effect on Keats's mind, and partly caused his early death from tuberculosis at the age of 25. But most modern critics and scholars of English literature do not think this is true.

</doc>
<doc id="101815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101815" title="Hyperion (poem)">
Hyperion (poem)

Hyperion is one of the major poems of the English Romantic poet John Keats. The poem is based on the tale from Greek mythology that tells how the Titan Hyperion, the first Greek sun god, was replaced by Apollo.
Keats worked on the poem mainly in August and September 1818. He finished the first two sections or "Books," each between 350 and 400 lines long, and he also wrote 135 lines of Book III. But he was not satisfied with what he had written; he re-wrote it bit by bit until April 1819, when he gave up for a while. Some critics and scholars think that Keats set out to write the kind of long poem he had already done in his "Endymion" in 1817 – but his outlook on poetry had changed, to a point where he was no longer happy writing the kind of mythological epic that many other poets of his time tried to write.
Keats tried to re-do the poem in a new form that he called "The Fall of Hyperion". He worked on this second version during the last six months of 1819, and though he wrote more than 500 lines, he gave up this second attempt too. He was never able to complete either version of the poem in a way that satisfied him.
Keats wrote the poem in blank verse, without rhyme. Though neither version was ever finished, some critics think that they contain some of Keats's best verse, as in the gloomy and powerful opening lines of the first "Hyperion":
["vale" = valley; "morn" = morning; "eve" = evening]

</doc>
<doc id="101817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101817" title="Arlo Guthrie">
Arlo Guthrie

Arlo Guthrie (born 1947) is an American musician and songwriter, and is the son of folk music legend Woody Guthrie. His most famous song is "Alice's Restaurant", which was also the title of his first album.
Guthrie learned music from his father, who wrote songs for him like "Goodnight Little Arlo". When the young Guthrie became thirteen years old, his father gave him a Bar Mitzvah, and invited many folk musicians. It was called "the first hootenanny bar mitzvah in history."
Guthrie met Bob Dylan when Dylan came from Minnesota to meet his father Woody. Dylan taught Guthrie a new way to play the harmonica. Guthrie started college after high school, but dropped out.
During 1965, Guthrie visited his friends Alice and Ray Brock in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, who lived in an old church, and owned a restaurant. He recorded a musical commercial for the restaurant. When Thanksgiving came that year, they invited many people, and afterwards there was a lot of garbage to be picked up and thrown away. Guthrie and another friend tried to take the garbage to a dump, but it was closed. They found a large trash pile not far away, and unwisely decided to throw their garbage onto the same pile. (Dumping trash where it does not belong is called 'littering' and is a crime in most places.)
When local police found out, they arrested Guthrie and his friend. Since the young men had long hair and looked like hippies, the police wanted to prosecute them and make an example of them to other young people. They prepared a big court case against Guthrie and his friend, with many photographs of the litter pile. It turned out the local judge was blind, could not look at the photographs, and was not interested in the case. He fined Guthrie and his friend fifty dollars, and ordered them to clean up the pile.
Not long after, Guthrie received a draft notice. The United States Army wanted him to become a soldier. Guthrie went for a physical examination by a doctor, and had to fill out a questionnaire giving information about himself. When asked if he had ever been arrested, he talked about the littering incident. He soon found himself sitting on a bench together with criminals, some of which were violent or dangerous. He could not believe the way he was treated by the Army. He began to complain and protest his treatment. The Army officers decided he would not make a good soldier, but might become a threat to the American government. They fingerprinted Guthrie, and let him go.
Guthrie decided later the two incidents would make a good protest song and he built one around the jingle he had written. He called the song "Alice's Restaurant Massacree", and recorded it in front of a live audience. He did not want other young men to be drafted, and suggested in the song that they might get out of the draft by doing like he had.
The recording became half of his first album, and the rest was filled out with other music, like "The Motorcycle Song". The album became a hit record.
Guthrie later recorded other albums and songs. His cover of the Steve Goodman song, "The City of New Orleans", about a famous train named after the city, became another hit. He bought a farm with the money he earned from his music, and lived there between recording sessions and performing tours.
In time, he became interested in charity work. He noticed people of different religious beliefs did not always work well together for the same causes, because their beliefs kept them apart. He tried to work around the differences, and help people find ways to work together to solve the same problems. He started the Guthrie Center, as a place for people to work together. He later bought the old church where his friends had lived, and made it the headquarters for the Guthrie Center.

</doc>
<doc id="101820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101820" title="Sonnet">
Sonnet

A Sonnet(sonetto in italian) is a type of poem. It is 14 lines long and is written in rhyme. 
The sonnet first appeared in Italy during the Renaissance. The Italian poet Petrarch was famous for his sonnets. It became common for poets to write sonnets in connected series, called "sonnet sequences," to tell a story, often one about a love affair. Poets in other countries quickly adopted the sonnet. William Shakespeare wrote the most famous sonnets in English literature, though other poets of his time, such as Ben Jonson, Edmund Spenser, Michael Drayton, and Samuel Daniel, wrote sonnet sequences also.
Later English poets like John Donne, William Wordsworth, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and John Keats wrote sonnets that are still admired and studied today. The rigid rhyme scheme of the sonnet went out of fashion during the twentieth century, but a few modern poets still write them sometimes. Edna St. Vincent Millay was one modern poet writing in English who often worked in the sonnet form. Modern poets have often changed the traditional rhythms and rhyme patterns of the sonnet, sometimes radically.
In a traditional "English" or "Shakespearean" sonnet, the first twelve lines are divided into three groups ("stanzas") of four lines each, called "quatrains". The last two lines usually rhyme, and make up a "rhymed couplet" that concludes the poem by summing up the story told in the previous quatrains. In the traditional "Italian" or "Petrarchan" sonnet, the poem divides into a group of eight lines ("octave") followed by a group of six lines ("sestet").
The letters of the alphabet are used to show the pattern of rhyme, or "rhyme scheme," in the 14 lines in a sonnet. The rhyme scheme 
is the typical pattern of an "English" sonnet. The rhyme scheme
is typical of an "Italian" sonnet. However, the rhymes of the sestet in an Italian sonnet can vary widely: cdcdcd, cddcdd, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="101832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101832" title="Golden ratio">
Golden ratio

If a person has one number "a" and another smaller number "b", he can make the ratio of the two numbers by dividing them. Their ratio is "a"/"b". The person can make another ratio by adding the two numbers together "a"+"b" and dividing this by the larger number "a". The new ratio is ("a"+"b")/"a". If these two ratios are equal to the same number, then that number is called the golden ratio. The Greek letter formula_1 (phi) is usually used as the name for the golden ratio.
For example, if "b" = 1 and "a"/"b" = formula_1, then "a" = formula_1. The second ratio ("a"+"b")/"a" is then formula_4. Because these two ratios are equal, this is true:
formula_5
One way to write this number is
formula_6
formula_7 is like any number which, when multiplied by itself, makes 5(or which number is multiplied): formula_8.
The golden ratio is an irrational number. If a person tries to write it, it will never stop and never be the same again and again, but it will start this way: 1.6180339887... An important thing about this number is that a person can subtract 1 from it or divide 1 by it. Either way, the number will still keep going and never stop.
If the length of a rectangle divided by its width is equal to the golden ratio, then the rectangle is a "golden rectangle". If a square is cut off from one end of a golden rectangle, then the other end is a new golden rectangle. In the picture, the big rectangle (blue and pink together) is a golden rectangle because formula_10. The blue part (B) is a square. The pink part by itself (A) is another golden rectangle because formula_11. The big rectangle and the pink rectangle have the same form, but the pink rectangle is smaller and is turned.
The Fibonacci numbers are a list of numbers. A person can find the next number in the list by adding the last two numbers together. If a person divides a number in the list by the number that came before it, this ratio comes closer and closer to the golden ratio.
In nature, the golden ratio is often used for the arrangement of leaves or flowers. These use the golden angle of approximately 137.5 degrees. Leaves or flowers arranged in that angle best use sunlight.

</doc>
<doc id="101838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101838" title="Relational database">
Relational database

A relational database is a way of storing information ("data"). The database matches data by using identical information that is found within the data set. The resulting groups of data are organized and are much easier for many people to understand.
For example, a database has all information about real-estate sales in a town. This information can be grouped by year, or by sale price, or by buyer's last name and so on. Such a grouping uses the relational model (a technical term for this is schema). Hence, such a database is called a "relational database."
The software used to do this grouping is called a relational database management system (RDBMS). The term "relational database" often refers to this type of software.
Relational databases are currently the main way in which companies store information like financial records, medical records, personal information and manufacturing and logistical data.
The term "relational database" was originally defined by and is attributed to Edgar Codd at IBM Almaden Research Center in 1970.

</doc>
<doc id="101859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101859" title="Kingdom of Scotland">
Kingdom of Scotland

The Kingdom of Scotland was a historic country. It later combined with the Kingdom of England to become the Kingdom of Great Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="101862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101862" title="Ajoux">
Ajoux

Ajoux is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101863" title="Alba-la-Romaine">
Alba-la-Romaine

Alba-la-Romaine is a commune of the French département Ardèche.

</doc>
<doc id="101864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101864" title="Albon-d'Ardèche">
Albon-d'Ardèche

Albon-d'Ardèche is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101866" title="Alboussière">
Alboussière

Alboussière is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. It can be found about 20 km from Valence-sur-Rhône. About 760 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="101868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101868" title="Alissas">
Alissas

Alissas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="101873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101873" title="Arrondissement of Largentière">
Arrondissement of Largentière

The arrondissement of Largentière is an arrondissement of France. It can be found in the Ardèche "département". It has 10 cantons and 103 communes.
The arrondissement of Largentière has 10 cantons:
The arrondissement of Largentière has 103 communes:

</doc>
<doc id="101877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101877" title="Arrondissement of Privas">
Arrondissement of Privas

The arrondissement of Privas is an arrondissement of France. It can be found in the Ardèche "département". It has 11 cantons and 110 communes.
The arrondissement of Privas has 11 cantons:
The arrondissement of Privas has 110 communes:

</doc>
<doc id="101881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101881" title="Jackson, Michigan">
Jackson, Michigan

Jackson is a city in lower mid-Michigan. It was started in 1829. It is named after Democratic President Andrew Jackson. Jackson is the home town of several well-known people. One of whom is the first African-American Super Bowl winning coach, Tony Dungy.
Several of the major employers in the city are CMS Energy, which gives natural gas and electrical services to much of Michigan and has its international headquarters in the city, as well as Foote Hospital. Jackson is 18 miles (29 km) from the Michigan International Speedway.

</doc>
<doc id="101889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101889" title="Utrecht">
Utrecht

Utrecht can be any of the following areas or cities:
It can also be any of these:

</doc>
<doc id="101909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101909" title="Protostome">
Protostome

Protostomes are a taxon of animals above the level of phylum. It is not part of the normal system of classification. 
They are a subtaxon of the Bilateria, and are contrasted with the deuterostomes. Protosomes are distingued by their embryo: in deuterostomes, the first opening (the blastopore) becomes the anus, while in protostomes it becomes the mouth.
DNA sequence analysis suggests that protostome animals can be divided into three major groups:
as well as a number of minor taxa.

</doc>
<doc id="101912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101912" title="Earth, Texas">
Earth, Texas

Earth is a city in Lamb County, Texas, United States. There were 1,109 people living in Earth as of the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="101915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101915" title="Amazing Grace (2006 movie)">
Amazing Grace (2006 movie)

Amazing Grace is a 2006 movie about the fight to end the slave trade in 18th century Britain. Led by famous abolitionist, William Wilberforce. He created anti-slave trade laws in the British Parliament.
The movie is directed by Michael Apted, written by Steven Knight, and stars Ioan Gruffudd. The first release date for this movie was September 16, 2006 in Canada. It was released in the United States on February 23, 2007. Several other areas had other dates.
On the opening weekend, this movie made around four million dollars. It went on to make an all-time worldwide total of over 32 million dollars.
"Amazing Grace" was named "Best Spiritual Film of 2008" in the third annual "Beliefnet Film Awards".

</doc>
<doc id="101931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101931" title="Relation (mathematics)">
Relation (mathematics)

In mathematics, a relation is used to describe certain properties of things. That way, certain things may be connected in some way; this is called a relation. It is clear, that things are either related, or they are not, there is no in-between. Relations are classified into four types based on mapping of elements. 
Formally, a relation is a set of n-tuples of equal degree. Thus a binary relation is a set of pairs, a ternary relation a set of triples, and so forth. In the language of set theory, a relation between two sets is a subset of their Cartesian product. 
The use of the term "relation" is often used as shorthand to refer to binary relations, where the set of all the starting points is called the "domain" and the set of the ending points is the "range". The domain is the x's, and the range is the y's.
An example for such a relation might be a function. Functions associate keys with values. The set of all functions is a subset of the set of all relations - a function is a relation where the first value of every tuple is unique through the set.
Other well-known relations are the Equivalence relation and the Order relation. That way, sets of things can be ordered: Take the first element of a set, it is either equal to the element looked for, or there is an order relation that can be used to classify it. That way, the whole set can be classified (compared to some arbitrarily chosen element).
Relations can be transitive. One example of a transitive relation is "smaller-than". If X "is smaller than" Y, and Y is "smaller than" Z, then X "is smaller than" Z
Relations can be symmetric. One example of a symmetric relation is "is equal to". If X "is equal to" Y, Y "is equal to" X.
Relations can be reflexive. One example of a reflexive relation is "is equal to". X "is equal to" X.
Every subset of AxB is a relation from A to B.
Currying is a transformation that can be done to some relations: It is sometimes possible to change a relation that takes several arguments into a chain of relations that each only take one argument. Currying is often used in Lambda calculus.
Relationships are the established associations between two or more tables. Relationships are based on common fields from more than one table, often involving primary and foreign keys. See this article from MSDN: 

</doc>
<doc id="101936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101936" title="María Isabel Carvajal">
María Isabel Carvajal

Maria Isabel Carvajal (January 1887 - May 13, 1949) was a Costa Rican writer and teacher. She was born in San Jose, Costa Rica. Carvajal wrote using the name Carmen Lyra.
Lyra studied at the school in her neighborhood in the Buenaventura Corrales. She studied pedagogy at the college and got the teacher’s certification. Lyra began teaching in the rural El Monte School in the province of Heredia. In 1906, she worked in the San Juan de Dios Hospital for a short time. 
Lyra travelled to Europe. While there, she learned about new educational systems. When she returned, she worked with a teacher and founded the first pre-school in Costa Rica. 
Lyra's first publication was the novel "En una silla de ruedas" (In a Wheelchair), in 1918. Her short stories were published in the "Pandemonium Magazine", "Ariel Magazine, and the "Repertorio Americano". 
The stories of Carmen Lyra have been used in many schools. The most popular is "Cuentos de mi tía Panchita" (Story of my aunt Panchita). It was published in 1920. This story is well known by most Costa Rican.
Other works of Maria Isabel Carvajal are "Las fantasias de Juan Silvestre" (1918), "Obras Completas" (1975), "La cucarachita mandina" (1976) and "relatos escogidos" (1977).
Carmen Lyra was involved in Costa Rican politics. She was part of the communist party. 
She helped organize women schoolteachers to burn down the building of the official newspaper and to overthrow the dictatorship of Costa Rica's Federico Tinoco Granados in 1919. She is credited with translating the Communist Manifesto into Spanish in 1920. She went on to take a leading role in the banana workers' strike of 1934. During this time, she wrote "Bananos y Hombres" (Bananas and Men). 
In 1948, she was forced into leave Costa Rica after the Costa Rican Civil War because of her politics. She went to Mexico and died there in 1949.

</doc>
<doc id="101938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101938" title="How Pop Can You Get?">
How Pop Can You Get?

How Pop Can You Get? was the first and only album by American band The Bats. 
All music and lyrics by The Bats (Jon Brion, Bill Murphy, Don Fertman) 

</doc>
<doc id="101940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101940" title="San Pedro de Macorís Province">
San Pedro de Macorís Province

San Pedro de Macorís is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the southeastern part of the country. Its capital city is San Pedro de Macorís.
It was created as a Maritime District (a special administrative category that has been abandoned) on 13 June, 1882. The 1907 Dominican Constitution change its status to province. It was part of the old province of Santo Domingo and of the El Seibo province before being elevated to the category of province.
The San Pedro de Macorís province bordered to the north by the Hato Mayor and El Seibo provinces, to the east by the La Romana province and to the west by the Monte Plata and Santo Domingo provinces.The Caribbean Sea is to the south of the province.
The province has the same name of the capital of the province. In English, San Pedro is "Saint Peter"; "Macorís" was the name of a group of native people that lived in the Hispaniola. That name "Macorís", or "Macorix", was given to the river where the city of San Pedro de Macorís was founded.
The San Pedro de Macorís province has a total area of 1,255.46 km². It has 2.6% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 20th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.
There are six municipalities and two municipal districts in the province.
The municipalities and their municipal districts (M.D.) are:
In 2010 (last national census), there were 290,458 people living in the San Pedro de Macorís province, and 244,215 (84.08%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 231.4 persons/km², one of the highest in the country.
Its population represents 3.1% of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 7th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.
The largest city of the province is San Pedro de Macorís, its head municipality or capital, with a population (in 2010) of 195,307 inhabitants.
The province is in the "Llano Costero del Caribe" (English: "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), a large plain in southeastern Dominican Republic where there are many savannas with grasses. There are not high mountains in the province, only some low hills.
The rivers in this province are not very long but they have much water; their sources are in the mountains north of the province and flow south to the Caribbean Sea. The most important rivers are, from east to west:
Because in the province there are many savannas with grasses, the main economic activity for centuries was cattle raising. It is still an important activity in the province.
In the last years of the 19th century, during the war of independence in Cuba, many Cuban and American companies came to the Dominican Republic to grow sugar cane and to produce sugar. San Pedro de Macorís is the Dominican province where there are more sugar cane factories and the port of San Pedro de Macorís became one of the most important port in the country.
In the city of San Pedro de Macorís, manufacturing is important, mainly cement, rhum and in industries in the "Zona Franca" ("free zone" where the industries do not pay taxes and all the production is sent to other countries).
In the Guayacanes municipality, tourism is important and there are many hotels close to the beaches, mainly in the Juan Dolio beach.

</doc>
<doc id="101944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101944" title="Kurt Warner">
Kurt Warner

Kurtis Eugene "Kurt" Warner (born June 22, 1971, in Burlington, Iowa) is a retired American football player. He was the quarterback for the Arizona Cardinals. After playing in college at Northern Iowa, he was signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent. He was not able to play there, so he went to the Arena Football League, and then later the NFL Europa.
In 1998, Warner was signed by the St. Louis Rams. After the Rams’ main quarterback Trent Green went out with an injury, Warner became the main quarterback. He later went on to win NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001, as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in 2000.
In 1990, Kurt graduated from Regis High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. While there, he played quarterback of the school's Class 3A football team. He announced his retirement from football on January 29, 2010.
After Warner graduated from high school, he went to the University of Northern Iowa (UNI). At UNI, Warner was third on the Panthers' depth chart until his senior year. In his final year there, he was able to start and was named the Gateway Conference's Offensive Player of the Year.
While at college, he met future wife, the former Brenda Carney Meoni. They got married on October 11, 1997. Before this, Brenda had served in the Marines. She was divorced with two children when they met each other. Warner adopted Brenda's two children, son Zachary and daughter Jesse, after their marriage. Zachary is blind from the head injuries he got when he was accidentally dropped by his birth-father as a baby. Warner agreed to help Brenda raise the children. The Warners now also have five children of their own: sons Elijah and Kade, daughter Jada, and twin girls Sierra Rose and Sienna Rae. 
After being let go from the Green Bay Packers training camp in 1994, he got a job working the night shift at a local Hy-Vee grocery store. He was also assistant-coaching at Northern Iowa. Warner still wanted to play in the NFL, but with that not seeming it was going to happen, and the long hours at the Hy-Vee for minimum wage creating financial trouble for him, Warner began playing in the Arena Football League. In 1996 and almost a year before Kurt and Brenda's marriage, Brenda's parents, Larry and Jenny Carney, were killed when their Arkansas home was destroyed by a tornado.
Both Kurt and his wife are active born again Christians.
On October 24, 2006, Warner was in a political advertisement against a proposed law in Missouri. That new law would allow embryonic stem cell research to be done in Missouri. Warner was in the advertisement with James Caviezel, Patricia Heaton, Jeff Suppan, and Mike Sweeney. The advertisement, which was played during Game 4 of the 2006 World Series, falsely alleged that Amendment 2 would allow human cloning. The advertisement came after a pro-embryonic research advertisement that had Michael J. Fox, who has Parkinson's disease, in it.
Warner went to the Green Bay Packers training camp in 1994, but was released before the regular season began. He returned to Northern Iowa and worked as a graduate assistant coach with the football team but he still wanted to get a tryout with an NFL team. When no NFL team would give him a tryout, Warner began playing for the Arena Football League. In 1995, he signed with the Iowa Barnstormers. Warner was named to the AFL's All-Arena first team in both 1996 and 1997. He led the Barnstormers to the Arena Bowl in both 1996 and 1997. Some people consider Warner one of the greatest Arena Football player of all-time.
In 1997, Warner was offered an NFL tryout by the Chicago Bears, but he could not attend the tryout. In 1998, he was signed by the St. Louis Rams, but he only played for NFL Europe's Amsterdam Admirals.
Warner was the backup quarterback for the St. Louis Rams during the 1998 regular season and the 1999 preseason. When their main quarterback Trent Green was injured in a preseason game, Warner became the starter. He had one of the best seasons by a quarterback in NFL history by throwing for 4,353 yards with 41 touchdown passes and a completion rate of 65.1%. The Rams' very good offense was nicknamed "The Greatest Show on Turf." In the first three games that he was the main quarterback who plays, he threw three touchdown passes in each game. He is the only NFL quarterback in history to do that, and only the second, behind Dan Marino, to do it in his first two NFL starts.
Because not many people knew who Warner was, "Sports Illustrated" put him on their October 18, 1999 cover with the caption "Who IS this guy?" He was named the 1999 NFL MVP at the end of the season. In the NFL playoffs, he led the Rams to a Super Bowl XXXIV win against the Tennessee Titans. He threw for two touchdowns and a Super Bowl record 414 passing yards. He also set a Super Bowl record by throwing 45 passes without an interception.
Right after the Rams' Super Bowl win, an interviewer asked Warner, "Kurt, first things first--tell me about the final touchdown pass to Isaac." He responded, "Well, first things first, I've got to thank my Lord and Savior up above--thank You, Jesus!" He was awarded the Super Bowl MVP. That made him one of only six players to win both the league MVP and Super Bowl MVP awards in the same year. The others are Bart Starr in 1966, Terry Bradshaw in 1978, Joe Montana in 1989, Emmitt Smith in 1993, and Steve Young in 1994.
Warner also played well in the 2000 season. Warner and Trent Green both played quarterback that season, and they both played well. But the Rams lost in the wild card round of the playoffs to the New Orleans Saints, mostly because their defense was not very good, even though Warner and the rest of their offense was still very good. Nine of the Rams' eleven defensive starters were cut in the offseason, and Green was traded to the Kansas City Chiefs.
Warner played very well in the 2001 season. He had a league-high 36 touchdown passes and 4,830 passing yards with a career-high completion rate of 68.7% of his passes. He led the Rams to an NFL-best 14–2 record and they went to the Super Bowl XXXVI, but they lost to the New England Patriots. He was named the NFL MVP for the second time at the end of the season.
Warner began the season 0–3 as a starter, throwing seven interceptions with only one touchdown. In their fourth game against the Dallas Cowboys, he broke a finger on his throwing hand. Even thought he tried to come back later in the season, his injury caused him to be able to play two more games, and he lost them both. In contrast to his 103.4 career passer rating before that season, he had only 67.4 rating in 2002. He was replaced as the Rams' main quarterback after he fumbled six times in the opener of the 2003 season against the New York Giants. His replacement as the Rams quarterback, Marc Bulger, has been named to two Pro Bowls.
The Rams released Warner on June 1, 2004. Just two days later, he signed a two-year deal with the New York Giants. He began the 2004 season as the main quarterback. He won five of his first seven games, but after not playing well in a two-game losing streak, rookie quarterback Eli Manning was made the main quarterback. Giants coach Tom Coughlin later said that he never should have made Warner play, and should have played Manning from the beginning to give Manning the experience he needs to build his confidence. The Giants had a 5–4 win-loss record at the time that Manning began playing, and they finished at 6–10 overall (going only 1–6 under Manning).
In early 2005, Warner signed a one-year, $4-million contract with the Arizona Cardinals. He was soon named the main quarterback by coach Dennis Green. He played bad in three games before injuring his groin. He was then replaced by former starter Josh McCown. McCown played well enough in two games during Warner's injury to get coach Green named McCown the starter for the rest of the season.
As Warner was the backup quarterback, many people thought that he was never to be the main quarterback again. But because McCown played bad in two straight games, coach Green made Warner the main quarterback. He played well in the next three weeks, but his season ended in Week 15 when he partly tore his MCL.
Warner signed a new three-year deal with the Cardinals on February 14, 2006. The deal had a base salary of $18 million, but if he played well, he could get as much as $22 million in the three years.
In Week 3 of the 2006 season, Warner passed the 20,000-yards passing milestone in his 76th game. That was one game more than record holder Dan Marino, but Warner did it in his 9th year while Marino did it in his 5th. After Matt Leinart played poorly in the three games of Weeks 2-4, Warner replaced the rookie Leinart in the fourth quarter of Week 4. In Week 16, Leinart had a shoulder injury against the San Francisco 49ers, so Warner was able to play for the first time since Week 4. He did well that game, and the Cardinals won the game.
In the third game of the 2007 season against the Baltimore Ravens, Warner came off the bench because Leinart was again not playing well. He led a comeback, completing 15 passes out of 20 attempts for 258 yards and 2 touchdowns. This brought them to a tie game (23–23), but after the Ravens made a last second field goal, Arizona lost the game 26–23. On September 30, 2007, during the Week 4 game against the Pittsburgh Steelers, he went in for Leinart because he was not playing well again. Leinart was later placed on Injured reserve, so Warner was named the starter for the rest of the 2007 season.
Warner got 27 passing touchdowns in the 2007 season, just one short of the Cardinals franchise record. Because he played well, he was given a $1 million bonus for the year. His 3,417 passing yards, 27 touchdown passes, and 89.8 passer rating were all his best since the 2001 season.
Matt Leinart was named the Cardinals starter going in to the off-season for 2008, but Ken Whisenhunt said that it may happen that Warner become the Cardinals' starter before the season begins. Warner was named the starter on August 30, 2008. That season, Warner had a very good season, and on December 16, 2008, was named the starting quarterback for the NFC team in the 2009 Pro Bowl. Warner and the Cardinals won all three of their playoff games, but lost in the Super Bowl to the Pittsburgh Steelers. That makes Warner's Super Bowl record 1–2. James Dobson, starter of Focus on the Family, has been supportive of Warner, and even replayed a radio clip of Warner and his wife on January 30, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="101945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101945" title="Skokie, Illinois">
Skokie, Illinois

Skokie, Illinois is a village in the American state of Illinois. It was once known as Niles Center. It is located on the northwest side of Chicago in Cook County. Skokie has an area of 10.1 square miles (2.62 square kilometers). According the 2000 census, its population was 63,348. The mayor of Skokie, as of September 2014, was George Van Dusen.
Skokie was named Niles Centre in 1888. By 1910, the spelling of this name was changed to Niles Center. As a nearby village was named Niles, there was confusion, and the name of the village was changed to Skokie has in 1940.

</doc>
<doc id="101946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101946" title="WAV">
WAV

WAV (or WAVE), short for Waveform Audio File Format, is a Microsoft and IBM audio file format standard for storing an audio bitstream on PCs. It resembles the RIFF bitstream format in the sense that it stores data in “chunks”. It is also close to the IFF and the AIFF format used on Amiga and Macintosh computers, respectively. It is the main format used on Windows systems for raw and typically uncompressed audio. The default bitstream encoding is the Microsoft Pulse Code Modulation (LPCM) format.

</doc>
<doc id="101957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101957" title="L. Frank Baum">
L. Frank Baum

Lyman Frank Baum (May 15, 1856 – May 6, 1919) was an American writer of children's books during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He is best known for his most famous and popular book, "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" (1900), and other "Oz" books that followed it.
Baum was born in a small town in Chittenango, New York. He was a member of a large family. He started writing as a child. When his father bought his children a simple printing press, Baum and a younger brother wrote and printed a small local newspaper. As a young man, Baum wrote and staged plays. Sometimes he wrote songs for his plays and starred in them himself. He also tried many other careers. He was a travelling salesman and a storekeeper for a time. He started a newspaper while he lived in a town in South Dakota. He married in 1882. He and his wife, Maud Gage Baum, raised four sons. Baum had a very good imagination. He liked creating stories for his young sons and their friends.
When he became 40 years old and was living in Chicago, Baum started writing children's books. These books were often based on the stories he had told to children over many years. After several successes in the late 1890s, Baum published what he called an "American fairy tale," "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz", in 1900. The book had pictures drawn by the American artist W. W. Denslow. Baum had to pay for the first "Oz" book himself. No Chicago publisher wanted to publish "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz". One man even told Baum that if people had wanted to read this kind of book, it would already have been written. 
But the first "Oz" book was a big success. Baum was able to give up other business ideas and make enough money to live on by writing children's books. The children who read his books often wrote to Baum, and asked him to write more about "Oz". This caused Baum to begin a series of books set in the fantasy land of Oz. In time, Baum grew tired of the series. He tried to end it but his child readers kept demanding that he continue. Baum met their demands through the rest of his life. He wrote 14 "Oz" books in all. The last two were printed after his death in 1919.
Baum also wrote a large number of books other than the "Oz" series. He was proudest of his fantasies for children, but he also wrote many other kinds of popular works. He used many pen names for these works.
Baum's children's books were illustrated with pictures by different artists. After the first "Oz" book, all the rest in the series had pictures by John R. Neill.
Baum made a good income from his books. He spent time travelling around the world with his wife. They settled in Hollywood, California, and Baum made movie versions of some of his "Oz" books. He also produced stage versions of them. But his businesses were not always successful. In time, Baum had to declare bankruptcy. He was smart enough to put his house in his wife's name, so that they did not lose their home in the bankruptcy.

</doc>
<doc id="101959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101959" title="Book of Jonah">
Book of Jonah

The Old Testament book of Jonah, contains four chapters, and forty-eight verses. The book tells the story of the Prophet Jonah, who was called by God to the heathen city of Nineveh, which God would soon destroy if they did not repent. After his first rejection, Jonah was swallowed by a great fish (probably a whale). He repented of his sin of running away from God through prayer for three days and nights. God then made the great fish spit Jonah onto the dry land. He obeyed God and went to tell the people of their sins to God.
They nearly had him killed. But that was before their hearts were changed and they saw their evildoing. They prayed for God to deliver them from the upcoming destruction to their city. God saw their change and had mercy on them, but Jonah still did not believe it. He would than wait upon a high up rock and await God's wrath. God was not pleased with that and sent a small worm to bite down the small gourd plant, which was Jonah's only shade from the heat of the sun. He was very angry and said it was better for him to die than live. God, in turn, said that he cared more about the little plant than all the people of Nineveh!

</doc>
<doc id="101968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101968" title="Book of Malachi">
Book of Malachi

The Book of Malachi, is the last of the books of the Old Testament. The book is made up of four chapters and a total of fifty-five verses. The word Malachi means "my messenger". It is thought that the book was written by the Prophet Isaiah.
The date of the book would then be sometime around 740 to 690 BC. 

</doc>
<doc id="101971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101971" title="Trey Lewis">
Trey Lewis

Trey Lewis (born May 23, 1985 in Topeka, Kansas) is an NFL football player. He plays defensive tackle for the Atlanta Falcons. Lewis began playing for the Falcons in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="101973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101973" title="Polotsk">
Polotsk

Polotsk (Polatsk, , , ) is a historical city in Belarus. It is located on the Dvina river. It is the center of Polotsk district in Vitsebsk Voblast. About 79,000 people live there. It is served by Polotsk Airport and during the Cold War was home to Borovitsy air base.

</doc>
<doc id="102000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102000" title="Andance">
Andance

Andance is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102001" title="Annonay">
Annonay

Annonay is a town and commune in the north part of the
Ardèche "département" of France. This commune has the most people living in it of the Ardèche département, although it is not the préfecture, which is the smaller town of Privas.
Annonay lies a few kilometers away from the river Rhône, 75 km south of Lyon and 40 from Saint-Étienne.
The town's name is possibly of Roman beginnings.
On June 4, 1783, Annonay was the place where the Montgolfier brothers made their first public unmanned hot air balloon flight. 
On March 8, 2001, an ETA terrorist suspect was arrested at a roadblock.
Annonay's twin towns include:

</doc>
<doc id="102004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102004" title="Antraigues-sur-Volane">
Antraigues-sur-Volane

Antraigues-sur-Volane is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102005" title="Arcens">
Arcens

Arcens is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102006" title="Ardoix">
Ardoix

Ardoix is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102007" title="Arlebosc">
Arlebosc

Arlebosc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102009" title="Arras-sur-Rhône">
Arras-sur-Rhône

Arras-sur-Rhône is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102010" title="Asperjoc">
Asperjoc

Asperjoc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102013" title="Les Assions">
Les Assions

Les Assions is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102014" title="Astet">
Astet

Astet is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France.
The source of the Ardèche River can be found near Astet.

</doc>
<doc id="102016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102016" title="Aubenas">
Aubenas

Aubenas is a city and commune in the southern part of the Ardèche "département". The Ardèche River flows through the commune.
Aubenas is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="102017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102017" title="Aubignas">
Aubignas

Aubignas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102018" title="Baix">
Baix

Baix is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102019" title="Balazuc">
Balazuc

Balazuc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102022" title="Barnas">
Barnas

Barnas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102037" title="Beggars Banquet">
Beggars Banquet

Beggars Banquet is a 1968 album by British band The Rolling Stones.

</doc>
<doc id="102040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102040" title="Hyles-Anderson College">
Hyles-Anderson College

Hyles-Anderson College is in Crown Point, Indiana. The unaccredited, fundamental, Christian college was founded in 1972 by Dr. Jack Hyles with much financial help from Russell Anderson. 
The college is a ministry of the First Baptist Church of Hammond. The president of the college is Dr. Ray Young, and their chancellor is Dr. Jack Schaap, (pastor of the church). In 2008 they will be starting a program called the "Jericho Plan".

</doc>
<doc id="102043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102043" title="Simon Fraser University">
Simon Fraser University

Simon Fraser University (SFU) is a Canadian university. It has campuses in Burnaby Mountain in Burnaby, Vancouver and Surrey, all in British Columbia. SFU is rated as one of Canada’s top universities. It was started in 1965. SFU currently has 24,000 students. The university is named after Simon Fraser. He was an explorer of the Vancouver area.
"Maclean's" magazine rated SFU as Canada's best comprehensive university in 1993, 1997, 1998 and 2000. It is usually always at or near the top of the magazine's list. Research Infosource named SFU the top comprehensive university in Canada for “publication effectiveness” in 2006.
Like most Canadian universities, SFU is a public university. Fifty-six percent of the money used to run the school comes from taxpayers. Thirty-nine percent comes from tuition fees.
The university teaches students in six main groups of topics. Applied Sciences, Arts and Social Sciences, Business Administration, Education, Health Sciences, and Science.
In May 2004, the SFU Senate approved the policy on degree requirements that all its undergraduate students must have. SFU was the first Canadian university to do this. The policy was created to make certain students got a more complete education.

</doc>
<doc id="102046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102046" title="Albi">
Albi

Albi () is a commune in southern France. It is the "prefecture" of the Tarn department, in the Midi-Pyrénées region. It is on the Tarn river, about to the northeast of Toulouse.
Its inhabitants are called "Albigensians" (, ).
It is the seat of the Archbishop of Albi. The cathedral and the part of the city around it (the "Episcopal City") was made a World Heritage Sites in 2010.
The first human settlement in Albi was in the Bronze Age (3000-600 BC). After the Roman conquest of Gaul in 51 BC, the town became "Civitas Albigensium", the city of the Albigeois.
The Cathars had their main centre at Albi and so they were known also as "Albigens" after the city. The Cathar movement was a branch of Christianity which was persecuted in the Middle Ages. Because of this, the city was almost completely destroyed in a crusade between 1209 and 1229. Since 1678, the city is the seat of an archbishop. Since 1790, it is the capital city of the Tarn department.
Albi is in southern France, in the centre of the Tarn department. The Tarn flows through the city and splits it in two; the historical city is on the left side of the river. Several small rivers, tributaries of the Tarn, flows also through the city.
It has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is ..
With a population of 49,231, its population density is of inhabitants/km.
The "commune" is at northeast of Toulouse and the closest cities are Castres, Toulouse, Mazamet, Graulhet, Lavaur, Gaillac, Montauban, Rodez et Carmaux. It is surrounded by the "communes" Lescure-d'Albigeois to the north; Saint-Juéry to the northeast; Cunac and Cambon to the east; Fréjairolles to the southeast; Puygouzon to the south; Le Sequestre, Carlus and Saliès to the southwest; Terssac, Marssac-sur-Tarn, Florentin, Rouffiac, Cagnac-les-Mines, Castelnau-de-Lévis
The climate of Albi is an oceanic climate with template summers, Cfb (Marine West Coast Climate) in the Köppen climate classification.
The average temperature for the year in Albi is . The warmest month, on average, is July with an average temperature of . The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of .
The highest recorded temperature in Albi is , which was recorded in August. The lowest recorded temperature in Albi is , which was recorded in January.
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Albi is . The month with the most precipitation on average is November with of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is July with an average of . 
Albi is the prefecture of the Tarn department since 1797. It is also the capital of six "Cantons":
There is the cathedral Ste-Cécile (St. Cecile´s cathedral) worth seeing. It is built like a fortress, in a gothic style. The cathedral is built in a very special style. Inside, there are frescoes from the Renaissance, worth a visit. 
The cathedral has walls which are up to 6 metres thick. This makes it the biggest brick building in the world. 
There is a museum dedicated to Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec in the city. De Touluose-Lautrec was born in the city. There are also paintings of other people in the museum.
Albi is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="102052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102052" title="Bambi II">
Bambi II

Bambi II, originally called "Bambi and the Great Prince" and then "Bambi and the Great Prince of the Forest", is a 2006 American animated drama movie and the midquel to the 1942 movie "Bambi". Although it was eventually released in theatres in 25 countries, in the United States and some other countries it was a direct-to-video release (released on February 7, 2006). Taking place in the middle of "Bambi", it shows the Great Prince of the Forest struggling to raise the motherless Bambi, and Bambi's doubts about his father's love.
Picking up shortly after his mother's death, Bambi follows his father, the Great Prince, into the forest. With the help of Thumper and Flower, Bambi must win his father's approval, but the Great Prince finds that his high-spirited son may have a lesson or two to teach him as well.
Many of the backgrounds used in the movie are exactly the same that were used in the original 1942 movie. The old backgrounds were put through the computer to create a clearer image.
The movie was released on home video at differing dates, due to it being a theatrical release in some countries. While the movie was a direct-to-video release in countries like the United States, Japan, Canada, mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, it was a theatrical release in some countries like the United Kingdom, France, Austria, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Brazil, Australia and some other European countries. It broke the world record for the longest amount of time between two related movies made in a series, being released 63 and a half years after the first movie. As major studios continue to phase out VHS, this was the last Disney animated movie released on VHS. Following its moratorium strategy, in which releases are made available for a limited time only, Disney gave the DVD a 70-day window for its US release. The movie sold 2.6 million DVDs in its first week in the United States.
The movie generally received a positive rating from professional critics. It holds a score of 60% "Fresh" in Rotten Tomatoes and has a rating of 6.3 stars out of 10 in IMDb. It was praised for its animation - regarded as some of the best among the Disney direct-to-video sequels - but the story was thought to be lacking and easy to make. Movie fans were much more positive, according to ratings on Amazon.com.
"Bambi II"'s musical score includes instrumental pieces by Bruce Broughton, and new vocal songs by several noted artists, including Alison Krauss, Martina McBride, and Anthony Callea. Coinciding the with film's DVD release, the soundtrack was released by Walt Disney Records in the United States on February 7, 2006. Produced by Matt Walker, the CD included 9 songs from the movie, as well as three tracks from the original movie.
In the original book on which "Bambi" was based, Ronno was already a stag when Bambi was born, instead of being mere weeks-to-months older than he was as in the movie. An additional twist is that in the book, Ronno was quite respectable (though a bit of a whiner as he is portrayed in the movie), and there was nothing at all personal about his rivalry with Bambi over Faline. Ronno's character is never named in the original movie. However, documentation from Disney clearly indicates that the Ronno in Bambi II is the same deer which Bambi fought in the original, right down to the same moves each deer makes during their fight in the sequel. The age of the Great Prince changes as compared to the original movie. In the original, the Great Prince is said to be twice as old as the oldest deer. In this movie, the Great Prince is said to have been the same age as Bambi's mother.
There are several scenes in "Bambi II" which are noticeably similar to scenes from the first movie, "Bambi". For example:
In 2007, Pimental expressed interest of making a third movie, which was supposed to continue were the original left off. The movie was originally meant to be released direct-to-DVD in the U.S and in European theaters in late 2011. However, since DisneyToon Studios was shut down, the plans of "Bambi 3" were scrapped and it was cancelled.

</doc>
<doc id="102061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102061" title="Deportivo Saprissa">
Deportivo Saprissa

The Deportivo Saprissa is a football team of Costa Rica. The team was founded on July 16, 1935. It became a part of the top league, Primera División de Costa Rica on August 21, 1949. 
Saprissa was founded because of a group of players and leaders. Ricardo Saprissa Aymá was a part of this group. In 1952, the team won its first national championship.
Saprissa
In 1937, the colors purple and white were chosen as the colors of the club.
Juani Saprissa Aymá was the president of the Saprissa. Jose Francisco “Pachico” García was their manager when the team started in the Third Division. The Deportivo Saprissa won the championship of Third Division in 1947. In 1948, they played in the Second Division. They won the championship of Second Division that year, with no games lost. 
In March 1959, the team became the first Latin American team to go the around the World. The "Morados", which is the team's nickname, played 25 matches in 22 countries of the world. They won 14, tied 1 and lost 7. The team scored a total of 66 goals and had 46 goals scored against them.
During the 1970s, the Deportivo Saprissa won 6 championships. They won every championship from 1972 to 1977. On October 12, 1966, the construction of their stadium started. It is called ""La Cueva del Monstruo"" or simply "La Cueva". After 6 years, the opening of Saprissa Stadium was held on Sunday August 27, 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="102062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102062" title="Chirripó National Park">
Chirripó National Park

Chirripó National Park is a national park in Costa Rica. It is located in Talamanca Mountain, northeast of San Isidro de El General. This park forms part of La Amistad International Park between Costa Rica and Panama. Chirripó National Park was created on August 19, 1975. It has an area of . The park includes the highest mountain in Costa Rica, Cerro Chirripó. The mountain has an altitude of . 
In the indigenous language, "Chirripó" means "Land of Eternal Waters". The park protects many rivers such as Rio Chirripó Atlántico, Rio Telire, Rio Chirripó Pacífico and the Rio Ceibo. 
The weather changes often and depends of the altitude. The lowest temperature recorded in Costa Rica was in the Mount Chirripó. The warm season goes from December to May. It is recommended to visit the park in those months. 
There are many habitats in the Chirripó National Park. This is because of the differences of altitude and climate. There are large trees like oak and sweet cedar. There are also many different types of orchids. The most common animals in this region are coyotes, jaguars, squirrels, frogs, rabbits, and quetzals.
The first person known to climbed Mount Chirripó was the priest Agustin Blessing in 1904. Other expeditions before the park was created were in 1905, 1913, 1915, 1920, 1932 and 1942. The park now has trails leading to the top of the mountain. It also has a ranger station.

</doc>
<doc id="102063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102063" title="National Parks of Costa Rica">
National Parks of Costa Rica

There are 26 National parks in Costa Rica. These parks are managed by SINAC "(Sistema Nacional de Areas de Conservacion)". SINAC is part of Costa Rica's Ministry of Environment and Energy (MINAE).
The Santa Rosa National Park in the province of Guanacaste is one of the most important historic areas of the country. 
Manuel Antonio National Park was listed by Forbes as one of the world's 12 most beautiful national parks. This park is located on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, in the province of Puntarenas.
It has an area of 682.7 mm. It is one of Costa Rica's most scenic parks. Manuel Antonio receives a lot of national and international tourism. Another important attraction is the tropical rainforest inhabited by species of flora and fauna in danger of extinction, such as the Tití monkey.
Arenal National Park is located in the North Region, north of the Sierra de Tilarán. It belongs to the cantons of Tilarán, San Carlos and San Ramon.
Protect important species of flora and fauna characteristics of the rain forest and cloud forest premontane valuable scientific and tourism.
The island is regarded as a natural laboratory for the study of the evolution of species.
Cocos Island is a territory rich landscape and a true laboratory for the study of nature. Many ferns, bromeliads, rivers, creeks and waterfalls, valleys, cliffs and islands frequented by countless seabirds and place of nesting gulls.

</doc>
<doc id="102064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102064" title="Blue Flag beach">
Blue Flag beach

The Blue Flag is a certification given to beaches by the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). A beach that has been awarded the blue flag means that it meets the organisation's standards of environmental management. These standards are for water quality, safety, and public environmental education. Local governments try to get the Blue Flag for their beaches and marinas, to show people that they have high environmental and quality standards.
The Blue Flag is a trademark owned by FEE which is a non-profit, non-governmental organisation. It is made up of 65 organisations in 60 member countries in Europe, Africa, Oceania, Asia and the Americas.
FEE refers to the Blue Flag certificates as awards. They are issued for one year to beaches and marinas of FEE member countries. The awards are announced every year on 5 June for Europe, Canada, Morocco, Tunisia and other countries in a similar geographic location, and on 1 November for the Caribbean, New Zealand, South Africa and other countries in the Southern Hemisphere.
41 countries are currently part of the Blue Flag Programme: Aruba, Bahamas, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Russia, Romania, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom and United Arab Emirates

</doc>
<doc id="102065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102065" title="Sarchí, Costa Rica">
Sarchí, Costa Rica

Sarchi is a city in Costa Rica. It is famous for its art and hand-crafted furniture. Sarchi is also known for its colorful hand carts that the people there have been making for centuries. 
Sarchi has several small communities. One of the most famous is "Los Bajos del Toro". It is northeast from the center of Sarchi. Although the road is very old, travelers will be able to see one of the best views in Costa Rica. "Los Bajos" has a climate that is very humid and rainy. 
Sarchi is a community made up of artists and craftsmen. It is well known for its ox carts. Most of the ox carts in Costa Rica are created in Sarchi and are sold throughout the country and to tourists. They are usually painted in very bright colors and patterns. In the past, these ox carts were used to carry coffee to the markets.
There are many shops in the town that sell hand-made wooden furniture and souvenirs. Some of the many items that are sold are: tables, rocking chairs, beds, jewelry, sculptures, and paintings.

</doc>
<doc id="102066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102066" title="José Figueres Ferrer">
José Figueres Ferrer

José María Hipólito Figueres Ferrer (September 25, 1906 - June 8, 1990) was president of Costa Rica three times. He was also the rebel leader during the Costa Rican civil war.
Also known as Don Pepe, José Figueres Ferrer was born in San Ramón, Alajuela, Costa Rica. His parents were from Cataluña, Spain: Mariano Rodríguez Borges and Francisca Ferrer Mendiola. Figueres entered the Primary Boys School in San Ramón of Alajuela in 1913. He got in Costa Rica’s Lyceum finishing his Secondary studies in 1920. He went to Boston, United States to travel and study. He returned to Costa Rica in 1928 and bought a coffee farm. 
In 1942, Figueres made a speech on Latin America Radio. In this speech, he objected to the situation in Costa Rica under president Rafael Ángel Calderón. Because of this speech, he was arrested and forced to leave the country. Figueres return to Costa Rica in 1944. He started a political party, the Democratic Party. A main goal of the party was to go against Calderon's party, the National Republican Party. In 1948, supporters of Calderón caused problems with an election for president in which Calderón lost to Otilio Ulate. Because of this, the results of the election were not used. This led to the start of the civil war in 1948. In March 11, 1948, Don Pepe began a war to support the peoples decision at the previous election. Figueres and his troops won. 
In the same year, José Figueres Ferrer became president of the Second Republic Founder Assembly. He became president of Costa Rica for the first time and eliminated the Costa Rica army. He became President of Costa Rica for the second time in 1953 winning the election with 65% of the votes. In 1970, he became Costa Rica’s President for the third time. Figueres died June 8, 1990. Five months later he was declared Benemérito de la Patria.
In the 1953-1958 administration, very important institutions are created. These included:
During his last administration (1970-1974) a lot of institutes were created such as:

</doc>
<doc id="102070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102070" title="Jaw">
Jaw

The jaw is the bone in the mouth that, in humans, lets the mouth move up and down in order to chew. It is joined onto to the skull.
However, in insects, the jaw may open left and right instead.

</doc>
<doc id="102073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102073" title="Battle of Santa Rosa">
Battle of Santa Rosa

The Battle of Santa Rosa was a battle between the forces of Costa Rica and those of Nicaragua. It was one of the most important battles in the history of Costa Rica. The battle took place on March 20, 1856 at Santa Rosa, Costa Rica.
The fighting was caused by the arrival of William Walker in Nicaragua. Walker was an American soldier who believed slavery was good. He told the people of Nicaragua that he wanted to help the country. What he really wanted was to conquer the five free nations of Central America. The president of Costa Rica, Juan Rafael Mora Porras thought that Walker wanted to conquer them. On February 27, 1856, Mora declared the war against Walker and Nicaragua.
President Mora called all of his forces to fight. On March 4th, Mora led the forces as they started their march towards Nicaragua. On March 12th, they arrived in Liberia. There they join with Jose Maria Cañas and his battalion. When the filibusters found out what was happening in Costa Rica, they sent troops. Their troops got to Hacienda Santa Rosa on March 19th. On March 20th, the three thousand Costa Ricans walked to Hacienda Santa Rosa where the filibusters had formed their post at La Casona. At four o’clock, the Costa Rican battalions began the attack against the invaders. After fourteen minutes, the Costa Rican forces won the battle. The few filibusters that had escaped went to Nicaragua. William Walker armed a new army. President Mora quickly moved on to Rivas with his 3000 men, and the Battle of Rivas started.

</doc>
<doc id="102074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102074" title="Editus">
Editus

Editus is a Costa Rican music group. The group included Ricardo Ramírez, Edín Solís and Carlos “Tapado” Vargas. Their music styles were a combination of modern, jazz, new age, classical music, and the unique sound of Latin America. 
Editus went to over 30 countries in North America, Europe and Latin America to give shows. They performed in places like The New York’s Carnegie Hall, The Kennedy Center Washington D.C., The Olimpia in Paris, the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland, Monterrey Jazz Festival, Auditorio Nacional and Plaza del Sócalo in Mexico City.
They have worked with famous artists like León Gieco, Danilo Pérez, Aterciopelados, Tania Libertad, Armando Manzanero, Pedro Aznar, and Rubén Blades. They won the Grammy Award in 2000 with Blades for “Best Latin Pop Presentation” for the song called “Tiempos.” They have also won awards in the categories “Best World Music Album” and “Best Tropical Contemporary Album” for their album "Mundo".
They have received national awards like “Ancora” given by “La Nación” newspaper; the National Association of Authors and Musical Composers (ACAM) named them “The group with Best International Projection,” TELETICA named Editus as the “Artist of the Year 2000” and the newspaper “La República” awarded this group “Personality of the Year.”
During their career they have produced eleven albums, they are:
He was born in November 11th, 1967 in San José, Costa Rica. He is graduated from the University of Costa Rica in 1990. 
From 1983 to 1988 he was part of the Juvenile Symphonic Costa Rican Orchestra. He won the “Soloist teenagers” contest. In 1989 he worked as a soloist with the National Symphonic Orchestra.
Nowadays, he and his brothers are part of the “Trio de Cuerdas,” “Akustic Ensamble” as well as Trio “Ménage d Trois” with Martha Fonseca and Bernal Villegas.
He has played in national performances like “Inconsciente Colectivo,” “Gandhi,” Bernardo Quesada, María Prétiz, Patricia Torres, Duvalier Quirós, Cantoamérica, and Arnoldo Castillo. Out of the country, he record productions with “Son Miserables,” “Congreso” group and Alvaro Aguilar.
Solís was born in Zarcero on November 22nd, 1963. He is graduated in Classical Guitar from the University of Costa Rica Conservatory. He learned how to play the guitar with the Argentinean teachers Jorge Cardoso and Miguel A. Girolet, a Spanish teacher Demetrio Ballesteros, Francisco Ortíz and Víctor Monge.
In 1991 he won the National Prize Contest of guitar and toured Spain, France, and Germany.
From 1985 through 1990 he toured with Cantoamérica Guitarist. He traveled to the United States and Guatemala to show their music style. In 1991, he went to Europe to give his tour as a soloist in Paris, Santiago de Compostela in Spain, Bonn and Köln, both cities of Germany.
He was born in January 22nd, 1971 in San José, Costa Rica. He is graduated in 1987 from the Castella Conservatory. He studied with the percussionist Giovanni Hidalgo and in the teen program of the National Symphonic Orchestra. 
He is part of the National Symphonic Orchestra and The Juvenile Symphonic Orchestra of Costa Rica. Also he has participated in Marfil, Gaviota y Amarillo and Cian Magenta groups. He has played for Paquita D’Rivera and Victor Monge (known as Serranto), Abraham Laboriel, Alvaro López, Justo Almario, Diego Urcola. He was part of Cantoamérica and Cono Sur and also Probus Ensamble Group. At present, he is the percussionist of Malpaís, Kool Jazz and Jazz Latino Sextet. 

</doc>
<doc id="102075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102075" title="San José, Costa Rica">
San José, Costa Rica

San José is the capital of Costa Rica, head of San José Province, and the nation's largest city. It is named in honor of Saint Joseph. It is in the center of the "Gran Area Metropolitana" (metropolitan area) of the Central Valley. San José is the center of political and economic activity and the main transportation center of Costa Rica.
The population of the city is 288,054, but the metropolitan area of San José has a third of Costa Rica's population.
Few people live in the city center but it is still the most important working area of the entire country. More than a million people come to work in San José daily from the surrounding areas. Despite its problems, according to studies in Latin America, San José is still one of the safest and least violent cities in the region. In 2006 the city was appointed Ibero-American Capital of Culture. San José is also the sixth most important destination in Latin America, according to "The MasterCard Global Destinations Cities Index 2012". In the global ranking, San Jose obtained the 15th position among the world’s top 20 fastest growing destination cities by visitor cross-border spending.
San José was founded in 1738 and became the capital of Costa Rica in 1823. It is one of the youngest capitals of Latin America.
San José has at an average elevation of 1,161 m above sea level.
The climate is generally the same throughout the year. The city has an average temperature is 23C gets about 150 mm of rain each month.
Costa Rica developed high literacy rates and education levels. Most of the people are literate and many have high-school level diplomas. Costa Rica has the best education levels of all the Central American nations, and one of the best in Latin America. This is especially true for San José, because it is the nation's main education center. San José has many education institutions; including public and around 51 private universities.
University of Santo Tomas was the first university of Costa Rica. It was established in San José in 1843. This university had close relations with the Roman Catholic Church and was closed in 1888 by the anti-clerical government of President Bernardo Soto Alfaro. The schools of law, agronomy, fine arts, and pharmacy continued independently, but Costa Rica had no other university until 1940, when those four schools (law, agronomy, fine arts, pharmacy) were united to form the University of Costa Rica (UCR), during the government of President Rafael Ángel Calderón Guardia.
San José's public education system is made up of pre-schools, elementary and high schools (from grades 7 to 11), which are in all of the city's districts and are under the supervision of the Ministry of Public Education. There are also private schools. These private schools go from pre-schools to universities. Many are bilingual, teaching subjects in foreign languages such as German, French, or English.
San José city is one of Latin America's safest cities. On June 19, 2012, the city and nation reduced their respective criminality indexes. Criminality, nationwide, was reduced from 12.5% to a 9.5% (per 100,000 inhabitants).
In 2012, new police equipment was given by the nation government; as well as receiving an increase in security budget. President Laura Chinchilla's government has donated vehicles and other equipment to the police department in at least two occasions.
The city also serves as the headquarters of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.
It can be said that San José is Costa Rica's cultural center, having all the main theaters, museums, parks, and historic buildings.
San José has many beautiful theaters which are mostly inspired by European architecture. These buildings also serve as main tourist attractions; not only because of their beauty, but also because of cultural, musical, and artistic activities which happen regularly.
The most well-known are:
The National Theater ("Teatro Nacional de Costa Rica") and the Mélico Salazar Theater present drama, dance performances and concerts year long. Also, there are other 'smaller' theaters in the city and provide other types of entertainment.
Teatro Variedades is San José's oldest theatre.
There are many different museums in the city: 
There are several special buildings that have historic importance in San José. Some of them are:
San José has many parks and squares (plazas in Spanish); where you can find gazebos, open green areas, recreational areas, lakes, fountains, statues and sculptures by Costa Rican artists as well as many different bird, tree and plant species.
Some of the main Parks are:
San José's largest park and is La Sabana Metropolitan Park. It is in the western part of the city, in the district of 'Mata Redonda'.
Plazas, or squares, are very prominent in San José. La Plaza de La Cultura ('Culture Square'), is one example.
Simón Bolivar Zoo is the city's only zoo and has a many species of animals and plants, both national and international.

</doc>
<doc id="102078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102078" title="CowParade">
CowParade

CowParade is one of the largest public art events of the world. First it began in Chicago and New York. This was in 1999 and 2000. The Cow Parade runs many cities of the United States up to the year 2001. In 2002 it moved to Europe, in London. This Parade has covered a lot of countries through all the five continents. In 2008 they moved to the fourth Latin-American country, Costa Rica. The Cow Parade has been in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, also.
This public art event is about painting cows with some cultural messages. It doesn’t need to be a professional sculpture. You can find urban and crazy sculptures too. This exhibition is taking place on the principal parks and boulevards of San José, Costa Rica.
The principal purpose of this event is to auction each cow and then the proceeds go to charity.
In San José there are a total of one hundred twenty cows, each one with their topic. There is an amazing level of creativity from the national sculptors who painted and sculpted the cows. They are a lot of beautiful cows made of several material including the rice and beans of the traditional breakfast. Some of the cows have the message of doesn’t forget the traditional customs. Also, some cows have a message to make a country with more love, generosity and with more solidarity.
Some cows also encourage people to take care of Costa Rican nature and all the biodiversity that this small country has. The principal message is just to create a better planet for the future.

</doc>
<doc id="102081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102081" title="Poás Volcano">
Poás Volcano

The Poás Volcano is an active volcano near the town of Poás, Alajuela, Costa Rica. Poas Volcano has two craters. The larger crater is one of the biggest crater in the world. It is in diameter and deep. The biggest known eruption was in 1910.
The area around the volcano is a national park. It is a place where many tourists from Costa Rica and other countries visit. At the bottom of the main crater is a lagoon. The lagoon is an acidic lake with boiling sulfuric gases. The temperature of the lake varies between and . Because of changes in the chemistry of the lake and its temperature, the color of the lake also changes. The second crater has a cold water lake in it. This lake is connected to the nearby river, Rio Angel. 

</doc>
<doc id="102082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102082" title="Gandhi (band)">
Gandhi (band)

Gandhi is a rock band from Costa Rica. They play music using distorted guitars and rhythm. The band members are Abel Guier (bassist), Massimo Hernández (drummer), Federico Miranda (guitarist) and Luis Montalbert-Smith (singer and pianist). The lyrics of Gandhi songs are written mainly by Montalbert-Smith. Some of the bands that influenced their songs are Pink Floyd, The Beatles, Queen and Soda Stereo. 
Montalbert-Smith is a very important part of the band's performances because of his charisma and stage presence. These characteristics makes the shows very interesting and full of adrenaline for their fans.
The band began when Miranda and Montalbert-Smith met in high school in the mid 1990s. The complete group of four members started playing at universities and local bars. One of the things that made their shows so well liked was the many different types of art offered. The fans could not only listen to the music, but also see very good scenery design, body painting and their performance.
The band won the Costa Rican award "Album of the Year" in 2004 for the album "Ciclos". The album “Páginas Pérdidas” got three local awards in 2000. They have played in Costa Rica but also in Central America, Mexico and the United States.
The band was chosen to be part of the Tribute to Soda Stereo ("Tributo a Soda Stereo"). They played a version of "En el sétimo día" ("In the Seventh Day"). They have opened concerts for many international artists.
They have some videos of their songs:

</doc>
<doc id="102093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102093" title="Clodomiro Picado">
Clodomiro Picado

Clodomiro Picado Twight (April 17, 1887 - May 16, 1944) was a Nicaraguan born Costa Rican biologist. Picado may have been the first to have learned about penicillin. 
Picado was born in San Marcos, Nicaragua but moved, with his parents, to Costa Rica in 1890. In 1908, Picado won a scholarship of the Costa Rican Congress to study in Paris, France. 
In 1913, he finished his university studies in La Sorbonne, where he earned his BSc in zoology and botany, as well as a doctorate degree. In the same year, he came back to Costa Rica to run the laboratory of San Juan de Dios Hospital. At the same time, he was teaching sciences at San Luis Gónzaga School in Cartago city. 
Sir Alexander Fleming, a Scottish scientist, is commonly said to be the person who learned about the antibacterial attacks of a fungus known as "Penicillium notatum" in 1928. But in March 2000, Costa Rican doctors showed some notebooks with research belonging to Picado. In these notebooks, he explained his experiments between 1915 and 1927. These experiments had been developed to explain that Penicillium decreased bacterial activity.
Picado had reported his work to the Paris Academy of Sciences in France, but this Academy did not patent it, even though Picado had studied the fungus years before Fleming.
Picado studied the creation of various anti-venom serums. This led to the create of the Instituto Clodomiro Picado in 1970. It is a research unit of the University of Costa Rica The unit is works on research in Toxicology, Herpetology and Immunology. It also deals with the production of anti-venom. It was named for him in honor of his life’s work. 

</doc>
<doc id="102095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102095" title="From Me to You">
From Me to You

"From Me to You" is a song by The Beatles, written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney. Released in 1963 as a single, it was their first big hit, staying on top of the chart for seven straight weeks. "From Me to You" comprises five verses and two bridges. It lasts less than two minutes.

</doc>
<doc id="102103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102103" title="Epistle to the Ephesians">
Epistle to the Ephesians

Ephesians, is the forty-ninth book in the Christian Bible, and the tenth in the New Testament. This book was written by the Apostle Paul, and it was written to the people of Ephesus. The letter was supposed to have been written while he was imprisoned in Rome, around 62 A.D.

</doc>
<doc id="102113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102113" title="Endymion">
Endymion

Endymion is a human character in Greek mythology.
His story is told by various ancient authors. In most versions he is a shepherd, and a young man of unusual handsomeness – so much so that the Moon goddess Selene falls in love with him. She uses her divine power to keep him asleep forever, preserving his youth and beauty.
The Endymion story has been re-told by poets and playwrights. The English playwright John Lyly wrote one version; and the poet John Keats used the story as the basis for his long poem "Endymion".
The name also inspired Prince Endymion, the name of Momaru Chiba's (Darien in the English version) past life character and the lover of the reincarnated Princess Serenity, Usagi (Serena) Tsukino from the popular anime and manga Sailor Moon. In the future he becomes King Darien (キング・エンディミオン King Endymion), ruler of Crystal Tokyo, husband of Neo Queen Serenity and father of Rini.

</doc>
<doc id="102115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102115" title="Samuel Taylor Coleridge">
Samuel Taylor Coleridge

Samuel Taylor Coleridge (21 October 1772 – 25 July 1834) was an English poet. Together with his friend William Wordsworth, Coleridge is often said to have started the Romantic movement in English literature.
Coleridge was born in Ottery St Mary, Devon. He was the son of a minister, and the youngest of ten children. He attended the University of Cambridge, Jesus College, though he never earned his degree. He met Wordsworth, another young poet, in 1795. They became close friends, and in 1798 they published their poems in a book called "Lyrical Ballads", which many critics consider a key event in English Romanticism. Most of the poems in the book were written by Wordsworth, though it also contained Coleridge's "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner", which many people call his masterpiece and one of the great poems in English. (In it, Coleridge used old-fashioned spellings, like "rime" for "rhyme," to give the poem an antique feeling.)
In 1796, Coleridge wrote his poem "Kubla Khan" — along with the "Ancient Mariner", it is his best-known work. At about the same time, in the later 1790s, Coleridge became addicted to opium. At that time the drug was legal, and was widely used as a painkiller. Coleridge's addiction to opium marked the rest of his life. His health suffered, and he had trouble supporting his wife and children. He also had a hard time finishing the writing projects he started.
Coleridge had a reputation as a great talker, and people often invited him to their dinner parties to hear him speak. He was a successful lecturer at times in his later life. He gained a reputation as a thinker and philosopher as well as a poet. He died in Highgate, Middlesex.
Scholars and critics of English literature have regarded Coleridge as a major figure. In his 1927 book "The Road to Xanadu", John Livingston Lowes used Coleridge's poetry, especially "Kubla Khan", to study the working of the human imagination. Critics have argued about the role that opium addiction played in the poet's life and work. In his 1971 book "Coleridge, the Damaged Archangel", Norman Furman showed that Coleridge was guilty of plagiarism in many of his later works. His opium addiction may have left Coleridge unable to tell when he was repeating the work of other writers that he had read.

</doc>
<doc id="102124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102124" title="With the Beatles">
With the Beatles

With the Beatles is The Beatles' second UK album. It was recorded four months after the band's first album, "Please Please Me" and was released on 22 November, 1963. The album sold so well in England, it qualified to enter the hit singles charts.
Most of the songs were used again in the first American Beatles album issued by Capitol Records, "Meet The Beatles!" Other songs appeared on "The Beatles' Second Album". In 2003, the album was ranked number 420 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.

</doc>
<doc id="102125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102125" title="Beatles for Sale">
Beatles for Sale

Beatles for Sale is The Beatles' fourth album. It was released in late 1964. Many of its songs went into an American release, "Beatles '65", from Capitol Records, while the rest went into "Beatles VI", a compilation album.
Songwriting Beatles John Lennon and Paul McCartney had filled their earlier album, "A Hard Day's Night", with original songs. The band began recording their next album only a week after finishing "A Hard Day's Night", and they had little time to compose new music. The band filled the album with cover versions, of songs they had performed live in Hamburg, Germany and the Cavern in Liverpool, their hometown, before the Beatles were famous. Press agent Derek Taylor explained in the album's liner notes that all the recordings on "Beatles for Sale" were how the band played the music onstage.
The original songs on the album were praised, for showing Lennon and McCartney had grown and improved as writers. "I'm A Loser" was compared to Bob Dylan's work. "I'll Follow The Sun" was an early song, that was given a rewrite. "What You're Doing" imitated the musical style of The Byrds, who were just becoming popular.
Several live versions of the album's songs have since appeared, that the Beatles played in Germany, and for BBC Radio.
"All songs by Lennon/McCartney, unless credited differently"
+ "Also appeared on Beatles '65 in the United States"<br>
 "Also appeared on Beatles .

</doc>
<doc id="102126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102126" title="Rubber Soul">
Rubber Soul

Rubber Soul is the sixth album by The Beatles. It was first released in December 1965. Its title is a play on words ("rubber sole", a common part of shoes). The Beatles admired soul music, and sometimes their sound imitated African-American music.
"Rubber Soul" was the first Beatles album to include songs written by each band member. George Harrison's two songs were "Think For Yourself" and "If I Needed Someone". Ringo Starr co-wrote "What Goes On" with Lennon and McCartney. The album was praised its innovations in recording, and was called a "concept album", though it was not meant to be one.
The album broke away from the usual "" that made up most pop music albums of the time. The songs talked about friendships, good and bad, and people with problems. Paul McCartney's "Michelle" included lyrics in French. John Lennon's songs especially moved away from what was expected. "Norwegian Wood" was a carefully-worded story of an adulterous affair. "The Word" looked at the greater meaning of love. "Run For Your Life" borrowed from an earlier song, "Baby Let's Play House", recorded by Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly.
The album's song selections were changed for the American market. Songs left over from the British version of "Help!" were included, and other songs taken out, to be added to a later compilation album, "Yesterday... and Today". Today's compact disc release follows the original British lineup.

</doc>
<doc id="102127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102127" title="Abbey Road">
Abbey Road

Abbey Road is the twelfth official album recorded by The Beatles. It was released in September 1969.
"All songs written by Lennon/McCartney unless credited differently."

</doc>
<doc id="102129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102129" title="Magical Mystery Tour">
Magical Mystery Tour

Magical Mystery Tour is a 1967 television movie made by The Beatles. It is also the movie's title song, and the name of its soundtrack recording.
Paul McCartney had the original idea for "Magical Mystery Tour", coming back from the Monterey Pop Festival in California, during the summer of 1967. He drew a clock face on a paper plate, and filled it with parts of the show he imagined. McCartney based the idea on Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters, who travelled the United States in a bus, and also "", which were low-budget weekend vacation trips taken in England.
The other Beatles liked the idea for the show, and made plans to produce and direct it themselves. After they stopped giving concerts in 1966, they had started making their own promotional films (called "promos"), much like today's music videos. They had success with promos, and wanted to try making a whole programme, to appear on television during the Christmas holidays.
Beatles manager Brian Epstein helped set up the production, and the Beatles asked friends, members of their staff, and some professional actors to ride with them in a rented bus over a holiday weekend, and film whatever happened, with magical elements to be added later. Making the movie was one of the first jobs of the Beatles's new company, Apple Corps.
Epstein unfortunately died before filming began. Without him to look over business details, things ran into trouble. By the time things were set up, John Lennon and George Harrison had changed their minds about performing, and spent much of the bus trip asleep. There also was not much for scenery along the roads, or entertainment among the passengers.
What turned into a bigger event than filming "Magical Mystery Tour" was the that began to surround the bus, wondering what the "tour" was all about. People followed the bus for miles, and caused . People who saw the bus go by expected a "happening" of some kind, but none had been planned. In trying to be , nobody had worked out a for the bus, or the trip. Most of the commotion ended after Lennon personally removed the MAGICAL MYSTERY TOUR lettering from the sides of the bus. Later a Beatles assistant said the traffic jams should have also been filmed.
Spots for songs and performances were included in "Magical Mystery Tour", and so was a explaining what the trip was about. The songs featured in the show included "The Fool on the Hill", "I Am The Walrus", "Blue Jay Way", an instrumental song, "Flying", and "Your Mother Should Know", with a choreographed dance sequence. Another band, the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band, played live during a striptease performance.
"Magical Mystery Tour" appeared on British television on Boxing Day in 1967, and was a surprising flop. Part of the reason for its failure was because it was shown in black-and-white, while colour was an important feature. Another part was because most of the viewers did not understand what was supposed to be happening. Another part was that not much had happened on camera, for long parts of the programme, and it showed.
Ringo Starr made a personal appeal to the BBC to show "Magical Mystery Tour" again, in full colour. The BBC gave it a second broadcast, but it did not change opinions. ABC in the United States cancelled plans to show "Magical Mystery Tour" in America. (It later appeared as a "midnight movie", shown in small cinemas and on college campuses.)
Even though "Magical Mystery Tour" was not a television success, its soundtrack still sold well. The show's songs were released as a double EP in England, with a storybook and pictures from the show. In America, Capitol Records added songs from recent Beatles singles to the show songs, and released a whole album. The American version outsold the EP in England, and in 1977 Parlophone Records released a British version of the album.
+ "appeared in the show Magical Mystery Tour "
All songs were written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, except "Flying" (by Lennon, McCartney, Harrison and Starr) and "Blue Jay Way" (by George Harrison).

</doc>
<doc id="102140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102140" title="Hyperinflation">
Hyperinflation

In economics, hyperinflation is inflation that is "out of control," when prices increase very fast as money loses its value. 
One example of hyperinflation is in Germany in the 1920s. In 1922, the largest bank note was 50,000 Mark, In 1923 the largest bank note was 100,000,000,000,000 Mark. In December of 1923 the exchange rate was 4,200,000,000,000 Marks to 1 US dollar. These bank notes were so worthless that people would burn them in fires to keep them warm. The notes would burn longer than the amount of wood you could buy with them. Sometimes the rate of inflation was so high that prices "doubled" every two days. The Rentenmark was introduced to stop this problem. The exchange rate was set at 4.2 Rentenmarks to 1 US Dollar.
In Zimbabwe, the inflation rate was 231,150,888.87% in July 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="102154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102154" title="Brian May">
Brian May

Brian Harold May, CBE (born 19 July 1947) is an English musician, singer, songwriter and astrophysicist, best known as the lead guitarist of the rock band Queen. He uses a guitar he built himself with the help of his father. The guitar they built is nicknamed the "Red Special" 
Apart from music, May earned his PhD in astrophysics in 2007 and is currently the Chancellor of "Liverpool John Moores University". Together with Patrick Moore and Chris Lintott, he wrote a book called "Bang! The Complete History of the Universe".
May was ranked 39th in Rolling Stone Magazine's list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time."
Biography
Brian May, the only child of Harold and Ruth May, was born in Hampton, Middlesex and attended Hampton Grammar School (now Hampton School). During this time he formed his first band with vocalist and bassist Tim Staffell named Nineteen Eighty-Four after George Orwell's novel of the same name. He graduated from Hampton Grammar School with ten GCE Ordinary Levels and four Advanced Levels in Physics, Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Additional Mathematics.
May's father Harold worked as a draughtsman at the Ministry of Aviation and had been a long-time cigarette-smoker. As a result, May dislikes smoking, even to the point where he has prohibited smoking indoors at his more recent concerts.
From 1974 to 1988, May was married to Chrissie Mullen, who is the mother of his three children: Jimmy, who was born on 15 June 1978; Louisa, who was born on 22 May 1981 and Emily Ruth, who was born on 17 February 1987. Chrissie and Brian separated in 1988.
He has stated in interviews that he suffered from depression in the late 1980s, even to the point of contemplating suicide,[8] for reasons having to do with his troubled first marriage and his perceived failure as a husband and a dad, his father Harold's death, and Freddie Mercury's illness.
May is married to former Eastenders actress Anita Dobson, whom he met in 1986, and who gained fame in the 1980s for providing vocals to the theme tune to the aforementioned soap, entitled "Anyone Can Fall in Love". May himself produced the song, which reached #4 in the UK Singles Chart in August 1986.
According to The Sunday Times Rich List he is worth £70 million as of 200.

</doc>
<doc id="102155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102155" title="John Deacon">
John Deacon

John Richard Deacon (born 19 August 1951) is a retired English musician, best known as the bass guitarist of the rock band Queen. He also was part of the controversial mix up that was he "supposedly" had hidden satanic messages in the song "Another One Bites the Dust". No comment was made by the bass guitarist who was accused of including the messages when writing the song.

</doc>
<doc id="102156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102156" title="Roger Taylor">
Roger Taylor

Roger Meddows Taylor (born 26 July 1949) is an English musician, singer and songwriter, best known as the drummer and occasional lead vocalist of the rock band Queen.

</doc>
<doc id="102157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102157" title="Le Béage">
Le Béage

Le Béage is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102158" title="Beauchastel">
Beauchastel

Beauchastel is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.
The name of the village comes from the "Bel Castrum" castle, built in the 12th century by the Lords Retourtour and Briand. It was ruined during the French Wars of Religion, and today only the tower remains. 
In the 17th and 18th centuries, Beauchastel was one of the last salt stores ("grenier à sel") of the country.

</doc>
<doc id="102159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102159" title="Beaulieu, Ardèche">
Beaulieu, Ardèche

Beaulieu is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102160" title="Paul Rodgers">
Paul Rodgers

Paul Rodgers, (born December 17, 1949) is an English rock singer and songwriter. He is best known for being a member of Free and Bad Company. He has recently toured and recorded with Brian May and Roger Taylor of Queen in a group called Queen + Paul Rodgers.

</doc>
<doc id="102162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102162" title="Beaumont, Ardèche">
Beaumont, Ardèche

Beaumont is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102164" title="Beauvène">
Beauvène

Beauvène is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102168" title="Rouffiac-des-Corbières">
Rouffiac-des-Corbières

Rouffiac-des-Corbières is a village in France. It is just below the castle of Peyrepertuse. In 2004, 97 people lived there. 

</doc>
<doc id="102169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102169" title="Berrias-et-Casteljau">
Berrias-et-Casteljau

Berrias-et-Casteljau is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102170" title="Berzème">
Berzème

Berzème is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102171" title="Bessas">
Bessas

Bessas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102172" title="Bidon">
Bidon

Bidon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102173" title="Boffres">
Boffres

Boffres is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102174" title="Bogy">
Bogy

Bogy is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. Bogy can be found about 10 km from Annonay, and 50 km from Valence.

</doc>
<doc id="102175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102175" title="Borée">
Borée

Borée is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. In 2008, the town had a population of about 167.

</doc>
<doc id="102176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102176" title="Borne, Ardèche">
Borne, Ardèche

Borne is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102177" title="Boucieu-le-Roi">
Boucieu-le-Roi

Boucieu-le-Roi is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102178" title="Boulieu-lès-Annonay">
Boulieu-lès-Annonay

Boulieu-lès-Annonay is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102179" title="Bourg-Saint-Andéol">
Bourg-Saint-Andéol

Bourg-Saint-Andéol is a small commune of the Ardèche "département" in the Rhône Valley in the southern part of France. It is the capital of a canton in the arrondissement of Privas, with a population of about 8,000 as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102180" title="Bozas">
Bozas

Bozas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102181" title="Brossainc">
Brossainc

Brossainc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102182" title="Burzet">
Burzet

Burzet is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102183" title="Cellier-du-Luc">
Cellier-du-Luc

Cellier-du-Luc is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102185" title="Chalencon">
Chalencon

Chalencon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102186" title="Le Chambon, Ardèche">
Le Chambon, Ardèche

Le Chambon is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102187" title="Chambonas">
Chambonas

Chambonas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102192" title="Kohistan District">
Kohistan District

Kohistan District can be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="102206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102206" title="Peyrepertuse Castle">
Peyrepertuse Castle

Peyrepertuse castle is one of the Cathar castles. It was built before the 11th century. It is Aude, in Languedoc-Roussillon-Midi-Pyrénées. It is built in a strategic position, on a cliff, about 30-40m high. The castle is first mentioned in the year 806, but the site seems to have been occupied since Roman times. At that time, it belonged to a Catalan count. It later changed hands, firct to the Count of Barcelona, then to that of Narbonne.
When the Treaty of Corbeil is signed in 1258, the border between France and Spain is right to the south of the castle. In the year 1240, after the Albigensian Crusade against the Cathars, the castle becomes French. It is extended, and there is a garrison placed there; it protects against invasions until the 16th century when Roussillon becomes a French territory.
Today, the ruins of the castle attract about 100.000 visitors a year. There is a vineyard nearby. 

</doc>
<doc id="102208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102208" title="Remlingen (Lower Saxony)">
Remlingen (Lower Saxony)

Remlingen is a municipality in district Wolfenbüttel. Remlingen is samt to Wittmar what is an old village from miners in the Asse. The inhabitants' of Remlingen
are 1953 in three villages. The mayor is named Klaus-Günter Warnecke.

</doc>
<doc id="102212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102212" title="Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez">
Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez

Bryan Ruiz Gonzalez (b. 18 August 1985) is a Costa Rican soccer (European football) player. He was born in San José.
At the age of twelve, Gonzalez started playing for Liga Deportiva Alajuelense minor leagues. He quickly became known as a skilled player. In 2003, at the age of 18, he began playing first division football. He would eventually become a professional soccer player with the same team.
During his first tournament, Gonzalez played well. He soon became an important member of his team. He played in many important games, like “El Clásico” (The Classic), when Alajuela plays their biggest enemy, Saprissa.
In his second year, Gonzalez faced a difficult challenge, the CONCACAF Champion's Cup. Only the best teams in the area play in this competition. Gonzalez's team won the Cup.
Though Gonzalez had only been a professional soccer player for a short time, he was asked to represent his country by playing on the Costa Rica National Team. He played well and was celebrated by the public.
Suddenly, in 2006, Gonzalez was invited to play for a soccer team in Belgium. The team, K.A.A. Gent, wanted to sign him to a four-year deal. Gonzalez accepted. He became a popular player in Belgium by becoming the best scorer on his team. He also got a hat-trick.
His success gained Gonzalez a lot of attention and popularity. He was asked again to play with the Costa Rican national team. He returned to Costa Rica and played well for the national team. Afterward, he hoped to get signed by a good European team.
In 2009, Gonzalez played with FC Twente Enschede in Holland, where is team won the Cup. In 2010, he began playing for the UEFA Champions League Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="102215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102215" title="Jacó, Costa Rica">
Jacó, Costa Rica

Jaco Beach Costa Rica is on the west central coast of Costa Rica's Puntarenas province, on the Pacific Ocean side of the country. What started as a small surfing village popular with Costa Ricans from all over the Pacific coast, has developed into the most popular and visited tourism destination in the whole country. As the closest and most developed beach town from Costa Rica's Juan Santa Maria International Airport in San Jose, Jaco is only a 1 hour and 10 minute ride from the airport.
Jaco is home to the largest selection of hotels, vacation rental condos and private vacation rental homes than any other beach town in Costa Rica, as well as 3 casinos, over 75 restaurants, 3 major grocery stores, surf shops, pharmacies, souvenir and artesan shops, bakeries, dentists, emergency care, and an 18-hole championship golf course. The region is also home to Costa Rica's best zip line canopy tours, ATV tours, white water rafting, surfing and the fishing capital of Costa Rica at the Los Suenos Resort & Marina, in Herradura Beach directly next to Jaco Beach.
To the immediate south of Jaco is the surf town of Playa Hermosa (Hermosa Beach). 1 hour and 15 minutes to the south of Jaco Beach is the Manuel Antonio National Park and Wildlife preserve offering visitors a first hand glimpse of Costa Rica's famed wildlife species such as white face monkeys, howler monkeys, sloths, pizotes, iguanas, butterflies, frogs, insects, and exotic jungle plants native to Costa Rica.

</doc>
<doc id="102218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102218" title="Irazu Volcano">
Irazu Volcano

Irazu Volcano National Park has one of the most active volcanos of Costa Rica. It is in the central mountain range at 31 km to northwest of the city of Cartago, 3,435 meters above sea level. It last erupted in 1963 and 1965. 
Irazu Volcano National Park offers many types of craters, some having small lakes. The park also includes 2,309 hectares of rain forest. From the highest point in the park, on a clear day, you can see both, the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea at the same time.
The Crater Principal lake has an unusual greenish yellow coloring caused by rainfall dissolving the minerals along the craters walls. It has also been known to change colour to rust-red depending on the minerals present. The inactive, dry Diego de la Haya crater sits just up to the right of the Crater Principal and is filled with volcanic ash.
The park is the site of a reforestation project to restore the area which was destroyed by the eruptions. The forest is made up of conifers and other exotic and native species. There is a native forest consisting mainly of oaks and alder, protecting the watershed of the Reventado River.
The vegetation of the park has been changed by the constant eruptions, but it is very beautiful and diverse. 

</doc>
<doc id="102220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102220" title="Puerto Viejo de Talamanca">
Puerto Viejo de Talamanca

Puerto Viejo de Talamanca is a coastal town in Talamanca in Limón Province. It is in southeastern Costa Rica and is known simply as Puerto Viejo to the people who live there. Puerto Viejo de Talamanca is a tourist destination. The beaches Playa Chiquita, Playa Negra, and Punta Uva are close to Puerto Viejo.
Many tourists stop in Puerto Viejo when going to Panama at Sixaola. This border crossing is popular with people going to and from Bocas del Toro.

</doc>
<doc id="102221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102221" title="List of Cantons of Switzerland by area">
List of Cantons of Switzerland by area

The following is a list of Cantons of Switzerland, by area:

</doc>
<doc id="102222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102222" title="Cathar castles">
Cathar castles

Cathar castles ("Châteaux cathares" in French) is a term used by the French tourist industry; It used for castles in the Languedoc-Roussillon, usually built during the crusades against the Cathars. 
The Cathars built fortified homesteads. Some of them were Laurac, Fanjeaux, Mas-Saintes-Puelles. Certain sites like Lastours-Cabaret, Montségur, Termes or Puilaurens were "castra" before being razed to the ground and becoming royal citadels. The legend of Cathar architects and builders is no more than a myth. The only monuments which witnessed the events of the first half of the 13th century. The cathar church did not build anything. For this reason, the only ones which can claim the description "Cathar" are the small castles, often totally unknown to the public. Their unspectacular ruins are often far-away from tourist routes.
Because Raimond II was unable to recapture Carcassone in 1240, the city walls were strengthened by the French King. He also destroyed small "castra" in the Corbières region and built citadels to protect the frontier with the kingdom of Aragon.
These five castles are often called the "cinq fils de Carcassonne" (five sons of Carcassonne):
These five fortresses resisted various assaults led by the Aragonese army.
In 1659, Louis XIV and the Philip IV of Spain signed the Treaty of the Pyrenees. The French king also married the Infanta Marie Therese. The treaty changed the borders. It gave Rousillon to France and moved the frontier south to the crest of the Pyrenees, where it is now. The fortresses therefore lost their importance. Some maintained a garrison for a while, a few until the French Revolution, but they slowly fell into decay, often becoming sherpherds' shelters or bandits hideouts.

</doc>
<doc id="102224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102224" title="Château d'Usson">
Château d'Usson

The Château d'Usson is one of the Cathar castles in southwestern France. It is in the "commune" of Rouze, in the Ariège "département".

</doc>
<doc id="102230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102230" title="Sertab Erener">
Sertab Erener

Sertab Erener (born December 4, 1964 is a Turkish pop music singer. She is one of the most successful female Turkish pop singers in Turkey. Erener is said to be one of the divas of Turkish pop music. 
She released her first album which produced by Sezen Aksu, "Sakin Ol" (Calm Down) in August 1992. Her debut song "Sakin Ol" became greatly popular. Next album "Lal" (Ruby) released in October 1994. Lal was important for her career, because songs in the album such as "Rüya" (Dream), "Sevdam Ağlıyor" (My Love is Crying), "Mecbursun" (You Have to), "Gel Barışalım Artık" (Let's Make Peace) and "Lal" became hit quickly. 
In May 1997, Sertab released her third album, "Sertab Gibi" (Like Sertab). She stopped working with Sezen Aksu and she worked with Demir Demirkan in this album. Although album's sales were very low, album is the favorite album of fans. "Aşkolan Aşktır" (Love Matters), "Seyrüsefer" (Navigation) and "İncelikler Yüzünden" (Because of the Niceties) were the important songs from the album. Sertab Erener released self-titled fourth album in March 1999. Albums hit were "Yanarım" (I Burn), "Zor Kadın" (Hard Woman) and Vur Yüreğim (Hit, My Heart). Vur Yüreğim's video clip was including real scenes from shocking and afflictive events such as martyr funerals, atomic bomb and natural disasters.
In Europe, she is best known for winning the Eurovision Song Contest 2003 with her hit song "Every Way That I Can".

</doc>
<doc id="102233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102233" title="Scouting">
Scouting

Scouting (sometimes called the Scout Movement) is a youth movement. It was started in 1907 by Robert Baden-Powell as a movement for boys. 
Baden-Powell took many ideas from the experiences he made with the Mafeking Cadet Corps. This corps was a paramilitary group made of boys. It was formed during a siege in the Second Boer War. The boys mainly carried messages. This was so the soldiers could focus on defending the city.
Originally, the Scout movement was for boys only. A similar movement for girls, called "Girl Guides" was started in 1910. In most countries there are associations for Scouts and for Girl Guides. Today the Scouts often accept girls, too.
In the Scout movement, people learn to work together to achieve a goal. They also train their character to become better adults.
Usually Scouts give a promise to live by certain rules, and to help others when they can.
Scouts spend their time outdoors, whenever possible.
In 2005, there were more than 28 million Boy Scouts and over 10 million Girl Guides. They came from 216 different countries. There were only six countries with no Scout movement in 2006. They were Andorra, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Laos, Myanmar and North Korea.
In Cuba, there was a Scout organisation, but the Communist government replaced it by the José Martí Pioneer Organization, which is similar to Scouts, but without the international brotherhood and the peace mission.
Scouting organisations have been banned in People's Republic of China. They have been replaced by Young Pioneers of China and Communist Youth League of China. These organisations are a bit similar to Scouts, but without the international brotherhood and the peace mission. There is a Scout Association in Hong Kong and one in Macau. Hong Kong and Macau are Special Autonomous Regions of the People's Republic of China, so the Scout associations there are still allowed to exist. In the Republic of China (Taiwan) Scouting was never banned.
There are no Scouting organisations in Myanmar, but there are a few Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts (headed by the US Scout movement) in Yangon.
Baden-Powell was a military officer. He was stationed in India and Africa in the 1880s and 1890s. Since his youth, he was fond of woodcraft and military scouting. He therefore showed his men how to survive in the wilderness. He noticed that if he taught the soldiers to develop independence, they would no longer follow the orders given by their officers blindly.
In 1896, during the Second Matabele War, Baden-Powell first met and became friends with the American-born British Army Chief of Scouts Frederick Russell Burnham. From Burnham he learned the ways of cowboy and Indian scouts of the Western United States, he started to wear a scout hat like the one worn by Burnham, and he discussed with Burnham a scout training program for boys. Three years later during the Second Boer War, Baden-Powell was besieged in the small town of Mafeking by a much larger Boer army (the Siege of Mafeking). The Mafeking Cadet Corps was a group of youths that supported the troops. The cadets carried messages. This freed the men for military duties. It also kept the boys occupied during the long siege. The Cadet Corps performed well, helping in the defence of the town (1899–1900). This experience was one of the many factors that inspired Baden-Powell to form the Scouting movement. Each member received a badge that showed a combined compass point and spearhead. The badge's logo was similar to the fleur-de-lis that Scouting later adopted as its international symbol.
In the United Kingdom the public followed his struggle to hold Mafeking through newspapers. After the siege, Baden-Powell had become a national hero. This pushed the sales of a small instruction book he had written about military scouting, "Aids to Scouting".
On his return to England he noticed the large interest of boys in this book, which was also used by teachers and youth organizations. Several people suggested to him to rewrite this book for boys, especially during an inspection of the Boys' Brigade. This brigade was a large youth movement, drilled with military precision. Baden-Powell thought this would not be attractive and suggested that it could grow much larger when scouting would be used. He studied other schemes, parts of which he used for Scouting.
(When these laws were made in 1907, there were no Girl Scouts; of course the laws apply to Girl Scouts all the same)
In his original book on boy scouting, General Baden-Powell introduced the Scout promise, as follows:
Since the Scouts were formed, other people have tried to form scout-like movements. These movements are a bit like the Scouts, but they put more weight on different things. There are for example Scout-like movements that focus more on the fact that the young people should get a good education in religious matters. The movements that have been formed in countries such as Cuba or China are much like Scouts; they leave out some elements though, that the national governments thought would harm the country.

</doc>
<doc id="102236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102236" title="History of Indonesia">
History of Indonesia

The History of Indonesia or more precisely of the Indonesian archipelago in South East Asia with 17,508 islands goes back to "Homo erectus" (popularly known as the "Java Man"). There have been found fossilized remains of about one million years ago.
Austronesian people, who form the majority of the modern population, came to South East Asia from Taiwan. They arrived in Indonesia around 2000 BCE. The native Melanesian peoples went to the far eastern regions. The agricultural conditions were very good. When wet-field rice cultivation was developed as early as the eighth century BCE,
villages and towns developed. And small kingdoms began to flourish by the first century CE. Indonesia's sea-lane position helped international trade. There was trade with both Indian kingdoms and China already several centuries BCE. Trade has since fundamentally shaped Indonesian history.
From the seventh century CE, the powerful Srivijaya naval kingdom flourished as a result of trade. Hinduism and Buddhism were imported with it. In the late 13th century, the Hindu Majapahit kingdom was founded in eastern Java and under Gajah Mada, its influence stretched over much of Indonesia; this period is often referred to as a "Golden Age" in Indonesian history.
During the 13th century Islam spread to the in northern Sumatra. More and more Indonesian areas gradually adopted Islam. By the end of the 16th century it was the dominant religion in Java and Sumatra. But it mixed with existing cultural and religious influences. 
The first Europeans arrived in Indonesia in 1512, when Portuguese traders, led by Francisco Serrão, sought to monopolize the sources of nutmeg, cloves, and cubeb pepper in Maluku. Dutch and British traders followed. In 1602 the Dutch established the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and became the dominant European power. But Dutch control stretched not very far. Only in the early 20th century it extended to borders of today.
During the Second World War the Dutch lost control and in August 1945, Sukarno, an influential nationalist leader, declared independence and was appointed president. After some fights the Netherlands formally recognized Indonesian independence in December 1949 (with the exception of The Dutch territory of West New Guinea).
Sukarno moved from democracy towards dictatorship. But Sukarono lost power to the head of the military, General Suharto who was formally appointed president in March 1968. He was supported by the US government, and encouraged foreign direct investment in Indonesia, which helped economic growth during the following thirty years. But his rule went along with corruption and suppression of political opposition.
In 1997 and 1998, Indonesia was the country hardest hit by the Asian Financial Crisis. This increased popular discontent with the New Order and led to popular protests. Suharto resigned on 21 May 1998. In 1999, East Timor voted to leave the state of Indonesia, after a twenty-five-year military occupation. After Suharto's resignation democracy improved. A regional autonomy program was introduced, and the first direct presidential election took place in 2004. But some political and economic instability has remained. A political settlement to an armed separatist conflict in Aceh was achieved in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="102238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102238" title="Book of Leviticus">
Book of Leviticus

Leviticus is the third book of both the Bible, and the Torah, known as Wayiqra' in transliterated Hebrew, meaning 'And He will declare.' It was written by the Old Testament Patriarch Moses. Leviticus was written to the Hebrew people of Israel. The book has several main topics, some of which are the Jewish laws of sacrificing to God, and the work of the priests.
This book probably was written around 1300 B.C. 

</doc>
<doc id="102241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102241" title="John C. Mather">
John C. Mather

Professor John Cromwell Mather (born 7 August 1946 in Roanoke, Virginia) is an American astrophysicist and cosmologist. He was given the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2006 for his work on COBE satellite with George Smoot. The COBE satellite measures black holes and cosmic radiation. 
This work supported the big-bang theory of the universe beginning. It made cosmology much more accurate. The Nobel Prize committee said: "the COBE-project can also be regarded as the starting point for cosmology as a precision science."
Mather is a Senior Astrophysicist at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland. He is a professor of physics at the University of Maryland, College Park. In 2007, Mather was listed in "Time" magazine's 100 Most Influential People in The World.
After being awarded his Ph.D. Professor Mather went to work at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at Columbia University. He started the work on COBE there (1974-1976). More than 1,000 researchers, engineers and other workers made the COBE satellite. John Mather was in control of them all and created the technology for measuring the cosmic radiation. George Smoot had the job of measuring small changes in the temperature of the radiation.
Professor Mather and John Boslough wrote all about the COBE teams work in a book called "The Very First Light".

</doc>
<doc id="102246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102246" title="Book of Joshua">
Book of Joshua

The Book of Joshua is the sixth book of the Christian Bible, and also the sixth book of the Hebrew Tanakh. It is clear who wrote the book, because most of the Jewish tradition believe it was Joshua, son of Nun. It is the first of the books of the Tanakh (Old Testament) covering the history of Israel from the arrival in the Promised Land to the Babylonian captivity.
It is thought that the book was written around the 15th century B.C.
After the death of Moses, God put Joshua in charge of the people. Joshua sent two spies to spy on the city of Jericho. A women hid these two men and said they had already left. She hid them on top of her roof, underneath stalks of flax. The spies later promised that they would keep the oath that Joshua made with them.
Jericho fell when the people of Israel, instructed by God, circled around the wall of Jericho seven times and blew their ram's horns, and on the seventh time, they all shouted with a great shout, causing the wall to fall.
Joshua told the spies to go to Rahab's house and bring out her family and belongings. The spies did as they were told, as they kept the oath. Joshua saved Rahab's life, and she went to live in Israel.
Later, God told Joshua to invade the city of Ai. After they did this, the people of Gibeon tricked Joshua into a treaty.
However, three days later, the people of Israel realized that they really made a treaty with Gibeon's neighbors, the Hivites. The Hivities became cursed, but the people of Gibeon promised that they would do whatever the Israelites say.
After making peace with the Hivites, they went to lay siege to Gibeon. The Gibeonites sent a message to Joshua saying he needs to save the people of Gibeon. So, God killed many of the Amorites by making large hailstones. Then Joshua made the sun stay over Gibeon, and the moon over Ajalon. Joshua later got very old and died.
Decide today whom you will serve, the gods your ancestors worshipped in Mesopotamia or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are now living. As for my family and me, we will serve the LORD.(24:15)

</doc>
<doc id="102258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102258" title="Home education">
Home education

Homeschooling is a form of education where the parent or guardian is the instructor. The reason for this form of education is usually the guardian is not happy with the nearby schools, or sometimes for religious or moral purposes. 
In some countries, such as the United Kingdom, any homeschool arrangement must by law satisfy inspectors that the children's education is sound. This is because, under the Education Act of 1944, parents or guardians are legally obliged to send children to school. The possibility of other methods has been added as a possibility, subject to certain checks.
A common situation is for several families to come together to provide the skills needed. This serves two purposes. First, the range of knowledge and skills is wider, and the schooling has a more social angle, which itself is good for the development of children. 
The idea of home schools came to life in the 1960s, when the effectiveness of classroom education was challenged. There were a number of critical publications:
Some private schools try to achieve similar objectives by other means. Summerhill attempts to make a school more flexible and responsive to the needs of individual children.
Dangers of home education include the possibility of it being used for religious and political propaganda, and the vulnerability of children to unsupervised adults. Education may be uneven, leaving children with a patchy grasp of many subjects. The children would also get to know fewer other children than they would ordinarily.
In theory, visits by the inspectors of schools might be able to identify problems, However, at least in the United Kingdom, schools are not inspected every year.

</doc>
<doc id="102259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102259" title="Shinjuku Station">
Shinjuku Station

Shinjuku Station is a railway station in Shinjuku and Shibuya wards in Tokyo, Japan. It is the busiest train station in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="102261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102261" title="San Pedro de Macorís (city)">
San Pedro de Macorís (city)

The Dominican city of San Pedro de Macorís is the head municipality of the San Pedro de Macorís province, on the southeast of the country.
It has the nickname of "Macorís del mar" ("Macorís by the sea") to differentiate it from San Francisco de Macorís, in the Duarte Province.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 195,307: 94,562 men and 100,745 women. The urban population was 94.85% of the total population. In this numbers is included the population of the municipal district Guayacanes.
There were two very small towns on the left side of the mouth of the river Macorís (or Higuamo): "Mosquito" (because there were too many mosquitos) and "Sol" (English: "Sun", because there were not trees). Even today, San Pedro de Macorís is called sometimes "Mosquitisol" after those two old and small towns.
Since 1852, there was a military post in this place: the Military Post of Macorís, part of the Hato Mayor del Rey municipality in the El Seibo Province.
In 1856, the priest Pedro Carrasco built a Catholic church with the name "San Pedro Apóstol"; the church was between the two towns of Mosquito and Sol. Both towns grew in direction of the church, forming one town called San Pedro de Macorís.
When the country was again a Spanish colony, San Pedro de Macorís was made a "Comandancia de Armas" (an Spanish military category). When the country was free again, in 1865, every town with the category of "Comandancia de Armas" became a municipality. But San Pedro de Macorís was still a very small town of the El Seibo Province.
After 1868, with the sugarcane plantations and the sugar factories, San Pedro de Macorís began to grow and it became one of the most important city in the Dominican Republic. Many people from Cuba and Puerto Rico came to live here during the last years of the 19th century and the first years of the 20th century. Later came people from the Spain and the Middle East (Lebanon, Syria) to work in businesses.
To work in the sugarcane fields and factories, people from Haiti and the British West Indies came to San Pedro de Macorís and other regions of the country.
The economy of San Pedro de Macorís grew around the sugar production; there were several sugar factories and most of that sugar was sent to other countries through its port and then it became one of the most important port of the country. Rhum is also produced in the city; rhum is made with alcohol from the sugar cane.
There are also some important industries, mainly to produce cement and textiles to send to other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="102263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102263" title="Epistle to the Galatians">
Epistle to the Galatians

The Epistle to the Galatians (or Galatians) is the forty-eighth book in the Bible (and ninth in the New Testament), written by the Apostle Paul. The book was written to the people of Galatia, with whom Paul had, at a previous date, founded the Congregation in their area. 
It is not known for sure, but most believe that the book was written around 57 A.D.
The book contains some of the most known Bible teachings, such as that all have need of Salvation (Galatians 3:28-29), and the Fruits of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-23).

</doc>
<doc id="102264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102264" title="Label (disambiguation)">
Label (disambiguation)

A label can have several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="102275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102275" title="Neanderthal">
Neanderthal

The Neanderthal, a species of the genus "Homo", was a near relative of our own species. Its scientific name is "Homo neanderthalensis" or "Homo sapiens neanderthalensis". 
Neanderthal fossils are only found in Europe, Asia Minor and up to central Asia. The first fossil was found in a limestone quarry near Düsseldorf: One of the workers found part of a skeleton, in a valley called Neanderthal. Experts Johann Carl Fuhlrott and Hermann Schaaffhausen said the bones belonged to an older form of modern humans. These bones are known as Neanderthal 1 today. 
Recent research suggests Neanderthals became extinct about 40,000 years ago. Earlier research had suggested a later date; the problem is the dating of the archaeological sites where their remains have been found. 
Neanderthals perhaps evolved from "Homo heidelbergensis" and split off (last common ancestor) from modern humans between 700,000 and 300,000 years ago. 
Neanderthals used to be classified as a subspecies of modern humans ("Homo sapiens neanderthalensis"). Now, they are usually classified as a separate human species ("Homo neanderthalensis").
Neanderthal remains have been found in most of Europe south of land covered by ice including the south coast of Great Britain. Finds have also been made outside of Europe in the Zagros Mountains and in the Levant.
The size of the Neanderthal brain shows that Neanderthals were probably intelligent. On average, they had larger brains than modern humans. Large brains are something of a physical weakness. That is because they consume lots of energy, make the skull more likely to be damaged, and cause difficulties during birth. These disadvantages may be less than the advantages, for example, better problem-solving, better social co-operation, language and tool-making. 
Neanderthal flint tools (for example, hand axes) were more finely made than those of early man. They were much less varied and finely made than the neolithic tools of modern man. Also, the quality of cave art done by our ancestors is in a different league from anything done by Neanderthals. They did have some kind of art, though.
The oldest flute ever discovered may be the so-called Divje Babe flute, found in the Slovenian cave Divje Babe I in 1995. It is about 43,100 years old. It is from a juvenile cave bear femur at the Divje Babe site, near a Mousterian hearth. Archaeologists ask two key questions:
Is it a flute? This has been discussed at length. The best summary is that it is certainly possible for it to be a flute, but it is unproved (not certain).
If it is a flute, was it made by Neanderthals? Again, this is not decided. It is on public display as a flute in the National Museum of Slovenia (Narodni Muzej Slovenije) in Ljubljana. The museum's visitor leaflet says that manufacture by Neanderthals "is reliably proven". This is not a general view, and again it is best to describe the idea as "not proven".
For a long time, people have wondered whether Neanderthals could talk. Many people believe they could, because the large brain size would be hard to understand if they could not. When an undamaged Neanderthal hyoid bone was discovered, it made people think Neanderthals could talk. That is because, in humans, the hyoid is a support for the voice box. Computer analysis has shown that the Neanderthal hyoid was very similar to human hyoids. Researchers say "our findings are consistent with a capacity for speech in the Neanderthals".
In August 1856 the specimen that was to become known as Neanderthal 1 was discovered in the Neander Valley, Germany. The material was found in a limestone quarry near Düsseldorf. A skull cap was first discovered, followed by two femurs, five arm bones, part of the left pelvis, and fragments of a shoulder blade and ribs. 
Actually, some remains had been found earlier, but not recognised as a separate species from us. The Engis child from Belgium was the first Neanderthal discovered, in 1829. The second discovered was the Forbes Quarry find from Gibralter in 1848. 
Neanderthal men were about 164–168 cm (5.3 ft) tall and averaged 77.6 kg (171 lbs) in weight. Neanderthal women stood about 154 cm (5 ft) tall and averaged 66.4 kg (146 lbs) in weight. 
Neanderthals had stronger (more robust) build and distinctive morphological features, especially of the skull. They were much stronger than modern humans; especially in the upper body.
Neanderthal long bones and joints are thicker than ours, and some long bones have a slight curve. Both the thickness and the curve suggest the need for more strength than our species.
Since 2007, tooth age can be directly calculated using the noninvasive imaging of growth patterns in tooth enamel by means of x-ray synchrotron microtomography.
This research suggests much more rapid physical development in Neanderthals than in modern human children. The x-ray synchrotron microtomography study of early "H. sapiens" argues that this difference existed between the two species as far back as 160,000 years before present.
Neanderthals seemed to suffer a high frequency of fractures. These fractures are often healed and show little or no sign of infection, suggesting that injured individuals were cared for during times of incapacitation. 
Neanderthals showed a frequency of such injuries comparable to that of modern rodeo professionals, showing frequent contact with large, combative mammals. The fractures suggest they may have hunted by leaping onto their prey and stabbing or even wrestling it to the ground.
They lived in Eurasia during the ice ages of the Pleistocene, and hunted large mammals, such as bison, auroch (an ancestor of living cattle), deer, reindeer, musk ox and mammoth.
The skulls are slightly larger than "Homo sapiens", and this implies intelligence and probably the use of language. The skeleton, on the other hand, suggests they tended to solve their problems (such as hunting) more by force than we do.
Neanderthal stone tools are called Mousterian, and are an advance on the Acheulean tools made by earlier species of Man. "Homo sapiens" stone tools are far more varied still, and suggest that our species relied more on tools than the Neanderthals.
Neanderthals were almost exclusively meat eaters although their diet did include cooked vegetables. They made good tools and lived in complex social groups. Research on their remains has shown that it is possible that they had a spoken language but the nature of any such language is unknown.
There are a number of theories that try to explain why the Neanderthals died out. It has been suggested that they may have been unable to adapt to the changing climate. Alternatively it has been suggested that they were unable to successfully compete with the ancestors of modern humans.

</doc>
<doc id="102277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102277" title="Oldenzaal">
Oldenzaal

Oldenzaal is a municipality and a town in the eastern Netherlands, near the border with Germany.
It got city rights in 1249.

</doc>
<doc id="102284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102284" title="Homo erectus">
Homo erectus

Homo erectus (Latin: "upright man") is an extinct species of the genus "Homo". Fossil remains were found in Java (1890s) and in China (1921). Nearly all of them were lost during World War II, but there are casts that are considered to be reliable evidence.
Early in the 20th century it was believed that the first modern humans lived in Asia. But during the 1950s and 1970s, many fossil finds from East Africa (Kenya) showed that the oldest hominins came from there.
"H. erectus" had a cranial capacity (brain size) greater than that the earlier "Homo habilis". The earliest "H. erectus" remains have a cranial capacity of 850 cm³, while the latest Javan specimens measure up to 1100 cm³. This overlaps that of "H. sapiens": the frontal bone is less sloped and the dental arcade smaller than in australopithecines. The face is more vertical (less protrusive) than either the australopithecines or "H. habilis", with large brow-ridges and less prominent cheekbones. 
These early hominins stood about , Only 17 percent of modern male humans are taller. They were slender, with long arms and legs.
The sexual dimorphism between males and females was slightly greater than modern man, with males being about 25% larger than females. The discovery of the skeleton KNM-WT 15000, "Turkana boy" ("Homo ergaster"), made near Lake Turkana, Kenya by Richard Leakey and Kamoya Kimeu in 1984, is one of the most complete hominid-skeletons discovered, and has contributed greatly to the interpretation of human physiological evolution. 
The most distinctive tool of erectus was the Acheulean hand axe, first invented 1.8 million years ago (mya). This hand axe was made by chipping a suitable stone with a hammer stone. Later, the neanderthals used a soft hammer made of deer antler bone to make better tools. The Acheulean hand axe lasted for over a million years as the main tool. Its main use was for butchering meat. This we know because different uses leave different micro-wear on the hand axe surfaces.
"Homo erectus" remains one of the most successful and long-lived species of the "Homo" genus. It is generally considered to have given rise to a number of descendant species and subspecies. The oldest known specimen of the ancient human was found in southern Africa. 
"Homo ergaster",
"Homo erectus pekinensis",
"Homo antecessor",
"Homo cepranensis",
"Homo floresiensis",
"Homo georgicus"
"Homo heidelbergensis",
"Homo neanderthalensis",
"Homo rhodesiensis",
"Homo sapiens",
Some of the major "Homo erectus" fossils:
Australopithecus

</doc>
<doc id="102287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102287" title="Paramilitary">
Paramilitary

Paramilitary is a way to describe forces that are organised like military forces, but that do not have the same status. Examples for such forces would be police forces guarding the borders of a country. There are paramilitary groups that are run by a country, and others that are not.
The name comes from Greek "para" (which means "beside") and Latin "miles" (which means "soldier").
SWAT teams of some American police departments: trained to handle high-risk situations that regular police officers are not as qualified to handle such as hostage rescue, counter-terrorism missions, and arresting particularly dangerous criminals.
Special Activities Division of the Central Intelligence Agency: a unit of the CIA whose missions often require a great deal of secrecy and carefulness. Most members of this unit are recruited from special forces units from all over the United States military. Their main mission is to collect intelligence on countries hostile to the United States; most CIA operatives killed in the line of duty have been members of the Special Activities Division.
The SS and SA of Nazi Germany: the SS was the successor to the SA, but for the most part, both groups handled the same responsibilities. They were originally bodyguards to Adolf Hitler, but as the war heated up, they were assigned to oversee concentration camps as guards and administrators. While not an official part of Germany's military, the SS had an armed branch that was trained as a regular military unit.

</doc>
<doc id="102308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102308" title="Champagne, Ardèche">
Champagne, Ardèche

Champagne is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102310" title="Champis, Ardèche">
Champis, Ardèche

Champis is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the southeastern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102311" title="Chandolas">
Chandolas

Chandolas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102313" title="Chanéac">
Chanéac

Chanéac is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102316" title="Charmes-sur-Rhône">
Charmes-sur-Rhône

Charmes-sur-Rhône is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102317" title="Charnas">
Charnas

Charnas is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. About 715 or 722 people lived there in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="102318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102318" title="Palaeolithic">
Palaeolithic

The Palaeolithic, (or Paleolithic), refers to the prehistoric period when stone tools were made by humans. They are found in the Great Rift Valley of Africa from about 3.3 million years ago. They were probably made by Australopithecines. They are found in Europe somewhat later, from about 1 mya (0.7mya for Britain). The Palaeolithic is by far the longest period of humanity's time, about 99% of human history. The geological period which corresponds to the Palaeolithic is the Pleistocene. 
Stone tools were not only made by our own species, "Homo sapiens". They were made by all previous members of the genus, starting with relatively crude tools made by "Homo habilis" and "Homo erectus". In Europe, the large-brained Neanderthal Man ("Homo neanderthalensis") made tools of high quality, and was in turn outshone by the many tools made by our own species. These tools are the first cultural products which have survived.
The Palaeolithic dates from about 2.6 million years ago and ended around 15,000 with the Mesolithic in Western Europe, and with the Epipaleolithic in warmer climates such as Africa. The Palaeolithic age began when hominids (early humans) started to use stones as tools for bashing, cutting and scraping. The age ended when humans began to make small, fine tools (Mesolithic) and finally when plant crops and have other types of agriculture (Neolithic). In some areas, such as Western Europe, the way that people lived was affected by the Ice age. The move towards agriculture started in the Middle East. 
During the Palaeolithic Age humans grouped together in small bands. They lived by gathering plants and hunting wild animals. As well as using stone tools, they used tools of wood and bone. They probably also used leather and vegetable fibers but these have not lasted from that time.
The Oldowan is the archaeological term used to refer to the stone tool industry that was used by hominids during the earliest Palaeolithic period. For a long time it was thought that the Oldowan was the earliest stone tool industry in prehistory, from 2.6 million years ago up until 1.7 million years ago. It was followed by the more sophisticated Acheulean industry. Oldowan tools were therefore the earliest tools in human history, and mark the beginning of the archaeological record. The term "Oldowan" is taken from the site of Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania, where the first Oldowan tools were discovered by the archaeologist Louis Leakey in the 1930s. Now it is realised that stone tools were used much earlier (3.3 million years ago) and that was definitely before the genus "Homo" had evolved.
It is not known for sure which species actually created and used Oldowan tools. It reached its peak with early species of "Homo" such as "H. habilis" and "H. ergaster". Early "Homo erectus" appears to inherit Oldowan technology and refines it into the Acheulean industry beginning 1.7 million years ago. Oldowan tools are sometimes called "pebble tools", so named because the blanks chosen for their production already resemble, in pebble form, the final product. Oldowan tools are sometimes subdivided into types, such as chopper, scrapers and pounders, as these seem to be their main uses.
Acheulean is the industry of stone tool manufacture by early humans of the Lower Palaeolithic era in Africa and much of West Asia and Europe. Acheulean tools are typically found with "Homo erectus" remains. They are first developed out of the more primitive Oldowan technology some 1.8 million years ago, by "Homo habilis".
It was the dominant technology for most of human history. More than a million years ago Acheulean tool users left Africa to colonize Eurasia. Their oval and pear-shaped hand axes have been found over a wide area. Some examples were finely made. Although it developed in Africa, the industry is named after the type site of Saint-Acheul, now a suburb of Amiens in northern France where some of the first examples were found in the 19th century.
John Frere was the first to suggest in writing a very ancient date for Acheulean hand-axes. In 1797 he sent two examples to the Royal Academy in London from Hoxne in Suffolk. He had found them in prehistoric lake deposits along with the bones of extinct animals and concluded that they were made by people ""who had not the use of metals"" and that they belonged to a ""very ancient period indeed, even beyond the present world"". His ideas were ignored by his contemporaries however, who held a pre-Darwinian view of human evolution.
Radiometric dating, often potassium-argon dating, of deposits containing Acheulean material is able to broadly place Acheulean techniques from around 1.65 million years ago to about 100,000 years ago. The earliest accepted examples of the type, at 1.65 m years old, come from the West Turkana region of Kenya. Some think their origin might be as early as 1.8 million years ago.
In individual regions, this dating can be considerably refined; in Europe for example, Acheulean methods did not reach the continent until around 400 thousand years ago and in smaller study areas, the date ranges can be much shorter. Numerical dates can be misleading however, and it is common to associate examples of this early human tool industry with one or more glacial or interglacial periods or with a particular early species of human. The earliest user of Acheulean tools was "Homo ergaster" who first appeared about 1.8 million years ago. Some researchers prefer to call these users "early Homo erectus". Later forms of early humans also used Acheulean techniques and are described below.
There is considerable time overlap in early prehistoric stone-working industries. In some regions Acheulean tool-using groups were contemporary with other, less sophisticated industries such as the Clactonian. Then, later, Acheulean tools occur at the same time as the more sophisticated Mousterian. The Acheulean was not a neatly defined period, but a tool-making technique which flourished especially well in early prehistory. Acheulean was a basic method for making stone tools which was shared across much of the Old World.
The Clactonian is an industry of European flint tool manufacture that dates to the early part of the interglacial period 400,000 years ago. Clactonian tools were made by "Homo erectus" rather than modern humans. Early, crude flint tools from other regions using similar methods are called either Clactonian or "core & flake" technology.
The Clactonian is named after finds made at Clacton-on-Sea in the English county of Essex in 1911. The artefacts found there included flint chopping tools, flint flakes and the tip of a worked wooden shaft along with the remains of a giant elephant and hippopotamus. Further examples of the tools have been found at sites in Swanscombe, Kent, and Barnham in Suffolk; similar industries have been identified across Northern Europe. 
The Clactonian industry involved striking thick, irregular flakes from a core of flint, which was then employed as a chopper. The flakes would have been used as crude knives or scrapers. Unlike the Oldowan tools from which Clactonian ones derived, some were notched implying that they were attached to a handle or shaft.
The Clactonian industry may have co-existed with the Acheulean industry (which used handaxes). However, in 2004 there was an excavation of a butchered Pleistocene elephant near Dartford, Kent. Archaeologists recovered numerous Clactonian flint tools, but no handaxes. Since handaxes would be more useful than choppers to dismember an elephant carcass, this is evidence of the Clactonian being a separate industry. Flint of sufficient quality was available in the area, so probably the people who carved up the elephant did not have the knowledge to make handaxes.
The Mousterian is an industry of stone tools associated with Neanderthal Man, "Homo neanderthalensis". It dates from about 300,000 years to about 30,000 years ago. There are up to thirty types of tools in the Mousterian as contrasted with about six in the Acheulean.
The Mousterian was named after the type site of Le Moustier, a rock shelter in the Dordogne region of France. Similar flintwork has been found all over unglaciated Europe and also the Near East and North Africa. Handaxes, long blades
and points typify the industry. Overall, the items are more perfectly finished than any previous work. The method used to get the blades and flakes is called the Levallois technique. It is a prepared-core technique: the core is worked on so that a long, fine blade can be struck off. For this quality of work, a 'soft' hammer made of something like deer antler is necessary, rather than a stone hammer. The extra brain size of the Neanderthals is probably relevant to these advances.
The cultures which follow the Mousterian are all cultures of modern humans, "Homo sapiens". It is characteristic of our species to produce many more tools, all specialised for particular tasks. There are at least 100 types of tools in the Upper Palaeolithic compared to a maximum of 30 tools in the Mousterian.
The Palaeolithic is sometimes divided into three (somewhat overlapping) periods which mark technological and cultural advances in different human communities:
After the Palaeolithic follows the Mesolithic and Neolithic eras, which marks the end of Stone Age. The Bronze Age and the Iron Age come right after the Stone Age.
Possibly among the earliest traces of art are Venus figurines. These are "figurines" (very small statues) of women, mostly pregnant with visible breasts. The figurines were found in areas of Western Europe to Siberia. Most are between 20,000 and 30,000 years old. Two figurines have been found that are much older: the Venus of Tan-Tan, dated to 300,000 to 500,000 years ago was found in Morocco. The Venus of Berekhat Ram was found on the Golan Heights. It has been dated to 200,000 to 300,000 years ago. It may be the one of the earliest things that show the human form. 
Different kinds of stone, bones and ivory were used to make the figurines. Some are also made of clay which was then burned in a fire. This is one of the earliest known traces of the use of ceramics.
Today it is not known what the figurines meant to the people who made them. There are two basic theories:
Scientists have excluded that these figurines were linked to the fertility of fields, because agriculture had not been discovered at the time the figurines were made.
The two figurines that are older may have mostly formed by natural processes. The Venus of Tan-Tan was covered with a substance that could have been some kind of paint. The substance contained traces of iron and manganese. The figurine of Berekhat Ram shows traces that someone worked on it with a tool. A study done in 1997 states that these traces could not have been left by nature alone.
Cave paintings are paintings that were made on the walls or roofs of caves. Many cave paintings belong to the Palaeolothic Age, and date from about 15,000 to 30,000 years ago. Among the most famous are those in the caves of Altamira in Spain and Lascaux in France. There are about 350 caves in Europe where cave paintings have been found. Usually, animals have been painted, like aurochs, bisons or horses. Why these paintings were done is not known. They are not simply decorations of places where people lived. The caves they were found in usually do not show signs that someone lived in them.
One of the oldest caves is that of Chauvet in France. Paintings in the cave fall into two groups. One has been dated to around 30,000 to 33,000 years ago, the other to 26,000 or 27,000 years ago. The oldest known cave paintings, based on radiocarbon dating of "black from drawings, from torch marks and from the floors". As of 1999, the dates of 31 samples from the cave have been reported. The oldest paintings have been dated from 32,900±490 years ago.
Some archaeologists have questioned the dating. Züchner believe the two groups date from 23,000–24,000, and 10,000–18,000 years ago. Pettitt and Bahn believe the dating is inconsistent. They say the people at that periods of time painted things differently. They also do not know where the charcoal used to paint some things is from, and how big the painted area is.
People from the Palaeolithic era drew well. They knew about perspective, and they knew of different ways to draw things. They also were able to observe the behaviour of animals they painted. Some of the paintings show how the painted animals behaved. The paintings may have been important for rituals.
Paleolithic hunting and gathering people ate leafy vegetables, fruit, nuts and insects, meat, fish, and shellfish. As there is little direct evidence, it is almost impossible to determine the relative proportions of plant and animal foods. There is a modern diet called paleolithic diet, but it has few things in common with the paleolitic diet of the time. Even the claim that most humans of a given period shared the same diet is problematic. The Paleolithic was an extended period of time. During that time, there were many technological advances, many of which had impact on human dietary structure. For example, humans probably did not possess the control of fire until the Middle Paleolithic, or tools necessary to engage in extensive fishing. On the other hand, both these technologies are generally agreed to have been widely available to humans by the end of the Paleolithic (consequently, allowing humans in some regions of the planet to rely heavily on fishing and hunting). In addition, the Paleolithic involved a substantial geographical expansion of human populations. During the Lower Paleolithic, ancestors of modern humans are thought to have been constrained to Africa east of the Great Rift Valley. During the Middle and Upper Paleolithic, humans greatly expanded their area of settlement, reaching ecosystems as diverse as New Guinea and Alaska. The also needed to adapt their diets to the local resources that were available.
Anthropologists have different opinions about the proportions of plant and animal foods consumed. Just as with still existing hunters and gatherers, there were many varied "diets" - in different groups -of fruit and vegetables. The relative proportions of plant and animal foods in the diets of Paleolithic people often varied between regions; in coilder regions, more meat was necessary. These regions were not populated by anatomically modern humans until 30,000-50,000 BP. It is generally agreed that many modern hunting and fishing tools, such as fish hooks, nets, bows, and poisons, weren't introduced until the Upper Paleolithic and possibly even Neolithic. The only hunting tools widely available to humans during any significant part of the Paleolithic period were hand-held spears and harpoons. There's evidence of Paleolithic people killing and eating seals and elands as far as 100,000 years BP. On the other hand, buffalo bones found in African caves from the same period are typically of very young or very old individuals, and there's no evidence that pigs, elephants or rhinos were hunted by humans at the time.
Another view is that until the Upper Paleolithic, humans were frugivores (fruit eaters) who supplemented their meals with carrion, eggs, and small prey such as baby birds and mussels. Only on rare occasions did they manage to kill and consume big game such as antelopes. This view is supported by studies of higher apes, particularly chimpanzees. Chimpanzees are the closest to humans genetically. They share more than 96% of their DNA code with humans, and their digestive tract is functionally very similar. Chimpanzees are primarily frugivores, but they could and would consume and digest animal flesh, given the opportunity. In general, their actual diet in the wild is about 95% plant-based, with the remaining 5% filled with insects, eggs, and baby animals. In some ecosystems, however, chimpanzees are predatory, forming parties to hunt monkeys. Some comparative studies of human and higher primate digestive tracts do suggest that humans have evolved to obtain greater amounts of calories from sources such as animal foods, allowing them to shrink the size of the gastrointestinal tract relative to body mass and to increase the brain mass instead.
Paleolithic peoples suffered less famine and malnutrition than the Neolithic farming tribes that followed them. This was partly because Paleolithic hunter-gatherers accessed to a wider variety natural foods, which allowed them a more nutritious diet and a decreased risk of famine. Many of the famines experienced by Neolithic (and some modern) farmers were caused or amplified by their dependence on a small number of crops. It is thought that wild foods can have a significantly different nutritional profile than cultivated foods. The greater amount of meat obtained by hunting big game animals in Paleolithic diets than Neolithic diets may have also allowed Paleolithic hunter-gatherers to enjoy a more nutritious diet than Neolithic agriculturalists. It has been argued that the shift from hunting and gathering to agriculture resulted in an increasing focus on a limited variety of foods, with meat likely taking a back seat to plants. It is also unlikely that Paleolithic hunter-gatherers were affected by modern diseases of affluence such as Type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease, because they ate mostly lean meats and plants and frequently engaged in intense physical activity, and because the average lifespan was shorter than the age of common-onset of these conditions.
Large-seeded legumes were part of the human diet long before the Neolithic agricultural revolution, as evident from archaeobotanical finds from the Mousterian layers of Kebara Cave, in Israel.<ref name="doi10.1016/j.jas.2004.11.006"></ref> There is evidence suggesting that Paleolithic societies were gathering wild cereals for food use at least as early as 30,000 years ago. However, seeds, such as grains and beans, were rarely eaten and never in large quantities on a daily basis.<ref name=doi:10.1080/11026480510032043></ref> Recent archeological evidence also indicates that winemaking may have originated in the Paleolithic, when early humans drank the juice of naturally fermented wild grapes from animal-skin pouches. Paleolithic humans consumed animal organ meats, including the livers, kidneys and brains. Upper Paleolithic cultures appear to have had significant knowledge about plants and herbs and may have, albeit very rarely, practiced rudimentary forms of horticulture. In particular, bananas and tubers may have been cultivated as early as 25,000 BP in southeast Asia. Late Upper Paleolithic societies also appear to have occasionally practiced pastoralism and animal husbandry, presumably for dietary reasons. For instance, some European late Upper Paleolithic cultures domesticated and raised reindeer, presumably for their meat or milk, as early as 14,000 BP. Humans also probably consumed hallucinogenic plants during the Paleolithic period. The Australian Aborigines have been consuming a variety of native animal and plant foods, called bushfood, for an estimated 60,000 years, since the Middle Paleolithic.
People during the Middle Paleolithic, such as the Neanderthals and Middle Paleolithic Homo sapiens in Africa, began to catch shellfish for food as revealed by shellfish cooking in Neanderthal sites in Italy about 110,000 years ago and Middle Paleolithic "Homo sapiens" sites at Pinnacle Point, in Africa around 164,000 BP.<ref name=NYTIMES/10/08/07></ref> Although fishing only became common during the Upper Paleolithic, fish have been part of human diets long before the dawn of the Upper Paleolithic and have certainly been consumed by humans since at least the Middle Paleolithic. For example, the Middle Paleolithic "Homo sapiens" in the region now occupied by the Democratic Republic of the Congo hunted large -long catfish with specialized barbed fishing points as early as 90,000 years ago. The invention of fishing allowed some Upper Paleolithic and later hunter-gatherer societies to become sedentary or semi-nomadic, which altered their social structures. Example societies are the Lepenski Vir as well as some contemporary hunter-gatherers such as the Tlingit. In some instances (at least the Tlingit) they developed social stratification, slavery and complex social structures such as chiefdoms.
Anthropologists such as Tim White suggest that cannibalism was common in human societies prior to the beginning of the Upper Paleolithic, based on the large amount of “butchered human" bones found in Neanderthal and other Lower/Middle Paleolithic sites. Cannibalism in the Lower and Middle Paleolithic may have occurred because of food shortages. However, it may have been for religious reasons, and would coincide with the development of religious practices thought to have occurred during the Upper Paleolithic. Nonetheless, it remains possible that Paleolithic societies never practiced cannibalism, and that the damage to recovered human bones was either the result of ritual post-mortem bone cleaning or predation by carnivores such as saber tooth cats, lions and hyenas.

</doc>
<doc id="102324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102324" title="Bolas">
Bolas

Bolas (from Spanish "bola", "ball", also known as "boleadoras") are a throwing weapon made of weights on the ends of interconnected cords, designed to capture animals by their legs. They are used by the gauchos in South America today, but have been found in excavations of pre-Hispanic settlements, especially in Patagonia, where indigenous peoples used them to catch guanaco and ñandu.
Gauchos use boleadoras to capture running cattle or game. The thrower gives the balls momentum by swinging them and then releases the boleadoras. The weapon is usually used to entangle the animal's legs, but when thrown with enough force might even break the bone.
There is no uniform design; most bolas have two or three balls, but there are versions of up to 8 or 9 balls. Some bolas have balls of equal weight,others vary the knot and cord. Gauchos use bolas made of leather cords with wooden balls or small leather sacks full of stones in the ends of the cords.
Bolas can be named depending on the amount of weights used:
Bolas of three weights are usually designed with two shorter cords with heavier weights, and one longer cord with a light weight. The heavier weights fly at the front parallel to each other, hit either side of the legs, and the lighter weight goes around, wrapping up the legs.
Other unrelated versions include "qilumitautit", the bolas of the Inuit, made of sinew and bone weights and used to capture water birds.

</doc>
<doc id="102327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102327" title="Cord">
Cord

Cord may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="102329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102329" title="Howard Hughes">
Howard Hughes

Howard Robard Hughes, Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976), was an American businessman and movie producer. During his life, he was one of the richest people in the world. He was born in Humble, Texas to a rich family. He went to Hollywood and became a movie producer and aviator. Hughes broke several world records for flying aeroplanes. He created his own air company, which was later bought by TWA. 
Many people now think Hughes may have had OCD or obsessive compulsive disorder. This is because later in life, he kept himself away from the outside world. He lived in a hotel suite at The Desert Inn in Las Vegas as a . He never left his room. He also did not cut his hair or fingernails. He had a group of doctors and other people to help take care of him. In 1972, a man named Clifford Irving claimed to have co-written the autobiography of Hughes. It was later shown to not be real. Hughes died in Houston while being moved to a hospital in Mexico. After he died, there was an argument over his will.

</doc>
<doc id="102335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102335" title="Tarzan">
Tarzan

Tarzan is a fictional character. He is the main character in many books by Edgar Rice Burroughs. Burroughs first wrote about Tarzan in 1914. The book was called "Tarzan of the Apes". Tarzan's father was an English lord who died in the African jungle. The baby Tarzan was left alone in the jungle. Giant apes found the baby Tarzan and took care of him. Tarzan has also appeared in other media including movies, movie serials, comic books, and television programs.

</doc>
<doc id="102336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102336" title="Surfer Rosa">
Surfer Rosa

Surfer Rosa is the first music album by the Pixies. It was released by a record label called 4AD in March 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="102337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102337" title="OK Go">
OK Go

OK Go is a rock band from Chicago. The band members are Damian Kulash (lead vocals and guitar), Tim Nordwind (bass guitar and backing vocals), Dan Konopka (drums and percussion) and Andy Ross (keyboards, guitar and backing vocals). Their best known song is "Here It Goes Again".

</doc>
<doc id="102338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102338" title="Death zone">
Death zone

The death zone is the name used by mountain climbers for high altitude where there is not enough oxygen for humans to breathe. This is usually above 8,000 metres (26,247 feet). Most of the 200+ climbers who have died on Mount Everest have died in the death zone. Due to the inverse relationship of air pressure to altitude, at the top of Mount Everest the average person takes in about 30% of the oxygen in the air that he or she would take in at sea level; a human used to breathing air at sea level could only be there for a few minutes before they became unconscious. Most climbers have to carry oxygen bottles to be able to reach the top. Visitors become weak and have inability to think straight and struggle making decisions, especially under stress. 
Climber Lincoln_Hall_(climber), who was left for dead on Everest in 2006, managed to survive. Lack of oxygen in his blood made it easier for him to get frostbite. He also had headaches, nausea, vomiting and hallucinations. He thinks he had cerebral oedema – or swelling of the brain. This is caused at high altitude when blood leaks into the brain itself. The swelling would have caused headaches, confusion and disorientation (not knowing where you are). This could kill a person if their brain became too compressed. Hall was left for dead when his breathing and heartbeat stopped. He was found the next day wandering near a cliff without his gloves or oxygen, and his climbing suit unzipped. 

</doc>
<doc id="102347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102347" title="George F. Smoot">
George F. Smoot

George Fitzgerald Smoot III (born February 20, 1945) is an American professor of astrophysics and cosmology. In 2006 he won a Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on COBE with John C. Mather. That work made it possible to measure black holes and cosmic radiation much more exactly than was possible before. 
This work gave new evidence for the big-bang idea that the universe was once a big explosion. This work was completed using the Cosmic Background Explorer Satellite (COBE). The Nobel Prize committee said: "the COBE-project can also be regarded as the starting point for cosmology as a precision science."
Professor Smoot works for the University of California, Berkeley Department of Physics. In 2003 he was awarded the Einstein Medal. 
Professor Smoot was born in Yukon, Florida. He went to Upper Arlington High School in Upper Arlington, Ohio until 1962. He studied mathematics for some time before going to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he was awarded two bachelor's degrees for mathematics and physics in 1966, and a Ph.D. in particle physics in 1970.
Smoots cousin, Oliver R. Smoot, also studied at MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), and was made famous for the Smoot measurement of the Harvard Bridge between Cambridge and Boston. The "Smoot" length was marked in paint over 360 times on the bridge and is repainted there every year. Oliver later worked as the Chairman of the American National Standards Institute.
Professor Smoot began to study cosmology, and went to Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory where he worked with Luis Walter Alvarez on the experiment HAPPE, a high up weather balloon for detecting antimatter in the upper atmosphere. 
He then took up an interest in the microwaves in cosmic radiation which had been discovered by Arno Allan Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson in 1964. This work gave new evidence of what the universe is made of. Some researchers thought that the universe was rotating, which would mean that temperature of microwaves would seem different when measured from different angles. With the help of Alvarez and Richard A. Muller, Professor Smoot developed a radiometer to measure the difference in temperature from two angles 60 degrees apart. The radiometer was put on top of a Lockheed U-2 plane, but the measurements seemed to show that the universe was not rotating. It did, however, detect another difference in the microwave temperature on one side of the sky. They called this a dipole pattern and a Doppler effect of the Earth's motion. A doppler effect happens because the Sun, and the Milky Way are moving at nearly 600 km/s. They think this is caused by gravity from the Great Attractor.
The measurements from the radiometer showed that one side of the sky was different to the other but this was surprising because it was expected that many differences would be found all over the sky. Smoot was working on finding these smaller differences in the late 1970s when he gave NASA an idea to make a satellite with a detector that was similar to the one mounted on the Lockheed aeroplane. This detector would be much more powerful and it would not be affected by the atmosphere. NASA spent US$160  million on the satellite and named it the COBE. The COBE satellite was delayed after the Space Shuttle Challenger was destroyed, but was launched successfully on November 18, 1989. After more than two years, on 21 April 1992, the COBE research team claimed that the satellite had detected the small differences they were looking for. This was very important in the study of the early universe. The study was "evidence for the birth of the universe". Professor Smoot said: "If you're religious, it's like looking at God."
More than 1,000 researchers, engineers and other workers helped to make the COBE. John Mather was in control of the whole project and the experiments that made the COBE possible. George Smoot was in control of measuring the small differences in the temperature of the radiation.
Smoot worked with the "San Francisco Chronicle"s journalist, Keay Davidson, to write a book called "Wrinkles in Time", all about the team's work. In the book "The Very First Light", John Mather and John Boslough write more of the COBE story. Mathers book says that Professor Smoot was giving news of COBE to the press before NASA did. This made problems between Smoot and Mather in the past.
After COBE, Smoot helped with another experiment with a stratospheric balloon called the MAXIMA experiment. This ballon took some better measurements than the COBE. Smoot has continued studying cosmic radiatin and now works on the third generation COBE satellite Planck. He is also working on the design of a Supernova/Acceleration Probe (SNAP), a satellite which is to measure dark energy. He has also assisted in analyzing data from the Spitzer Space Telescope in connection with measuring far infrared background radiation.

</doc>
<doc id="102357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102357" title="Soundgarden">
Soundgarden

Soundgarden is an American rock band. They began in Seattle, Washington, in 1984.
Soundgarden helped create the sound of grunge music. This is a genre of alternative rock that first became popular in Seattle. They were first signed to a local record label Sub Pop. Later, they were the first grunge band to sign to a major label, A&M Records, in 1988.
Soundgarden became well-known with the 1994 album "Superunknown". It debuted at number one on the "Billboard" charts. Two singles won Grammy Awards; "Black Hole Sun" and "Spoonman". VH1 has ranked Soundgarden at number 14 in their special "100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock".
In 1997, the band broke up because they could no longer agree on the sound of their musical future. The members worked on other projects for more than ten years. Soundgarden got back together in 2010. Two years later, they released their sixth studio album, "King Animal".
Soundgarden began in 1984. They first had three members: singer and drummer Chris Cornell, lead guitarist Kim Thayil, and bassist Hiro Yamamoto. The band named themselves after a wind-channeling pipe sculpture, "A Sound Garden". The art work is in Magnuson Park, in Seattle.
At first, Cornell played drums while singing, but in 1985 the band hired Scott Sundquist so that Cornell could just sing. The band's first recordings were three songs on a compilation album for C/Z Records named "Deep Six". Also appearing on the album were early grunge artists Green River, Skin Yard, Malfunkshun, The U-Men and the Melvins. In 1986, Sundquist left the band. He was replaced by Matt Cameron, who had been the drummer for Skin Yard.
A Seattle radio staion DJ, Jonathan Poneman, liked Soundgarden after seeing them perform. He later said, "I saw this band that was everything rock music should be". Poneman offered to pay for a record to be made by the band. Teaming up with Bruce Pavitt, Poneman also contributed $20,000 to the financially struggling Sub Pop. This helped turn Sup Pop into a popular, successful record label that attracted more success with grunge bands. Sub Pop then released Soundgarden's "Screaming Life" EP in 1987, and the "Fopp" EP in 1988. A combination of the two was issued as "Screaming Life/Fopp" in 1990.
Though major labels were asking Soundgarden to sign with them, in 1988 the band chose a small independent label, SST Records. SST released their debut album, "Ultramega OK". The album was nominated for a Grammy for Best Metal Performance in 1990.
The band's first music video, "Flower", became popular; airing regularly on MTV's "120 Minutes". In 1989, Soundgarden promoted "Ultramega OK" with a tour of the United States and then went to Europe. This was their first overseas tour.
In 1989, Soundgarden released their first album for a major label, A&M Records. "Louder Than Love" became the band's first to chart on the "Billboard" 200. It reached number 108 on the chart in 1990. The band supported the album with tours of North America and Europe.
A month before touring for "Louder Than Love" began, bassist Hiro Yamamoto left to go back to college. Yamamoto was unhappy because he felt he was not important enough to the band. Former Nirvana bassist Jason Everman took his place for the tour. Everman was fired immediately after Soundgarden got back from Europe in mid-1990. An EP "Loudest Love" and the video compilation "Louder Than Live", were both released in 1990. The video shows five live tracks made during the "Louder Than Love" tour.
Bassist Ben Shepherd joined Soundgarden in 1990. Their next album, "Badmotorfinger" was released in 1991. It had some success, reaching number 39 on the album charts. But it got less attention because of the surprise success of Nirvana's "Nevermind", released the same month as Badmotorfinger. Two singles got popular airplay on alternative radio stations and MTV.
The first single from "Badmotorfinger", "Jesus Christ Pose", got negative attention when MTV banned its music video in 1991. Many listeners were outraged by the song and its video, calling it anti-Christian. The band received death threats while on tour in the United Kingdom in support of the album. "Badmotorfinger" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance in 1992.
After a tour of North America in 1991, the band opened for Guns N' Roses in North America on the band's "Use Your Illusion Tour". After several tours to promote the album, they rejoined Guns N' Roses in the summer of 1992 in Europe as part of the Use Your Illusion Tour with another opening act, Faith No More. The band took part in the 1992 Lollapalooza tour with the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Pearl Jam, and Ministry.
The band later released a video compilation "Motorvision". It was made in 1992 at the Paramount Theatre. Also that year, they appeared in the movie "Singles". They were show performing "Birth Ritual". The song appeared on the soundtrack, as did a Chris Cornell solo song, "Seasons".
Soundgarden released "Superunknown" in 1994. It became the band's best-selling album, partly because of the popular singles "Black Hole Sun", "Spoonman", "My Wave", and "Fell on Black Days". Upon its release in March 1994, "Superunknown" debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 album chart.
The lyrics of the songs were dark and sad; much of them seem to be talking about substance abuse, suicide, and depression. Reviewer J.D. Considine of "Rolling Stone" said "Superunknown" "demonstrates far greater range than many bands manage in an entire career." He also stated, "At its best, "Superunknown" offers a more harrowing depiction of alienation and despair than anything on "In Utero"."
The music video for "Black Hole Sun" received the MTV Video Music Award for "Best Rock Video|Best Metal/Hard Rock Video" award in 1994. Soundgarden won two Grammy Awards in 1995; "Black Hole Sun" received the award for Best Hard Rock Performance and "Spoonman" received the award for Best Metal Performance.
After a worldwide tour to promote "Superunknown", the band members began working on what would become their last studio album for more than 15 years. It was released in 1996. Four singles were released from the album: "Pretty Noose", "Blow Up the Outside World", "Burden in My Hand", and "Ty Cobb".
The music was less heavy metal and grunge sounding than the group's previous albums. The band members said that they wanted to experiment with other sounds. In a review, David Browne of "Entertainment Weekly" said, "Few bands since Led Zeppelin have so crisply mixed instruments both acoustic and electric." However, the writing and recording of the album was stressful for the group. Thayil and Cornell seemed to not agree on a change from the heavy guitar riffs that had become the band's trademark. The album got favorable reviews, but did not sell as well as "Superunknown".
The band played on the 1996 Lollapalooza tour with Metallica, who had asked for them to appear. After Lollapalooza, the band left for a world tour. Tensions continued to increase during the tour. When asked if the band hated touring, Cornell said, "We really enjoy it to a point and then it gets tedious, because it becomes repetitious. You feel like fans have paid their money and they expect you to come out and play them your songs like the first time you ever played them. That's the point where we hate touring." At the tour's final stop in Honolulu, Hawaii on February 9, 1997, Shepherd threw his bass guitar into the air in frustration after his equipment failed. He then stormed off the stage. The band then also left the stage, but Cornell returned to play a solo as an encore.
On April 9, 1997, the band announced they were breaking up. Thayil said, "It was pretty obvious from everybody's general attitude over the course of the previous half year that there was some dissatisfaction." A best-of album named "A-Sides", was released in November 1997 through A&M Records.
After almost 13 years, on January 1, 2010, Chris Cornell wrote on his Twitter, "The 12-year break is over and school is back in session. Sign up now. Knights of the Soundtable ride again!" The message linked to a website for fans to enter their e-mail addresses to get updates on the reunion.

</doc>
<doc id="102411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102411" title="Book of Judges">
Book of Judges

The Book of Judges is the seventh book in both the Christian Bible (Old Testament), and the Hebrew Tanakh. It was originally written in Hebrew, to the people in Israel. The Hebrew word for the book is "Shaptiym", which means, 'people of judgment.'

</doc>
<doc id="102412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102412" title="Black people">
Black people

Black people is a term that is used for a racial group of people with a dark skin color. The meaning of the word is mainly used for people of Sub-Saharan African descent. A meaning that also includes certain groups in Oceania and Southeast Asia.
Black people in the United Kingdom are called Black British. They make up 3.3% of the people in the UK.
During apartheid people in South Africa were classified into four main races: : Black, White, Asian (mostly Indian), and Coloured. Under apartheid black people were treated the mostly badly. Coloured people were treated slightly less badly. In South Africa Chinese people who lived there during apartheid are classed as black. About 80% of people in South Africa are Black African. The income of the average white South African household is six times as much as that of the average black South African household. 14% of black South Africans have HIV. 0.3% of Indians and whites do.
In India and Pakistan there are Siddi people.
In the United States the one-drop rule is sometimes used to decide whether a person is black. This is one of the reasons that black people do not all have dark skin. For example, President Barack Obama is black because he has a black father. Black people can also have light skin because of illness. Michael Jackson, another American singer, was born with brown skin but his skin became light because of a disease called vitiligo. A black person may be called white by other black people if they do not associate themselves with black culture. White people may also be called black.

</doc>
<doc id="102423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102423" title="Book of Ruth">
Book of Ruth

The Book of "Ruth" (meaning "pity or compassion") is the eight book of the Old Testament (Christian), and the Tanakh (Jewish). It is one of the shortest books in both the Jewish and Christian holy books, consisting of only four chapters. It is unknown who wrote the book. Some think that it was written by Samuel, but there is no evidence for that. According to many scholars, this book was originally part of the Book of Judges, and was later taken from that book and made independent. It was probably written around 900 BC.
The book tells the story of the family of Elimelech, his wife Naomi, and their sons Mahlon and Chilion. Because of a famine, they were forced to leave Bethlehem and go to the land of Moab. Once there, Elimelech died, and his sons married two Moabite women. Mahlon married Ruth, and Chilion married Orpah. After some time there, Mahlon and Chilion both died.
Naomi was forced to return home because her husband and sons were dead. She then told Ruth and Orpah to return home to their families and find new husbands. Orpah returned home but Ruth promised she would follow Naomi wherever she went. 
They returned to home and Ruth decided she would go into the fields to pick up grain the wealthy people would drop on the ground (a common practice in that time). A kind man named Boaz, who was the owner of the field, noticed her and her beauty. He told his workers to drop extra grain for her. When she went home to tell her mother-in-law how much she received, they found out that Boaz was a close relative of theirs.
After an even closer relative said he would not marry her, Boaz and Ruth were happily married. She would bear him a son named Obed, who was the father of Jesse, who was the father of David, who was, according to the New Testament, the ancestor of Jesus.

</doc>
<doc id="102424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102424" title="Mesolithic">
Mesolithic

The Mesolithic was a period in the development of human technology between the Paleolithic and Neolithic periods of the Stone Age.
In the Palaeolithic, people were pure hunter-gatherers. In the Neolithic they were farmers in settlements with domesticated animals and wheat, with over 100 kinds of tools and with pottery. The Mesolithic was a transitional period between the two. It happened at different times in different places. Mesolithic tools are small tools produced by chipping, and are hunter-gatherer tools, often arrowheads and points. Neolithic tools are often polished and far more varied. They are tools of more settled societies with some agriculture.
The term 'Mesolithic' was introduced by Hodder Westrop in 1877, though the idea had been used earlier. It was not much used until V. Gordon Childe popularized it in his book "The dawn of Europe" (1947). There is another term, 'Epipalaeolithic', which is sometimes used instead.
The type of tool is the diagnostic factor. The Mesolithic featured devices made with small chipped stone tools. The Neolithic mainly abandoned this mode in favor of polished, not chipped, stone tools.
The Mesolithic culture can be set apart from that of the Palaeolithic in these ways:
The Fertile Crescent was the first part of the world to move out of the Palaeolithic.
In some areas, such as the Near East, agriculture was already underway by the end of the Pleistocene, and there the Mesolithic is short. In areas with limited influence of ice age, the term "Epipaleolithic" is sometimes preferred.
Regions that experienced greater environmental effects as the last ice age ended have a much more evident Mesolithic era. This lasted millennia. In Northern Europe, societies were able to live well on rich food supplies from the marshlands. Such conditions produced distinctive human behaviours which are preserved in characteristic finds. These conditions also delayed the coming of the Neolithic until as late as 4000 BC (6,000 before present) in northern Europe.
Genetic research has been done on the skeleton of a 7,000-year-old man from north-west Spain. It shows he had blue eyes and a dark skin. The analysis showed that he had ancestral alleles in several skin pigmentation genes. This means he had dark hair and brown skin.
Researchers were surprised because they thought that European populations evolved light skin quite quickly. In lower latitudes dark skin protects from UV rays in sunlight. In northern latitudes this is not such a problem, but the supply of vitamin D is a problem. Vitamin D is synthesised by the action of sunlight on skin. Therefore, it is an advantage in much of Europe to have a light skin.
Earlier research was done on data using 2,196 samples from 185 diverse populations. It showed that at least three ancestral groups contributed to present-day Europeans.

</doc>
<doc id="102428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102428" title="Epipalaeolithic">
Epipalaeolithic

The Epipaleolithic or "peripheral old stone age" is a term used for the hunter-gatherer cultures that existed after the end of the last ice age, before the Neolithic. 
The term is sometimes confused with Mesolithic, and the two are sometimes used as synonyms. Yet, when a distinction is made, Epipaleolithic is used for those cultures that were not much affected by the ending of the Ice Age and the term Mesolithic is reserved for Western Europe where the extinction of the Megafauna had a great influence on the paleolithic populations at the end of the Ice Age.

</doc>
<doc id="102430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102430" title="Thinker">
Thinker

Thinker could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="102432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102432" title="Agricultural revolution">
Agricultural revolution

Agricultural revolution could mean:
There are also several more local events related to agriculture and called revolutions:

</doc>
<doc id="102433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102433" title="Neolithic revolution">
Neolithic revolution

The Neolithic revolution was the first agricultural revolution. It was a gradual change from nomadic hunting and gathering communities and bands to agriculture and settlement. This period is described as a "revolution" because it changed the way of life of communities which made the change. It occurred in different prehistoric human societies at different times. Many societies changed 9–7 thousand years ago. 
The term refers to the general time period over which these developments took place. It also applies to the changes which took place: the adoption of early farming techniques, crop cultivation, and the domestication of animals.
The Neolithic Revolution is important for developments in social organization and technology. 
The Neolithic revolution led to living in permanent or semi-permanent settlements. Because of this fewer people led a nomadic lifestyle. To be able to know who the crops grown belonged to, the concept of land ownership was developed. The natural environment was changed, population densities grew, and people ate more vegetable and cereal foods in their diet. Hierarchies developed in society. Grain was stored, and could be traded. Surplus production from good crop yields helped societies survive bad years. 
When humans started to domesticate crops, and certain animals such as dogs, goats, sheep, and cattle, human society changed. Because people now grew crops and raised livestock they no longer needed to move around. They could build better settlements. Their diet also changed. It included more oats and vegetables. People also started to keep and manage some foods - it was not advisable to eat all grain seeds, because then there would be no seeds left to plant the next year. Also, as there were surpluses in some years, these could be traded for other goods with other people.
These changes happened in several places of the world, independently. They did not happen in the same order though. The earliest farming societies in the Near East did not use pottery. It is still unclear to what extent plants were domesticated in Britain, or if permanently settled communities existed at all. Early Japanese societies used pottery "before" developing agriculture.
In the Paleolithic there were many different human species. According to current research, only the modern human reached the Neolithic though.
Vere Gordon Childe gave the name "Neolithic Revolution" to this process in the 1920s. He thought that it was as important as the Industrial Revolution (which happened in the 18th and 19th century).
There are different theories why this transition could have happened:
According to Harland, there are three main reasons why the Neolithic revolution happened:

</doc>
<doc id="102443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102443" title="British Army">
British Army

The British Army is the land armed forces branch of the British Armed Forces. It came into being with unification of the Kingdoms of England and Scotland into the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. The new British Army included Regiments that had already existed in England and Scotland. It was administered by the War Office from London. Since 1963 it has been managed by the Ministry of Defence.
From roughly 1763 the United Kingdom has been one of the leading military and economic powers of the world. The British Empire expanded in this time to include colonies, protectorates, and Dominions throughout the Americas, Africa, Asia and Australasia. Although the Royal Navy is widely regarded as having been vital for the rise of Empire, and British dominance of the world, the British Army played important roles in colonisation. 
The British army was heavily involved in the Napoleonic Wars in which the army served in Spain, across Europe, and in North Africa. The war between the British and French Empires stretched around the world. The British Army finally came to defeat Napoleon at one of Britain's greatest military victories at the battle of Waterloo.
Under Oliver Cromwell, the English Army had been active in the conquest, and the settlement, of Ireland since the 1650s. The Cromwellian campaign was characterised by its uncompromising treatment of the Irish towns that had supported the Royalists during the English Civil War. 

</doc>
<doc id="102445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102445" title="Mario Kart">
Mario Kart

To date, there have been four "Mario Kart" games for home consoles, three portable games, and three Namco co-developed arcade games, which makes a total of ten "Mario Kart" games with a eleventh one in development. The most recent game of the "Mario Kart" series is "Mario Kart 8".
In the "Mario Kart" series, players compete in go-kart races, controlling one of a selection of characters from the "Mario" franchise. Up to eight participants can compete in each race, with the exception of "Mario Kart Wii", which holds twelve. One of the features of the series is the use of various power-up items obtained by driving into item boxes laid out on the course. These power-ups include mushrooms to give players a speed boost, Koopa Shells to be thrown at opponents, and banana peels that can be laid on the track as hazards. The type of weapon received from an item box is random and often influenced by the player's position in the race. For example, players lagging far behind may receive more powerful items while the leader will only receive small defensive items. This gameplay mechanic–called "rubber banding"– allows other players or computers a realistic chance to catch up to the leading player no matter how far ahead they are.
As the series has progressed, each new title has introduced new elements in order to keep the gameplay fresh. Changes typically include new items, new stages, and new methods of obtaining speed boosts, but most games have also featured a new play mechanic as well. Changes new titles have brought to the series include: "Mario Kart 64" introducing 4-player racing and bringing the series into the third dimension, "'s" introducing a partner system and the Double Dash!!, "Mario Kart Wii's" use of motorbikes and twelve participants per race, and the newest entry into the franchise, "Mario Kart 7", featuring hang gliders, submarines and a new first-person perspective as well as customizing karts.
Many course themes are repeated throughout the series. For example, most games have featured a circuit course, a desert course, a city or highway course with traffic, some form of a beach course, a stadium course, a jungle course, an ice or snow course, Bowser's Castle and Rainbow Road. Each game in the series includes 16 original courses, with the exception of "Super Mario Kart" and "Super Circuit", which holds 20. Most races have three laps, while some games have more or less. There are also three to six original battle arenas in each game, designed exclusively for Battle mode. So far, there are 120 original courses and 30 original arenas spread throughout these seven games. Additionally, there are 48 Retro courses and 10 Retro arenas. These consist of older material recreated for newer games.
Each "Mario Kart" game features a variety of different modes. The following modes recur most often in the series:
Several "Mario Kart"-related items appear in the "Super Smash Bros." series, with "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" in particular featuring a stage based on one of "Mario Kart DS"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> courses. Certain courses from the series have also appeared in "F-Zero X", "Itadaki Street DS", "Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Winter Games", "Fortune Street" and "Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games". Various items from the series can also be seen in games such as "Nintendogs" and "Animal Crossing".
"Mario Kart" has had a range of merchandise released. This includes a Scalextric style "Mario Kart DS" Figure-8-Circuit. It comes with Mario and Donkey Kong figures, while a Wario and a Luigi are available separately. It also includes CD soundtracks. A line of remote-controlled karts are available in stores. Each kart has a Game Boy Advance-shaped controller. It features forward driving and rotates when put in reverse, instead of steering. The current line-up of karts is Mario, Donkey Kong and Yoshi. There are three large karts that depict the same trio. These karts are controlled by a GameCube controller shape. Japanese figurines of Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, Yoshi, Wario, Donkey Kong, and Bowser are also available for purchase as well as for "Mario Kart 64", figures of Mario, Luigi, Wario, Bowser, Donkey Kong, and Yoshi were made by Toybiz. There is also a land-line telephone featuring Mario holding a lightning bolt while seated in his Kart, as seen here.
K'Nex has released "Mario Kart Wii" sets, with Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, and Bowser in karts and bikes. Club Nintendo also released merchandise with a platinum soundtrack from "Mario Kart Wii" and three gold trophies from "Mario Kart 7".
"Nintendo Power" listed the "Mario Kart" series as being one of the greatest multi-player experiences, citing the diversity in game modes as well as the entertainment value found.
Guinness World Records awarded the "Mario Kart" series with five world records in the "Guinness World Records: Gamer's Edition 2008", including "First Console Kart Racing Game" and "Best Selling Handheld Racing Game." Guinness World Records ranked the original "Super Mario Kart" number 1 on the list of top 50 console games of all time based on initial impact and lasting legacy.

</doc>
<doc id="102446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102446" title="City Loop, Melbourne">
City Loop, Melbourne

The Melbourne City Loop is where Melbourne, Victoria's railway lines meet. Most of the stations are under the ground. The stations in the loop are Flinders Street Station, Southern Cross Station, Parliament, Melbourne Central and Flagstaff.

</doc>
<doc id="102448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102448" title="Percy Bysshe Shelley">
Percy Bysshe Shelley

Percy Bysshe Shelley (4 August 1792 – 8 July 1822) was an English poet of the early nineteenth century. He is widely thought of as one of most important poets of the Romantic movement in English literature. Some of his poems, like "Ozymandias" and "Ode to the West Wind", are among the most famous in English.
Shelley was born in Horsham, Sussex. He was the son of a member of Parliament. He attended the University of Oxford, for only one year; he was expelled for being an atheist. In his own time Shelley was very unpopular for his political and religious views and for his personal conduct. He married young, but left his wife to run away with Mary Godwin. After Shelley's first wife committed suicide, Shelley married Mary Godwin; she later became famous as Mary Shelley, the author of the novel "Frankenstein". 
Shelley left England and spent much of his life travelling in Europe, especially in Italy. He became a close friend of poet Lord Byron, who also left England and travelled in Europe because of controversy at home. Shelley continued to write poetry throughout this time; he wrote several major works, like the verse drama "The Cenci" and long poems like "Alastor" and "Adonais", as well as many shorter poems.
About a month before his 30th birthday, Shelley drowned in a boating accident off the coast of Italy. He was one of a trio of important English Romantic poets of the same generation who died young; the other two were Lord Byron and John Keats.

</doc>
<doc id="102465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102465" title="Romani language">
Romani language

Romani or Romany (native name: "") is the language of the Roma and Sinti. The Indo-Aryan Romani language should not be confused with either Romanian (spoken by Romanians), or Romansh (spoken in parts of southeastern Switzerland), both of which are Romance languages.
Analysis of the Romani language has shown that it is closely related to those spoken in central and northern India, Pothwari in particular. This linguistic relationship is believed to indicate the Roma's and Sinti's geographical origin. Loanwords in Romani make it possible to trace the pattern of their migration westwards. 
The following table shows the distribution of Romani speakers in Europe according to Bakker et al. (2000) . The last column shows the percentage of Romani speakers in the Roma population in each country. 
</div>

</doc>
<doc id="102466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102466" title="Fudge">
Fudge

Fudge is a sometimes cake-like candy that can be rich and can have the flavor of cocoa. It is made by putting sugar, butter, milk, and chocolate and mixing them together.

</doc>
<doc id="102468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102468" title="Sinti">
Sinti

Sinti or Sinta (Singular masc.=Sinto; sing. fem.=Sintisa) is the name of some communities of the nomadic people usually called "Gypsies" in English. This includes communities known in German and Dutch as "Zigeuner" and in Italian as "Zingari". They are closely related to, and are usually considered to be a subgroup of, the Roma people.
While the Sinti were, until quite recently, chiefly nomadic, today only a small percentage of the group remains unsettled. In earlier times, they frequently lived on the outskirts of communities, generally in squalor.
The Sinti arrived in Germany and Austria in the Middle Ages, eventually splitting into two groups: "Eftavagarja" ("the Seven Caravans") and "Estraxarja" ("from Austria"). These two groups then expanded, the Eftavagarja into France, where they assimilated into the local Romani groups (Manouches), and the Estraxarja into Italy and Eastern Europe, mainly what are now Croatia, Hungary, Transylvania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, eventually taking various regional names.

</doc>
<doc id="102472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102472" title="Strapping Young Lad">
Strapping Young Lad

Strapping Young Lad was a metal band from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They played extreme metal. These people played in the band: Devin Townsend (guitar, vocals), Jed Simon (guitar, vocals), Byron Stoud (bass, vocals), Gene Hoglan (drums). The band went on an extended hiatus and would eventually disband in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="102475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102475" title="Rock climbing">
Rock climbing

Rock climbing is a sport where someone uses his hands and feet to climb up a rock or an artificial climbing wall. Rock climbing is a very difficult sport because you need to have a lot of strength. Rock climbers must know how to use ropes, carabiners and harnesses for their own safety.
Because of many different kinds of rocks around the world, many different kinds of climbing started.

</doc>
<doc id="102477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102477" title="Doug Henning">
Doug Henning

Douglas James Henning (May 3, 1947 – February 7, 2000) was a Canadian magician, illusionist and escape artist. He was born in Winnipeg. He helped to re- magic shows, during his in the 1970s.
Henning's approach to magic and performing was different from earlier magicians. While magicians usually performed in black , Henning wore colorful clothes. He also studied psychology in college, to know how the human mind works.
Henning is credited by many for the resurgence of the public's interest in magic, thanks to his breakthroug Broadway show, "The Magic Show," which opened in 1974 and ran for almost five years. This was followed by eight television specials on NBC (the first of which remains the most watched magic television special in history, with over fifty million viewers). In 1982, he appeared in another Broadway show, "Merlin", which ran for seven months. Though the magic in Merlin was met with accolades, critics trounced the show's book and music.
Henning was a spokesperson for Polaroid, TWA, Minolta and Chrysler.
He was a student of the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and used transcendental meditation to help him focus and to relax. He tried to help the Maharishi open a theme park, called Vedaland. Henning also ran for in Canada, but lost the election. 
Henning died in 2000 of liver cancer in Los Angeles. Instead of normal medical treatments, he tried to cure himself through natural and diet, but this did not work. After his death, Henning's widow kept the Vedaland campaign going.
The first and only written biography of Doug Henning, "Spellbound: The Wonder-filled Life of Doug Henning" was published in 2009 (John Harrison, BoxOffice Books, New York.)

</doc>
<doc id="102478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102478" title="Rancid (band)">
Rancid (band)

Rancid are an influential ska-punk band formed in 1991 in Albany, California by Tim Armstrong and Matt Freeman.
Rancid were formed in 1991 out of the ashes of out of the seminal ska punk band Operation Ivy, which had broken up two years earlier. Following Operation Ivy's breakup, Tim Armstrong and Matt Freeman decided to form a new band, and started a hardcore punk group called Generator, which quickly broke up. They also started two other ska influenced bands, Downfall and Dance Hall Crashers, but moved on quickly from both. In 1991, after Armstrong and Freeman recruited drummer Brett Reed, Rancid officially became Rancid.
Rancid's first official recorded release was a 1992 self-titled EP, which is currently out of print, for Operation Ivy's old label Lookout! Records. Also during 1992, shortly after releasing this, Rancid were signed to Bad Religion guitarist Brett Gurewitz's label, Epitaph Records, and finally released their first album in 1993, which is also self-titled. Prior to its release, the band was looking for a second guitarist and Armstrong asked former UK Subs guitarist Lars Frederiksen to be Rancid's second guitarist, but he immediately turned down the request. However, after Billie Joe Armstrong (who was in Green Day at the time) declined, Frederiksen changed his mind and decided to join Rancid.
Frederiksen was present on Rancid's second album, "Let's Go", which was released in 1994 and spawned the radio hit "Salvation". That year their label-mates, The Offspring, experienced a huge success with their album "Smash". The Offspring took Rancid on tour with them, and helped "Let's Go" make it to #97 on Billboard's Heatseekers and Billboard 200 charts, respectively. With the success of the album Rancid were pursued by several major labels, including Madonna's Maverick Records, but the band eventually turned down the idea of signing to a different label and decided to just stay on Epitaph.
Rancid's popularity grew in 1995 with their third album, "...And Out Come the Wolves", which quickly surpassed "Let's Go" in terms of success. The critically-acclaimed album, also the band's most successful, produced three singles, "Roots Radicals", "Time Bomb", and "Ruby Soho", which all charted on the North American Billboard Modern Rock Tracks, and the band performed two of these songs on "Saturday Night Live". "...And Out Come the Wolves" was certified gold by the RIAA on January 22, 1996. It was also certified platinum on September 23, 2004.
Since the release of "...And Out Come the Wolves", Rancid would became one of the most important punk bands of the 1990s, along with ALL, Bad Religion, Face to Face, Green Day, Guttermouth, Lagwagon, NOFX, The Offspring, Pennywise, Social Distortion (the latter of which Freeman would eventually join and later leave), The Vandals, and many others.

</doc>
<doc id="102479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102479" title="Glen Canyon Dam">
Glen Canyon Dam

Glen Canyon Dam is a large dam on the Colorado River. It is in Page, Arizona. The dam is 583 feet high and it is 1,560 feet wide. It creates Lake Powell which is 186 miles long. The purpose of the dam is to create electricity and to prevent floods. The reservoir can store 27 million acre-feet of water (which is the amount of water that can cover one acre to 1 foot deep). Construction of the dam began in 1956. It was able to begin storing the flow of the river in 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="102485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102485" title="Superunknown">
Superunknown

Superunknown is the fourth studio album by the American rock band Soundgarden. The album was released in 1994. The album is well known thanks to singles like "Black Hole Sun", "Spoonman" and "Fell on Black Days".

</doc>
<doc id="102487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102487" title="Badmotorfinger">
Badmotorfinger

Badmotorfinger is the third studio album by the American rock band Soundgarden. It is one of Soundgarden's best-selling albums. The album was released October 8, 1991.
"Satanoscillatemymetallicsonatas" was a bonus CD included with some editions of "Badmotorfinger" (like how "Songs from the Superunknown" was included with "Superunknown"). The title is a palindrome ("Satan, oscillate my metallic sonatas.")

</doc>
<doc id="102518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102518" title="Bernoulli's principle">
Bernoulli's principle

Bernoulli's principle is a concept of fluid dynamics. It says that when an incompressible fluid moves through different sizes of tube, the fluid's speed changes. This change in velocity is called "acceleration". Newton showed that acceleration only occurs through the action of a force. When a force acts over an area, it is called "pressure". A higher pressure pushes (accelerates) fluid toward lower pressure. So any change in a fluid's speed must be matched by a change in pressure (force). Bernoulli saw that while the speed of the flow went up in the smaller part of the tube, the pressure went down. Please note that this refers to changes in speed and perssure along a single path of flow and does not apply to two different flows at different speeds.
Basically, the Bernoulli principle says that as speed of the fluid increases, pressure decreases. The photo on the right shows this happening. The air in the wide part of the tube has a higher static pressure than the thin part. For a steady flow, the amount of fluid entering the pipe must equal the amount leaving the pipe, so the fluid speed in the thin part must increase. 
The full version of Bernoulli's principle includes both the work performed by the pressure and by the changes in potential energy from changes in height. In this form, the principle says the sum of the pressure, kinetic energy, and potential energy is a constant. (Bernoulli does not take into account viscosity or compressibility.)

</doc>
<doc id="102540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102540" title="Book of Proverbs">
Book of Proverbs

The Book of Proverbs is a book in both the Tanakh (Judaism), and the Old Testament (Christianity). The book contains some of the most important teaching and instructions in each of their respective Religions.
Most scholars believe that Solomon was the writer of at least part of the book. Other authors are mentioned as well, but these references are missing in the Greek Septuagint. The Septuagint sees King Solomon as the author of the whole Book of Proverbs. In the Middle Ages, scholars thought the Vulgate was a more faithful rendering of 30:1 and 31:1. In their eyes the words "Agur" and "Lamuel" were only other names for Solomon.
Dates for the writing of the book are unclear. Because of suggested authorship of Solomon, and the workings of Hezekiah's men, there are some dates that can be worked with. However, there are not enough to give specific timing to the completion of the book, though it could have been as late as third century BC

</doc>
<doc id="102548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102548" title="Welwitschia">
Welwitschia

Welwitschia or "Welwitschia mirabilis" is known as one of the oldest living plants. It can be called a "living fossil". The plant is mainly found in the deserts of Namibia. Some of these plants may be more than 5000 years old. This would make them the oldest living things on Earth.
It is named after the discoverer, Dr. Friedrich Welwitsch. The plant is locally called "long haired thing". Its structure consists of a short, woody, top-shaped stem, and never more than two leaves, which are enormously long, (two or three metres) and break up at the ends.

</doc>
<doc id="102550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102550" title="Petasites">
Petasites

Petasites is a genus of herbs with leaves in the shape of a heart in the family Asteraceae. The common English name of petasites is "Butterbur". Plants of this genus grow near rivers and other water places in Europe, Asia and North America.
In general, the leaves are very big. His root is very long and grows very quick. Flowers are white, yellow, white-yellow or white-red, they are small and in a great number.
Butterbur is used in medical purposes, but there is a poison in all parts of the plant.
Some species of Butterbur are cultivated as a garden plant.
<br style="clear:left">

</doc>
<doc id="102555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102555" title="Death Angel">
Death Angel

Death Angel is a thrash metal band from Concord, California. They played from 1982 to 1991. In 2001 they started to play again. All of their members are from the Philippines. The members are: Mark Osegueda (vocals) Rob Cavestany (guitar, vocals), Ted Aguilar (guitar), Andy Galeon (drums), Dennis Pepa (bass, vocals)

</doc>
<doc id="102556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102556" title="Arch Enemy">
Arch Enemy

Arch Enemy is a death metal band from Sweden. They started in 1996. The members are: Angela Gossow (vocals), Michael Amott (guitar, vocals), Christopher Amott (guitar), Sharlee D'Angelo, (bass) Daniel Erlandsson (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="102557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102557" title="Trivium">
Trivium

Trivium may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="102559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102559" title="Living fossil">
Living fossil

Living fossil refers to life forms which have survived with little change for a long time, and which are still around today. 
Living fossils are not identical to their ancestors, of course. But they lived in the same or similar environments, and their adaptations suggest that their life-style was the same, or very similar.

</doc>
<doc id="102560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102560" title="Caliban (band)">
Caliban (band)

Caliban is a metal band from Hattingen, Germany. They started in 1997. They play "metalcore" which is mixture of Hardcore and Heavy metal. The members are: Andreas Dörner (vocals), Denis Schmidt (guitar, vocals), Marc Görtz (guitar), Marco Schaller (bass, vocals) and Patrick Grün (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="102567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102567" title="NetBSD">
NetBSD

NetBSD is an open source version of the Unix-derivative BSD computer operating system.
NetBSD is known for being very portable (able to work with a many kinds of computers), such as a small ARM or big amd64 Opteron computers. It is also seen as being fast (does things quickly), secure (hard for people to do bad things to) and stable (does not break often).
When people use NetBSD, like most software, they must agree to a license. The BSD license, which NetBSD uses, allows everyone to use, change, give away or sell NetBSD, as long as they do not take away the copyright notice and license text. This means people can make new things from NetBSD without having to give people the source code (information for the computer to make the program run).

</doc>
<doc id="102571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102571" title="Soilwork">
Soilwork

Soilwork is a melodic death metal band from Helsingborg, Sweden. They started in 1996. They have made 7 albums until now. The members are: Bjørn „Speed“ Strid (vocals), Daniel Antonsson (guitar), Ola Flink, (bass), Dirk Verbeuren (drums) and Sven Karlsson (Keyboard).

</doc>
<doc id="102572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102572" title="Lamb of God">
Lamb of God

Lamb of God is a metal band from Richmond, Virginia. They started in 1990. They play a style called Groove metal with Death metal influences. This style is similar to Thrash metal but has more rhythm. Their music is very similar to Pantera's music. The members are: Randy Blythe (vocals), Mark Morton (guitar), Willie Adler (guitar), John Campbell (bass) and Chris Adler (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="102573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102573" title="Carabiner">
Carabiner

A Carabiner is a metal loop, which can be opened on one side. This side is called gate. The other side is called spine. Carabiners are often used for rock climbing, sailing and canoeing. They also are used for construction of high buildings or window cleaning. The word comes from the German word ""Karabinerhaken"", which means "hook for a carbine". 
Climbing carabiners are very strong. Many can hold loads greater than 20 kN. When belaying a climber, using a belay device (such as a Grigri or an ATC), a carabiner with a locking feature must be used to prevent the carabiner from opening accidentally.
The last two types exist with and without locking devices. HMS carabiners usually are not produced without locking device. Non-locking-carabiners are often used in quickdraws.

</doc>
<doc id="102575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102575" title="Cyclamen">
Cyclamen

Cyclamen is a genus of 20 species of flowering plants. It is in the Myrsinaceae family. The genus is most widely known by its scientific name Cyclamen. It may also be called Persian violet (it is not related to the violets), or primrose (neither is it a primrose). This is because Cyclamen has been part of the Primulaceae families. 
Cyclamen come from the Mediterranean, from Spain to Iran. They are also found from northeast Africa to Somalia. They are perennial herbaceous aestivating plants, with a surface or underground tuber (derived from the hypocotyl) 4-12 cm diameter, which produces leaves in late winter, and flowers in the autumn; the leaves die down during the hottest part of the Mediterranean summer drought to save water. Each leaf or flower grows on its own stem, which shoots up from the hypocotyl. The variegation is thought by some botanists to be a form of natural disruptive camouflage to reduce grazing damage by animals. 
The hypocotyl grows leaves and flowers on stems, either one flower or one leaf per stem. The stem for leaves and flowers appears identical except in height. The leaves grow on stems of around 6 cm height.
Here are the species of this genus:

</doc>
<doc id="102576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102576" title="Bambi (character)">
Bambi (character)

Bambi is the main character in Felix Salten's book "Bambi, A Life in the Woods". He is a European Roe Deer. Bambi is also the main character in the Disney movies based on the book: "Bambi" and "Bambi II". In the movies, Bambi was an American white-tailed deer.

</doc>
<doc id="102578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102578" title="Grigri">
Grigri

Grigri is a securing device for rock climbing. Unlike many other securing devices, a Grigri is half-automatic. It works like a seat belt in a car. The rope can be slowly pulled through, but if there is lot of weight on the rope the Grigri locks the rope. "Grigri" is a trademark of the company Petzl, but because it was the first half-automatic securing device, many people call devices of other companies also Grigri.

</doc>
<doc id="102579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102579" title="Thumper (Bambi)">
Thumper (Bambi)

Thumper is a fictional rabbit in the Disney movies "Bambi" and "Bambi II". He is Bambi's sidekick.

</doc>
<doc id="102591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102591" title="Jacmel">
Jacmel

Jacmel (Kréyòl: "Jakmèl") is a city in southeast Haiti, on the Caribbean coast, at the mouth of the river "Grande Rivière de Jacmel". It is the capital city of the Sud-Est "Département".
The city is in the "Baie de Jacmel" ("Jacmel Bay") about 86 km south of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an "arrondissement" (a part of a department) with the same name. The "arrondissement" has four "communes" (a "commune" is like a municipality): Jacmel, Cayes-Jacmel, La Vallée and Marigot.
"Jacci" was the Taíno name for the region where is located Jacmel. It was changed to the Spanish word "Yáquimo" (sometimes written as "Jáquimo") and then to the French word Jacmel.
Christopher Columbus gave the name "Puerto de Brasil" ("Brazil port") to the place where Jacmel is now because there were many trees called "Brasil" (English: Brazilwood) in the region that were cut and sent to Spain; the tree has a yellow substance (and wood) that was used to give that color to hair, cloths and other objects.
In 1504, Nicolás de Ovando, Spanish governor of the Hispaniola, founded the town of "Villanueva de Yáquimo" (or "Villanova de Yáquimo"). But people left the town and French people came to live here; in 1698, the new town of Jacmel was founded.
There are many beautiful old houses in Jacmel, from the 1880s. Since 2004, the 'Festival Film Jakmèl' is celebrated in Jacmel and, since 2007, the international music festival 'Festival Mizik Jakmèl'.
Many visitors come to Jacmel for its carnival, the "Bassins Bleu" waterfalls, and the white sand beaches near the city.
Jacmel has sister relationships with:

</doc>
<doc id="102592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102592" title="Honda S2000">
Honda S2000

The Honda S2000 is a roadster created by the car company Honda. It was first on sale in April 1999. It is the successor (new model) of the S800. Production of the S2000 ended in 2009. 
AP1
The S2000 was introduced in 1999 as a 2000 model.
AP2
In 2004, the new S2000 was introduced.

</doc>
<doc id="102607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102607" title="Caliban">
Caliban

Caliban can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="102611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102611" title="Narre Warren railway station, Melbourne">
Narre Warren railway station, Melbourne

Narre Warren Railway Station is a railway station in Metcard Zone 2, located in Narre Warren, Victoria.

</doc>
<doc id="102612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102612" title="Premium station">
Premium station

A Premium station is a term used in the Melbourne train system for a station where there are better things than the other stations. There are currently 72 stations like this. All 5 City Loop stations are Premium stations, as well as the following stations -

</doc>
<doc id="102659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102659" title="Walker Percy">
Walker Percy

Walker Percy (May 28, 1916–May 10, 1990) was an American author. He wrote a novel called "The Moviegoer". 

</doc>
<doc id="102663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102663" title="Talcott Parsons">
Talcott Parsons

Talcott Parsons (December 13, 1902 - May 8, 1979) was an American sociologist who created an idea called structural functionalism. This is a type of sociology. Parsons worked at Harvard University from 1927 to 1973. 

</doc>
<doc id="102664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102664" title="Edward Hopper">
Edward Hopper

Edward Hopper (July 22, 1882 – May 15, 1967) was an American painter. He created paintings called "The Nighthawks" or "Chop Suey".

</doc>
<doc id="102665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102665" title="Elias Canetti">
Elias Canetti

Elias Canetti (born July 25, 1905 – died August 14, 1994) was an Bulgarian-Swiss Jewish author who wrote "Crowds and Power". A mountain in Antarctica is named for him.

</doc>
<doc id="102667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102667" title="Gao Xingjian">
Gao Xingjian

Gao Xingjian (born January 4, 1940), is a Chinese writer. He was awarded the 2000 Nobel Prize in Literature.
He is also a stage director and a painter.

</doc>
<doc id="102675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102675" title="English Renaissance drama">
English Renaissance drama

English Renaissance drama, or English Renaissance theatre, means the stage plays written and acted in the later 16th century and the first half of the 17th century, during the Renaissance period in England. This period in English history saw a great growth in drama as an art form and public entertainment. William Shakespeare, widely thought of as the greatest writer in English literature, is the most famous of many important playwrights, poets, and writers who worked in this era.
English Renaissance drama is sometimes called Elizabethan drama, since its most important developments started when Elizabeth I was queen of England from 1558 to 1603. But this name is not very accurate; the drama continued after Elizabeth's death, into the reigns of King James I (1603–1625) and his son King Charles I (1625–1649). Shakespeare, for example, started writing plays in the later years of Elizabeth's reign, but continued into the reign of James. When writing about plays from James's reign, scholars and critics sometimes use the term Jacobean drama; plays from Charles I's reign are called Caroline drama. (These names come from the Latin forms of the two kings' names, "Jacobus" for James and "Carolus" for Charles.) But for the subject as a whole, terms like English Renaissance drama or theatre are more accurate.
The year 1576 was a key date in this subject, since that is when the first permanent theatre building was built in London. It was called simply The Theatre, because it was the only place of its kind in England at the time. Before 1576, plays were acted in public halls and large houses, and in inns and public squares and courtyards and other open spaces, by troops of actors that mostly travelled around the countryside between cities and towns. Once the actors had a permanent place to act plays, they could develop their art without the constant need to travel. The Theatre was followed by other theatres in the London area; there were the Curtain, The Rose, the Swan, the Globe, and others too. More plays were written by more playwrights to fill these theatres.
Playwrights worked in both the classic types of drama, tragedy and comedy. They also began their own type of history play, mainly about earlier English kings and the events of their reigns. Richard Thayer Roberts the third and Shakespeare's "Richard III" and Marlowe's "Edward II" are two examples of this type of English history play. Plays were often written in poetry; early plays were mainly in rhymed verse, though as time passed playwrights came to prefer unrhymed blank verse. Prose was also used in some plays, mostly for comedy.
English Renaissance drama grew and developed until 1642, when it suddenly stopped. In the early years of the English Civil War, the Puritans who were fighting King Charles gained control of London and the region around it. The Puritans were against play-acting; they thought it was sinful and immoral. On September 2, 1642, the Puritans forced the London theatres to close, and to stay closed for most of the time until 1660. Then the English Restoration brought a new king, Charles II, who let the theatres re-open. In the 18-year gap between 1642 and 1660, English society had changed a good deal, and a new style of drama rose up in the Restoration era; it is usually called Restoration drama or Restoration theatre.
and many more

</doc>
<doc id="102680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102680" title="Blank verse">
Blank verse

The term Blank verse means poetry that does not use rhyme.
Blank verse relies on the meter of the lines in the poem to give structure, and to create the feeling of poetry as compared to prose. An example from William Wordsworth's poem "Michael" shows the lack of rhyme and the strict meter in blank verse – each line sticks fairly closely to the pattern of ten syllables and five beats:
Many critics judge blank verse to be better than rhyme for serious subjects, and many poets have used blank verse for their most important works. Shakespeare used rhyme in his early plays, but in his more mature works like "Hamlet" he preferred blank verse. John Milton wrote "Paradise Lost" in blank verse, including a note at the beginning of the poem saying that rhyming poetry was used to disguise badly written poems, and Wordsworth used it for "The Prelude" and "The Excursion". John Keats used rhyme in his "Endymion", his first try at a major poem; for his second attempt, "Hyperion", he switched to blank verse. The longest poems in English literature are written in blank verse, for example "The Fall of Nineveh" by Edwin Atherstone or "King Alfred" by John Fitchett. This last is about 130 000 lines long.
Many 20th century poets gave up both rhyme and the strict meter of blank verse to write free verse.
Joseph Berg Esenwein, Mary Eleanor Roberts, "Art of Versification". Revised edition. Springfield: 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="102695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102695" title="Altamira cave">
Altamira cave

Altamira (Spanish for 'high view') is a cave in Spain famous for its Upper Paleolithic cave paintings featuring drawings and coloured paintings of wild mammals and human hands. It is located near the town of "Santillana del Mar" in Cantabria, Spain, 30 km west of the city of "Santander". The cave with its paintings has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.
The cave is approximately 300 meters long

</doc>
<doc id="102696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102696" title="Altamira">
Altamira

Altamira could mean any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="102703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102703" title="F.C. Kuban Krasnodar">
F.C. Kuban Krasnodar

FC Kuban () is a Russian football club based in Krasnodar. In 2006 they won promotion to the Russian Premier League. Kuban have previously spent two seasons in Russian Premier League and three seasons in Soviet Top League.
The club was founded as Dynamo in 1928, but was named Neftyanik in 1954, Kuban in 1958, and Spartak in 1960. In 1963 the club was renamed Kuban and has been known by this name ever since.
Kuban and their predecessors mainly played at the lower levels of Soviet football, winning the RSFSR championship four times. Kuban played in the Soviet Top League in 1980-1982, achieving their best result (13th position) in 1981.
In 1992, due to the dissolution of the USSR, Kuban were entitled to play at the top level instead of being relegated to the Second League. They finished 18th out of 20 teams and were relegated. After spending several seasons in First and Second divisions, they won promotion back to the Premier League for 2004, but were again relegated straight away. This happened again in 2006 when they won promotion for the 2006-2007 season and then finished second to bottom.

</doc>
<doc id="102705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102705" title="Liiga">
Liiga

Liiga also known as SM-liiga from 1975 to 2013, is the top professional ice hockey league in Finland. It is generally thought of as one of the top leagues in Europe. It started in 1975. SM is a common abbreviation for "Suomen mestaruus", "Finnish championship".

</doc>
<doc id="102713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102713" title="Aurochs">
Aurochs

The Aurochs, or urus, ("Bos primigenius") was a large species of cattle, once common in Europe but now extinct. It was a wild animal, not a domesticated animal. The extinct aurochs/urus is a completely separate species from the "wisent" (the European bison).
According to the Paleontologisk Museum, University of Oslo, aurochs developed in India some two million years ago, came into the Middle East and farther into Asia, and reached Europe about 250,000 years ago. They were once thought a different species from modern European cattle ("Bos taurus"), but today not any more.
Modern cattle have become much smaller than their wild ancestors: the height of a large domesticated cow is about 1.5 meters (5 feet, 15 hands), while aurochs were about 1.75 meters (5.75 feet, 17 hands).
Aurochs also had several features not often seen in modern cattle, such as lyre-shaped horns set at a forward angle, a pale stripe down the spine, and different color according to the gender. Males were black with a pale stripe down the spine, while females and calves were reddish (these colours are still found in a few domesticated cattle breeds, such as Jersey cattle). Aurochs were also known to have very aggressive behaviour, and killing one was seen as an act of courage in ancient cultures.
At one time there were three aurochs subspecies, namely "Bos primigenius namadicus" (Falconer, 1859) that occurred in India, the "Bos primigenius mauretanicus" (Thomas, 1881) from North Africa and the "Bos primigenius primigenius" (Bojanus, 1827) from Europe and the Middle East. Only the European subspecies survived until recent times.

</doc>
<doc id="102714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102714" title="Privas">
Privas

Privas is a commune of France and a "préfecture" (capital) of the Ardèche "département". With a 1999 census population of only 9,170 people, it is the second smallest prefecture of any department in France. There are four bigger communes in Ardèche, called Annonay, Aubenas, Guilherand-Granges, and Tournon-sur-Rhône. The French footballer Cyril Théréau was born here. 
Privas is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="102715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102715" title="Guilherand-Granges">
Guilherand-Granges

Guilherand-Granges is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="102717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102717" title="Tournon-sur-Rhône">
Tournon-sur-Rhône

Tournon-sur-Rhône is a commune of the Ardèche "département", in France. The commune has a population of 9,960 people as of the year 1999.
It can be found on the right bank of the Rhône River, across from the Tain-l'Hermitage. That can be found in the Drôme "département".
The Great Bridge of Tournon was one of the largest bridge arches in the world before 1600.
Tournon-sur-Rhône is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="102718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102718" title="Battle of Marion">
Battle of Marion

The Battle of Marion (December 17–December 18, 1864) was a military engagement in the American Civil War that occurred when Major General George Stoneman, commander of the Union Army in Kentucky and Tennessee, raided Southwestern Virginia. General Stoneman's plan was to destroy anything that might benefit the Southern war effort and was approved by his commanding officers on December 6, 1864.
The Confederates managed to hold the key positions on the battlefield against numerous Union charges. Eventually, the Confederates ran short of ammunition and were forced to withdraw. The total casualties for this battle were 274, relatively low for a battle during the Civil War.
After the battle, the Union expedition set out to destroy the salt mines, lead works, and anything else in the area that could be of benefit to the Confederates.
The town of Marion is in southwest Virginia on the Middle Fork of the Holston River in Smyth County, Virginia. It was about half way between the salt works at Saltville and the lead mines near Wytheville. Since it is near the Mason–Dixon line, many of the town's families were divided and fought on opposing sides. Until the winter of 1864, the town of Marion had been protected from fighting by the mountains and geographic location.
Major General George Stoneman, commander of the Union Army in Kentucky and Tennessee, proposed another expedition into southwest Virginia to destroy all facilities and supplies of benefit to the Confederate war effort. This gained the approval of Major General John Schofield on December 6, 1864.
Stoneman would use troops under General Alvan Gillem and those commanded by General Stephen Burbridge—including the 5 and the 6 U.S. Colored Cavalry who had participated in the failed previous attempt to destroy the salt works at the first Battle of Saltville. Stoneman ordered Burbridge to bring his army of 4,200 men through the Cumberland Gap to join Stoneman and General Gillem at Knoxville, Tennessee where Gillem was refitting his own command into a picked force of 1,500 men. Stoneman did not reveal the objectives of the expedition to his subordinates until three days after it had departed Knoxville on December 10. On December 12, Stoneman's force flanked and forced back Confederate General Basil Duke's cavalry at Rogersville, Tennessee. The Federals defeated and scattered the Confederates the next day at Kingsport, Tennessee. There General Gillem captured 84 prisoners, including Col. Richard C. Morgan and the brigade's supply train.
On the 14th, the Union army began to push Duke's cavalry back toward Abingdon, Virginia. The next day, Stoneman and his cavalry went into camp at Glade Spring, Virginia, which was about west of Marion. On December 16, Stoneman's cavalry rode toward Marion, destroying infrastructure and public buildings along their path.
The opposing force of General Stoneman was the army of Major General John C. Breckinridge, who was the commander of the Department of Southwest Virginia. Breckinridge's command consisted of approximately 1,000 regular troops with another 500 militia reserves. Most of the army had been transferred to the Army of Northern Virginia to help in the defense of Richmond.
Breckinridge's army consisted of Colonel Henry Giltner's brigade, (which was formed from the soldiers of the 4th Kentucky Cavalry and the 10th Kentucky Cavalry); the 10th Kentucky Mounted Rifles (later renamed to the 13th Kentucky Cavalry), and the 64th Virginia Mounted Infantry. Breckinridge's army also included General Basil Duke's cavalry, General George Cosby's cavalry and Colonel Vincent Witcher and his 34th Battalion of Virginia Cavalry.
On the night of December 16, General Breckinridge and his troops moved out of Saltville, Virginia in an effort to stop Stoneman. Taking the regular troops with him, Breckinridge left Colonel Robert Preston in charge of the 500 militia men to defend the salt works. General Breckinridge sent Witcher and his men of the 34th on ahead of his main force and ordered them to harass the Union army.
At about 3 a.m. (Local Time), Breckinridge and his small army began to travel across Walkers Mountain. In the last few days before the march, 4 of rain fell, making travel difficult across the muddy roads. At 4:00 a.m. (Local Time), they reached the main road near Seven Mile Ford, Virginia where Breckinridge waited for daylight before continuing.
Around noon of December 17, 1864, Breckinridge's men mounted their horses rode toward Marion. Meanwhile, General Stoneman sent some of his Tennessee regiments to Wytheville, Virginia to destroy anything that looked valuable. Stoneman also sent two regiments of cavalry to destroy the lead mines and smelting facilities that were about ten miles (16 km) from Wytheville.
Stoneman and Burbridge continued on toward Marion where they encountered Witcher and his men. Burbridge's front regiment easily pushed back Witcher's small regiment, who stopped just so they could fire a volley into the Union cavalry. They then continued to retreat toward Marion. Witcher sent a courier to inform Breckinridge that they were coming to join them at Marion.
General Breckinridge's front regiment was the 10th Kentucky Mounted Rifles, under the command of Colonel Benjamin Caudill. Caudill's men dismounted and fired into the Union cavalry, causing several casualties. As the rest of Breckinridge's troops began to arrive on the scene, General Stoneman's men secured the high hill overlooking the river. Breckinridge observed that these hills were the best defensive positions in the area; following which he ordered the men of the 10th Kentucky Mounted Rifles to charge up the hill and drive out the Union army. The rest of Giltner's Brigade also joined in the charge, routing the Union soldiers. The result of the charge ended in Confederate favor, and the Confederates gained control of the hill.
Burbridge then began to form his men up in columns to counterattack the Rebel defenses. As soon as the men were in position, he ordered all columns to charge in unison. After the signal, the Union Army surged forward. The first Confederate volley of shots depleted the Union forces considerably. Even after the volley, the Rebel forces were still vastly outnumbered. Confederate Artillery commander Major Richard Page and his battery of four 10-pounder Parrott rifles began to fire, attempting to slow the charge. The overwhelming fire forced the Union soldiers to fall back with many casualties.
The Union officers then reorganized their men and with a yell of their own, charged again. Like the previous charge, this charge also was repelled. One more charge occurred that day. Courageously, the men formed and prepared to face the withering fire that they knew would come from the breast works in their front. For the final time that day, the Union army charged into Confederate fire with the same results as the previous charges. The Rebels had held on to their position during the first day of battle.
Breckinridge ordered his men to move forward and build new breastworks. These new defensive positions placed the two armies less than one hundred fifty yards apart. During the night, one Union officer was ordered to take positions at the covered bridge near the river. He and 75 men took up positions in and around the covered bridge. This was the only advance of that night by the Union army.
The Union army that was positioned at the covered bridge fired the first few volleys at the rebels to harass their front positions. General Burbridge attacked just as the fog lifted. To entertain themselves, soldiers from both armies began to hurl insults across the fields between them. About midmorning Burbridge decided that the light rain probably would not stop falling any time soon and had his officers prepare to commence the battle.
Both armies yet again raised their battle cries. Columns of Union men charged across the fields into the same fire they had received the day before. A combination of the colored and the white troops managed to push the 4th Kentucky Infantry and General Cosby's positions back. Cosby rallied his men and counterattacked, retaking their breastworks. The Union soldiers that had taken positions at the covered bridge the night before began to take pressure from the 4th Kentucky in their front. They realized their location was not safe one and some began to try to run back to the Union lines. As these men would attempt to retreat from their positions at the bridge, the rebels of the would pick most of them off. The remaining Union soldiers at the bridge decided to wait out the battle. Later in the day General Burbridge ordered one of his regiments to charge across the bridge on horseback to relieve the pressure on the trapped men. The regiment solely received a few casualties and then retreated.
On the far right, General Duke was being pressed hard by the heavy columns of attacking soldiers. Seeing this, Colonel Giltner sent his regiment to reinforce Duke. Before the 2nd arrived, Duke and his men counterattacked the Union line and routed it. Duke and Witcher then combined forces and charged the Union's extreme left flank. This Union colored regiment was also completely routed.
Burbridge and his men then went into a disorderly retreat. The confederate rail breastworks had held, but the holding of the line had resulted in the use of a huge amount of ammunition. Each Rebel defender had shot at least seventy-five rounds, and some having fired as many as a hundred shots. The Union army then ordered another charge with a large cavalry regiment that reinforced the Union infantry. The unexpected fighting capabilities of the small Confederate army had temporarily created a reprieve for the salt works.
Breckinridge ordered his field officers to make an inspection of the troops and to report back with the condition of his army. The number of men wounded and killed had depleted his army to the point that he could judged that he could no longer hold back the Union army at the front lines. Ammunition in the camp was also running low; each man had no more than ten cartridges apiece. With their supplies destroyed by Stoneman's army at the towns of Wytheville and Abingdon, there was little hope of being resupplied or reinforced in time.
Breckinridge then ordered his men to retreat from the battlefield. Though the men faced miserable conditions, they were confident they could hold the field the next day. Angrily they obeyed orders and silently began to move out with Colonel Ben Caudill and his Mounted Rifles leading the way.
The battle at Marion was a Union victory. The vastly outnumbered Rebels had inflicted moderate casualties and slowed the advance on Saltville, but were unable to stop it. Finding their own path to Saltville's defenses blocked, Breckinridge and his men retreated further south, while the Union raiders advanced. Saltville would fall to a night attack on December 20 - December 21 and the salt works would be destroyed by the Union army.
The damage to the leadmines near Wytheville would keep them out of production for three months, and then only partial production would be possible. Salt production would not be resumed for over a month. All railroad locomotives, cars, depots and bridges in the vicinity had been destroyed by the raid. General Stoneman claimed to have captured 34 officers and 845 enlisted men during the raid.

</doc>
<doc id="102719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102719" title="F.C. Angusht Nazran">
F.C. Angusht Nazran

FC Angusht Nazran are a Russian football club from Nazran. In 2006 the club played in the Russian First Division, the second level of Russian professional football.
The club was founded in 1993 as "Ingushetia Nazran" and entered the Russian Third League in 1994. In 1995 the club was renamed Angusht and finished second in their zone, securing promotion to the Second League. Angusht finished second in 1998 and third in 2000, and in 1995 they managed to win their Second Division zone to get another promotion. The club spent the 2006 season in the First Division, finishing last between 22 teams. After the season Angusht went bankrupt, were renamed FC Nazran and joined the Amateur Football League.

</doc>
<doc id="102720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102720" title="Union Army">
Union Army

The Union Army was the name of the army that fought for the Union during the American Civil War. It was also known as the Federal Army, the U.S. Army, the Northern Army, or the National Army. 
It consisted of the small United States Army (the regular army), increased by many numbers of units supplied by the Northern states, composed of volunteers as well as draftees.
The Union Army fought and defeated the Confederate States Army during the war, from 1861 to 1865. Of the 2.5 million men who served in the Union Army during the war, about 9.5% were African American, about 360,000 died from being hurt in battle, disease, and 280,000 were wounded.

</doc>
<doc id="102721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102721" title="Confederate States Army">
Confederate States Army

The Confederate States Army (CSA) was organized in February 1861 to defend the newly formed Confederate States of America during the American Civil War. Somewhere between 750,000 and 1.2 million soldiers served the Confederacy in one form or another. The exact numbers are not known because of incomplete and destroyed records. Although it won a large number of battles the Confederate Army was not able to win the war. It could not overcome the Union army's larger numbers and better resources. On April 9, 1865, General Robert E. Lee surrendered what was left of the Army of Northern Virginia to General Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House, Virginia. While his army was only a part of the total Confederate army, his surrender marked the end of the Confederacy. On June 23, 1865, Georgia's Stand Watie became the last Confederate general to surrender.
Much of the design of the Confederate States Army was based on the structure and customs of the U.S. Army. Both armies consisted mainly of infantry, cavalry and artillery units. While the structure of the two armies was almost the same, the sizes of the units within the army varied. Many Confederate officers were graduates of West Point just like Union officers. Regiments were usually numbered and named for the state where they were first organized and where most of the soldiers came from. Brigades were usually named after their commanders (past or present). For example, the Stonewall Brigade was named for its commanding general, Stonewall Jackson.
The Confederate Army was made up of three parts; the Army of the Confederate States of America (ACSA, smallest but intended to be the permanent, regular army), the Provisional Army of the Confederate States (PACS, or "volunteer" Army, to be disbanded after the war), and the various Southern state militias. The Confederate Constitution called for the President, Jefferson Davis to be Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy. It did not call for a commanding general of the army but several generals serves as advisors to President Davis.
The Confederate States Army included the following armies:
Before the Civil War, many Confederate officers had served in the United States Army. When war broke out, 313 army officers resigned and became officers in the Confederate army. Lee was one of those who found it difficult to leave. Abraham Lincoln had offered him the position of commander-in-chief of the Union Army. But he could not fight against his native state of Virginia. He became a Major general of the Virginia militia and when Virginia Seceded, it became part of the regular army. Many militias elected their officers including field officers. When these units joined the Confederate army, their officers were commissioned. There were also a number of professional officers who came from Germany or Britain (just as there were in the Union army). But at the start of the war, few Southern officers had any real experience. Wealthy planters who owned 20 or more slaves were not required to serve in the army and many stayed home during the war. Some served in the Enlisted rank but many found it objectionable to serve under officers so poor they could not afford a single slave. Many Confederate officers kept a slave as a personal servant throughout the war.
Confederate officers in general did not maintain discipline among their men. Many of their soldiers were illiterate and some did not know which was their left foot and which was their right. At the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863, even Lee complained about the lack of discipline in his army. Visiting foreign officials were shocked at lack of discipline and were amazed they could fight.
Confederate soldiers came from a few ethnic backgrounds. Most of their ancestors came from Scotland, England, Ireland and Wales. Some had ancestors from France and Southern Europe. In regiments such as the 33rd Texas Cavalry, many had Spanish ancestry. Some could even trace their roots back to Spanish Conquistadors. In the Deep South, the Cherokee Nation sent several regiments who fought as equals alongside other Confederate units.
The average Confederate soldier was in his early 20s. He was usually gaunt, unkempt and beards were common. His wool uniform was often torn and in rags. It often did not fit, especially if taken off a dead soldier. Most wore a white shirt under their wool jacket. Replacement uniforms were hard to get. They would often stain homespun (clothing made at home) with a dye made from walnuts. This gave their uniforms a yellowish-brown appearance they called "butternut". Many did not have shoes or shoes that fit. Those who did nailed horseshoes to the bottom to keep them from wearing through the sole. At first he carried a musket or flintlock rifle. Later in the war many carried the better Enfield rifles taken from dead Union soldiers. What the Rebel soldier lacked in supplies and equipment, he made up for in fighting spirit. Any boots, uniforms or supplies Union soldiers left behind or were captured were used by the Confederate soldiers. In camp, most of the tents were marked "U.S." Most of the Southern Artillery was also captured Union cannons.

</doc>
<doc id="102722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102722" title="Stand Watie">
Stand Watie

Stand Watie (December 12, 1806 – September 9, 1871) was a leader of the Cherokee Nation and a brigadier general of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. He commanded the Native American cavalry made up mostly of Cherokee, Creek and Seminole people. He was also known as Degataga, meaning to "stand firm" and Isaac S. Watie.
Stand Watie was born in Georgia. He helped his brother run a newspaper. Watie helped lead the Cherokees from Georgia to Oklahoma in 1835.
When the American Civil War started in 1861, Watie started a cavalry regiment. He lead the regiment in several battles with the Union Army. In 1862, he was elected as a chief of the Cherokees. Watie surrendered to the Union army in 1865.
Watie died in 1871.

</doc>
<doc id="102725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102725" title="George Stoneman">
George Stoneman

George Stoneman, Jr. (August 22, 1822 – September 5, 1894) was a career U.S. Army officer, a Union cavalry general in the American Civil War, and the Governor of California between 1883 and 1887.

</doc>
<doc id="102727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102727" title="Cornas">
Cornas

Cornas is a French "commune" that can be found in the département of Ardèche in the region of Rhône-Alpes. The name is Celtic for "burnt land." It has a population of 2,082 people.

</doc>
<doc id="102728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102728" title="Coux">
Coux

Coux can be any of the following communes of France:

</doc>
<doc id="102730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102730" title="Military history">
Military history

Military history is the history of what happened in the history of humanity that are considered to be conflicts. This could mean anything as small as a fight between two tribes or a conflict as large as a world war. Military historians record military history.

</doc>
<doc id="102731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102731" title="Coux, Ardèche">
Coux, Ardèche

Coux is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the south-east of France. The commune has a population of 1,466 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102732" title="Cruas">
Cruas

Cruas is a village and commune that can be found by the Rhône River in the Ardèche "département" of France. The commune has a population of 2,405 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102734" title="Davézieux">
Davézieux


</doc>
<doc id="102736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102736" title="Désaignes">
Désaignes


</doc>
<doc id="102738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102738" title="Félines">
Félines

Félines can be the names of any of the following communes of France:

</doc>
<doc id="102739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102739" title="Félines, Ardèche">
Félines, Ardèche

Félines is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the south-east of France. The commune has a population of 1,106 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102740" title="Jaujac">
Jaujac

Jaujac is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune had a population of 1,048 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102741" title="Joyeuse (disambiguation)">
Joyeuse (disambiguation)

Joyeuse is the name of Charlemagne's sword.
Joyeuse can also be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="102742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102742" title="Joyeuse, Ardèche">
Joyeuse, Ardèche

Joyeuse ()is a "commune" in the French department of Ardèche in the region of Rhône-Alpes. It is the seat of the canton of Joyeuse. Joyeuse has a population of 1,487 people as of the year 1999.
Joyeuse can be found in the region of Bas-Vivarais that has a lot of history. It can be found in the valley of the Beaume, which is a tributary of the Ardèche River.
Joyeuse is twinned with Jupille and Vilassar de Dalt. 

</doc>
<doc id="102744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102744" title="Labégude">
Labégude

Labégude is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune had a population of 1,337 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102746" title="Lachapelle-sous-Aubenas">
Lachapelle-sous-Aubenas


</doc>
<doc id="102748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102748" title="Chauvet Cave">
Chauvet Cave

The Chauvet Cave or Chauvet-Pont-d'Arc Cave is near Vallon-Pont-d'Arc, in the Ardèche département, in southern France. It became famous in 1994 when Paleolithic artwork was found on the walls. There were remains of many animals, some which are now extinct. Also some footprints of animals and humans were found. The cave is one of the most significant prehistoric art sites, like Lascaux, Altamira, and Cosquer.
The gorges of the Ardèche region have many caves. Many have geological or archaeological importance. The Chauvet Cave is unusually large. Its artwork is well preserved and of good quality. It was occupied by humans at two different times: the "Aurignacian" and the "Gravettian". Most of the artwork dates to the earlier Aurignacian era (30,000 to 32,000 years ago).
The only traces left of the later occupation during the Gravettian include a child's footprints, the charred remains of ancient hearths and carbon smoke stains from torches that lit the caves. It seems nobody had been in it after the child, until it was discovered in 1994. The footprints are some of the oldest human footprints in existence: they are between 20,000 and 30,000 years old.
The floor of the cave is of a soft material, almost like clay. There are paw prints of cave bears. There are also large rounded depressions in the floor. These are believed to be the "nests" where the bears slept. There are many fossilized bones, including the skulls of cave bears and the horned skull of an ibex.
There are hundreds of animal paintings there. At least 13 different species, including those which have rarely or never been found in other ice age paintings are represented. In addition to commonly hunted animals: horses, cattle, reindeer, etc.. The walls of the Chauvet Cave are covered with predatory animals: lions, panthers, bears, owls, rhinos and hyenas. Typical of most cave art, there are no paintings of complete human figures, although there is one possible, partial "Venus" figure that may represent the legs and genitals of a woman. A peculiar figure appears to have the lower body of a woman with the upper body of a bison. There are a few panels of red ochre hand prints and hand stencils made by spitting pigment over hands pressed against the cave surface. Abstract markings—lines and dots—are throughout the cave. There are also two unidentifiable images that have a vaguely butterfly shape to them. This combination of subjects has led experts in pre-historic art and cultures to believe that there was likely a ritualistic, shamanistic, or magical aspect to these paintings.
The artists who produced these unique paintings used techniques not often observed in other cave art. Many of the paintings appear to have been made only after the walls were scraped clear of debris and concretions. This left a smoother and noticeably lighter area upon which the artists worked. Similarly, a three dimensional quality is achieved by incising or etching about the outlines of certain figures. This visually emphasizes some of the animals and allows torch light to cast shadows about the edges.
The cave contains the oldest known cave paintings, based on radiocarbon dating of "black from drawings, from torch marks and from the floors." Clottes concludes that the "dates fall into two groups, one around 27,000-26,000 BP and the other around 32,000-30,000 BP." As of 1999, the dates of 31 samples from the cave had been reported, with the earliest being 32,900±490 BP.
However, some archaeologists have questioned these dates.
The cave was named after Jean-Marie Chauvet, who discovered it on 18 December 1994, together with Christian Hillaire and Eliette Brunel-Deschamps. The researchers found that the cave had been untouched for 20,000-30,000 years.

</doc>
<doc id="102751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102751" title="Druid">
Druid

A druid was a member of the priestly and learned class in the pre-Christian, ancient Celtic societies. These societies existed through much of Western Europe, Britain and Ireland, until the Roman government took over and, later, Christianity arrived. Druids were part of the cultures of the tribal peoples who were called "Keltoi" ("Κέλτοι") or "Keltai" ("Κέλται") and "Galatai" ("Γαλάται") by the Greeks and "Celtae" and "Galli" by the Romans. In the communities they served, druids combined the duties of priest, , healer, scholar, and . Both men and women served as druids, although there is no early proof for female druids, or druidesses.
From what little we know of late druidic practices, it appears deeply traditional and conservative, in the sense that druids were conserving the old culture and for their communities. It is impossible now to judge whether this continuity had deep historical roots and originated in the social transformations of the late La Tène culture, or whether there had been a discontinuity and then a religious innovation.
Greek and Roman writers on the Celts commonly made at least passing reference to druids, though before Caesar's report merely as "barbarian philosophers"; They were not concerned with ethnology or comparative religion and consequently our historical knowledge of druids is very limited. Druidic lore consisted of a large number of verses learned by heart, and Caesar remarked that twenty years were required to complete the course of study.
Druidic culture are believed to be practicers of rituals and such magic, Druids were believed to be a neutral people they were known as Druid(ae) similar to priests and scholars believed to have studied rituals of Human sacrifice and Familiars (Known currently as a form of a pet from a practicer; Witch, Druidae, Warlock). The Druidic culture was believed to have some form of religious complication.
Druids are known to have practiced such as reincarnation as animals of worship (Bird, Lion, Tiger, Cat, Monkey), but such cannot be proved as what we know so far.
They were said to have lived in Roman times in Great Britain and Ireland it is said that they have some form of connection to stonehenge and other monuments.

</doc>
<doc id="102752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102752" title="Lalevade-d'Ardèche">
Lalevade-d'Ardèche


</doc>
<doc id="102753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102753" title="Lamastre">
Lamastre


</doc>
<doc id="102754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102754" title="Lavilledieu">
Lavilledieu

Lavilledieu is a "commune" in the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,400 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102756" title="Druid (disambiguation)">
Druid (disambiguation)

Druid could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="102758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102758" title="Saint-Péray">
Saint-Péray

Saint-Péray is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part France. The commune has a population of about 6,500 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102759" title="La Voulte-sur-Rhône">
La Voulte-sur-Rhône


</doc>
<doc id="102761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102761" title="Viviers">
Viviers

Viviers can be any one of the following communes in France:

</doc>
<doc id="102764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102764" title="Viviers, Ardèche">
Viviers, Ardèche

Viviers is a commune in the French "département" of Ardèche. The commune has a population of about 3,400 people as of the year 1999.
Viviers became the capital of the Gaulish Helvii tribe following the falling of nearby Alba-la-Romaine. 

</doc>
<doc id="102767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102767" title="Druidism">
Druidism

Druidism or Druidry (referred to as Neodruidry or Neodruidism by some followers) is a form of modern spirituality that generally promotes harmony with nature, often through the form of nature worship. It is considered to be a Neopagan faith.
Originally inspired by 17th, 18th and 19th century romantic movements, early neo-druidism was based upon largely historically incorrect depictions of the Iron Age Celtic druids, and has no direct relation to the ancient Celts or their culture.
Neo-druidic beliefs vary wildly, and there is no set dogma or belief system by which all adherents follow. The main belief is an idea that the Earth and nature is sacred, and is worthy of worship itself. For this reason many druids are pantheistic.

</doc>
<doc id="102773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102773" title="Shutter (2008 movie)">
Shutter (2008 movie)

Shutter is a 2008 American mystery horror thriller movie released on March 21, 2008. It is about a newly married couple finding disturbing, ghostly images in photographs they develop after a tragic accident. Fearing the manifestations may be connected, they investigate and learn that some mysteries are better left unsolved.

</doc>
<doc id="102778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102778" title="Tit">
Tit

Tits may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="102781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102781" title="Rajput">
Rajput

Rajputs constitute one of the major Hindu Kshatriya groups from India. They claim descent from ancient royal warrior dynasties of Kshatriyas. They are identified with the word "Rajanya" found in ancient Indian literature and trace their roots to Rajputana or Rajputstan (India). In ancient times the son of a king was referred as to Rajput- Raja-putra. 
The Rajputs consist of 36 different clans. These are divided into three different lines of descent (called vanshas). They are:

</doc>
<doc id="102784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102784" title="Metcard">
Metcard

A Metcard is a type of ticket used to use public transport in Melbourne, Australia. It allows the holder to use Trains, Trams and Buses, in two zones (Zone 1 and Zone 2). Zone 1 covers areas close to the CBD, and Zone 2 covers the rest of the city. There used to be a Zone 3 , but that has been merged with Zone 2. The ticket is about the size of a credit card, and contains a magnitic strip that tells a computer what type of ticket it is.
Metcard replaced a identical yet simpler system of scratchies used on the Melbourne public transport network. Scratchies were easy to cheat and the system was eventually abandoned in 2002, but not before tickets for many years of use were printed.
Moves towards automated ticketing were first made by the then state Liberal Government in 1992. Tenders were called for the design, supply, installation and on-going maintenance of such a system, with the 'OneLink Transit Consortium' announced as the preferred people to do it in September 1993. The contract was signed in May 1994, with the major technology supplier being the ERG Group.
Testing of prototypes commenced in December 1993, and the roll-out of the system was carried out from August 1996 to April 1998, and acceptance occurred in November 1997. Public field trials were carried out on buses from August 20 1996, and on rail services from September 18 1996. The system commenced full revenue service from May 1998 at a cost of $330 million. Contractual issues between OneLink and the Victorian Government were not settled until May 2002 with the payment of up to $65 million in a staged settlement.
Controversy surrounded Metcard at its introduction, due to it costing to much, the abolition of tram conductors and the unreliability of ticket purchasing and validation machines. The machines were attacked by vandals frequently (often by pouring liquids into the coin slot), and have seen several revisions to their design since.
Consistent with the privatisation ethos of the government of the day, Metcard's operation was entirely outsourced, with the transport operators (at that time government-owned) having nothing to do with the system. Metcard even had its own website and branding which became stronger than the anonymous and constantly renaming government then privatised operators.
An study released by the State Government in 2001 showed over 1 in 4 (27.2%) of the machines at train stations did not work, and 11.9% of mobile equipment in buses and trams was non-operational. The State Government renegotiated with ticketing network contract operator "OneLink Transit Systems" to improve the service to commuters. Following these improvements, a 2002 audit showed an increase in availability of machines to 92.1% at train stations, and 98.3% on buses and trams. Usability was also improved, with tram machines able to sell daily tickets. Furthermore, vandalism across the network dropped by 62% between 2001 and 2002.
V/Line tickets were aligned with the Metcard system in April 2006, with each V/Line ticket to stations in the Metcard area having the relevant zones printed on them. In March 2007 the Nightrider bus service was also brought under the Metcard system. Zone 3 was removed from the Metcard system (and merged into zone 2) on March 4 2007, due to a State Election promise made by Opposition Leader Ted Ballieu and matched by then Premier Steve Bracks.
The original Metcard contract with OneLink was to last nine years, expiring in March 2007. In 2005 the contract was changed to permit the system to be extended and changed as work on the replacement myki project keeps going, with the contract being able to be cancelled on six months notice.
Most Metcards can be purchased in Zone 1; Zone 2 and Zone 1 + Zone 2 types, with them being valid within their respective zones. All Metcards, except for the City Saver Metcard, are valid for muplitle trips on Trains, Trams and Buses.

</doc>
<doc id="102791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102791" title="Piety">
Piety

Piety (from the Latin word pietas, meaning "devout" or "good") is generally used to refer either to Religious devotion or to spirituality. A common element in most ideas of piety is humility, or a lack of pride. It can also refer to a way to win the favor or forgiveness of God in Christianity.

</doc>
<doc id="102797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102797" title="Anne of Green Gables">
Anne of Green Gables

Anne of Green Gables is a book by Canadian author Lucy Maud Montgomery. It was published in 1908. It was written as fiction for readers of all ages, for a few decades has been classified as a children's book. Montgomery wrote the book after seeing a newspaper article about a couple that were mistakenly sent an orphan girl instead of a boy, yet decided to keep her.
The book takes place on Prince Edward Island, Canada, where the author grew up.
Montgomery continued the story of Anne Shirley in a series of sequels. They are listed in the order of Anne's age in each of the novels.

</doc>
<doc id="102802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102802" title="Secondary sex characteristic">
Secondary sex characteristic

Secondary sex characteristics are features which make it possible to tell the sexes of a species apart. They are not directly linked to reproduction. 
Male birds usually have much more colourful feathers (plumage), the females are usually better able to hide, because their plumage is camouflaged.
Well-known secondary sex characteristics in humans are the deeper voice, facial hair (mustache and beard) and more muscular build in men. In women, those characteristics usually cited are more prominent breasts, lips, eyes, long/fast growing hair, no facial hair, wider hips, more fat, and generally a higher voice. Faces, generally, make a big impact. It is the part other people interact with.
However, the wider hips are needed to give birth. Babies are born through the space between the three bones of a woman's pelvis. So is doubtful to call this a "secondary" characteristic, except so far as the width helps attract mates. Breasts are also essential, but in humans they are much larger in proportion to other mammals, and they do serve to attract males. 

</doc>
<doc id="102803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102803" title="Poltergeist">
Poltergeist

Poltergeists are said to bother only one person at a time. This person is called their "focus". Poltergeists will bother only their focus. They are said to only last a few weeks, then will move on to another target. Often poltergeists are reported around children and adolescents. Some scientists think that poltergeists only exist in a person's head as a result of psychokinesis. They think that the "poltergeist effect" is a result of mental trauma.
There is a 1982 movie called "Poltergeist".
In "Harry Potter" there is a poltergeist named Peeves. However, Peeves is not a classic poltergeist. He can be seen and does not focus on bothering just one person.

</doc>
<doc id="102804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102804" title="Pura Cup">
Pura Cup

The Pura Cup (formerly known as the Sheffield Shield) is a first class cricket competition in Australia. The six state teams play in a round-robin series of 4-day matches against every other team. After each pair of teams have played each other twice, the two highest ranked teams play a 5-day final.

</doc>
<doc id="102806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102806" title="Mercy">
Mercy

Mercy can refer both to a compassionate behavior on the part of those in power (for example, "mercy" shown by a judge toward a criminal by not punishing him (or her) her as much as he (or she) might be punished) or on the part of a compassionate third party (e.g. a trip out of "mercy" trying to treat sick children in Africa). The word is very common in several religions (for example, the mercy of God). 

</doc>
<doc id="102817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102817" title="Tatnet">
Tatnet

Tatnet (short for "Tatar Internet") is the name Tatar-speaking Internet users commonly use for the "segment of the Internet" about the Tatar people or Tatarstan. It includes webpages and websites in many languages.
The first e-mail message in Tatar was probably sent and received in 1991 when employees of the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Liberty/Radio Free Europe Inc. started using the Internet and electronic communication on a regular basis. In 1994, a Tatar-language mailing list (TMG, standing for Tatar Mailing Group) was established and this year is commonly regarded as the birthyear of the Tatar Internet. Since approximately 2000, Tatnet has been developing explosively, with many web pages and web sites added to it annually. The existence of Tatnet continues to contribute tremendously to the cohesion and consolidation of the Tatar people, a significant achievement because Tatars are despersed all over the world and a substantial majority of Tatars live outside their ethnic homeland, Tatarstan. Tatar Internet users employ Latin and Cyrillic scripts with the former gradually becoming more dominant.

</doc>
<doc id="102819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102819" title="Tatarstan">
Tatarstan

Tatarstan is an autonomous republic within Russia. The republic is about 800 kilometers (497 miles) east of Moscow. It is between the Volga River and the Kama River (a tributary of the Volga), and extends east to the Ural Mountains. Most of the people are Tatars,
Its capital is Kazan.
Islam is the faith that most people in Tatarstan follow.
The republic is located in the center of the East European Plain.
Major rivers include (Tatar names are given in parentheses):
Major reservoirs of the republic include (Tatar names are given in parentheses):
The biggest lake is Qaban. The biggest swamp is Kulyagash.
Major natural resources of Tatarstan include oil, natural gas, gypsum, and more. It is estimated that the Republic has over one billion tons of oil deposits.

</doc>
<doc id="102824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102824" title="Charles Chesnutt">
Charles Chesnutt

Charles Waddell Chesnutt (June 20, 1858 – November 15, 1932) was an African-American writer. He wrote several books like "The Marrow of Tradition" and "The House Behind the Cedars" as well as for a short story about a haunted yard called "The Goophered Grapevine".

</doc>
<doc id="102825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102825" title="Kansas City Royals">
Kansas City Royals

The Kansas City Royals are a Major League Baseball team based in Kansas City, Missouri. They began play in 1969. The Royals won a World Series title in 1985. From 1973 to the present, the Royals have played in Kauffman Stadium. They are owned by David Glass, managed by Ned Yost, and their General Manager is Dayton Moore.
The old minor league baseball team in Kansas City had been called the Blues. There was also a famous Negro league baseball team called the Kansas City Monarchs. The Royals name and their team color blue are at least partly in honor of those older teams. The Kansas City Royals won the 2015 World Series by The New York Mets 4-1.

</doc>
<doc id="102826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102826" title="Edwidge Danticat">
Edwidge Danticat

Edwidge Danticat (born January 19, 1969) is a Haitian born American writer. Her books include "Krik? Krak!" and "Breath, Eyes, Memory", which was chosen for the Oprah Book Club in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="102833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102833" title="Detroit Pistons">
Detroit Pistons

The Detroit Pistons are a team of the National Basketball Association. They are in Detroit, Michigan. The team's home arena is The Palace of Auburn Hills. In 1948, the team was in Fort Wayne, Indiana, but that was before moving to Detroit in 1957. The team has won NBA championships in 1989, 1990, and 2004. Their head coach is John Kuester, they are owned by Tom Gores and their general manager is Joe Dumars.

</doc>
<doc id="102843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102843" title="History of the Americas">
History of the Americas

The history of the Americas is the history of North and South America, including Central America and the Caribbean. It begins with people migrating to these areas from Asia and possibly Oceania during the height of an Ice age. These groups are generally believed to have been isolated from peoples of the "Old World" until the coming of Europeans in the 10th and 15th centuries.
The ancestors of today's Native Americans were hunter-gatherers who migrated into North America. The most popular theory says that migrants came to the Americas via the Bering Land Bridge, Beringia, the land mass covered by the cold ocean waters in the Bering Strait. Small Paleo-Indian groups probably followed the mammoth and other prey animals. It is possible that groups of people may also have traveled into North America on shelf or sheet ice along the northern Pacific coast.
Cultural traits brought by the first immigrants later evolved and spawned such cultures as Iroquois on North America and Quechuas of South America. These cultures later developed into civilizations. In many cases, these cultures expanded at a later date than their Old World counterparts. Cultures that may be considered advanced or civilized include: Zapotec, Toltecs, Olmec, Maya, Aztecs, and the Inca.
The Puebloan peoples of what is now the Southwestern United States and northern Mexico, living conditions were that of large stone apartment like adobe structures. They live in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Colorado, and possibly surrounding areas.
Chichimeca was the name that the Mexica (Aztecs) applied to a wide range of semi-nomadic peoples who inhabited the north of modern-day Mexico, and had the same sense as the European term "barbarian". The name was adopted with a negative tone by the Spaniards when they spoke of the semi-nomadic hunter-gatherer peoples of northern Mexico.
The Zapotec emerged around 1500 years BCE. Their writing system influenced the later Olmec. They left behind the great city Monte Alban.
The Olmec civilization emerged around 1200 BCE in Mesoamerica and ended around 400 BCE. Olmec art and concepts influenced surrounding cultures after their downfall. This civilization was thought to be the first in America to develop a writing system. After the Olmecs abandoned their cities for unknown reasons, the Maya, Zapotec and Teotihuacan arose.
Maya history spans 3,000 years. The Maya may have collapsed due to changing climate in the end of the 10th century.
The Toltec were a nomadic people, dating from the 10th - 12th century, whose language was also spoken by the Aztecs.
Teotihuacan (4th century BCE - 7/8th century CE) was both a city, and an empire of the same name, which, at its zenith between 150 and the 5th century, covered most of Mesoamerica.
The Aztec having started to build their empire around 14th century found their civilization abruptly ended by the Spanish conquistadors. They lived in Mesoamerica, and surrounding lands. Their capital city Tenochtitlan was one of the largest cities of all time.
The oldest known civilization of the Americas was established in the Norte Chico region of modern Peru. Complex society emerged in the group of coastal valleys, between 3000 and 1800 BCE. The Quipu, a distinctive recording device among Andean civilizations, apparently dates from the era of Norte Chico. 
The Chavín established a trade network and developed agriculture by as early as (or late compared to the Old World) 900 BCE according to some estimates and archaeological finds. Artifacts were found at a site called Chavín in modern Peru at an elevation of 3,177 meters. Chavín civilization spanned from 900 BCE to 300 BCE.
Holding their capital at the great city of Cusco, the Inca civilization dominated the Andes region from 1438 to 1533.
Known as "", or "the land of the four regions," in Quechua, the Inca culture was highly distinct and developed. Cities were built with precisely matched stonework, constructed over many levels of mountain terrain. Terrace farming was a useful form of agriculture. There is evidence of excellent metalwork and even successful brain surgery in Inca civilization.
The number of Native Americans is increasing now in the U.S. by actual population growth, changing enrollment laws, and from the immigration from Spanish America, especially from Mexico, though the definition being applied to them is Hispanic.
Slavery has had a significant role in the economic development the New World after the colonization of the Americas by the Europeans. Slaves helped build the roads upon which they were transported. The cotton, tobacco, and sugar cane harvested by slaves became important exports for the United States and the Caribbean countries. 

</doc>
<doc id="102847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102847" title="Lifeguard">
Lifeguard

A lifeguard is a person on the beach or at a public pool who educates patrons in the correct way of using the water facility and prevents accidents from happening. They are trained in rescue situations. "Lifeguards" will usually be found at most public pools and lakes.

</doc>
<doc id="102851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102851" title="A Night at the Opera (Queen album)">
A Night at the Opera (Queen album)

A Night at the Opera is a Queen album from 1975. It is generally regarded as Queen's strongest and most influential record. The album is in the 2005 book "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die". When it made it was the most expensive record ever made.

</doc>
<doc id="102852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102852" title="A Day at the Races (album)">
A Day at the Races (album)

A Day at the Races is a Queen album from 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="102854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102854" title="News of the World (album)">
News of the World (album)

News of the World is the seventh studio album from the English rock band Queen, released in 1977. 

</doc>
<doc id="102855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102855" title="The Scream">
The Scream

The Scream refers to different versions of a painting made by Edvard Munch. They were painted in the early 20th century, and drawn using many types of materials. These include one lithography, tempera, oil and pastel.
The first version of "The Scream" was drawn in 1893. Two pastel drawings, two paintings and also some lithographs were printed.

</doc>
<doc id="102869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102869" title="Jazz (album)">
Jazz (album)

Jazz is a 1978 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's seventh studio album.

</doc>
<doc id="102871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102871" title="The Game (album)">
The Game (album)

The Game is a rock album by English band Queen released June 30, 1980. It was the only Queen album to reach the #1 position in both the United Kingdom and the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="102874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102874" title="Flash Gordon (album)">
Flash Gordon (album)

Flash Gordon is a 1980 album by English rock band Queen. It is the soundtrack album to the science fiction movie "Flash Gordon".

</doc>
<doc id="102875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102875" title="Mark Speight">
Mark Speight

Mark Warwick Fordham Speight (6 August 1965 – 13 April 2008) was a British television presenter. He was best known for was showing the long-running BBC children's art program "SMart". He found his fiancee, Natasha Collins, also a BBC presenter dead at their flat in London on January 2008. He was then arrested as a suspect, but was released without any charges put against him. On 13 April 2008, police found his body hanging from the roof of the MacMillan House in London.

</doc>
<doc id="102883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102883" title="Mettingen">
Mettingen

Mettingen is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.
Mettingen is about 25 km east of Rheine and 20 km west of Osnabrück. 
Villages close to Mettingen are Recke in the west, Neuenkirchen, (Lower Saxony) in the north, Ibbenbüren in the south and Westerkappeln in the east.
The founders of the textile company C&A, Clemens and August Brenninkmeyer, were born in Mettingen. Also Annika Suthe, participant of the 2004 Summer Olympics (javelin throw) was born there.

</doc>
<doc id="102890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102890" title="Mauves">
Mauves


</doc>
<doc id="102891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102891" title="Mercuer">
Mercuer

Mercuer is a village and commune of the Ardèche "département" in the center of southern France. The commune has a population of about 1,000 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102892" title="Le Pouzin">
Le Pouzin


</doc>
<doc id="102893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102893" title="Quintenas">
Quintenas


</doc>
<doc id="102897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102897" title="Rochemaure">
Rochemaure

Rochemaure is a "commune" in the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,800 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102899" title="Rosières">
Rosières

Rosières can be any of the following places in France:

</doc>
<doc id="102900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102900" title="Rosières, Ardèche">
Rosières, Ardèche

Rosières is a commune of the Ardèche "département" in the south-eastern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,000 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102901" title="Ruoms">
Ruoms

Ruoms is a "commune" of the Ardèche "département" in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 2,100 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102903" title="Ucel">
Ucel

Ucel is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 1,700 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="102914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102914" title="Tokio Jokio">
Tokio Jokio

Tokio Jokio is a 1943 Looney Tunes short movie directed by U.S. Corporal Norman McCabe and released to movie theaters by RKO Radio Pictures. It stars Mel Blanc. The movie is a Tokyo newscast about all areas of everyday living in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="102919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102919" title="List of Solar System objects">
List of Solar System objects

This is a list of Solar System objects by orbit, by distance from the sun.
Most named objects in this list have a diameter of 500 km or more.
The Solar System also contains:

</doc>
<doc id="102933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102933" title="Daimyo">
Daimyo

The () were powerful feudal rulers from the 10th century to the early 19th century in Japan. Each daimyo had control over a part of the country. The Shogun had power over the daimyo.
The first daimyo were called .
The Edo period began in 1600 after the Battle of Sekigahara. The Shogun changed the power and position of the daimyo.
Sankin kotai was a system to control daimyo. The shogun made the daimyo come to Edo every other year.

</doc>
<doc id="102959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102959" title="Evil on Your Mind">
Evil on Your Mind

"Evil on Your Mind" is the name of a popular country music song, originally made famous by Grand Ole Opry star, Jan Howard in 1966.
In the mid-60s, Jan Howard was not acquiring any significant hits. Only one of her songs hit the Top 20, which was in 1960 with, "The One You Slip Around With", which hit No. 13. In 1966, Howard wrote and released her first single of the year, "Evil on Your Mind". The song was written by Howard, and talked of her troubled marriage to legendary singer-songwriter, Harlan Howard. The song hit the Top 5 on the Billboard Country music charts, peaking at No. 5 there. Soon an album of the same name was released that year, featuring Howard's big hit. A follow-up single was released that titled, "Bad Seed" which hit the Top 10 that year, proving a successful follow-up for Howard. The song set the stage for a number of Top 20 and Top 10 hits Howard would have as a solo and duet artist between 1966 and 1971.
The song talks about a husband trying to convince his wife to visit her sister out west, but the narrator (the wife) notices that something is going on, which her husband is trying to hide. She believes he's thiking of having an affair, which she calls, "evil on your mind". 
The song has been mentioned the in the book, "Heartaches By the Number: The 500 Greatest Country Singles". 
A rock music group titled, The Stumbleweeds recorded Howard's "Evil on Your Mind".

</doc>
<doc id="102960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102960" title="Jan Howard">
Jan Howard

Jan Howard (born Lula Grace Johnson on March 13, 1930 in West Plains, Missouri) is an American Country Music Singer and Grand Ole Opry star. She was one of Country music's trailblazing female vocalists during the height of her career in the mid-1960s. Her last name (Howard) comes from her ex-husband, legendary singer-songwriter, Harlan Howard.
Jan Howard's bigggest hit and signature song is the 1966 classic Country hit, "Evil on Your Mind", which has been featured in the book, "Heartaches By the Number: The 500 Greatest Country Music Singles". In the late 60s and early 70s, she dueted with Bill Anderson, on a number of hits that hit the Top 10, including the No. 1 hit "For Loving You".

</doc>
<doc id="102962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102962" title="Howell County, Missouri">
Howell County, Missouri

Howell County is a county in the U.S. state of Missouri. As of 2000, 37,238 people lived there. Its county seat is West Plains. Howell County was organized on March 2, 1857, from Oregon County. It was named for James Howell, who made the first settlement in Howell Valley.

</doc>
<doc id="102963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102963" title="Oregon County, Missouri">
Oregon County, Missouri

Oregon County is a county in the U.S. state of Missouri. It was organized in 1845 and named for the Oregon Territory. As of 2000, 10,344 people lived there. Its county seat is Alton.

</doc>
<doc id="102964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102964" title="Oregon Territory">
Oregon Territory

The Oregon Territory is the name applied both to the unorganized Oregon Country claimed by both the United States and Britain (but normally referred to as the Oregon Country), as well as to the organized U.S. territory formed from it that existed between 1848 and 1859. 
The Territory of Oregon was organized on August 14, 1848, by an act of Congress out of the U.S. portion of the Oregon Country below the 49th parallel north. It originally included all of the present-day states of Idaho, Oregon and Washington, as well as Montana west of the Continental Divide, and Wyoming west of the Continental Divide and north of the 42nd parallel north—the northern border of the Mexican Cession.
The first territorial capital was in Oregon City. The capital was later moved to Salem in 1851.
In 1853, the portion of the territory north of the lower Columbia River and north of the 46th parallel east of the river was organized into the Washington Territory.
On February 14, 1859, the territory entered the Union as the U.S. state of Oregon within its current boundaries. The remaining eastern portion of the territory (the portions in present-day southern Idaho and western Wyoming) was added to the Washington Territory.
In 1861 and then 1863, portions to the east were organized into the Nebraska Territory and Idaho Territory (respectively.)

</doc>
<doc id="102965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102965" title="Continental divide">
Continental divide

A continental divide is a line of raised terrain that creates a border between two watersheds. Water falling on one side of the line travels to one ocean, and water on the other side travels to another, perhaps on the other side of the continent. 
Because the exact border between bodies of water is usually not very easy to see, the continental divide is not always clear. The International Hydrographic Organization's publication "Limits of Oceans and Seas" describes the exact boundaries of oceans, but it is not recognized around the world. A complication is that some rivers empty into deserts or inland seas, and so do not end up in the ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="102966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102966" title="Terrain">
Terrain

Terrain, or relief, is the third or vertical dimension of land surface. When relief is described underwater, the term bathymetry is used. Topography has recently become an additional synonym, though in many parts of the world it retains its original more general meaning of description of place.
Terrain is used as a general term in physical geography, referring to the lie of the land. This is usually expressed in terms of the elevation, slope, and orientation of terrain features. Terrain affects surface water flow and distribution. Over a large area, it can affect weather and climate patterns

</doc>
<doc id="102983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102983" title="First Baptist Church of Hammond">
First Baptist Church of Hammond

The First Baptist Church of Hammond (or FBCHammond) is a fundamental Independent Baptist church in Hammond, Indiana. It is the largest church in the state of Indiana and one of the largest churches in the United States. It was founded in 1887. It was under Jack Hyles' leadership from 1959-2001 that it became a megachurch, one of the first in the United States, with a steady weekly attendance of around 20,000. It also operates Hyles-Anderson College and two K-12 schools, named "City Baptist Schools" (for children of the bus route of the church) and "Hammond Baptist Schools" (for children of the members of the church). Jack Schaap, Hyles' son-in-law, succeeded as pastor after Hyles' death for 11 years until he was fired in 2012 for having sex with a 16 year old girl.
First Baptist Church was founded in November 1887 by "Allen Hill" of Jennings County, Indiana. Its first meeting was on 14 November 1887 with 12 members on the 28th. However, it originally met in the Morton House Hotel which stood on what is currently the 100 block of Willow Court. Allen Hill's was only their pastor for around 4 months. 
By April 1888, B.P. Hewitt became the church's permanent pastor and Allen Hill went on to start several other churches. Needing more room, Hewitt moved the church's meeting place to the Hohman Opera House at the corner of State and Hohman streets. In 1889, the church erected its own structure for $2,358 when Marcus Towle, Hammond's first mayor and a member of FBC, donated land on "Sibley Street" to the church.
On January 3, 1901, Pastor E.T. Carter proposed a new building, and the first service was held on 14 April 1901. On 27 November of that same year, Pastor Carter announced his resignation for a job at the Central Baptist Orphanage in Michigan.
Dr. Jack Schaap (born October 1, 1957), was the Pastor of the First Baptist Church of Hammond, Indiana until July of 2012. Following the death of the former pastor Dr. Jack Hyles, he became the pastor of the largest church in Indiana, and with their average weekly attendance of more than 20,000, it has become one of the largest churches in America. Schaap was fired for having a sexual relationship with a 16 year old girl. This affair happened in multiple states and is being investigated by local and national authorities.
He was also the of Hyles-Anderson College. On June 1, 1979, he married Mrs. Cindy Schaap. Dr. and Mrs. Schaap have been married for 28 years and now have two children, Jaclynn and Kenny.
Jack Frasure Hyles (September 25, 1926 – February 6, 2001) was a leading person in the Independent Baptist movement. He was pastor of the church from 1959 until his death in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="102986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102986" title="Yves Chauvin">
Yves Chauvin

Yves Chauvin (10 October 1930 – 28 January 2015) was a French chemist, born in Menen, Belgium. He was awarded a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2005. He was the honorary research director at the "Institut français du pétrole" and a member of the French Academy of Science. Chauvin received his degree from the Lyon's School of Chemistry, Physics and Electronics in 1954.
He was awarded the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, along with Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock, for his work from the early 1970s on olefin metathesis. Chauvin was embarrassed to receive his award and at first did not want to accept it . In the end, he accepted the award from the King of Sweden and gave a big speech .

</doc>
<doc id="102993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102993" title="Robert Grubbs">
Robert Grubbs

Robert H. Grubbs (born 27 February 1942 in Possum Trot, Kentucky) is an American chemist. He won Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2005.
In his Nobel Prize autobiography he says, "In some places, my birthplace is listed as Calvert City, Kentucky and in others Possum Trot (both in Marshall County). I was actually born between the two, so either one really is correct." He spent his early childhood in Marshall County and attended public school at McKinley Elementary, Franklin Junior High and Paducah Tilghman High School in Paducah, Kentucky. Grubbs studied chemistry at the University of Florida where he was awarded a B.S. and an M.S.. He worked with Merle Battiste in Florida University, and Columbia University, where he obtained his Ph.D. in 1968. He was taught by Ronald Breslow in Columbia. 
He next spent a year with James Collman at Stanford University. He was then made part of the faculty at Michigan State University. In 1978 he moved to California Institute of Technology where he still works as the Victor and Elizabeth Atkins Professor of Chemistry. 
His main interest is for organometallic chemistry and organic chemistry. These interests are for catalysts, such as Grubbs' catalyst for olefin metathesis and ring-opening metathesis polymerization and norbornene. He also produced some important work on "living polymerization".
Grubbs received the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, along with Richard R. Schrock and Yves Chauvin, for his work in the field of olefin metathesis.

</doc>
<doc id="102997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102997" title="CD">
CD

CD can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="102998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102998" title="Billabong">
Billabong

Billabong is an Australian word.

</doc>
<doc id="103009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103009" title="CBS Corporation">
CBS Corporation

CBS Corporation is an American mass media corporation focused on broadcasting, publishing, and television production. Until 2005, the company was known as Viacom. A new company, keeping the Viacom name, was spun off from CBS.

</doc>
<doc id="103010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103010" title="Console manufacturer">
Console manufacturer

A console manufacturer is a company that makes and sells video game consoles. It is a multi-million dollar industry.

</doc>
<doc id="103011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103011" title="History of computer and video games">
History of computer and video games

Video games were introduced as an entertainment medium in 1971, becoming the start for a big entertainment industry in the late 1970s/early 1980s in the United States, Japan, and Europe. After a bad industry collapse in 1983 and a rebirth two years later, the video game industry has experienced large growth for over twenty years. Now, it is a $10 billion industry and it earns almost as much money as the motion picture industry.
Nowadays, we have companies such as Sony, PlayStation, and Nintendo that are very popular in most countries.

</doc>
<doc id="103012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103012" title="Jimboomba, Queensland">
Jimboomba, Queensland

Jimboomba is a town in south east Queensland, Australia. About 1,400 people live there. It is 21 kilometers north of Beaudesert on the Mount Lindsay Highway. The word Jimboomba is an Indigenous Australian word which means "Loud thunder, little rain."
Jimboomba was first settled by Europens in 1845, when Thomas Dowse started to graze cattle and sheep in the area. In 1880, the first hotel, the Norfolk Hotel, opened for business, with several more hotels opened in the next few years as the railway from Beaudesert reached the town. The railway station became a loading spot for the local saw mill. The first school was opened in 1890 in the Presbyterian Church hall.

</doc>
<doc id="103027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103027" title="Charles, Prince of Wales">
Charles, Prince of Wales

Charles, Prince of Wales (Charles Philip Arthur George; born 14 November 1948), is the eldest son of Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He has held the titles of Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester since 1958.
Prince Charles was married to his first wife, Diana, Princess of Wales, from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. They had two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry. Charles has been married to his second wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, since 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="103029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103029" title="Formaldehyde">
Formaldehyde

Formaldehyde (or Methanal) is a chemical compound.
It is a colorless gas with a bad smell. It is flammable and toxic.
It is the simplest aldehyde. Its main application is as a disinfectant. It is a biocide, this means it can kill most bacteria and fungi. It is also used to make dyes, to make textiles wrinkle-free,preservatives, explosives, and certain polymers. About 23 million tonnes (50 billion pounds) of formaldehyde was made worldwide in 2005. On May 21, 2002, a worker in a explosive making factory dropped a lighter and the flame immediately spread to the formaldehyde, which in turn caused to fire to blaze abnormally. This caused 17 known deaths and 39 known injuries. These days, the chemical is used less frequently.

</doc>
<doc id="103031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103031" title="Tulu language">
Tulu language

Tulu is a language spoken in south India, mainly in the states of Karnataka and Kerala. In Karnataka it is spoken mainly in the district of Dakshina Kannada. In Kerala it is spoken in the Kasargod district. The area where Tulu is spoken is sometimes called Tulunadu.
There are various dialects. The most important are: 
bunt

</doc>
<doc id="103039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103039" title="SMart">
SMart

SMart is a long running children’s art show. The presenters show how to create pictures from items easily found around the house.
The show has a number of spin offs, because it is so popular. Some of these are 

</doc>
<doc id="103040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103040" title="Hot Space">
Hot Space

Hot Space is an album by English rock band Queen, released in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="103041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103041" title="The Works (Queen album)">
The Works (Queen album)

The Works is a 1984 pop/rock album by English band Queen. It was the band's eleventh studio album.

</doc>
<doc id="103042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103042" title="A Kind of Magic">
A Kind of Magic

A Kind of Magic is a 1986 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's twelfth studio album, and is based on the soundtrack to the movie "Highlander".

</doc>
<doc id="103043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103043" title="The Miracle (album)">
The Miracle (album)

The Miracle is a 1989 album by English rock band Queen. It was the band's thirteenth studio album. 

</doc>
<doc id="103044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103044" title="Innuendo (album)">
Innuendo (album)

Innuendo is a 1991 album by English rock band Queen. It is the band's fourteenth studio album and the last to be composed entirely of new material. It is also their final studio album to be released while lead singer Freddie Mercury was still alive. 

</doc>
<doc id="103045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103045" title="Made in Heaven">
Made in Heaven

Made in Heaven is Queen's fifteenth studio album, released in November 1995. After Freddie Mercury's death in 1991, the remaining band members John Deacon, Roger Taylor and Brian May worked with vocals that Mercury had previously recorded, along with newly recorded lyrics by the remaining band members. "Made In Heaven" was the last studio album performed by all four original band members. 

</doc>
<doc id="103047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103047" title="Sassanid Empire">
Sassanid Empire

The Sassanid Empire or Sassanian Dynasty is the name used for the Persian dynasty which lasted from 224 to 651 AD. 
The Sassanid Empire, which succeeded the Parthian Empire, was recognized as one of the two main powers in Western Asia, alongside the Roman Empire and later the Byzantine Empire, for more than 400 years.
The Sassanid dynasty was founded by Ardashir I when he had defeated the last Parthian (Arsacid) king, Artabanus IV, and ended when the last Sassanid Shahanshah ("King of Kings"), Yazdegerd III (632–651), lost a 14-year struggle to drive out the early Arab Caliphate, the first of the Islamic empires. 
The Sassanid Empire's traditional territory included all of today's Iran, Iraq, Armenia, Afghanistan, eastern parts of Turkey, and parts of Syria, Pakistan, Caucasia, Central Asia and Arabia. 
The Sassanid era is considered to be one of the most important and influential historical periods in Iran. In many ways the Sassanid period saw the highest achievement of Persian civilization, and constituted the last great Iranian Empire before the Muslim conquest and adoption of Islam. 
Persia influenced Roman civilization considerably during the Sassanids' times, and the Romans reserved for the Sassanid Persians alone the status of equals. The Roman Emperor wrote letters to the Persian Shahanshah, which were addressed to "my brother". Their cultural influence extended far beyond the empire's territorial borders, reaching as far as Western Europe, Africa, China and India, and played a prominent role in the formation of both European and Asiatic medieval art. 
This influence carried forward to the early Islamic world. The dynasty's unique, aristocratic culture transformed the Islamic conquest of Iran into a Persian renaissance. Much of what later became known as Islamic culture, architecture, writing and other skills were borrowed mainly from the Sassanid Persians and propagated throughout the broader Muslim world.
In the spring of 632, a grandson of Khosrau I, Yazdegerd III who had lived in hiding, ascended the throne. In that same year, the first raiders from the Arab tribes made their raids into Persian territory. They were united by Islam. Years of warfare had exhausted both the Byzantines and the Persians. The Sassanids were further weakened by economic decline, heavy taxation, religious unrest, rigid social stratification, the increasing power of the provincial landholders, and a rapid turnover of rulers. These factors made the Islamic conquest of Persia easier than it would have been in earlier times.
The Sassanids never mounted a truly effective resistance to the pressure applied by the early Arab armies. 
226–241: Reign of Ardashir I:
241–271: Reign of Shapur I:
271–301: A period of dynastic struggles.
283: War with Rome. Romans sack Ctesiphon
296-8: War with Rome. Persia cedes five provinces east of the Tigris to Rome.
309–379: Reign of Shapur II "the Great":
387: Armenia partitioned into Roman and Persian zones.
399–420: Reign of Yazdegerd I "the Sinner":
420–438: Reign of Bahram V:
438–457: Reign of Yazdegerd II:
482-3: Armenian and Iberian revolt.
483: Edict of Toleration granted to Christians.
484: Peroz I defeated and killed by Hephthalites.
491: Armenian revolt. Armenian Church repudiates the Council of Chalcedon:
502-506: War with Constantinople.
526-532: War with Constantinople.
531–579: Reign of Khosrau I, "with the immortal soul" (Anushirvan)
540–562: War with Constantinople.
572-591: War with Constantinople. Persia cedes much of Armenia and Iberia to Constantinople.
590–628: Reign of Khosrau II
603–628: War with Byzantium. Persia occupies Byzantine Mesopotamia, Syria, Palestine, Egypt and the Transcaucasus, before being driven to withdraw to pre-war frontiers by Byzantine counter-offensive.
610: Arabs defeat a Sassanid army at Dhu-Qar.
626: Unsuccessful siege of Constantinople by Avars and Persians.
627: Byzantine Emperor Heraclius invades Assyria and Mesopotamia. Decisive defeat of Persian forces at the battle of Nineveh.
628–632: Chaotic period of multiple rulers.
632–642: Reign of Yazdegerd III.
636: Decisive Sassanid defeat at the Battle of al-Qādisiyyah during the Islamic conquest of Iran.
642: Final victory of Arabs when Persian army destroyed at Nahavand (Nehavand).
651: Last Sassanid ruler Yazdegerd III murdered at Merv, present-day Turkmenistan, ending the dynasty. His son Pirooz and many others went into exile in China.

</doc>
<doc id="103051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103051" title="Edguy">
Edguy

Edguy is a metal band from Fulda, Germany. Their style of metal is power metal. They formed in 1992. The members right now are: Tobias Sammet (vocals), Jens Ludwig (guitar), Dirk Sauer (guitar), Tobias Exxel (bass), Felix Bohnke (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="103055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103055" title="Turbonegro">
Turbonegro

Turbonegro is a punk band from Oslo, Norway. They formed in 1989. They call their style "deathpunk", which is a mixture of punk and hard rock. The members are: Hank Von Helvete (vocals), Happy-Tom (bass), Euroboy (guitar), Pål Pot Pamparius (guitar, keyboard), Tomas Dahl (drums)
Friends of the band are Bam Margera.

</doc>
<doc id="103060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103060" title="Cheek">
Cheek

Cheeks (also called the buccal cavity) are the area of the face under the eyes and between the nose and the ears.
It is fleshy in humans and mammals, the skin being held up by the chin and the jaws, and making the wall of the human mouth, touching the cheekbone below the eye.
In animals, markings on the cheek area (i.e. stripes/spots), often are features between species or individuals.

</doc>
<doc id="103061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103061" title="Simony">
Simony

Simony means that one pays for an office or a position in the hierarchy of Christian church. It is regarded as a crime in church. but it also extends to other forms of trafficking for money in "spiritual things".
In the Middle Ages there were problems with simony and accusations of simony, especially during the Investiture Controversy. Rulers wanted to employ the educated and centrally organized clergy in their administrations.

</doc>
<doc id="103065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103065" title="Flesh">
Flesh

Flesh is the soft part of the body between the skin and the bones. It is sometimes compared to bones, in the saying "flesh and bone". If it is to be eaten, it is normally called meat instead.

</doc>
<doc id="103067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103067" title="Locomotive">
Locomotive

A locomotive is the part of a train that makes the train move. Normally, it is the first part of the train, and has an engine.
A diesel locomotive is a powered by a diesel engine. The diesel engine may drive the locomotive's wheels directly via a gearbox, shaft or chain (called mechanical transmission); by generating electricity which is in turn used to power the wheels (called diesel-electric); or by using a hydraulic transmission system (diesel-hydraulic). Diesel locomotives are extremely popular worldwide, due to their ease of use and reliability. They are more powerful than steam locomotives and do not need an expensive power grid like electric locomotives.
A steam locomotive uses wood, coal or oil (but mostly coal) as fuel to heat water in a boiler, which turns into steam which pushes pistons to power the train. Steam locomotives are not widely used any more due to their operational costs, especially the fuel costs; steam locomotives are now mostly only used on tourist railroads.
An electric locomotive runs on electricity as the name suggests. Electric locomotives cost the least to buy and operate. However, the railway electrification system is very expensive, so only tracks used by many trains per day are usually electrified. Thus, electrics are only the second next used type, behind diesel locomotives.

</doc>
<doc id="103068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103068" title="The Man Who Knew Too Much">
The Man Who Knew Too Much

The Man Who Knew Too Much is a 1934 suspense movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock and released by the Gaumont British company. It was one of the most successful and critically acclaimed movies of Hitchcock's British period.
Hitchcock remade the movie in 1956 for Paramount Pictures, the only one of his movies that he ever remade. The two movies are however very different in tone, in setting, and in many plot details.

</doc>
<doc id="103069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103069" title="Regent">
Regent

A regent is a position of government in a country where there is a monarchy (like a king or queen). He (or she) is an "acting king", and does the job of a king where the real king is either too young, sick or cannot do what he is meant to for some other reason. 
They may also be voted in if there are no monarchs in line to the throne, for instance, if the current king or queen does not have any relatives when s/he dies.

</doc>
<doc id="103074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103074" title="Transcendental Meditation">
Transcendental Meditation

The Transcendental Meditation technique, or TM technique is a kind of meditation that was developed by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Today, the name is trademarked.
The meditation technique is practiced while sitting down with the eyes closed and is practiced twice a day.
Reviews of studies on the effects of the Transcendental Meditation technique show some results are not definite while some reviews of studies show patterns of positive effects.
The Transcendental Meditation technique is learned in seven steps. There are two lectures and a personal interview. This is followed by a session in which the student learns how to meditate. In three more sessions the meditation is checked to make sure the technique is being done correctly.
The goal of the Transcendental Meditation technique is said to be that the meditator continue to feel the deep rest, and the comfort of the meditation while living everyday life.
In 1955, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (born Mahesh Prasad Varma) began teaching a meditation technique he says was based on the Vedas. He gave this method for meditation the name, Transcendental Meditation.
Before this, Maharishi had studied with his teacher Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, and was also his secretary from 1941 until Brahmananda Saraswati's death in 1953. In 1957, Maharishi began the Spiritual Regeneration Movement in Madras, India, on the last day of a festival held in memory of his teacher. In 1958, he began the first of a number of worldwide tours in which he began to teach the TM technique to people around the world.
In the early 1970s, Maharishi began to establish one Transcendental Meditation teaching center for each million of the people in the world, which at that time would have meant 3,600 Transcendental Meditation centers throughout the world. In 1990, Maharishi moved to the town of Vlodrop, in the Netherlands, where he began an organization he called The Global Country of World Peace that takes care of all of the teaching of the Transcendental Meditation technique around the world. The Global Country of World Peace says there are more than 6 million people worldwide who have learned the Transcendental Meditation technique.
Transcendental Meditation has been researched since 1970. The earliest study, done in 1970, showed that with the Transcendental Meditation technique the body rests deeply, but is not asleep, and is alert. This study also showed that with the Transcendental Meditation technique stress became less.
According to one study Transcendental Meditation has been found to not have any advantages over health education in improving a persons health.
Transcendental Meditation websites say the Transcendental Meditation technique does not interfere with a person's religion.
In 2013, Monsignor Raffaello Martinelli, servicing Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, having worked for over 23 years with Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (Pope Benedict XVI), said that for his Meditation, a Christian can learn from other religious traditions (zen, yoga, controlled respiration, Mantra):" "As long as the Catholic Church rejects nothing of what is true and holy in these religions, we should not despise these indications since non-Christian. Instead, we can collect from them what is useful, provided you never lose sight of the Christian conception of prayer, its logic and requirements, since it is within this that all these fragments must be reformulated and assumed.../...»". In 1984, Cardinal Sin, an Archbishop in the Catholic Church stated that the Transcendental Meditation technique interferes with Christian religions. And other clergy believe the technique does not interfere with religious belief and practices.
Experts on cults say those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique may show cult-like actions, while David Orme-Johnson, a psychologist and researcher who was once a professor at Maharishi University of Management, says studies show that those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique act in ways that are adult and self – sufficient, and do not act in the way people in cults are said to act.

</doc>
<doc id="103081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103081" title="Honshū">
Honshū

Honshū is Japan's main island, it is south of Hokkaidō across the Tsugaru Strait, north of Shikoku across the Seto Inland Sea, and northeast of Kyūshū across the Kanmon Strait. It is the seventh biggest island, and is the island with the second highest number of people in the world after Java. 
In March 2011 the east coast of Honshu was struck by a huge earthquake and a following tsunami.

</doc>
<doc id="103083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103083" title="Most Haunted Live!">
Most Haunted Live!

Most Haunted Live is a British paranormal television program based on investigating possible paranormal activity. It is shown on the satellite and cable channels Living, Living2 and Virgin 1 (Formerly Ftn), mainly for the UK market. It is the Live version of "Most Haunted" which is going into its 10th series on February 19, 2008. It is made by Antix Productions, and is led by Yvette Fielding and her husband Karl Beattie.
The team's latest series leads them to travel to Italy, Turin. Investigating possible paranormal 'hotspots' for 24 hours witihn the city.
Investigators 
Presenters 

</doc>
<doc id="103108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103108" title="Gerolamo Cardano">
Gerolamo Cardano

Gerolamo Cardano or Girolamo Cardano (English Jerome Cardan, Latin Hieronymus Cardanus; September 24, 1501 - September 21 1576) was a celebrated Italian Renaissance mathematician, physician, astrologer and gambler.
As he was an illegitimate child, he could not enter the college of physicians. Despite this he was a relatively successful physician. The first description of Typhoid fever is attributed to him. 
Today he is mainly known as a mathematician. He made some discoveries in algebra. He proposed ways to solve cubic and quartic equations. Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia told him about the solution of one particular cubic equation, "formula_1". This caused a long fight. His student Lodovico Ferrari solved the quartic equations. Cardano also speaks about imaginary numbers in the same book, "Ars Magna". He did not completely understand what they were like though.
Cardano was often short of money. He gambled. A book of his, called "Liber de ludo aleae" (aproximately translates to as "Book on the game of chances") contains the first systematic treatment of probability, as well as a section on how to cheat. He wrote it in the 1560s, but it was only published after his death, in 1663. 
He invented various things. He also thought that perpetual motion was impossible, except for stars. 

</doc>
<doc id="103118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103118" title="Violent crime">
Violent crime

Violent crime means a crime where the offenders use violence upon the victim. Different countries have different definitions of violent crime. Common examples of violent crime include homicide, abduction, robbery etc.

</doc>
<doc id="103123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103123" title="Roentgenium">
Roentgenium

Roentgenium (, ) is a chemical element. It is a transition metal. Its symbol is Rg, and its position in the periodic table of the elements is 111. It is named in honor of Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen, a German physicist.
So far, it has not been found in nature. There seem to be 7 isotopes. All of them are radioactive. They have a half life of between 1.6 milliseconds and 26 seconds. Because of the Inert pair effect, it could have a color similar to that of gold.

</doc>
<doc id="103132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103132" title="Michigan International Speedway">
Michigan International Speedway

The Michigan International Speedway (or MIS) is a two-mile (3.22 km) long racetrack. It contains more than 1,400 acres, near Brooklyn, Michigan. The track is used mostly for NASCAR events. It is sometimes known as the "sister track" of Texas World Speedway. Construction for the track began on September 28, 1967, and opened October 13, 1968 with budget of around $4–6 million.
Michigan is now one of the fastest tracks in NASCAR due to its wide, sweeping corners and long straightaways. It normal speeds of more than 190 mph, but corner entry speeds easily pass 200 mph (~320 Km/h).

</doc>
<doc id="103133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103133" title="International health">
International health

International health means two different, but related, things. It means care of people who travel from one country to another, and knowledge of diseases foreign to the traveler. It also means people from one country trying to improve health in another.
There are different kinds of groups that are involved in international health. They engage in international health for different reasons and with different ethics and rules.
Governments of rich, "developed" countries are often interested in the health of other countries. They are especially interested in the health of neighbor countries. The reasons for this are many: if they have extra resources, they may want to share them with their neighbors; but also they may want to stop spread of diseases from their neighbor country across the border. For example, the United States is a richer country than Mexico and has little problem with measles (in children) or rabies (in mammals) in the interior, but along the border with Mexico these diseases are more common.
The Western Hemisphere's countries have formed PAHO, the Pan American Health Organization, to deal with these kinds of problems in an organized way. PAHO knows that people and goods flow across borders in both directions, and a problem in one country will soon be a problem in its partner countries. PAHO is an example of an international organization.
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are associations organized outside of the government by volunteers and others, and which serve a particular interest. Often, NGOs interested in health perform important functions in international health, both in direct care and in development.

</doc>
<doc id="103150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103150" title="Salam">
Salam

Salam or salaam (, "salam") is an Arabic word that literally means "peace", but is also used as a general greeting, above all in Arabian countries and by the Muslims, but also in other countries where Islam is important. 
This word appears also in longer greetings, as "assalamoe `alaykum" () to which it is possible to answer: "wa`alaykum assalam". In addition, "As-Salam" is one of the 99 Names of God. 
The Hebrew version is "shalom", that in Israel is used in the same way like "salaam".

</doc>
<doc id="103152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103152" title="Tekken (series)">
Tekken (series)

Tekken is a fighting video game series made by a gaming company called "Namco".

</doc>
<doc id="103154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103154" title="Tekken 3">
Tekken 3

Tekken 3 is a fighting video game made by Namco and was released in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="103155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103155" title="Tekken Tag Tournament">
Tekken Tag Tournament

Tekken Tag Tournament is an update to Tekken 3. It has most of the characters from Tekken 1, Tekken 2 and Tekken 3. It was released on the PS2 in 2000.
Tekken Tag Tournament has no story so that makes it non-canonical.
Marshall Law, the Jack robot from the original "Tekken" game, the first King, the first Kuma, and Doctor Boskonovitch, as well as Gon, the manga character who appeared in the PlayStation version of "Tekken 3", were not included as characters in "Tekken Tag Tournament". However, Doctor Boskonovitch makes a cameo in the Tekken Bowling minigame.
|width=28% valign=top|
|width=44% valign=top|

</doc>
<doc id="103156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103156" title="Tekken 4">
Tekken 4

Tekken 4 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released for the PS2 in 2002.
Two years ago, Heihachi could not capture Ogre.
Not wanting to give up, Heihachi said to his researchers to get blood samples, skin tissue, and hoof fragments left behind by Ogre (or known as True Ogre in its true manifestation) in order to conduct genetic experiments. Heihachi’s goal was to make a new life form by splicing Ogre’s genome with his own. However, the research was unsuccessful.
After long experimentation, Heihachi’s bioengineers came to the conclusion that an extra gene - the "Devil Gene" - was needed in order to successfully splice Ogre’s genetic code into another living organism. Heihachi learned that his own genome did not have the Devil Gene, but he knew someone who had it, Jin Kazama.
Jin, who defeated Ogre in The King of Iron Fist Tournament 3, was shot and wounded by Heihachi. As his life slipped away, Jin transformed into a Devil. Upon his transformation, he struck down Heihachi and took flight. Jin’s whereabouts were unknown after the Tournament.
Heihachi searched for Jin to no avail. However, Heihachi found a photograph during his search that made him curious. The 20-year-old photograph was an image of a burnt corpse covered with laceration wounds. Heihachi paid much attention to the corpse’s back, which had what looked like deformed, protruding wing-like limbs.
Thinking that the picture was of Kazuya, his own son whom he threw into a volcano 20 years ago, Heihachi diverted all his resources into a search for the body. This search led Heihachi to G Corporation, a modern biotech firm making unprecedented advances in the field of biogenetics research.
Heihachi found out that the G Corporation found the corpse and got its genetic data. In fact, Heihachi learned that the company was in the middle of creating a new life form by using the data. Heihachi also determined that Kazuya’s remains and research data were secured at G Corporation’s Nebraska and Nepal research laboratories, respectively.
Friday, 25 December. The Tekken Force raided G Corporation’s maximum security research laboratory in Nepal. The bottom floors of the building were destroyed, and the remaining data storage facility containing file servers was taken away by a group of heavy-duty helicopters.
At the same time, a separate unit led by Heihachi infiltrated the underground research facility in Nebraska, where Kazuya’s remains were preserved. As Heihachi looked from his helicopter, he soon realized that unlike the Nepal facility, the operations in Nebraska were not going according to plan. The tactical status monitor screens showed the first wave of the Tekken Force troops being blown out from the storage room where Kazuya’s remains were supposedly kept.
A silhouette of a large figure slowly emerged from the room... When Heihachi could see clearly enough, he instantly recognized the large figure as Kazuya.
Kazuya was brought back to life in G Corporation’s research facility. After his resurrection, Kazuya offered his body as research material to determine the true nature of the Devil that resided within him. Kazuya’s goal was to combine his two selves into one. Kazuya theorized that if he unified his body with the Devil, he would be able to truly get its powers. He could then finally take revenge against Heihachi and the Mishima Zaibatsu (Financial Empire).
Enraged that Heihachi thwarted his plans, Kazuya obliterated the heavily armed Tekken Force and vanished into the flames of the lab’s wreckage. Heihachi was infuriated by Kazuya’s escape and took out his anger on his hapless subordinates who reported the escape.
Dr. Abel, Heihachi’s lead scientific advisor, urged the enraged Heihachi to quickly find a way to capture Kazuya. Once his anger subsided, Heihachi focused his mind and decided on a plan. An evil smile crept upon his lips.
Two years had passed since The King of Iron Fist Tournament 3. The Mishima Zaibatsu announced The King of Iron Fist Tournament 4 and placed the massive financial empire as the top prize. The champion who manages to defeat Heihachi at the end of the Tournament would inherit the Mishima Zaibatsu.
Well aware that the tournament is just a trap designed to lure him out, Kazuya nevertheless enters - it is his chance to defeat Heihachi
Tekken 4 is the first game of the Tekken series where players can be heard talking to each other (aside from Julia's Tekken 3 ending, in which she speaks to Michelle). Some may speak in other languages (in part of Hwoarang's ending, Jin Kazama speaks in English.) Tekken 4 is also the first game of the Tekken series when the player hears a person speaking in the beginning of the Story Mode. In the background, sketches are seen that follow the characters story. Some may appear in the epilogue of a characters ending.

</doc>
<doc id="103159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103159" title="Tekken 5">
Tekken 5

Tekken 5 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable and the PlayStation 3.
After the end of King of Iron Fist Tournament 4, father Kazuya Mishima and son Jin Kazama, battle each other at Honmaru, somewhere in the Mishima estate. Jin quickly beats his father. The oldest Mishima, Heihachi, enters the Honmaru to find his son defeated and asleep. Heihachi and Jin begin to fight. During the fight, Jin begins to show the Devil he got from his father, Kazuya. Just as it appears that Jin will kill Heihachi, Jin suddenly gains control of his body and flies away.
Suddenly, a bunch of "Jack" robots interrupt the battle. Both Kazuya and Heihachi are surprised at the attack, and begin fighting as a team against the Jack robots. During the battle however, Kazuya goes against his father, throws him into the Jack robots and runs away. Raven, watching on top of the cliff, speaks into a headphone and says: ""Heihachi Mishima...is dead.""
After hearing of Heihachi's death, people though that it would bring the end of the Mishima Zaibatsu. However, an unknown person had taken control, and a month later Mishima Zaibatsu announced the opening of The King of Iron Fist Tournament 5.
Following the end of the King of Iron Fist Tournament 4, Heihachi Mishima defeated Kazuya Mishima and led him to Honmaru Temple, planning to let both his son Kazuya and his grandson, Jin Kazama, battle and steal their "Devil Genes". Jin defeats both his father and his grandfather and flies away, leaving the latter two asleep. Shortly after, a group Jack-4 robots invade the Honmaru. The robots were made to take Heihachi's life. At the start, Kazuya and Heihachi fight the Jack-4's as a team, but eventually Kazuya throws Heihachi across the room as soon as he notices that Heihachi is getting tired. Then, Kazuya turns into Devil Kazuya and escapes, leaving Heihachi to deal with the Jack-4's by himself. They quickly explode, leaving Heihach. The explosion brings Heihachi's father Jinpachi Mishima back to life from his 50 year sleep beneath the Temple, and goes to and become head of the Mishima Zaibatsu. A few months later, the King of Iron Fist Tournament 5 is announced. It turns out that Heihachi survived the explosion, and now promises to find out and ""break the neck of the one who started this ridiculous tournament!""
Tekken 5 kept many features from the older games, as well as new features, such as the new "Crush System" and the chance to dress up all chaaracters differently (except for Mokujin). It was also the first Tekken game to have a mini-game that hade a story of its own. It also had stages with no walls like the stages in all the older Tekken games (except for Tekken 4). The stages did not also have all the slopes and uneven ground, like they did in Tekken 4.
Tekken 5.1 was a small upgrade of the original Tekken 5 that was not released on consoles and instead, was only on arcades. It contained different balance changes to characters of the original game. It also fixed the damage done when using fground moves, instead of ground moves doing 100% damage, they now only did 70% damage. The character health bars for this game is a different colour to the health bars on the original Tekken 5.
Tekken: Dark Resurrection (DR for short) is an upgraded version of Tekken 5. It added two new characters, Emily "Lili" Rochefort and Sergei Dragunov, and it also added a returning older character, Armor King. Eddy Gordo also got his own character box, rather than just sharing a character box with Christie Monteiro. Plus, the game had new moves for the characters, as well as some changes to some older moves, in order to balance out the characters more, new customization items to use to dres up the characters, new stages, and new before fight and win animations, as well as some camera angle changes to some older ones. The game also recolored the main outfits of most of the characters, and the game's final boss, Jinpachi Mishima, got a new design, giving him a flame-like appearance, with a horn coming out of his head.
Tekken 5 was re-released on the PlayStation Portable as Tekken: Dark Resurrection (known as Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection in arcades and on PlayStation 3) with new stages, two new characters, one extra returning character, an online mode, new costumes and more. The character select screen is also different and there are new modes such as the "Tekken Dojo" mode, where the player has to enter a tournament, defeating ghosts (not actual ghosts you see at Halloween). Later on, after the release of Tekken: Dark Resurrection on the PSP, Namco decided to release the arcade version of Tekken: Dark Resurrection (called Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection) on the PlayStation Store. The PS3 version was a bit different from the PSP version. It was very much like the arcade version, but not exactly. The only things missing are Story mode, Ghost downloads, Tekken Dojo and a Customizing mode (although you can dress your characters up after you select them and before you fight with them). On the PS3 version, Jinpachi is also a playble character, unlike in Tekken 5 and Tekken: Dark Resurrection where he was unpplayable, unless a cheat device such as GameShark or an Action Replay was used (CWCheat and custom firmware 3.40 for PSP).

</doc>
<doc id="103165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103165" title="Tekken 6">
Tekken 6

Tekken 6 is a fighting video game made by Namco. It was released in Japanese arcades on November 26, 2007. and was released on the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360 on October 27, 2009. It will be released on the PlayStation Portable on November 24, 2009.
Tekken 6, was released on October 27, 2009 for the PS3, and Xbox 360, and will be released on November 24, 2009 for the PSP, is the sequel to Tekken 5 and Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection. Both games have been liked by fans. Katsuhiro Hirada, game director for Tekken 6 and previous Tekken games, said that the stages will be bigger and will have more movement and interactivity,[9] such as walls or floors that can be broken so you can fight in new fighting areas. The character customization feature has been changed and become better, and will be more involved with the gameplay.
A new "rage" system has been added, which allows characters to do more damage per hit when their health is low. In re mode, a reddish energy aura appears around the character and their health bar starts to flicker red. The rage aura can be changed into different colors and effects to appear like fire, electricity, ice and others. Another new feature added is the "bound" feature. Every character has some moves that, when used on the enemy that is currently midair in a juggle combo, will cause the opponent to be smashed hard into the ground, bouncing them off the floor, stunned and letting the attacker to perform another combo or attack.
The console versions will have an extra mode called "Scenario Campaign" which is similar to the "Tekken Force" and "Devil Within" modes from previous games. This mode is playable only by one player offline, but in the future the mode will be playable co-operatively online with two players. In this mode players can pick up weapons such as poles and gatling guns. Players can move almost any way they wantt to between fights, but when fighting enemies, the gameplay switches to the traditional Tekken style.
Both the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game will include an online versus multiplayer mode over PlayStation Network and Xbox Live respectively.
Tekken 6: Bloodline Rebellion was supposed to be released on consoles instead of Tekken 6. It was supposed to be an upgrade of Tekken 6, having new fighting arenas, characters and more. In the end, Namco decided to release the original Tekken 6 on consoles with the updates and more things that can only be played on the console version.
<nowiki>*</nowiki><br><nowiki>**</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="103168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103168" title="Sola scriptura">
Sola scriptura

Sola scriptura (Latin for "by scripture alone") means "The Bible only". Protestants believe that they should only read the Bible to find out what God wants. They do this instead of listening to the Pope or the Roman Catholic Church.
"Sola scriptura" was a principle of the Protestant Reformation of the reformer Martin Luther and is a principle of Protestants today (see Five solas).

</doc>
<doc id="103170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103170" title="Tatar">
Tatar

Tatar might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="103172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103172" title="Human Rights Watch">
Human Rights Watch

Human Rights Watch is an international non-governmental organization. Its activities include research and advocacy on human rights. The headquarters of the organization is in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="103173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103173" title="Arms trafficking">
Arms trafficking

Arms trafficking is smuggling of weapons and ammunition. Today arms trafficking is a global problem, it happens everywhere. It is most serious problem in regions of political turmoil. International organizations for human rights, especially Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch research and combat aganst this problem.

</doc>
<doc id="103203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103203" title="Sola fide">
Sola fide

Sola fide means "Faith only". Most protestants believe that people must trust Jesus. They have to trust that Jesus brings people back into relationship with God. Christians believe that sin creates a gap between people and God, and Jesus, who was perfect, died, taking the punishment for sin in place of people, bridging the gap. This is called salvation because Jesus 'saves' people from a life and afterlife without God. The idea of "sola fide" means that trust in Jesus is the only way to get salvation and finally get into heaven after death.
This belief in faith as the only way to be saved was a principle of the Protestant Reformation of the reformer of the Catholic Church Martin Luther and is a principle of Protestants today (see Five solas). Some groups like the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christians believe Jesus died to bridge the gap between God and people, but they must also try to be good people in order to get salvation. Protestants also believe that Christians need to do what is right, but their salvation only depends on their faith.

</doc>
<doc id="103207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103207" title="Society of Jesus">
Society of Jesus

The Society of Jesus (Latin: "Societas Iesu", "S.J." and "S.I." or "SJ", "SI" ) is a Roman Catholic Church religious order whose members are called Jesuits, "Soldiers of Christ", and "Foot soldiers of the Pope", because the founder, Saint Ignatius of Loyola, was a knight before becoming a priest.
Jesuits are the largest male religious order of the Roman Catholic Church with 19,216 members (13,491 priests, 3,049 scholastic students, 1,810 brothers and 866 novices).
The Society of Jesus is consecrated under the patronage of the Madonna Della Strada. It is led by a Superior General, currently Adolfo Nicolás.
The headquarters of the society, its General Curia, is in Rome.
Within the Catholic Church, there has been a sometimes tense relationship between Jesuits and the Vatican. This is due to questioning of official Church teaching and papal directives, such as those on abortion, birth control, women deacons, homosexuality, and liberation theology.
However, as of 2013, the current Pope, Pope Francis, is a Jesuit himself.

</doc>
<doc id="103212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103212" title="Rosenhan experiment">
Rosenhan experiment

The Rosenhan experiment is a test in psychiatry. It wants to see how good a psychiatric diagnosis really is. The first person to do the test was David Rosenhan. The test is named after him. It was first conducted in 1972. Rosenhan published the results in the journal "Science" under the title "On being sane in insane places."
The test is made of two parts. In the first part, psychiatrically sane people said they heard hallucinations, to get admitted to a psychiatric ward. This was done to test how the psychiatric hospitals would react. The second part was the reverse. Rosahan told the hospitals, he would send "fake patients". But he did not send any "fake" patients. 
The results of the study were very controversial. When Rosenhan sent the people, the hospitals was unable to detect them. On the other hand, when he told them he had sent some patients, but really did not, the hospitals recognised a large number of "fake patients". The study said that it was impossible to tell a difference between the sane and the insane. 

</doc>
<doc id="103219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103219" title="Chassiers">
Chassiers

Chassiers is a town and commune in the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 850 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="103220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103220" title="Châteaubourg">
Châteaubourg

Châteaubourgcan be one of 2 communes in France:

</doc>
<doc id="103221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103221" title="Châteaubourg, Ardèche">
Châteaubourg, Ardèche

Châteaubourg is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France. The commune has a population of about 200 people as of the year 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="103224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103224" title="Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux">
Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux

Châteauneuf-de-Vernoux is a town and commune of the Ardèche "département", in the southern part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="103249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103249" title="Dominican Order">
Dominican Order

The Order of Preachers (Latin:"Ordo Praedicatorum", "OP") is a Roman Catholic religious order. Its members follow the rules Saint Dominic gave them in the 13th century. After the 15th century they are commonly known as Dominicans.

</doc>
<doc id="103251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103251" title="Dominican">
Dominican

Dominican might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="103253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103253" title="M-Train">
M-Train

M>Train was a train operator of half of Melbourne's suburban railway network. It stopped operations at 3:00am 18 April 2004, with Connex Melbourne then taking over all rail operations. M>Train and M>Tram's slogan was Moving Melbourne. M>Train operated the Craigieburn, Cranbourne, Frankston, Pakenham, Sandringham, Sydenham, Upfield, Werribee, Williamstown lines, and maintained the 3 underground city loop stations. Their network was more than 268 kilometers long, and owned 125 trains, with 62 new trains on order when M>Train stopped operations.
Bayside Trains (later known as M>Train) were awarded a 15 year contract to run half of Melbourne's railway network on 31 October, 1999, by the Victorian State Government. On October 1, 2001, Bayside Trains renamed themselves to M>Train, along with Swanston Trams renaming themselves to M>Tram .

</doc>
<doc id="103258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103258" title="Diploma">
Diploma

A diploma is a certificate you receive when you have studied a subject with good results. For many jobs a diploma is needed, because it proves that you are good at the subject you studied. A diploma is usually a basic degree that is lower than a Bachelor's degree.

</doc>
<doc id="103270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103270" title="Authorized King James Version">
Authorized King James Version

The Authorized King James Version is an English translation of the Christian Bible. King James I of England told the Church of England to begin working on it in 1604. The first book was published in 1611. This Bible is known as the "King James Version" in the United States, or "KJV" for short. This version of the Bible is also called the "Authorized Version", or "AV".

</doc>
<doc id="103280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103280" title="809 Lundia">
809 Lundia

809 Lundia is a small, binary, V-type asteroid orbiting in the Flora family in the Main Belt. It is named after Lund Observatory, Sweden.
The V-type spectrum says that it is not genetically related to the Flora family, but rather is probably a piece (actually two pieces) blown off the surface of nearby 4 Vesta by a big impact in the past. Its orbit is too far from Vesta for it to actually be a member of the Vesta family It is not clear how it came at an orbit so far from Vesta, but other examples of V-type asteroids fairly far from their parent body are known. A mechanism of interplay between the Yarkovsky effect and nonlinear secular resonances (mainly involving Jupiter and Saturn) has been suggested.
A moon, designated S/2005 (809) 1, was seen based on lightcurve sightings in 2005. In fact, the size of the two bodies appear to be close in size, because during mutual occultations the brightness drops by a similar amount independently of which body is hidden. Assuming an albedo similar to 4 Vesta (around 0.4), suggests that the bodies are about 7 km across. It takes 15.4 hours to orbit each other, which says that the binary is very close — the separation being of the order of 10–20 km, if normal asteroid albedo and density values are assumed.

</doc>
<doc id="103282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103282" title="Hato Mayor Province">
Hato Mayor Province

Hato Mayor is a Dominican province; it is on the eastern part of the country. Its name comes from the name of its capital city, Hato Mayor del Rey (in English: "the largest cattle farm of the King").
It is one of the last provinces created in the Dominican Republic; it was made a province on 3 December 1984. The province's territory was part of the El Seibo province.
Hato Mayor is bordered to the northwest by the province of Samaná, to the west by Monte Plata and to the south by the San Pedro de Macorís province. The Samaná Bay is to the north of the province.
Some native groups lived close to the coast, in caves in Los Haitises region. There were other groups, mainly Taínos, living inland but, in general, the population was low.
When the Spanish people came to this region, they found that there were many savannas with good grasses for food for cattle (cows), horses and sheep. And they made nine "hatos". "Hato" is a word from southern Spain that means a large farm for raising cattle (a ranch); it is a common word in the Dominican Republic. One of those "hatos" was Hato Mayor del Rey, made in the name of King Charles I of Spain (Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor) but given as a "Mayorazgo" (a family property) to Francisco Dávila as the manager and the property was called sometimes "Hato Mayor de Dávila".
Because there were many French people and from other countries trying to live in the Samaná region, the colonial government founded the city of Sabana de la Mar in 1760 and brought people from the Canary Islands to live here.
The area of Hato Mayor was part of the El Seibo province until the new province began in 1984.
In 2010 (last national census), there were 85,017 people living in the Hato Mayor province, and 63,012 (74.12%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 64 persons/km².
Its population represents 0.9% of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 26th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.
The largest city of the province is Hato Mayor del Rey, its head municipality or capital, with a population (in 2010) of 44,900 inhabitants.
Hato Mayor has a total area of 1,329.29 km². It has 2.7% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 15th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.
The territory of the province covers across four geographical regions. From north to south, these regions are:
Rivers with their sources on the northern side of the Cordillera Oriental are short and flow into the Samaná Bay. The longest here is the River Yabón (44 km long) with its mouth west of the city of Sabana de la Mar.
Those rivers that flow to the south of the Cordillera Oriental and into the Caribbean Sea are longer. The most important rivers are, from east to west:
There are two main roads in the province. One is the "Carretera Mella" ("Mella National Road") that begins in Santo Domingo and goes through Hato Mayor del Seibo, the El Seibo province and ends in Higüey; it is one of the most important road in the country.
The second road begins in Hato Mayor del Rey and ends in Sabana de la Mar.
There are 3 municipalities and 4 municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. Municipal districts are similar to municipalities but they depend on a municipality.
The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:
The main economic activity of the province is farming; the main products are cacao (in the Cordillera Oriental), flowers and oil palm around El Valle, and sugar cane south of Hato Mayor.
Because there are many savannas with grasses around Hato Mayor del Rey and to the south of it, cattle raising is a very important activity in the province; the dairy industry is important, with a large amount of cheese produced in the province.
Fishing is important in Sabana de la Mar and other towns around the Samaná Bay.

</doc>
<doc id="103284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103284" title="Rheine">
Rheine

Rheine is a city in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is the biggest city in the district.
Rheine is on the river Ems, about 40 kilometers north of Münster, about 45 kilometers west of Osnabrück and 45 kilometers east of Enschede (Netherlands).
Rheine consists of 15 districts:
Although a lot of people have lived in the area around the city since prehistorical times, Rheine was first mentioned in a document signed by Louis the Pious only in 838. On 15 August 1327 it got its town charter from Louis II, Bishop of Münster. 
The settlement was founded by reason of two old merchant roads crossing nearby, as well as a ford crossing the river Ems. Frankish soldiers secured this strategic point by a barrack yard at first. Later a church and more buildings were added to this outpost. 
In the end of Thirty Years' War the city burned down almost completely. Swedish and Hessian troops besieged imperial soldiers who entrenched themselves in Rheine. On 20th/21st September and 19th October 1647 glowing cannonballs set fire to the city, 365 houses got razed.
During the industrialisation textile industry prospered. It continued to be an important economical factor until the second half of the 20th century. Today engineering industries and services form the largest part of economy in Rheine.

</doc>
<doc id="103285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103285" title="Recke">
Recke

Recke is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.
Recke is about 20 km north-east of Rheine and 25 km north-west of Osnabrück.

</doc>
<doc id="103299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103299" title="Bryggen">
Bryggen

Bryggen (Norwegian for "the Wharf"), also known as Tyskebryggen ("the German Wharf"), is a series of Hanseatic commercial buildings found on the eastern side of the fjord coming into Bergen, Norway. Bryggen is on the UNESCO list for World Cultural Heritage sites. The name has the same origin as the Flemish city of Brugge.

</doc>
<doc id="103304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103304" title="Ibbenbüren">
Ibbenbüren

Ibbenbüren (Ibbenbueren) is on the Ibbenbürener Aa river, at the northwest end of the Teutoburger forest and rather exactly in the center of the two cities Rheine in the west and Osnabrück in the east, both about 20 km away.
Ibbenbüren is said in documentary evidence for the first time in 1146, when the bishop of Osnabrück at that time, Philipp of Katzenelnbogen, donated a tenth of his possessions in Ibbenbüren to the Getrudenkloster of Osnabrück. Although Ibbenbüren is already much older and a document of the year 1348 already occupies the establishment of a church in the year 799, the year 1146 is officially considered as the year of the foundation of Ibbenbüren.
In the years 1219 and/or 1234 it appears as church village. In this transition of the High Middle Ages to the Late Middle Ages the noble gentlemen of Ibbenbüren, that is the abbot of Herford and the counts of Tecklenburg, possessed basic rule in the place. To this time Ibbenbüren belonged to the Diocese of Osnabrück. During this time the castle of Ibbenbüren was built by the noble gentlemen of Ibbenbüren starting from 1150. Last remainder of this castle are the remnants of the heath tower in the proximity of the Aasee.
After the noble gentleman of Ibbenbüren died out, Ibbenbüren came under the exclusive rule of the counts of Tecklenburg. This rule lasted until the end of the 15th or beginning of the 16th century, when Ibbenbüren finally fell into possession Charles' V. in 1548 by awkward and luckless tactics used by the counts of Tecklenburg. Karl donated it to his sister Mary of Habsburg, governor of the Netherlands. Ibbenbüren was assigned to the office Lingen. Into this period also the falls the beginning of coal mining.
After Ibbenbüren repeatedly fell under control of the Netherlands and Spain in the Dutch Revolt, it was assigned to the House of Orange-Nassau after the Peace of Westphalia in 1648. In this time falls the beginning of iron ore mining in and around Ibbenbüren, which ended in the first half of the 19th century. By succession it came under Prussian rule in 1702. On February 1, 1724 Ibbenbüren attained municipal rights, which stood among other things in connection with the introduction excise duty. In the year 1743 the first magistrate and mayor appointed.
During the rule of Napoléon Bonaparte at the beginning of the 19th century, Ibbenbüren belonged to the first French Empire, until it was freed by Prussian and Russian troops in 1815. It came back under Prussian rule on January 1, 1816, resulting to be assigned to the district of Tecklenburg. After the end of World War II the city Ibbenbüren and the municipality Ibbenbüren Land formed by December 31, 1974 the department federation Ibbenbüren, resulting in today's city of Ibbenbüren. With the simultaneous dissolution of the district of Tecklenburg and fusion with the old district of Burgsteinfurt, Ibbenbüren was assigned to the new district of Steinfurt. 
Coat of arms has a golden anchor on blue reason. The city colors are blue and gold.

</doc>
<doc id="103307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103307" title="Westerkappeln">
Westerkappeln

Westerkappeln is a municipality in the district of Steinfurt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is about 15 km north-west of Osnabrück.

</doc>
<doc id="103313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103313" title="Osnabrück (district)">
Osnabrück (district)

Osnabrück () is a district ("Landkreis") in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is near the districts of Emsland, Cloppenburg, Vechta and Diepholz, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (districts of Minden-Lübbecke, Herford, Gütersloh, Warendorf and Steinfurt) and the City of Osnabrück.
The district is almost the same as the Prince-Bishopric of Osnabrück which existed until 1803. When the clerical states of Germany were dissolved, Osnabrück became part of the Kingdom of Hanover, which in turn fell to Prussia in 1866. The district was established in 1972 by merging four old districts (Osnabrück, Melle, Bersenbrück, Wittlage).
The landscape is characterised by two mountain chains: the Wiehengebirge in the north and the northern foothills of the Teutoburg Forest in the south. These chains go around the City of Osnabrück.

</doc>
<doc id="103317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103317" title="Michelle Branch">
Michelle Branch

Michelle Jacquet Branch-Landau (born July 2, 1983) is a singer from the United States. She writes songs and plays the guitar. She made her first album, "Broken Bracelet", in 2000, and released the platinum-selling albums "The Spirit Room" and "Hotel Paper" in August 2001 and June 2003, respectively. During this period, she worked with Carlos Santana on the single "The Game of Love", which won a Grammy Award. In 2004, she formed the musical duo The Wreckers with fellow musician Jessica Harp.

</doc>
<doc id="103320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103320" title="Domestic rabbit">
Domestic rabbit

The domestic rabbit is the domesticated form of the European Rabbit ("Oryctolagus cuniculus").
Domestic rabbits are kept as livestock, for meat or their fur; or they are kept as pets. Like other domesticated animals, there are many different breeds. The most popular rabbit breed is the Netherland Dwarf rabbit. Another popular breed is the Mini Lop. The largest rabbit breed is the Flemish Giant rabbit. The Flemish Giant rabbit can weigh up to 19.8 lbs (9 kg). Most domestic rabbits live for 7 to 9 years, but they can become up to 15 years old if you take good care of them and if they have good genes. 
Domestic rabbits usually live in a cage. Several rabbits can live in one cage, but if so they should be spayed or neutered. Spayed or neutered rabbits are less likely to fight, and they can not have babies. You should clean the rabbit cage as soon as it gets dirty. Rabbits usually poop in a corner which makes it easy to remove. 
Rabbits are grass-eaters. The rabbit's diet should consist of 80-90% grass or hay. A rabbit can feed on hay and a little rabbit pellets all the year round. Because fruit and vegetables contain a lot of fructose (fruit sugar), you should only give your rabbit it from time to time. It's good for the rabbit's teeth to have sticks to chew on. Rabbits should have free access to hay so that their digestion works well. You should avoid giving your rabbit muesli-style foods, because they contain too much fat. Fresh water should be accessible for the rabbit at all times. 
Overgrown teeth are a big problem in rabbits. Also, if the owner does not clean the cage on a regular basis, the rabbit can get sick. True diarrhoea is uncommon in rabbits, but if your rabbit gets it, you should contact your vet immediately. If the rabbit has a severe stomach or intestine infection, it can die within 24 hours. 
A rabbit gets sexually mature by 3-6 months of age. Large breeds get sexually mature earlier than dwarf breeds. Rabbits should not be bred too early though. A female rabbit should be at least 8 months old, and not older than 12 months, when you breed her for the first time. A rabbit can have 2-15 babies. 

</doc>
<doc id="103355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103355" title="Scanning electron microscope">
Scanning electron microscope

The scanning electron microscope (SEM) is a type of electron microscope that uses a focused beam of high-energy electrons in producing a variety of signals at the surface of a solid specimen . The signals produced by the interacting electrons contain useful information such as the shape, atomic structure and conductivity.
When an electron hits the surface, it may be reflected ("backscattered"), absorbed, or conducted away. Electrons that are absorbed can cause the atom that they hit to become unstable, forcing it to give off another electron (a secondary electron), or to give off light in order to stabilize. Different detectors, for the different types of reactions, may be fitted to an electron microscope, depending on what is being looked for.
The magnification that can be achieved in a scanning electron microscope depends on how narrow the beam of electrons that strikes the surface can be, and can reach 1 nanometer, about the size of 3 to 5 atoms. The control of the beam is achieved using magnetic fields, with other magnetic fields being used to shape the beam, and to move it across the sample. The range of magnification may range from 30x to as high as 500,000x.
The electron beam is affected by air and water molecules, so the sample must be placed in a vacuum. The sample must also be conductive to allow the electrons not reflected or absorbed to be conducted away. This gives some limits on the type of sample that can be used. In the case of samples from plants or animals, it often means that they must first be coated in gold before they can be placed in the microscope. This is done in order to preserve the sample and keep it from changing or decaying throughout the scanning process.
The scanning electron microscope is made up of several components:
1. The electron gun is located at the very top or bottom of an SEM and is used to fire a beam of electrons at the object that we are looking at under SEM.
2. The lenses are used to focus electron beams so that we can get clear and detailed images of the examined object. They are not made of glass, but they are made of magnets that change the path of electrons created from the electron gun.
3. The sample chamber is the area where the specimen of interest is examined under SEM. As the technique is very sensitive, the chamber must be very sturdy and have no vibrations happen. This is to allow for the specimen to be kept very still in order for the SEM to produce good images.
4. The detector is the "eyes" of the microscope. It is able to produce the most detailed images of a specimen's surface. Many different detectors can be used depending upon the information wanted from the sample used.
5. The vacuum chamber is used to keep the electron beam from constant interference from air. The air particles are bad for electron beams in that the electrons would be knocked out of the air and onto the specimen, which will produce bad distorted surfaces of the specimen.

</doc>
<doc id="103358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103358" title="Leporidae">
Leporidae

Leporidae is a mammal family in the order Lagomorpha. It has about 50 species of rabbits and hares. The animals of the family Leporidae are called Leporids. The names "rabbit" and "hare" are not names of separate biological groups, but are "randomly" given to different leporid species.

</doc>
<doc id="103363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103363" title="Casimir III of Poland">
Casimir III of Poland

Casimir III the Great () (April 30, 1310 – November 5, 1370) was the King of Poland from 1333 until 1370. He was the son of Wladyslaw I. He was the last king of the Piast dynasty, his daughter Jadwiga having married the Lithuanian duke Wladyslaw Jagiello.
Casimir III is the only Polish king to ever receive the title of "the Great". His reign was a time of prosperity and growth for the Polish kingdom. He focused on the economy and strengthening of the country and not on wars and expansion. He kept peace with the Teutonic Order during his reign, for he knew that Poland was weak and would not survive the confrontation with the knights. Because of that, he focused his attention on the south-eastern borders of the country and expanded there. In 1340, he conquered Red Ruthenia (Lviv along with it) from Hungary. Various trade laws created by him made it easier for Polish cities to gather more wealth. Cracow and Lviv gained in importance during his reign.

</doc>
<doc id="103386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103386" title="Thunbergia">
Thunbergia

Thunbergia Retz. is a genus of flowering plants in the family Acanthaceae, native to tropical regions of Africa, Madagascar and southern Asia. Its members are known by various names, including thunbergias; clockvine on its own usually refers to "Thunbergia grandiflora", while "Thunbergia alata" is often known as Black-eyed Susan vine or just Black-eyed Susan (not to be confused with other flowers called Black-eyed Susan). Orange clockvine is the name of "Thunbergia gregorii".
Thunbergia was named for Carl Peter Thunberg.

</doc>
<doc id="103387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103387" title="The Pillows">
The Pillows

The Pillows (or the pillows) is a Japanese rock band made in 1989. They sang FLCL's theme song.

</doc>
<doc id="103392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103392" title="Rio Negro (Amazon)">
Rio Negro (Amazon)

The Rio Negro is a river which flows through the Amazon rainforest in north-western Brazil, in the state of Amazonas.
It is the largest blackwater river in the world. It is called "Negro" (Spanish and Portuguese for "black") because its waters are colored by particles of humus, which make them look much like tea.
The Rio Negro is the largest tributary of the Amazon on the left-hand side (as it goes towards the sea). It starts in Colombia and ends in the Amazon basin.
Rio Negro has a very high species richness. About 700 fish species have been documented in the river basin, and it is estimated that the total is 800–900 fish species, including almost 100 endemics and several undescribed species. Among these are many that are important in the aquarium trade, including the cardinal tetra.

</doc>
<doc id="103393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103393" title="Castella">
Castella

Castella ("Kasutera" in Japanese) is a sponge cake produced in Japan. It is made of sugar, flour, eggs, and starch syrup, very common at festivals and as a street food.
It was originally produced in Portugal during medieval times, and when the Portuguese reached Japan they gave some of it to the Japanese nobility. The name is derived from Portuguese "Pão de Castela" which means "bread of Spain".

</doc>
<doc id="103395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103395" title="Mallow, County Cork">
Mallow, County Cork

Mallow (Irish "Mala" "plain of the rock") is the "Crossroads of Munster" and the administrative capital of north County Cork, in the Republic of Ireland. The Northern Divisional Offices of Cork County Council are in the town.

</doc>
<doc id="103396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103396" title="List of Gumby episodes">
List of Gumby episodes

This list displays the 7 pilot and all 233 episodes of "Gumby".

</doc>
<doc id="103400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103400" title="Krishnadevaraya">
Krishnadevaraya

Sri Krishnadevaraya (, , 1509-1529 CE) was the most famous king of Vijayanagara Empire. He ruled the Vijayangara empire at the most important time. He is considered to be one of the great kings of India. Emperor Krishnadevaraya also earned the titles "Kannada Rajya Rama Ramana (ಕನ್ನಡರಾಜ್ಯರಮಾರಮಣ)", "Moorurayaraganda (ಮೂರುರಾಯರಗಂಡ)" (what means "King of three kings") and "Andhra Bhoja (ఆంధ్రభోజ)". Much of our information about his reign comes from the accounts of Portuguese travelers Domingos Paes and Nuniz. 
Paes describes the king's attitude to law and order by the sentence, "The king maintains the law by killing." Offences against property (designed to maintain stability) and for murder ranged from cutting of a foot and hand for theft and beheading for murder (except for those occurring as a result of duel). Paes could not estimate the size of Vijaynagar as his view was obscured by the hills but estimated the city to be at least as large as Rome. Furthermore, he considered Vijaynagar to be "the best provided city in the world" with a population of not less than a half a million.
Paes praises Krishnadevaraya as, “the most feared and perfect King… a great ruler and a man of much justice”. 
The rule of Krishnadevaraya was an age of good literature in many languages. But it is known as a golden age of Telugu literature. Many Telugu, Sanskrit, Kannada and Tamil poets enjoyed the patronage of the emperor. Emperor Krishnadevaraya was fluent in many languages.

</doc>
<doc id="103402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103402" title="Tocantins River">
Tocantins River

The Tocantins River is a river that flows through the northeastern part of Brazil. It rises in the district with a lot of mountains known as the Pireneus. These can be found to the west of the Federal District. Its western tributary, the Araguaia River, has headwaters very far south on the slopes of the Serra dos Caiapós.

</doc>
<doc id="103425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103425" title="Bukka">
Bukka

Bukka ಬುಕ್ಕ್ (1356-1377 CE) (also known as Bukka Raya I was an emperor of the Vijayanagara Empire from the Sangama Dynasty. Bukka patronised Telugu poet Nachana Soma.
It is said that Bukka also sent a mission to China during his reign. 
Important works of literature were also written during his rule. Dozens of scholars lived under the guidance of Vidyaranya and Sayana. Sayana's commentary on the Vedas, Brahmanas and Aranyakas was written under the patronage of Bukka.

</doc>
<doc id="103468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103468" title="McGill University">
McGill University

McGill University or just McGill is a university in Montreal, Canada. It was created in 1821, few years before the country Canada existed. McGill University does a lot of important research and has North America's first Museum, called Redpath Museum.
Many people think McGill University is one of the best universities in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="103481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103481" title="Renault Koleos">
Renault Koleos

The Renault Koleos ist the second SUV from Renault after the Renault Scénic RX4. It was first presented on the Geneva Motorshow in the year 2000, then on the "Autosalon Paris" 2006. It was designed by Patrick le Quément (chief designer) and developed by Nissan.
This car ist 4520 mm long, 1890 mm wide and 1700 mm high and has a weight of 1800 kg.

</doc>
<doc id="103483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103483" title="Beagle">
Beagle

The Beagle is a breed of small to medium-sized dog. It is a Hound, and it has short legs and long, soft ears. Beagles are mostly developed for hunting and finding hare, rabbit, and other kinds of game. They can do this because they can smell well and have very quick instincts. They are also popular as pets because of their good size, sweet temper, and health. This kind of character also makes them be used very much for animal testing. 
Beagles can have coats of different colors. Some variations can be tri-colored, orange, red, or lemon, although they are widely known for sporting the tri-colored look (Black, brown, and white). They usually have brown eyes.
Although beagle-type dogs have existed for over 2,000 years, the modern kind came from Great Britain around the 1830s.
Beagles have been included in popular culture since the times when Queen Elizabeth began to rule, in literature and paintings, and more recently in movie, television and comic books. Snoopy of the comic strip "Peanuts" has been picked as "the world's most famous beagle".
Dogs that look almost the same as the modern Beagle can be traced in Ancient Greece
back to around the 5th century BC. In the "Treatise on Hunting" or "Cynegeticus", written by Xenophon, who said there was a hound that hunted hares by scent and was followed by foot. Small hounds were mentioned in the Forest Laws. If these laws were true, it would be enough proof that beagle-type dogs lived in England before 1016, but it is likely that the laws were written in the Middle Ages for tradition. 
In the 11th century, William the Conqueror brought the Talbot hound to Britain. The Talbot was a white, slow hound. Once, English Talbots were crossed with Greyhounds to make them faster in running. They are extinct now, but once they had made the Southern Hound more popular, which helped the Southern Hound descend to the Beagle.
From medieval times, "beagle" was used as a general description for small hounds, even though they are actually very different from the modern breed. Small breeds of beagle-type dogs were living even from the times of Edward II and Henry VII. Edward and Henry both had packs of Glove Beagles, who were named because of their small size. Also, Queen Elizabeth I kept a breed known as a Pocket Beagle, which stood at the shoulder. It was named so because it could fit in a "pocket" or saddlebag, when they rode along on the hunt. Elizabeth I called the dogs her "singing beagles" and often entertained guests at her royal table by letting her Pocket Beagles cavort amid their plates and cups. Ever since then, it is possible that the name was used to refer to the same kind of small hounds. In George Jesse's "Researches into the History of the British Dog" from 1866, Gervase Markham is quoted referring to the Beagle as small enough to sit on a man's hand and to the:

</doc>
<doc id="103484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103484" title="N. T. Rama Rao">
N. T. Rama Rao

Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao (Telugu:నందమూరి తారక రామా రావు)(28 May 1923–18 January 1996), more commonly known as N.T. Rama Rao, NTR by his fans, or Anna garu, was an Indian movie actor, director, producer, and politician. He founded the Telugu Desam Party and served three times as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. His movies included mythological, social, and folk themes. He was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in the 1960s for his work in Telugu cinema. After acting, Rao became a political activist and party leader.

</doc>
<doc id="103485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103485" title="Piast dynasty">
Piast dynasty

The Piast dynasty was a Polish dynasty that ruled Poland as first lords in the 10th century, until 1370. Piasts ruled also in Masovia until 1526 and Silesia until 1675.

</doc>
<doc id="103491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103491" title="M-Tram">
M-Tram

M>Tram was a tram operator in Melbourne, Victoria. They got a 12 year contract on 29 August, 1999 to run the Swanston Trams franchise, which was later renamed to M>Train. M>Tram stopped running trams in April 2004. Yarra Trams runs all tram services in Melbourne now. M>Tram's slogan was Moving Melbourne.

</doc>
<doc id="103500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103500" title="Scrooge McDuck">
Scrooge McDuck

Scrooge McDuck or Uncle Scrooge is a fictional character first appearing in the comic book "Christmas on Bear Mountain". The character was created by Carl Barks and has appeared in many comic books, television shows, films, and video games. Since 1952 Scrooge McDuck has appeared in his own comic book series, called "Uncle Scrooge". 
Scrooge was born in Scotland in 1867, the son of Fergus McDuck. His family is very poor, so Scrooge emigrates to USA where he finds gold and becomes rich. In 1902 he moves to Duckburg and builds the Money Bin on Killmotor Hill in the center of Duckburg. Over the next years, Scrooge travels the world, learning about many cultures. In 1930, Scrooge became the richest duck on Earth.
In 1942, Scrooge retires and buys a mansion called the Manor McDuck. In 1947, he invites his nephew Donald Duck and his grand-nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie to spend Christmas at his mansion. A criminal gang called the Beagle Boys keep trying to steal Scrooge's money. 

</doc>
<doc id="103501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103501" title="Money Bin">
Money Bin

Money Bin is a fictional building of Scrooge McDuck. The building was constructed in 1902, after Scrooge entered the diamond market.
The building contains all Scrooge's fortune, billions of dollars. The old duck also owns factories, mines, railroads, oil wells and spaceships. 
The building appears on Ducktales, The Life and times of Scrooge McDuck, and Ducktales the movie.

</doc>
<doc id="103507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103507" title="Resurrection Ship">
Resurrection Ship

The Cylon Resurrection Ship is a fictional type of spacecraft found in the television series "Battlestar Galactica". The ship is a part of Cylon fleet.
Cylons who are killed have their consciousness downloaded into a nearby resurrection ship. A new body is created for their consciousness. This lets them live again after they die. If a cylon is too far away from the nearest resurrection ship, death will be permanent. With nowhere for the consciousness to download to, they will simply cease to exist.

</doc>
<doc id="103508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103508" title="DIY">
DIY

DIY or "Do it yourself" is a method of home improvement, where the home owner gets materials and tools for themself, then does the work on their own, without professional help.
DIY can also mean using any skill to do work or a hobby for fun and not hire help. An example is an activity in arts and crafts. A DIY culture is also used in the alternative rock, punk rock, and indie rock music scenes; and in the zine community. 

</doc>
<doc id="103513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103513" title="Boleslaw I of Poland">
Boleslaw I of Poland

Bolesław I the Brave (Polish "Bolesław I Chrobry") (967 - June 17, 1025) was the duke of Poland from 992 to April 18, 1025 and King of Poland from April 18 to June 17, 1025. He was the son of Mieszko I, first known ruler of Poland.
During his ruled Poland made more powerful and strong. New lands was conquered (Slovakia, Moravia, Red Strongholds and Lusatia). He was able to rule country, which changed religion no long time before. Bolesław was first king of Poland, but died 2 months after get the crown.
We know 7 children of Bolesław I. Two of them, Mieszko II Lambert and Bezprym ruled later Poland.
Bolesław was the first King of Poland to ever be crowned, even though he died two months later his son then took over for him.

</doc>
<doc id="103518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103518" title="Bo Diddley">
Bo Diddley

Bo Diddley (born Ellas Bates, December 30, 1928 in McComb, Mississippi, died June 2, 2008 in Archer, Florida) was an American singer, guitarist and songwriter. He was one of the original rock and roll musicians; he, along with others, created rock music. 
In 1955, he recorded and released his first songs. He is most famous for the rhythm which he has made popular in many of his recordings. The rhythm has become known as the Bo Diddley beat. Some of the most popular songs which feature the Bo Diddley beat include "Not Fade Away" and "I Want Candy", George Michael's song "Faith" and U2's song "Desire". Bo Diddley is also famous for the unusual shapes of many of his guitars, for his exciting stage shows and for his use of female musicians.
Bo Diddley made many appearances on radio, television and in the movies. In 1956, he co-wrote the popular song "Love Is Strange" for the singing duo Mickey and Sylvia.
Some of his most popular songs are: "I'm A Man" (1955), "Pretty Thing" (1955), "Bring It To Jerome" (1955), "Diddy Wah Diddy" (1955), "Who Do You Love" (1956), "Mona (I Need You Baby)" (1957), "Before You Accuse Me" (1957), "Crackin' Up" (1959), "Say Man" (1959), "Say Man, Back Again" (1959), "Road Runner" (1960), "Pills" (1961), "You Can't Judge A Book By The Cover" (1962) and "I Can Tell" (1962).
Bo Diddley often sang simple or amusing songs about himself. Some of these songs are "Bo Diddley" (1955), "Diddley Daddy" (1955), "Hey Bo Diddley" (1957), "Bo Meets The Monster" (1958), "Bo Diddley's A Gunslinger" (1960), "Just Like Bo Diddley" (1989), "Bo Diddley Is Crazy" (1996) and "Oops! Bo Diddley" (1996).
His songs have been recorded by many other popular recording artists, including Aerosmith, The Animals, Eric Clapton, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Dr. Feelgood, The Doors, Buddy Holly, Chris Isaak, New York Dolls, Quicksilver Messenger Service, Rolling Stones, Bob Seger, George Thorogood and The Destroyers, The Who and The Yardbirds.
In 2003, U.S. Representative John Conyers paid tribute to Bo Diddley in the United States House of Representatives when he described him as "one of the true pioneers of rock and roll, who has influenced generations".
In 2005, Bo Diddley celebrated his 50th anniversary in music with successful tours of Australia and Europe and with coast-to-coast shows across North America. 

</doc>
<doc id="103522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103522" title="DuckTales">
DuckTales

DuckTales is an animated Disney television series. The main characters of the series are Scrooge McDuck and his great nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie. The series was originally shown from September 11, 1987 to May 6, 1990. It had a total of 100 episodes.
"DuckTales" is about the adventures of Scrooge and his nephews. The nephews used to live with their uncle, Donald Duck. They were left with Scrooge when Donald went off to join the Navy.
Scrooge is the richest duck in the world. He has no want for anything. This does not stop him from finding ways to try to get more money. Other common plots deal with him protecting his wealth from villains. In general, there were several different plotlines that were used many time in many of the episodes. Some of these plotlines included:
Somebody is sabotaging Scrooge's ranch when McDuck and his nephews go by plane to Australia. Scrooge, the Manager and MacQuack go by airplane to explore but they are attacked by light swords. Meanwhile, Webby loses herself in the jungle and sleeps on the woods.
The next day, Webby and some animals find an opal mine and discover that the Manager is responsible. The manager wants to buy Scrooge's ranch and become a rich man. Fortunately, Webby and the animals show who is the Manager and Scrooge preserves his ranch. Scrooge asked Webby when, how she made up to captured the bandit, she said "group work".
Scrooge McDuck and Huey, Dewey and Louie go to the Sahara desert to find Aladdin's lamp. Flintheart Glomgold follows them. The ducks find the lamp's vault but Scrooge and Glomgold rub it at the same time. The djinni comes out and because he can't tell who rubbed the lamp first, he decides to have a race between Scrooge and Glomgold. By Scrooge's suggestion, the djinni decides live in Manor McDuck during the race. Once the djinni and the nephews go to the mansion, Scrooge fights Glomgold's tramps (like the villain trying to kill him with a rock avalanche). Scrooge decides to win the race to Glomgold leave his nephews without a dime.
At McDuck's mansion, the djinni starts to like the luxuries of Scrooge's house (because he can eat burgers, swim in the pool and watch TV). He likes it so much that he decides to send Scrooge and Glomgold to back in time so he can live free forever. Because the two billionaires do not know about the time voyage, they continue running when they find a palace. The Sultan, thinking that they are spies of Hemir, decides to give them to crocodiles. But Schewebazade, the Sultan's young wife, saves them and they escape from the palace. The guards follow them and Glomgold go for his count. Meanwhile, the nephews and Webby, who witnessed the evil act of the djinni, put the djinni back in the lamp and let him leave only when he agrees to bring Scrooge back from the past.
At this moment, Scrooge and Glomgold come back to the present-day. Unfortunately, Glomgold finds and explores and make over win the race. Obviously, Scrooge can make over come to Duckburg only to discover that Glomgold won the race. Glomgold's first wish is to send Scrooge to a desert island. Glomgold uses his second wish by mistake to go to the desert island with Scrooge (he said he wishes he could see the look on Scrooge's face face when he gets there). At the island, Glomgold wishes that the lamp was never found in the first place. This puts everything back in time to when the ducks open the vault entrance. The explosion made the lamp fall and despite the ducks can back to Duckburg alive, the lamp stays in the vault as never found.
One night, Scrooge McDuck and Launchpad go back to Manor McDuck. When Scrooge enters the mansion, he discovers that it is his birthday (which is weird because the show depicts it as a summer night whereas Scrooge's real birthday is in the winter or very late fall) and his family prepared a surprise party. Scrooge is unhappy because he is old. When Mrs. Beakley mentions the fountain of youth, Scrooge runs to the library. There he finds a book that talks about "Ponce de Loon", a Spanish explorer who said he found the fountain of youth in Florida.
The next day, in Florida, the ducks are in a tropical forest when they meet an old man who is also trying to find the fountain of youth. After finding a map, the guys find the Fountain of Youth. However, they find out that the fountain only makes their reflection look youthful. Scrooge goes home and realizes that people have to age.
One day, at Manor McDuck, Huey, Dewey and Louie are watching the television show "Ducks of the Galaxies" when Scrooge buys the Duckburg studios, the place where "Ducks of the Galaxies" is filmed. Scrooge tells Gyro to build a toy spaceship, but Gyro builds an real spaceship.
The spaceship sends the Captain, Huey, Dewey, Louie, and McQuack to space where they are captured by aliens. The nephews find out that the Captain is evil. Eventually, Huey, Dewey, and Louie go back to Earth where Scrooge punishes the Captain.
On Valentine's Day, Scrooge tells his nephews and Webby his only love story:
Scrooge and the others go to Klondike where they try to get the lost gold back. Scrooge meets Goldie and their relationship is of hate\love at the end of the episode. Scrooge discovers that Dangerous Dan is the real thief and, when he tries to tell that to Goldie, she discovers a goldmine. Before the episode ends, Scrooge realizes that Goldie did not steal his gold, she stole his heart.

</doc>
<doc id="103542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103542" title="All Grown Up!">
All Grown Up!

All Grown Up! is a Nickelodeon animated television series. It is set in California. It is a spin-off of the "Rugrats" series. The series is about the original Rugrats characters being nine to twelve years older. It was first shown on April 12, 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="103543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103543" title="Randalstown">
Randalstown

Randalstown is a town in County Antrim in Northern Ireland.
One famous person who came from Randalstown is the suspected serial killer John Bodkin Adams, born in 1899.

</doc>
<doc id="103546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103546" title="Connex Melbourne">
Connex Melbourne

Connex was a train operator in Melbourne, Australia. They ran all Melbourne railway lines, and took over all M-Train services on April 16, 2003, however Metro Trains Melbourne took over all Connex's services on November 30, 2009. All Connex services used the Metcard fare system.
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="103549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103549" title="Battlestar Galactica">
Battlestar Galactica

Battlestar Galactica is a science fiction franchise. It includes two separate television series, one sequel series, movies, books, comic books, toy and other merchandise. The series are named after the main spacecraft, the Battlestar (a large type of warship in space) Galactica.
The first series was created in 1978 after the successful theater release of "". The series was shown on the American network ABC. The series lasted for eight months and 17 episodes before it ended. The cost of making the series was said to be one of the reasons for it ending. The series starred Lorne Greene as Commander Adama, captain of the Galactica. Richard Hatch played his son, the pilot Apollo. Dirk Benedict played Apollo's friend and fellow pilot, Starbuck.
In 1980, ABC made the sequel series "Galactica 1980". This series took place after the fleet got to Earth. The series did not do well in the ratings and quickly ended. Several movies were made using edited version of both series.
In 2003, Universal Television along with the Sci-Fi Channel and Sky One created a three-hour mini-series based on the original television series. This series was very well liked by both the audience and critics. This led to the Sci-Fi Channel making it into a series in 2004. After the 2007 season of "Battlestar Galactica", the Nielsen ratings said that over 119 million people watched the series. This made it the highest rated and most watched series on cable networks. Edward James Olmos plays Commander William Adama. Jamie Bamber plays his son, Lee "Apollo" Adama. Katee Sackhoff plays Kara "Starbuck" Thrace. Starbuck was one of several characters to be changed from a male character into a female character.
All of the "Battlestar Galactica" series have the same basic setting. In a far away part of the universe, a civilization of humans live on planets known as the "Twelve Colonies". In the past, the Colonies were at war with a cybernetic race known as the Cylons. With the help of a human named Gaius Baltar, the Cylons attacked on the Colonies. This surprise attack caused much damage to the planets where the humans lived and killed most of their populations. A few thousand of humans did not die in the attacks. They fled into space aboard any spacecraft they could. Of all the Colonial Fleet, the battlestar "Galactica" appears to be the only military ship that was not destroyed in the attack. Under the leadership of military leader Commander Adama, the Battlestar "Galactica" and its crew lead and protect the fleet of survivors into space in search of a fabled Thirteenth Colony and its home planet, Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="103556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103556" title="Black-capped chickadee">
Black-capped chickadee

The black-capped chickadee ("Poecile atricapillus") is a passerine songbird of the family Paridae. It lives in Canada, Alaska and the northern United States. This is a small, common bird which sings a simple song. 
The black-capped chickadee is about 12–15 cm (5–6 in) long and weighs 9-15 g (0.32-0.49 oz).
The male and female black-capped chickadees look the same. The black-capped chickadee has black and white on its head. The top of the head and throat are black, and the sides are white. It has a short, black beak.
The back of the body of the black-capped chickadee is gray. The front of the body is white and light brown. The bird has short wings and a short tail.
The song of the black-capped chickadee is a clear whistle.
In the summer, black-capped chickadees eat many insects. In the winter, they eat seeds and berries. They will hide seeds in different places and return later to eat
them. When two chickadees want to build a nest, they will use a hole in a tree.

</doc>
<doc id="103557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103557" title="Harihara">
Harihara

Harihara is the deity that combines Vishnu and Shiva. It comes from the Hindu tradition. "Harihara" is also sometimes used as a philosophical term when one wants to speak of the unity of Vishnu and Shiva as different aspects of the same Supreme God. 

</doc>
<doc id="103559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103559" title="Harihara I">
Harihara I

Harihara I, (1336-1356 CE) also called Hakka ಹಕ್ಕ and "Vira Harihara I", was the founder of the Vijayanagara empire. He was the eldest son of Bhavana Sangama and was founder of the Sangama dynasty, the first among the four dynasties that ruled Vijayanagara. Immediately after coming to power, he built a fort at Barkuru, on the west coast of present day Karnataka. Kannada inscriptions of his time call him "Karnataka Vidya Vilas" (master of great knowledge and skills), "Bhashegetappuvarayaraganda" (punisher of those feudatories who do not keep their promise), "Arirayavibhada" (fire to enemy kings). Among his brothers, Kampana governed Nellur region, Muddppa administered Mulabagalu region, Marappa oversaw Chandragutti and Bukka Raya was his second in command.
At first he conquered the valley of Tungabhadra River, then he expanded his control to certain regions of Konkan and Malabar Coast. By that time Hoysala Empire had lost its last ruler and Harihara I could gain power. 
An inscription of 1346 speaks of Harihara I as the ruler of “whole country between the eastern and the western seas, and the inscription describes "Vidya Nagara" (that is, the city of learning) as his capital. 
Harihara I was succeeded by Bukka I who was the most distinguished amongst the five rulers (Panchasangamas) of the Sangama dynasty. 

</doc>
<doc id="103564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103564" title="Tibetan people">
Tibetan people

The Tibetan people () are an ethnic group that is native to Tibet. They number about 7.8 million. In 2014, there were 7.5 million Tibetans living in Tibet and the 10 Tibetan Autonomous Prefectures in Gansu, Qinghai and Sichuan. Large populations of Tibetans live outside of Tibet, in other parts of China, and in India, Nepal and Bhutan.
Tibetans speak the Tibetic languages. Many of these languages are cannot be understood by each other. These languages are also spoken by people in Baltistan, Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan. The main language among Tibetans in Tibet is the Central Tibetan language.
Most Tibetans practice Tibetan Buddhism. Some practice the native Bön religion. There is a small Muslim minority.

</doc>
<doc id="103565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103565" title="Li people">
Li people

The Hlai or Li () are an ethnic group living primarily on the island of Hainam, off the southern coast of mainland China and just east of Vietnam. The Hlai are one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by the Chinese government.
The Hlai were known to the Sui Dynasty Chinese by the name Liliao. Presently they refer to themselves as the Hlai or Sai people. The ethnic group is called Lí in Mandarin and Lai in Cantonese.
The Hlai people have their own language. Some dialects of the Hlai language are too different from each other for people to mutually understand each other. The Hlai language is distantly related to languages such as Thai, Lao, and Cuengh. The Hlai language did not have a writing system before the 1950s, when the Latin alphabet was adopted. Some to most Hlai people nowadays can understand Mandarin and Hainanese.

</doc>
<doc id="103567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103567" title="Li (disambiguation)">
Li (disambiguation)

Li could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="103568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103568" title="Altes Museum">
Altes Museum

Altes Museum (German for Old Museum) is a museum in Berlin. It is on an island of the Spree River. The museum is made of Greek columns but it is not of Greek origin. It was created between 1822-1830 in a major German city.

</doc>
<doc id="103569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103569" title="The Sleepers">
The Sleepers

The Sleepers is a painting by Gustave Courbet. The painting was made in 1866. In it, two naked women lie on a bed. It is typical of Courbet's later erotic paintings. The painting is done in oil on canvas. It measures 135 cm high and 200 cm wide. It is currently in the museum Petit Palais in Paris, France. The painting is also known as The Dream (French: "Le Sommeil"), or Lust or The Sloth and Friends.

</doc>
<doc id="103570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103570" title="Religion in China">
Religion in China

Although China is officially atheist, many Chinese people are religious. The main religions in China are Buddhism (including Mahayana), Chinese folklore, Taoism and Confucianism. Because most Chinese religious people follow a mixture of all of the main four religions previously mentioned, the differences between and boundaries of those religions are blurred.
Chinese Buddhism () refers to one of the many branches and types of Buddhism. Buddhism in China is often mixed with Chinese philosophy, folklore and traditional mythology, as well as concepts of other philosophy-religions such as Confucianism and Daoism (Taoism). It is mainly practiced in mainland China, where almost all Han Chinese are Buddhists.
When Buddhism was introduced to China from India is unclear, however, the first clear sign of Buddhism in China was around the 60s CE.
Chinese folk religion is a religion that has been practiced in China for thousands of years. There are at least 800,000,000 followers of Chinese folk religion worldwide (estimate). Most if not all of these followers are also followers of Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism, as these three philosophy-religions are major influences of China's folk religion. The influence from and to these three philosophy-religions goes to the extent that some mythical figures from folk culture have merged into those philosophy-religions and vice versa.
Chinese folk religion is made up of a combination of religious practices, including Confucianism, ancestor veneration, Buddhism and Taoism. Folk religion also retains traces of some of its ancestral neolithic belief systems which include the veneration of the Sun, Moon, Earth, Heaven and various stars, as well as communication with animals. It has been practiced alongside Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism by Chinese people throughout the world for thousands of years.
Daoism, or Taoism, is a philosophy-religion that is at least 2,500 years old. It originated from China and is now widely practised in Korea.
道 Dao, also romanized as Tao, is the "Force" that Taoists believe makes everything in the world. It is very mysterious, and instead of trying to interpret or understand what Dao is
Instead of spending a lot of time trying to explain what the Tao is, Taoists focus on living a simple and balanced life in harmony with nature. This is one of the most important principles in Taoism. Taoists also believe that conflict is not good and that if you have a problem with something, it is better to find a way around it.
Some important Taoists are:

</doc>
<doc id="103574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103574" title="Kim Ungyong">
Kim Ungyong

Kim Ung-yong (born 8 March 1962) was a Korean child prodigy. He was able to read and write in Japanese, Korean, German and English before he turned four years old. At the age of four, on 2 November 1967, he answered differential and integral calculus questions on Japanese television, showed that he could speak German, English, Japanese and Korean, and write poetry. Kim was listed in the Guiness Book of World Records under "Highest IQ"; the book guessed the boy's score at "over 200."
Kim was a guest student of physics at Hanyang University from the age of 3 until he was 6. At the age of 7 he was invited to the United States by NASA. He finished his university studies, eventually getting a Ph.D. in physics at Colorado State University before he was 15. In 1974, during his university studies, he began his research work at NASA and continued this work until his return to Korea in 1978.
When he returned to Korea, he decided to switch from physics to civil engineering and eventually received a doctorate in that field. Kim was offered the chance to study at the most prestigious universities in Korea, but instead chose to attend a provincial university.
As of 2007 he also serves as adjunct faculty at Chungbuk National University.

</doc>
<doc id="103576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103576" title="Hikaru">
Hikaru

Hikaru (or Hikari) is a adaptation of , a Japanese language "kanji" which means "light" or "shining." It is also a given name. Some people with this given name are:

</doc>
<doc id="103577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103577" title="Hikaru Nakamura">
Hikaru Nakamura

In 2011, Nakamura won the Tata Steel Grandmaster A tournament in Wijk aan Zee. His opponents included world #1 and defending champion Magnus Carlsen, former world champion Viswanathan Anand, world #2 Levon Aronian, and former world champion Vladimir Kramnik, 

</doc>
<doc id="103580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103580" title="Quickdraw">
Quickdraw

A quickdraw is used in rock climbing for lead climbing. One end is hooked into an anchor in 
the wall. Afterwards the rope is hooked into the other end. Usually quickdraws are used every few meters. Quickdraws are made of two carabiners connected by a sling. Quickdraws can hold up to 22 kN.
The quickdraw has one straight gate carabineer and one bent gate carabineer. The bent gate carabineer should always be the one clipped to the rope. For leading and top roping at an indoor climbing wall usually a quickdraw is already attached to each of the protection points on the route. The lower carabineer, (the one with the bent gate) should be clipped so the gate is pointing away from the rope and pointing away from the climbing wall or rock face. Doing this will help prevent the quickdraw from twisting the gate into the wall. The rope should run freely through the spine of each carabineer, not along the gate. The spine is the strongest part of the carabineer.

</doc>
<doc id="103585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103585" title="Seedling">
Seedling

A seedling is a small plant that grows from a seed.

</doc>
<doc id="103586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103586" title="David Boreanaz">
David Boreanaz

David Paul Boreanaz (born May 16, 1969) is an American actor. He is best known for his role on the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Angel". On these shows, he played the character Angel. Since fall of 2005, he has played FBI agent Seeley Booth on "Bones".
David Boreanaz was born on May 16, 1969 in Buffalo, New York. He grew up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His father is a television weatherman and his mother is a travel agent. He is of Italian descent. The surname Boreanaz is of Northern Italian origin. He was raised Catholic.
Boreanaz went to high school in Malvern, Pennsylvania. He went to college at Ithaca College in Ithaca, New York. After graduating, Boreanaz moved to Hollywood, California to become an actor.
Boreanaz' first television acting job was a single episode on the hit American sitcom, "Married... with Children". He played Kelly Bundy's biker boyfriend. He was cast in the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", after being seen by a producer when Boreanaz was walking his dog. In the series, he played Angel, a vampire with a soul. The series became very successful and Boreanaz starred in a spin-off series, "Angel". This new series gave the character a chance to evolve. It was mainly about on Angel's battle for . He appeared on "Buffy" from 1997 to 1999, at which point he began starring in "Angel", which ran until 2004. Totalling all of his appearances on "Buffy" & "Angel", including guest appearances, Boreanaz has been in more episodes of the 2 series than any other actor.
Boreanaz's only starring role in a major theatrical movie was in 2001's slasher horror movie, "Valentine". This movie also starred Denise Richards and Katherine Heigl. In 2003, he appeared in the music video for singer Dido's "White Flag". He was also the voice of Leon (aka Squall Leonhart) in the video game "Kingdom Hearts".
In 2005, Boreanaz began starring along with Emily Deschanel on the prime time television series, "Bones". He most recently appeared in "These Girls", a Canadian movie in which he played a biker. The movie was first shown at the Toronto Film Festival and the Vancouver International Film Festival. It was later shown in a small number of theaters in Canada in March of 2006. His future roles include parts in the independent films "Mr. Fix it" and "Suffering Man's Charity". It is also rumored that Boreanaz will star in the upcoming movie "Jurassic Park 4" which will be released some time in 2008. In that same year, he also voiced Hal Jordan in the direct to video DC Comics animated movie "".
Boreanaz lives in Los Angeles, California. He was married to Ingrid Quinn from June 7, 1997 to October 1999. He married actress and model Jaime Bergman on November 24, 2001. The couple has a son, Jaden Rayne Boreanaz, who was born on May 1, 2002. He and his wife are also good friends with Raven Symone. David attended her 21st birthday in December 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="103595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103595" title="Ocean">
Ocean

An ocean is a large area of salt water between continents. Oceans are very big and they join smaller seas together. Together, the oceans are like one "ocean", because all the "oceans" are joined. Oceans (or marine biomes) cover 72% of our planet. 
The largest ocean is the Pacific Ocean. It covers 1/3 (one third) of the Earth's surface. 
The smallest ocean is the Arctic Ocean.
Different water movements separate the Southern Ocean from the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. The Southern ocean is also called the Antarctic Ocean, because it covers the area around Antarctica. Older maps may not use the names Arctic Ocean and Southern Ocean. 
The deepest ocean is the Pacific ocean. The deepest point is the Mariana Trench, being about 11,000 metres (36,200 feet) deep. The deep ocean is characterized by cold temperatures, high pressure, and complete darkness. Some very unusual organisms live in this part of the ocean. They do not require energy from the sun to survive, because they use chemicals from deep inside the Earth (see hydrothermal vent).
Although many people believe that the oceans are blue because the water reflects the blue sky, this is actually not true. Water has a very slight blue color that can only be seen when there is a lot of water. However, the main cause of the blue or blue/green color of the oceans is that water absorbs the red part of the incoming light, and reflects the green and blue part of the light. We then see the reflected light as the color of water.
Organisms that live in oceans can live in salt water. They are affected by sunlight, temperature, water pressure, and water movement. Different ocean organisms live near the surface, in shallow waters, and in deep waters. Small plant organisms that live near the surface and use sunlight to produce food are called phytoplankton. Almost all animals in the ocean depend directly or indirectly on these plants. In shallow water, you may find lobsters and crabs. In deeper water, marine animals of many different shapes and sizes swim through the ocean. These include many types of fish, such as tuna, swordfish and marine mammals like dolphins and whales. The skies above the open ocean are home to large sea birds, such as the albatross.
Nations like Russia and Japan have lots of huge ships that go to some of the world's best fishing areas for many months. These large ships have libraries, hospitals, schools, repair (fixing) shops and other things that are needed for fishermen and their families.
Many people look at the sea as a source of food, minerals and energy.
According to the "FishBase.org" website, there are 33,200 known species of fish, and many of them live in the oceans. Many of these fish are a fine source of protein, so many people eat them. Fishing industries are very important because they make jobs and give food to millions of people. Today, usually through ocean fishing, the ocean supplies which are about 2% of the calories, are needed by people. Tuna, anchovies, and herring are harvested close to the surface of the ocean. Pollock, flounder and cod are caught near the ocean floor. More than a million tons of herring are caught every year in the North Pacific and North Atlantic, and almost eight fish out of ten fish are eaten as food for humans. The other fish are used as fertilizer, glue, and pet and other animal food. hello Make the Ocean Better!!!
There are many different ocean temperatures in the open ocean, both vertically (from top to bottom) and . Icebergs are made over very cold waters at either pole, while waters at the equator are pretty warm. Water cools and warms more slowly than land does, so land influenced by the ocean has later and milder seasons than land that is farther away from the ocean.
The surface part of the ocean, also called the "mixed layer", is not much colder even when we go deeper down. Below this surface zone is a layer of sudden temperature difference, called a "thermocline". This is a middle layer hat is from the surface zone down to about 2,600 feet (800 m). Thermoclines may happen only at seasons or permanently, and may change depending on where and how deep it is. As evaporation happens, it begins cooling, and if the water evaporates very quickly, the water becomes saltier. The salty, cold water is denser, so it sinks. This is why warm and cold waters do not easily mix. Most animals and plants live in the warm upper layer. Below the thermocline, temperature in the deep zone is so cold it is just above freezing - between 32 – 37.4 F (0 – 3 C).

</doc>
<doc id="103599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103599" title="Work (song)">
Work (song)

"Work" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Kelly Rowland. It was written by Rowland, Scott Storch and Jason "Pooh Bear" Boyd and co-produced by Storch and Boyd for Rowland's second studio album, "Ms. Kelly" (2007). 
Following the less successful chart performances of previous singles "Like This" and "Ghetto", "Work" was released during the first quarter of 2008 (see 2008 in music) as the album's second single in most international music markets. The song has since enjoyed commercial success, becoming Rowland's best-charting solo single since her 2002 song "Stole," reaching the top of the charts in Bulgaria and Poland, as well as the top 10 in Australia, Finland, France, Ireland, Malta, Poland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
These are the formats and track listings of major single-releases of "Work."

</doc>
<doc id="103607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103607" title="Eluveitie">
Eluveitie

Eluveitie is a folk metal band from Switzerland. They started in 2002. Their style is a mixture of "Celtic folk metal" and "melodic death metal". Their style is sometimes called "Celtic Metal". Some of their lyrics are in Gaulish, others in English. They were founded by Christian "Chrigel" Glanzmann. 
They made videos for the songs Inis Mona, Omnos and Thousandfold. 

</doc>
<doc id="103612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103612" title="Heaven Shall Burn">
Heaven Shall Burn

Heaven Shall Burn is a death metal band from Saalfelden, Germany. Their music style is called "Deathcore" which is a mixture of "metalcore" and "death metal". Their members are: Matthias Voigt (drums), Maik Weichert (guitar), Alexander Dietz (guitar), Eric Bischoff (bass) and Marcus Bischoff (vocals).

</doc>
<doc id="103624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103624" title="Paranaguá">
Paranaguá

Paranaguá is a coastal city in the state of Paraná in the south of Brazil. Founded in 1648, it is Paraná's oldest city. Its population was 147,934 as of January 2006 and an area of 826,652 km².
It is known for its excellent port facilities, being the sea port for Curitiba, the capital of Paraná.
The Port of Paranaguá is the sixth largest port in the world, the second largest in Brazil and the largest grain port of Latin America. His territorial extension is 13 km². It is the second largest port in Brazil, but the first in export of grains.

</doc>
<doc id="103632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103632" title="Datura stramonium">
Datura stramonium

Datura stramonium, known by the common names, jimson weed, ditch weed, stink weed, loco weed,Korean morning glory, Jamestown weed, thorn apple, angel's trumpet, devil's trumpet, devil's snare, devil's seed, mad hatter, crazy tea, malpitte, the Devil's balls, is an erect annual herb, on average 30 to 150 cm (1-5 feet) tall with erect, forking and purple stems. The leaves are large, 7 to 20 cm (3-8 in) long and have irregular teeth
Flowers are trumpet-shaped, white to purple, and 2-7 in long.The fruit are walnut-sized, egg-shaped, and covered in prickles, they split into four chambers, each chamber with dozens of small black seeds
http://www.erowid.org/plants/datura/datura_info5.shtml

</doc>
<doc id="103643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103643" title="Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull">
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull

Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is a 2008 American adventure movie directed by Steven Spielberg. The story of the movie was written by Spielberg and executive producer George Lucas. Set in 1957, this fourth movie in the Indiana Jones movie series is based around an older and wiser Indiana Jones (played by Harrison Ford) against agents of the Soviet Union–led by Spalko (Cate Blanchett)–for the crystal skull. Indy is helped by his former lover Marion Ravenwood (played by Karen Allen), Mutt (played by Shia LaBeouf) and friend Mac (played by Ray Winstone). John Hurt, Jim Broadbent, and Ian McDiarmid also play fellow academics.
The movie was in "development hell" since the 1989 release of "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade", because Spielberg and Ford did not agree over Lucas's choice of the skull as the center plot device. Screenwriters Jeb Stuart, Jeffrey Boam, M. Night Shyamalan, Frank Darabont and Jeff Nathanson wrote early versions, before David Koepp's script was chosen by all three men. Shooting finally started on June 18 2007, and took place in New Mexico, New Haven, Connecticut, Hawaii, Fresno, California, and at soundstages in Los Angeles. This movie uses more stunts than CGI (computer generated images) so that the movie looks like the rest in the series. The music was created once again by John Williams
At the beginning of the movie, the U.S Army is doing weapons testing in Nevada in 1957. It is then revealed that the Soviets have taken control of some of the army and shoot some security people dead. A group of Soviet men and agent Irina Spalko then pull Indiana Jones out of the car and make him get an object that he found ten years ago. He finds the box and tries to escape, but his friend Mac turns on him. After escaping, he finds himself in a fake town. The U.S Army then explodes an atomic bomb. Jones gets into a refrigerator and barely survives.
Because Jones was Mac's friend for a long time, the U.S government thinks that Jones might be a Communist. At Marshall College the next day (where Jones teaches), the head dean informs him that he is on a "leave of absence" and that the dean resigned in order to protect Jones. Jones packs his bags and leaves New York. Before he can leave, though, a young man named Mutt Williams comes to him and shows him a letter. Williams says that Harold Oxley, one of Jones's old friends, has been kidnapped. Later, these people kidnapped Williams' mother Mary and will kill them both if the crystal skull cannot be found.
Jones reads the letter and the puzzle and says that Oxley was referring to Cuzco, Peru. Jones and Williams fly down there, where Jones learns that Oxley was put in a jail a couple of months ago. In the prison, Oxley scratched out some drawings. Jones and Williams head to a grave site where they believe Francisco de Orellana lies buried; legend tells that he found the crystal skull but was never found. They find the skull and come up only to find Mac and some Soviets pointing weapons at them.
All of them fly to a new camp in the jungle. Spalko tells Jones that she believes that the skull was made by aliens and that it holds great power. There, Jones finds that "Mary Williams" is actually Marion Ravenwood, his old lover. He also finds Oxley, who is out of his mind, rambling and unable to speak a full sentence. Jones finds out what Oxley is saying. As the Soviets and Jones figure out where to go, Williams starts a fire and tries to get them to escape. Jones and Ravenwood fall in quicksand and start sinking. As they sink, Ravenwood tells Jones that Williams' real name is Henry Jones III and that he is Jones's son. Williams uses a snake to get them out of the sandpit. They are recaptured.
The next day, the Soviets begin destroying the forest as they seek to reach the Temple of Aktor, the area Oxley pointed out. Jones gets his ropes loose and takes over one of the cars, starting a long jungle chase. In the end, they find the area, the location where the crystal skull should be returned. Mac rejoins the group as a good guy, but in reality he was still not good, and left little blinking red lights as a trail so the slower Soviets can find where Jones and his party were.
In a chamber tomb, Jones and his party find that 13 crystal skeletons, with one missing a skull. Spalko takes the skull away from Oxley and puts it back. The temple begins to crumble. Spalko wants to know everything in the world but she soon knows too much and explodes. Jones and his party start to escape. Jones stops to try to get Mac, but Mac says it is okay and lets himself be taken away. After Jones exits the temple, he sees the temple collapse and reveal itself to be a flying saucer. Back home, Jones becomes the associate dean of Marshall College. He and Ravenwood get married.

</doc>
<doc id="103644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103644" title="Indian Premier League">
Indian Premier League

The Indian Premier League is a Twenty20 cricket tournament in India. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) began the tournament after a dispute with the Indian Cricket League. The league is headquartered in Mumbai, Maharashtra. The first season of the Indian Premier League began on 18 April 2008.
There are the eight franchises that field teams to play in the IPL:
Three other teams have played in the IPL but stopped due to cost:

</doc>
<doc id="103662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103662" title="Fernando Pessoa">
Fernando Pessoa

Fernando António Nogueira Pessoa (Lisbon, 13 June 1888 - Lisbon, 30 November 1935), also known as Fernando Pessoa, was a Portuguese poet and writer. 
Pessoa is considered one of the greatest Portuguese poets. He has been compared to Luís Vaz de Camões. His works reflect the infuence of classic tradition and French symbolism and his poetry reflects nostalgia. 
He is famous for having written under 73 different names. Each had its own presumed biography, physical qualities, relationship to the others, poetic voice, and point of view. Pessoa believed that a person could have more than one integrated personality. His work was also influenced by the English language which he learned in South Africa, where he spent a great part of his youth. 
He died of liver disease at age 47 in Lisbon. His last words were in English: ""I know not what tomorrow will bring..."." 
Among Pessoa's poems in English, there are "Sonnets" (1918), "English Poems" (1922), and "Mensagem" (1934).

</doc>
<doc id="103680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103680" title="Gaeltacht">
Gaeltacht

Gaeltacht areas are regions where many or most of the people speak the Irish language. They are in the Republic of Ireland. The largest Gaeltacht areas are in the counties of Kerry, Cork, Galway, Mayo, Donegal, Waterford and Meath. 
At the time of the 2006 census of the Republic of Ireland, the population of the Gaeltacht was 91,862, about 2.1% of the state's 4,239,848 people. The main concentrations of Irish speakers are in the western counties of Donegal, Mayo, Galway, Kerry, and Cork. But in Gaeltacht electoral districts the percentage of Irish speakers is much higher.

</doc>
<doc id="103694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103694" title="Harassment">
Harassment

Harass or harassment is a when a person annoys or upsets someone else, usually repetitively. It's done on purpose and makes the target feel scared, worried or sick from fear. Usually the scared person can't tell the people to stop because they might lose their job, see their friends or family hurt, or have even more harassment start. Electronic harassment is the alleged use of electromagnetic waves to harass a victim. 
There are a lot of types of harassment: bullying at school or by neighbors, sexual harassment at work or when someone borrowed money, or racial and religious discrimination.

</doc>
<doc id="103743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103743" title="Brná nad Labem">
Brná nad Labem

Brná nad Labem (German: "Birnai") is a part of city Ústí nad Labem, Czech republic. It is a small part of landscape park České středohoří on the right side of river Labe. It is close to Ústí nad Labem and it's area is about 4,23 km². 

</doc>
<doc id="103756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103756" title="Goodies (song)">
Goodies (song)

Goodies is a song recorded by American R&B singer Ciara and rapper Petey Pablo for Ciara's debut album "Goodies" (2004) and written by Ciara, Sean Garrett, LaMarquis Jefferson, Craig Love and Jonathan Smith. "Goodies" is a combination of crunk and R&B. The song's lyrics are about female empowerment and virginity. The protagonist does not want to an object, while performing over a complex beat. The song's protagonist rejects a male's sexual advances, proclaiming that he will never get her "goodies" because "they stay in the jar".
These are the formats and track listings of major single releases of "Goodies".

</doc>
<doc id="103759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103759" title="James I of Scotland">
James I of Scotland

James I (December 10, 1394 – February 21, 1437) was King of Scots from April 4, 1406, and ruled as King of Scots from May 1424 until February 21, 1437. 
He made many economic and legal changes. For instance, he tried to change the Parliament of Scotland to suit English lines. Many of his actions were useful, but they also upset many people. Therefore during the later years of his reign his ability was questioned, but when the king threw a party on February 21, 1437, he was assassinated by a group of Scots led by Sir Robert Graham. He attempted to escape his attackers through a sewer but could not because the sewer was blocked. A wave of executions followed, including the king's uncle, Sir Walter Sterwart and Sir Robert Steward.

</doc>
<doc id="103760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103760" title="Shameless">
Shameless

Shameless is a BAFTA award-winning British comedy-drama television series set in the fictional Chatsworth Estate in Manchester, United Kingdom. Produced by Company Pictures for Channel 4, the first seven-episode series aired weekly on Tuesday nights at 10pm from 13 January 2004. The dramedy which deals with issues related to chav culture in the UK has been accorded critical acclaim by various sections of the British media, including "The Sun" newspaper and "Newsnight Review" on BBC Two.

</doc>
<doc id="103761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103761" title="Stele">
Stele

A stele is a stone or wooden , mostly taller than it is wide, that is erected for purposes. Mostly it is decorated with the names and titles of the person that shall remind of. This is , carved in relief or painted onto the slab.
Stelae were also used as territorial markers, as the boundary stelae of Akhenaten at Amarna, or to commemorate military victories. They were widely used in the Mesopotamia, Greece, Egypt, Ethiopia, and, quite independently, in China and some Buddhist cultures, and, more surely independently, by Mesoamerican civilisations, especially the Olmec and Maya. The huge number of stelae that survive from ancient Egypt and in Central America are one of the largest and most significant sources of information on those civilisations. 
Unfinished standing stones, set up without inscriptions from Libya in North Africa to Scotland were monuments of pre-literate Megalithic cultures in the Late Stone Age.
An obelisk is a specialized kind of stele. The Celtic high crosses of Ireland, Scotland, and Wales are "specialized stelae". Likewise, the totem pole of North and South America is a type of stelae. Gravestones are also kinds of stelae.
In 2004 the architect Peter Eisenman created a field of some 2,700 blank stelae, the "Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe" in Berlin to memory of the Holocaust.

</doc>
<doc id="103780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103780" title="Qingzang railway">
Qingzang railway

The Qingzang railway (also called Qinghai–Xizang railway, or Qinghai–Tibet railway) is a railway line from Xining, Qinghai Province, to Lhasa in Tibet.
The line includes the Tanggula Pass, at 5,072 m (16,640 feet) above sea level the world's highest rail track and Tanggula Railway Station which is the highest railway station. The 1,338 m Fenghuoshan tunnel is the highest rail tunnel in the world, at 4,905 m above sea level. The 3,345-m Yangbajing tunnel is the longest tunnel on the line. It is 4,264 m above sea level, 80 kilometres north-west of Lhasa.
More than 960 km, or over 80% of the Golmud-Lhasa section, is at an altitude of more than 4,000 m. There are 675 bridges, totalling 159.88 km, and over half the length of the railway is laid on permafrost. The railway which was finished in 2006 is said to not help the people of Tibet.
It takes about 3 days to go from Lhasa to Guangzhou or Shanghai.

</doc>
<doc id="103790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103790" title="Ostrava">
Ostrava

Ostrava is the third biggest city in the Czech Republic. It is also the government center of the Moravian-Silesian Region. The town was founded in 1267 and lies in the north-eastern part of the country. More than 300,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="103796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103796" title="Sleep disorder">
Sleep disorder

A sleep disorder is a problem that stops people from sleeping normally. But really what is normal sleeping? There are many sleep disorders, and some of them are very serious. A test commonly ordered for some sleep disorders is the polysomnogram.
Sleep disorders can be put into groups. These groups include:
(Sleeping sickness, a disease carried by the Tsetse fly, is not classified as a sleep disorder.)
The most common sleep disorders include:
Changes in life style, such as shift work change or travelling over several time zones, can cause sleep disorders. Some other problems that can cause sleeping problems include:
A sleep diary or log can be used to help diagnose (define) the problem. It can also be used to measure improvements. 
According to Dr. William Dement of the Stanford Sleep Center, anyone who snores and is sleepy in the daytime should see a doctor about sleep disorders.
In case of chronic pain, both the pain and the sleep problems should be treated. Pain can lead to sleep problems and vice versa.
The choice of a treatment for a sleep disorder depends on the patient's diagnosis, his/her medical and psychiatric history, and how she or he prefers to be treated. Medications sometimes work fast. On the other hand, sometimes behavioral treatment of insomnia may give more lasting results.

</doc>
<doc id="103829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103829" title="Kirk Cameron">
Kirk Cameron

Kirk Thomas Cameron (born October 12, 1970) is an American actor best known for playing "Mike Seaver" on the television situation comedy, "Growing Pains", and in other television shows and movies. He was the main actor in the "Left Behind" movie series and in "Fireproof". He is also an active Christian evangelist, and works with Ray Comfort on "The Way of the Master". He co-started "The Firefly Foundation" with his wife, actress Chelsea Noble.
Cameron was born on October 12, 1970 in Panorama City, California. His parents are Robert Cameron, a retired school teacher, and Barbara Bausmith, a stay-at-home mom. He is the brother to Bridgette, Melissa, and Candace Cameron, who is played "D.J. Tanner" on the television sitcom, "Full House". He would go to school on the set of "Growing Pains", as opposed to a normal school. He graduated at age 17 with high honors.
Cameron and his wife, actress Chelsea Noble, were married on July 21, 1991. They now have six children, four of whom were adopted: Jack (born 1996), Isabella (born 1997), Anna (born 1998), and Luke (born 2000); and two biological: Olivia Rose (born July 18, 2001) and James Thomas (born April 13, 2003).
Cameron began acting at the age of nine, and his first job was for a breakfast cereal. His first starring role was at the age of ten in the television series "Two Marriages". At this age, he appeared in several television shows and movies. He became famous after being cast as "Michael Seaver" in the 1985 television series "Growing Pains". In the series, Seaver's girlfriend was Kate MacDonald, who was played by Chelsea Noble, Cameron's future wife. Cameron subsequently became a teen heartthrob in the late 1980s, while appearing on the covers of several teen magazines, including "Tiger Beat", "Teen Beat", "16" and others. At the time, he was making $50,000 a week. He was also in a 60-second Pepsi commercial during Super Bowl XXIV.
Cameron went on to star in many movies, for example 1987's "Like Father Like Son", which made a lot of money. His next movie, 1989's "Listen to Me", did not make very much money. When "Growing Pains" ended in 1992, Cameron went on to star in the sitcom "Kirk" which began in 1995 and ended two years later. In "Kirk", Cameron played Kirk Hartman, a 24-year-old who has to raise his siblings. Cameron and Noble also worked together on "Kirk".
Ten years after "Growing Pains" ended, was a part of "The Growing Pains Movie", in 2000, and "", in 2004. Cameron has also often worked in Christianity-related movies, among them the post-Rapture movies "", "", and "", in which he plays Cameron "Buck" Williams. Cameron's wife Noble also starred in these movies, playing Hattie Durham. Cameron has worked with Cloud Ten Pictures, and has been in several of their movies. He was also in "Fireproof", which was made by Sherwood Pictures. They only spent $500,000 making the movie. Cameron as the main actor, playing Captain Caleb Holt. Though it was a did not cost much money to make, the movie made $33,415,129. Cameron said, "["Fireproof" is] the best work of my life."
Cameron was once an atheist, but around the age of 17 - 18, during the height of his career on "Growing Pains", he developed a belief in God, and became a Christian. After converting to Christianity, he began to insist that storylines be stripped of anything he thought to be too adult or racy in "Growing Pains". The cast ostracized him from their activities. They did not attend his wedding, nor was he invited to any of theirs. A decade later, Cameron agreed to appear in "The Growing Pains Movie", where the entire main cast reunited with one another. Cameron said, "It’s a lot less crazy of a time than when we were teenagers. It’s an opportunity to begin new friendships as adults, and I’m really looking forward to that."
Cameron currently partners with fellow evangelist Ray Comfort, training Christians in evangelism. Together, they founded the ministry of "The Way of the Master", which is best known for its award-winning television show Cameron co-hosts. It also formerly featured a radio show known as "The Way of the Master Radio" with talk show host Todd Friel. The radio show was later canceled, and "Wretched Radio" began, hosted by Friel. He, with wife Noble, founded "The Firefly Foundation", which runs "Camp Firefly", an organization that gives terminally ill children and their families a free week's vacation.
Cameron and Comfort were a part in a debate on television with atheists Brian Sapient and Kelly O'Conner of the Rational Response Squad, at Calvary Baptist Church in Manhattan on May 5, 2007. It was moderated by ABC's Martin Bashir and parts of it were played on "Nightline". They debated whether or not there is a God. Some of the people in the audience believed in God, and some did not.
Young Artist Awards
Saturn Award
Golden Globe Awards
People's Choice Award
Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards

</doc>
<doc id="103846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103846" title="Get on the Bus">
Get on the Bus

"Get on the Bus" was the third single from girl group Destiny's Child. The song featured rapper/producer Timbaland and is lifted from the original motion picture soundtrack of "Why Do Fools Fall in Love" (1998). It was the second single to be lifted from the soundtrack following Melanie B's debut single, "I Want You Back". Produced by Timbaland, it peaked at number twelve on the UK and Netherlands charts, and at number sixty on the German chart. The single was not commercially released in the U.S. and other major markets, It did receive some minor US Urban radio airplay, peaking at #58 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay chart. The music video was directed by Earle Sebastian.

</doc>
<doc id="103872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103872" title="South China Sea">
South China Sea

The South China Sea is a ocean region south of China. It is a part of the Pacific Ocean. 
The sea and its islands and reefs are claimed by many nations, including China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei. These claims are in the many names used for the islands and the sea.
The South China Sea runs from Singapore to the Taiwan Strait The sea has an area of around 3,500,000 km². It is located in the western arm of the Pacific Ocean 
It is one of the largest seas after the five oceans. There are hundreds of small South China Sea Islands. As a group, these islands are called an archipelago. 
Some of the bigger islands have people living on them. They are inhabited. Most of the islands are small and uninhabited.

</doc>
<doc id="103897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103897" title="Leo Belgicus">
Leo Belgicus

The Leo Belgicus is a map of the Low Countries (the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium). They are drawn in the shape of a lion. The Leo Belgicus that came first was drawn by the Austrian cartographer Michael Aitzinger in 1583. The Netherlands were fighting the Eighty Years' War for freedom at this time.
There were three different drawings. In the most common one, the lion's head was found in the northeast part of the country and the tail in the southeast part of the country. The most famous version is the drawing of Claes Janszoon Visscher. It was made in 1609 when the Twelve Years' Truce was written. The third version was made late in the war. It was made after the freedom of the Dutch Republic was given in the Peace of Westphalia of the year 1648. It is called the "Leo Hollandicus", the Holland Lion, and shows only the province of Holland.

</doc>
<doc id="103909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103909" title="Tebibyte">
Tebibyte

A tebibyte (TiB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. Tebibytes hold 1024 gibibytes (GiB) or 1,099,511,627,776 bytes. Some people incorrectly call this number of bytes a terabyte, which is actually one trillion bytes, or 1000 gigabytes (GB).
1024 tebibytes make one pebibyte.

</doc>
<doc id="103921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103921" title="Petabyte">
Petabyte

A petabyte (PB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. One petabyte holds 1000 terabytes (TB) or a thousand trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. 
Large organisations use petabytes of storage to hold massive amounts of data. To store this amount of data at home would require about 1000 large home computers. People at home probably do not use petabytes, they would use terabytes (primarily for very large backups), gigabytes, megabytes and occasionally kilobytes.
One thousand petabytes make one exabyte. 

</doc>
<doc id="103925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103925" title="Exabyte">
Exabyte

An exabyte (EB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. One exabyte holds 1000 petabytes (PB) or a million trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. An exabyte is so large that it would take about one million powerful home computers to store this amount of data.
One thousand exabytes make one zettabyte.

</doc>
<doc id="103926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103926" title="Zettabyte">
Zettabyte

A zettabyte (ZB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. One zettabyte holds 1000 exabytes (EB) or a billion trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes, and 1000 zettabytes make one yottabyte. 
A zettabyte is so large that it would take about a million supercomputers (or a billion powerful home computers) 
to store this amount of data.

</doc>
<doc id="103928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103928" title="Yottabyte">
Yottabyte

A yottabyte (YB) is a unit of measurement for computers of the future. One yottabyte holds 1000 zettabytes (ZB) or a trillion trillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) bytes. 
A yottabyte is so large that it would take about a billion supercomputers to store this amount of data.

</doc>
<doc id="103936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103936" title="Nature's services">
Nature's services

Nature's services is a term for the ways in which nature benefits humans. It means particularly those benefits that can be measured in economic terms. Robert Costanza and other theorists of natural capital analysed nature's services to humanity in the 1990s.
The economic contribution of seventeen of these services they calculated to be about US$33 trillion per year, greater than the activities of the whole human economy, which was about US$25 trillion.
This was based on estimated costs of replacing the services nature provides. For that purpose they were compared with equivalent services that are produced by humans. This calculation makes clear that mankind cannot develop without nature's services.
This study is central for the theory of natural capital.
But this study had no great influence on government policy or on WTO, IMF or G8 economic and trade policy.

</doc>
<doc id="103946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103946" title="Signing Time!">
Signing Time!

Signing Time! is a children's television show. It teaches American Sign Language to children age one through eight. It is shown in the United States. It is hosted by Rachel de Azevedo Coleman. It is shown by American Public Television in many cities across the United States.
Research shows that sign language can help children's learning ability to grow. With just a few simple American Sign Language signs, babies and toddlers — some as young as nine months old — can show people their needs before they can speak, which may make them have fewer tantrums. School-aged children enjoy the benefits of learning a second language. Children with developmental delays or special needs can find their own “voice” by using their hands to talk using sign language.
Signing Time helps children learn through three senses — visual (seeing), auditory (hearing), and kinesthetic (touch) — and reaches children with different learning styles and abilities by making children want to communicate with other people through signing, singing, speaking and dancing.
In the series, songwriter and musician Rachel Coleman, her daughter Leah (who is deaf), Alex (Leah’s cousin who can hear), and their pet frog named Hopkins, who is a cartoon, teach hundreds of useful American Sign Language signs. Children learn signs for words, questions, phrases, movements, colors, sports, days of the week, everyday objects, and activities that are done a lot. Signing Time! makes learning sign language easy for the whole family.
In 1996, Rachel Coleman had a daughter, who was named Leah. Fourteen months after she was born, Rachel and her husband, Aaron, found out that Leah was deaf since she was born. After that, the couple started to teach Leah sign language, first with Signing Exact English (SEE), then with American Sign Language (ASL),so that they could learn to communicate, becoming good signers. Rachel was surprised to see that after six months, Leah's sign language vocabulary had more words the vocabulary of hearing children her same age. Rachel's sister Emilie Brown and her husband Derek were teaching Leah's baby cousin, Alex, how to sign, and he learned it quickly also.
A few years later, Rachel had a second daughter. Lucy was born 8 weeks premature, with spina bifida (this means there is a hole in your back when you are born and your spinal cord is sticking out) and cerebral palsy (your brain has trouble controlling your muscles). Doctors worried that, because of her cerebral palsy, Lucy would never be able to speak or use sign language to communicate with her deaf sister, but after the first volume was made, Lucy started to sign, and later, to speak. Rachel then thought that signing could be beneficial to all children.
Rachel and Emilie decided to make a video for hearing children so that American Sign Language could be made accessible to all children, and made Two Little Hands Productions, their producing company, together.
Rachel hosts the show herself, with her daughter Leah and nephew Alex also starring to help teach signs. In My First Signs, Rachel was not going to be in the videos, but she was added to show the signs because Alex and Leah (who were 3 and 4 then) could not sign clearly enough all the time to teach viewers the signs. In the earlier episodes, Rachel did not want to sing and sign at the same time since it causes some problems for those who want true American Sign Language, but customers responded, wanting more songs and wanting to learn signs from them. So, already being a musician, Rachel wrote more songs. Rachel sings a lot of songs during each episode, signing the words at the same time. During the episode, Rachel shows many signs from a certain topic (schools, daytime activities, etc.) and then has Leah and Alex sign—they sign first now—alongside with many other children of different backgrounds. After that, the words are emphasized with song.
The second season has a new layout that includes new signs and more original music. Each program teaches signs from one theme, marked by a theme song, which is taught verse by verse. This lets children develop a comforting knowing of the melody line of each song, helping to give them a sense of mastery and a feeling like they are actually “with” the characters as they sing and sign along. Also, new parts “ABC Time,” “Counting Time,” “Game Time,” “Story Time,” and “Hopping/Moving Time” look into the episode theme or other skills in a playful way. These segments use teaching methods such as mnemonics (a way to make your memory better), songs, stories, and games, which are good for many different learning styles and abilities by promoting interaction through signing, singing, speaking and dancing.
Rachel is the host of the Signing Time! series. She has spent much of her adult life working in entertainment. While performing with her band We the Living, Rachel foun out that her 14-month old daughter, Leah, was deaf. Rachel’s second daughter, Lucy, had fetal surgery (surgery before she was born) for spina bifida and was later diagnosed with cerebral palsy. In spite of such limitations, Lucy now communicates with both speech and sign language. After years of musical silence, Rachel has picked up that guitar again, writing and performing all of the songs for Signing Time!. She used to sing for her band. Now, she sings for Lucy, Leah, and children everywhere. In addition to starring in Signing Time!, Rachel is also a popular singer, performer, and speaker, and has performed for hundreds of thousands of children all across the country.
Leah Coleman is the person that made her mother want to make Signing Time! Diagnosed as profoundly deaf at 14 months old, she began learning American Sign Language (ASL) as fast as her parents could learn it and teach it to her. Leah could sign full sentences long before her ‘hearing’ peers could even speak, and because of that, her parents say she never threw a tantrum. Leah is now in fifth grade and loves reading, skating on her “Heelys” and playing with her little sister Lucy. She recently won first place in her very first horse show and got national attention for winning first place in her school Spelling Bee, despite being deaf. Her favorite food is sushi and she loves the color purple. She loves being in "Signing Time!" with her cousin Alex, and teaching ASL to other children.
Alex Brown was in the very first episode of Signing Time! before his third birthday. He learned to sign as a baby so that he could communicate with his deaf cousin, Leah. He is now in fifth grade and loves to ride his bike, rollerblade, make comic books, draw mazes and play with his little brother Zachary. His favorite food is shrimp with shell pasta and his favorite color is green. He is a budding singer and pianist, but he enjoys "playing" the piano more than he enjoys practicing. A native of Salt Lake City, Utah, Alex has also lived in Virginia and California. He enjoys filming "Signing Time!" particularly when he gets to swing on the tire swing or have pillow fights on the set with Leah.
Originally developed as a gecko named ‘Twerp’ (a play on the nickname ‘Terp, for interpreter), “Hopkins” the frog was supposed to be Leah’s ‘voice’ and appear as a gift from Grandma and Grandpa. Alas, since Leah’s speech is developing on her own, Hopkins is now very happy being a little green animated sidekick who loves to swim, paint, lift large pieces of fruit and eat unsuspecting flies. He is proudly named after Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, who in 1817 established the first free American school for the deaf and hearing-impaired.
All numbers are Signing Time! volume numbers from the official website.
Two Little Hands productions offers a wide variety of fun and educational American Sign Language (ASL) products.
Other items include printed materials including board books and flash cards, "Signing Time!" clothing, and "Signing Time!" music CDs.

</doc>
<doc id="103951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103951" title="Wuthering Heights">
Wuthering Heights

Wuthering Heights is a novel by Emily Brontë. It was first published in 1847 under the pseudonym (false name) "Ellis Bell". After her death, a second edition was edited by her sister Charlotte. The story is about the love of Heathcliff and Catherine Earnshaw, foster siblings in Yorkshire. It is a classic of English literature, and has been made into movies many times. 

</doc>
<doc id="103952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103952" title="Capitol Hill Baptist Church">
Capitol Hill Baptist Church

The Capitol Hill Baptist Church is a Baptist church on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C. Mark Dever serves as the senior pastor of the church.
In 1867 on "Capitol Hill", a group of people came together to pray for a church to be started in their area. The church would one decade later become known as the "Metropolitan Baptist Church". In 1878, it had 31 members. In the coming years, the church grew. In 1912 the church finished working on the new main hall. Their then current pastor "Dr. John Compton Ball" oversaw the church membership increase, it numbered in the thousands by 1950. Over the next several years, the membership slowly dropped, and hit a low of around one hundred people, in the early 1990s. In recent years the church has grown to a much bigger church.

</doc>
<doc id="103961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103961" title="Gerry and the Pacemakers">
Gerry and the Pacemakers

Gerry and The Pacemakers were an English rock and roll group during the 1960s. Like The Beatles, they came from Liverpool and were also managed by Brian Epstein.
Gerry Marsden was born on September 24, 1942, in Liverpool, England. His brother, Freddie, was born on October 23, 1940, in Liverpool. They formed a musical group called "The Mars Bars", with Gerry playing guitar and Freddie the drums. They changed the name to The Pacemakers because the Mars candy company said they would take them to court for using the name.
Les Chadwick (born John Leslie Chadwick) was born on May 11, 1943 in Liverpool. He worked in a bank before joining the band in 1959. He was their lead guitarist, but changed to bass. Les Maguire (born Leslie Maguire) was born on December 27, 1941 in Wallasey, Cheshire. He joined the band in 1960 after the group's piano player, Arthur McMahon, left the group.
The Pacemakers were the second band to be managed by Brian Epstein, who was also manager of "The Beatles. Brian had heard the band at the "Cavern Club" in Liverpool in 1962. Their first three songs in 1963, "How Do You Do It?", "I Like It" and "You'll Never Walk Alone", all went straight to number one on the charts. "You'll Never Walk Alone", first written by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II for the musical "Carousel", became the favourite song of supporters of the Liverpool Football Club. They even made a very successful full length movie in 1965 called "Ferry Cross The Mersey". This was based on the song written by Gerry. The song made Liverpool's ferries world famous. Gerry also wrote eight other songs for the film.
The band enjoyed great success between 1963—1966, with such songs as "It's Gonna Be All Right". This time was called the British Invasion because so many British bands were successful. "[Our] songs were happy, the music simple and the lyrics nice to listen to," Gerry said. "We didn't try to change the world."
The group broke up in 1967, and Gerry went on to work as an actor and performer in musical theater. He reformed The Pacemakers with new members in 1972. Gerry wrote a book about his life, "You'll Never Walk Alone", which was published in 1993. Original band member, Freddie Marsden, died on December 9, 2006, at 66 years of age.

</doc>
<doc id="103962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103962" title="Left Behind (series)">
Left Behind (series)

The Left Behind series (or just Left Behind) is a fictional book series written by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. The series takes place during, and after the rapture. Besides the best-selling fiction book series, there are also graphic novels, CDs, and a series.
Note: The first three books were written later in time, but are a prequel to the series. 
Note: The first of the books were made into movies starring Kirk Cameron.

</doc>
<doc id="103973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103973" title="Master Chief">
Master Chief

Master Chief Petty Officer John-117 is a fictional person. He is the main protagonist of the "Halo" video game series. He is also called Master Chief, or Spartan-117.
Master Chief is a player character in "", "Halo 2", "Halo 3", "Halo 4 and Halo 5 quardians". He also is also featured in several novels and other games in the Halo series.
The character is never seen without his green-colored armor and helmet. He is one of the most recognizable characters from Halo. Several action figures of the character are available.

</doc>
<doc id="103979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103979" title="Arrowhead">
Arrowhead

An arrowhead is point of an arrow, or a shape resembling such a point.
Arrowheads are found all over the United States. Archaeologically they are usually made of stone: primarily being flint, obsidian, or chert; but in many excavations bone, wooden and metal arrowheads have been found. 
In North America, Arrowheads are sometimes mistakenly attributed to the Historic Period American Indians, but are actually from North America's prehistoric ancestors; some arrowheads date back to over 15,000+ years old (Paleo-Clovis Culture). 
In Scandinavia during the Viking age a wide range of arrowheads were used for a variety of tasks.
Arrowheads are attached to arrow shafts and may be "thrown" (similar to a spear thrower), or fired from a bow.
Stone tool

</doc>
<doc id="103981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103981" title="Obsidian">
Obsidian

Obsidian is a natural volcanic glass found as a kind of igneous rock. It is produced when lava high in silica (SiO) cools rapidly, and solidifies without time for crystal growth. Because there is no crystal structure, obsidian blade edges can reach almost molecular thinness, leading to its ancient use as arrowheads, and its modern use as surgical scalpel blades.
Obsidian is mineral-like, but not crystalline. It is dark in color like basalt. It consists mainly of SiO (silicon dioxide), usually 70% or more.
Obsidian does not last forever. It is metastable: it changes very slowly. Over time, the glass becomes fine-grained crystals. So, no obsidian is older than Cretaceous age. It breaks down faster when water is present. Obsidian has little water, but takes it in if it sits in groundwater.
Usually dark, the color varies on the presence of different materials. Iron and magnesium typically give the obsidian a dark green to brown to black color. A few samples are nearly colorless. In some stones, small crystals produce a snowflake pattern ("snowflake obsidian"). It may contain patterns of gas which produce effects such as a golden sheen ("sheen obsidian") or a rainbow sheen ("rainbow obsidian").
Obsidian was valued in Stone Age cultures because, like flint, it could be chipped to produce hand axes, sharp blades or arrowheads.
Pre-Columbian Mesoamericans' used obsidian often. It was worked for tools and decorative objects. It was also polished to create early mirrors. Mesoamericans also made a type of sword with obsidian blades mounted in a wooden body. Called a macuahuitl, the weapon could cause terrible injuries, because it combined the sharp cutting edge of an obsidian blade with the ragged cut of a serrated edge.
Native American people traded obsidian throughout North America. Each volcano and in some cases each volcanic eruption produces a distinguishable type of obsidian. So archaeologists can trace the origins of a particular artifact. Obsidian can be identified in Greece as coming from different islands in the Aegean Sea. Obsidian cores (unworked lumps) and blades were traded great distances inland from the coast.
Modern archaeologists have developed a dating system to calculate the age of obsidian artifacts depending from the content of water in the object.
Obsidian can be found where high silicate) eruptions have happened. There are solid obsidian flows in the calderas of Newberry Volcano and Medicine Lake Volcano in the Cascade Range of western North America, and at Inyo Craters east of the Sierra Nevada, California. Yellowstone National Park has a mountainside containing obsidian between Mammoth Hot Springs and the Norris Geyser Basin. Deposits can be found in many other western US states including Arizona, Colorado, Texas, Utah, Oregon and Idaho. Obsidian can also be found in Armenia, Turkey, Italy, Mexico, Iceland, Greece and Scotland.
Obsidian is used in heart surgery, as well-crafted obsidian blades have a cutting edge many times sharper than high-quality steel surgical scalpels, with the edge of the blade being only about 3 nm wide. Even the sharpest metal knife has a jagged, irregular blade when viewed under a strong enough microscope. When examined under an electron microscope an obsidian blade is still smooth and even. One study found that obsidian produced narrower scars, fewer inflammatory cells, and less granulation tissue in a group of rats.
Obsidian is also used for ornamental purposes and as a gemstone. It possesses the property of presenting a different appearance according to the manner in which it is cut. When cut in one direction it is a beautiful jet black; when cut across another direction it is glistening gray.

</doc>
<doc id="103983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103983" title="Obsidian (disambiguation)">
Obsidian (disambiguation)

Obsidian can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="104000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104000" title="Isle of Arran">
Isle of Arran

Arran or the Isle of Arran is the largest island in the Firth of Clyde, Scotland.
With an area of it is the seventh largest Scottish island. Just over 5,000 people live there.
Arran shares with the Hebrides cultural and physical similarities. Arran is mountainous and has been described as a "geologist's paradise".
People have lived there since the early Neolithic period, from which time on there are numerous prehistoric remains.
From the 6th century on peoples from Ireland colonised the island and it became a centre of religious activity. During the troubled Viking Age, Arran became the property of the Norwegian crown before becoming formally absorbed by the Kingdom of Scotland in the thirteenth century.
The 19th century "clearances" led to significant reductions in population and the end of the Gaelic language and way of life.
The economy and population have recovered in recent years, the main industry being tourism. There is diversity of wildlife, including three species of tree endemic to the area. There are regular field trips in the summer by geology and biology students.
The island is sometimes referred to as "Scotland in miniature", as it is divided into "Highland" and "Lowland" areas by the Highland Boundary Fault which runs northeast to southwest across Scotland.
The island is a popular destination for geologists, who come to see intrusive igneous landforms such as sills and dykes as well as sedimentary and metasedimentary rocks ranging in age from Precambrian to Mesozoic.
Most of the interior of the northern half of the island is taken up by a large granite batholith that was created by substantial volcanic activity around 60 million years ago in the Tertiary period. There is an older outer ring of coarse granites and an inner core of finer grained material.
Sedimentary rocks dominate the southern half of the island, especially Old and New Red Sandstone. Sand dunes are preserved in Permian sandstones near Brodick, there are localised outcrops of Triassic rocks, and even some Cretaceous chalk.
Visiting in 1787, the geologist James Hutton found his first example of an unconformity to the north of Newton Point near Lochranza, which provided evidence for his Plutonist theories of uniformitarianism, and about the age of the Earth. This spot is one of the most famous places in the study of geology.
The Pleistocene glaciations almost entirely covered Scotland in ice. After the last retreat of the ice at the close of the Pleistocene epoch sea levels were up to lower than at present and it is likely that circa 14,000 years ago the island was connected to mainland Scotland.
Sea level changes and the isostatic rise of land makes charting coastlines a complex task, but the island is clearly ringed by post glacial raised beaches.
What this means is that the huge weight of ice pressed down the Earth's crust here, and so the beaches were much higher up than now. Gradually, long after the ice melted, the island came back up.
King's Cave on the south west coast is an example of such a raised beach. This cave, which is over long and up to high, lies well above the present day sea level.
There are tall sea cliffs to the north east including large rock slides under the heights of Torr Reamhar and at Scriden ("An Scriodan") at the far north end of the island. The Scriden rocks fell "some two hundred years ago, with a concussion that shook the earth and was heard in Bute and Argyllshire".

</doc>
<doc id="104002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104002" title="Kurud">
Kurud

Kurud is a town found in the center of the state of Chhattisgarh in India.

</doc>
<doc id="104006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104006" title="Germanic paganism">
Germanic paganism

Germanic paganism was a religion. It was a form of paganism. It was practiced in Central an Northern Europe before Christianity came there. The best documented form is called Norse paganism today. The religion was polytheistic, there were many gods. The main ones seem to have been Odin and Thor. Beforehand, the most important one may have been Tyr.
The Germanic gods have affected elements of every day western life in most countries that speak Germanic languages. An example is some of the names of the days of the week. The days were named after Roman gods in Latin (named after "Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn"). The names for Tuesday through Friday were replaced with Germanic versions of the Roman gods. In English and Dutch, Saturn was not replaced. Saturday is named after the Sabbath in German, and is called "washing day" in Scandinavia.
Also, many place names such as Woodway House, Wansdyke, Thundersley and Frigedene are named after the old deities of the English people.

</doc>
<doc id="104030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104030" title="Miguel Ángel Asturias">
Miguel Ángel Asturias

Miguel Ángel Asturias Rosales (October 19, 1899 - June 9, 1974) was a writer and diplomat from Guatemala. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1967 for his "Banana Trilogy". He also wrote "El Hombre que lo tenía todo todo todo".
He was very important for literature in his country.

</doc>
<doc id="104041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104041" title="Hindustan">
Hindustan

The term Hindustan may relate to various aspects of three geographical areas:
Hindustan can also refer to the following:

</doc>
<doc id="104045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104045" title="Plymouth Colony">
Plymouth Colony

Plymouth Colony was an English colony in North America. It existed from 1620 to 1691. At its height, Plymouth Colony occupied most of the southeastern part of the modern state of Massachusetts. 
The first settlement of the Plymouth Colony was at New Plymouth. This settlement served as the capital of the colony. It is today the modern town of Plymouth, Massachusetts. 
Separatists and Anglicans (together, the "Pilgrims") founded the colony. With Jamestown and other settlements in Virginia Colony, it was one of the earliest successful English colonies in North America. It was the first sizable permanent English settlement in the New England region. 
The colony made a treaty with Chief Massasoit. This helped to make the colony a success. The colonists played a role in King Philip's War. The colony merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony and other territories in 1691. Together they formed the Province of Massachusetts Bay.
Plymouth holds a special role in American history. Many of the Plymouth colonists left England for a place to worship in their own way. The social and legal systems of the colony became tied to their religious beliefs, as well as English custom. Many of the people and events surrounding Plymouth Colony have become part of American folklore. These include Thanksgiving and Plymouth Rock.

</doc>
<doc id="104062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104062" title="Open proxy">
Open proxy

An open proxy is a proxy server which any Internet user can use. Generally, a proxy server allows users within a network group to store and forward Internet services such as DNS or web pages, so that not as much bandwidth is used and it is more controlled. With an "open" proxy, however, any user on the Internet is able to use this forwarding service.
By using some open proxies ("anonymous" open proxies), users can hide their true IP address. Sometimes people will abuse open proxies, and so they are often seen as a problem. Anonymous open proxies will also make the user more anonymous and secure when browsing the web or using other internet services: a user's true IP address can be used by a hacker to get information from the user's computer.
Using open proxies can be sometimes dangerous as person providing them can be collecting user information.

</doc>
<doc id="104073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104073" title="Zombie computer">
Zombie computer

A zombie computer (often shortened as zombie) is a computer attached to the Internet that has been compromised by a hacker, a computer virus, or a trojan horse. 
Generally, a compromised machine is only one of many in a botnet, and the hacker will make the computer do unwanted things from far away. Most owners of zombie computers do not know that their system is being used in this way. Because the owner tends to not know, these computers are compared to zombies.

</doc>
<doc id="104084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104084" title="Rapture">
Rapture

The Rapture (meaning "to carry to another place") is a future event in Christian theology where Jesus Christ will return to Earth to bring his followers to Heaven. In Christianity it is believed that following this amazing event, the world will go through what is called "the tribulation". Then later following, will come the "millennium" (a thousand years).
The "tribulation" (or the "great tribulation") is supposed theory of life after the "rapture". Most Christians agree that the period lasts around seven years. During these years, it is believed that the Antichrist will come to power and control the world.
The "Millennium" is the period following the "rapture", and the "tribulation", that Christians believe they will live in glory on the Earth. They also believe that Jesus Christ will be in total control over earth for "1,000" years (a millennium). 
In 1950, the novel "Raptured" by "Ernest Angley" was published, and in 1995, the first of the Left Behind series was published. These and other books have made the story of the "rapture" and the "tribulation" popular.
The "Rapture" story has been retold in many movies. The most well-known production company is Cloud Ten Pictures. Which have created the "Left Behind film series" (Left Behind: The Movie, , and ), as well as several other movies. Some other notable end times movies are A Thief in the Night and The Omega Code.

</doc>
<doc id="104088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104088" title="Zeeland">
Zeeland

Zeeland (also called Zealand) is a province in Netherlands. It is on the south-western part of the country. About 380,000 people live in this province.
Zeeland is a good example of land partly reclaimed from water or marshes. It is a large river delta at the mouth of several major rivers. 
Most of the province lies below sea level and was reclaimed from the sea. What was a muddy landscape, flooding at high tide and reappearing at low tide, became a series of small man-made hills that stayed dry. The people of the province connected the hills by making dikes. This made a chain of dry land which grew bigger, and gave the province its present shape. 
The North Sea flood of 1953 swamped vast amounts of land. Building the protective Delta Works also changed the face of the province. Dams, tunnels and bridges are a vital part of the province's road system. The final touch to this process came in 2003 when the Western Scheldt Tunnel was opened. It was the first solid connection between both banks of the Western Scheldt and ended the era of water separating the islands and peninsulas of Zeeland.

</doc>
<doc id="104091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104091" title="Edo period">
Edo period

, also called the Tokugawa period (徳川時代 "Tokugawa-jidai"), is the time from roughly 1600 through 1868 in the history of Japan. These years come after the Azuchi-Momoyama period and before the Meiji Restoration and the development of modern Japan. 
The period is marked the governance of the Tokugawa shogunate, which was functionally established at Edo in 1603 by the Tokugawa Ieyasu. 
The 15th and last shogun was Tokugawa Yoshinobu. 
The period ended with the Meiji Restoration, which was the restoration of imperial rule. The Edo period is also known as the beginning of the early modern period of Japan. 
The period was marked by the influence of neo-Confucianism. 
In this time Shinto developed as well.
In 1600, the Battle of Sekigahara establishes a context for the next two centuries. Tokugawa Ieyasu defeats a coalition of daimyo and establishes hegemony over most of Japan.
In 1868, Tokugawa Yoshinobu resigns, the Tokugawa shogunate ends. This marks the end of the Edo period. Emperor Meiji establishes his Imperial capital in Edo, which is renamed Tokyo ("eastern capital").
In the Edo period, Japan developed very much economically, and accumulation of the capital became the driving force of the economic development after the Meiji Restoration.
Because many daimyos stayed at the inn along the highway by daimyo's alternate-year residence in Tokyo, the circulation of the economy became active.
And due to the stable economy, Japanese special culture such as Nou or Kabuli or Ukiyoe had also developed very well. 
The Shogunate instituted a foreign policy of isolationism.
Therefore trade relations carried out by the Shogunate are only in Nagasaki, and the Netherland in Dejima.

</doc>
<doc id="104115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104115" title="Graduation (album)">
Graduation (album)

Graduation is the third studio album by American hip hop recording artist and producer Kanye West. It was released on September 11, 2007 on Roc-A-Fella Records. It is also West' last album to be influenced by a college theme in both the albums title and artwork.
"Graduation" received general acclaim from music critics.
<br>
Credits adapted from liner notes.

</doc>
<doc id="104116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104116" title="Savior">
Savior

Savior (or Saviour) refers to a someone who has saved another from danger. It can also refer to someone who has helped people achieve Salvation. Many religions have a Savior, though the way they use the idea varies. 
Christianity's savior is Jesus, the Christ.(Gospel of Matthew 1:21) In Judaism, Jesus is not considered a savior. They believe that the Messiah, their own concept of a savior, has not yet come. In Islam, their savior is Mahdi. In Hinduism, Shiva, Vishnu, and Devi are referred to as saviors.

</doc>
<doc id="104118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104118" title="Pebibyte">
Pebibyte

A pebibyte (Peta Binary Byte, abbreviated PiB) is a large unit of measurement of bytes (computer memory). 
1 pebibyte = 2 bytes = 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes = 1,024 tebibytes.
It is related to the petabyte which is 10 bytes.
1024 pebibytes make one exbibyte.

</doc>
<doc id="104119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104119" title="Exbibyte">
Exbibyte

An exbibyte (EiB) is a large unit of measurement for computers of the future. Exbibytes hold 1024 pebibytes (PiB) or 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes. Some people call this number of bytes an exabyte.
1024 exbibytes make 1 zebibyte.

</doc>
<doc id="104122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104122" title="Okrouhlička">
Okrouhlička

Okrouhlička is a small village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 199 people live there. It covers 6,84 km². Okrouhlička was first documented in 1307.

</doc>
<doc id="104126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104126" title="Water buffalo">
Water buffalo

Water buffaloes are a kind of bovine. There are Wild Asian Water Buffaloes and domestic buffaloes or domestic Asian water buffalo. They are bred in Asia, South America and kaykay kaytlin land Southern Europe. They were bred from the Wild Asian Water Buffalo, which is now an endangered species.
Today, these buffaloes are used for their milk, which has more fat than that of cows. The milk is processed to make Mozzarella, and curd. Feral populations are sometimes used to manage uncontrolled growth of vegetation around wetlands. They will simply graze it off. This keeps such bodies of water usable by birds and other wildlife.
Females normally give birth to calves every other year. Young bulls usually stay with herds of mothers, which have about 30 buffalo, for three years after birth. They then go on to form small all-male herds.
Water buffalo have been kept by humans for more than 5,000 years. They have helped humans with their meat, horns, hides, milk, butterfat, and power, plowing and transporting people and crops.
Wild water buffalo are endangered. They live only in a small number of protected areas in countries like India, Nepal, Bhutan, and Thailand.

</doc>
<doc id="104128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104128" title="Lípa (Havlíčkův Brod District)">
Lípa (Havlíčkův Brod District)

Lípa is a village in the Havlíčkův Brod District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 1024 people live there. It covers 14,7 km². Lípa was first documented in 1351.

</doc>
<doc id="104129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104129" title="Věžnička">
Věžnička

Věžnička is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 116 people live there. It covers 4.51 km². Věžnička was first documented in 1502.

</doc>
<doc id="104134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104134" title="Kamenná (Jihlava District)">
Kamenná (Jihlava District)

Kamenná is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 171 people live there. It covers 6,33 km². Kamenná was first documented in 1308.

</doc>
<doc id="104137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104137" title="Větrný Jeníkov">
Větrný Jeníkov

Větrný Jeníkov is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 582 people live there. It covers 12,22 km². Větrný Jeníkov was first documented in 1226.

</doc>
<doc id="104155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104155" title="Florida State University">
Florida State University

Florida State University is a large school in Tallahassee, in the north part of Florida, U.S.A. It is one of the two most important public universities in Florida, together with the University of Florida. More than 40,000 students go to school there, usually starting after high school (secondary school) at an age of about 18 years. About 9,000 of the students already have a degree (diploma) from college, and are learning even more, to earn an advanced degree.
The University is made up of 16 colleges: Arts and Sciences; Business; Communication; Criminology and Criminal Justice; Education; Engineering; Human Sciences; Information; Law; Medicine; Motion Picture, Television and Recording Arts; Music; Nursing; Social Sciences; Social Work; and Visual Arts, Theatre and Dance.
Florida State University is more than 150 years old. The fees to attend the school (tuition) in 2006 were $3,175 for people from Florida and $16,306 for people from other places, for each term (about 4 months).
Their athletics team, the Seminoles have 17 varsity teams and have claimed 2 national championships (1993, 1999) in football.

</doc>
<doc id="104165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104165" title="Tiananmen Square protests of 1989">
Tiananmen Square protests of 1989

The Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 were protests in April and June of that year. China calls them the June Fourth Incident, but to most of the world it is the Tiananmen Square massacre. 
There were other protests on Tiananmen square in 1919 and 1976. The protests of 1989 were organised by groups of students, intellectuals and labour activists. There was no common cause or leadership in the protests. However, most protesters did not like the way the Communist party of China ran the economy. Some people also wanted a change towards more democracy. Most people protested on Tianmen Square in Beijing, but some also did in other cities, like Shanghai. The protests in cities other than Beijing stayed peaceful.
On June 4, the government used force to end the protests. This left many people injured or dead. The exact number is not known today. The Chinese government speaks about 200-300 victims, the "New York Times" says there were between 300 and 800 and the Chinese Red Cross talks about 2,000 - 3,000. 
The official Chinese position on the events was that the protests needed to be dispersed in order not to harm the stability of the country. 
Many of the scenes were shown around the world over western media (the most famous image is that showing a man standing in front of a file of tanks in the middle of the square).
The protests had various causes. The corruption of the Communist Party was a main issue. The control of the economy was working badly. The country was poor, and city dwellers got the worst of it. 
Ironically, this all happened under the rule of Deng Xiaoping. He was Mao's successor in 1978 and launched the economic reforms. These reforms helped life for farmers and people who lived in the countryside, but was bad for city dwellers. Intellectuals, students, and industrial workers, feared unemployment rising and social problems. They felt disenfranchised. This means people felt they could do nothing about these problems.
When reformer Hu Yaobang suddenly died of a heart attack on (15 April 1989), students reacted strongly. Hu's death provided the reason for students to gather in large numbers. In university campuses, many posters appeared eulogizing Hu, calling for a revival of Hu's legacy. Within days, most posters were writing about broader political issues, such as freedom of the press, democracy, and corruption.
It is said this was one of the largest specific-purposed, overcrowded demonstrations there has been in all of modern history. 

</doc>
<doc id="104169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104169" title="Evangelism">
Evangelism

Evangelism is the Christian practice of preaching about Jesus Christ to both Christians and non-Christians. The purpose of most "evangelism" is to help others receive eternal (forever) Salvation to people who have not heard of, or have denied God. "Evangelism" is done in obedience to the Great Commission, a command from Jesus to his disciples to convert others, as recorded in the New Testament. Christians who are good at "evangelism" are known as evangelists, whether in their areas or to far away places. Some Christian traditions consider "evangelists" to be in a leadership position, and they may be found preaching to large meetings.

</doc>
<doc id="104173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104173" title="Southern Baptist Convention">
Southern Baptist Convention

The Southern Baptist Convention (SBC) is a United States-based Christian denomination. The name "Southern Baptist Convention" refers both to the denomination and to its annual meeting of members. 

</doc>
<doc id="104175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104175" title="Times Square">
Times Square

Times Square is a section of Manhattan, New York City. It is a major center for tourism, show business and commerce. The square is at the meeting point of Broadway, Seventh Avenue and 42nd street. It is named for the New York Times which formerly had its main building there. One of the biggest stations in the New York City Subway system is under Times Square. The well-known city street area is probably most famous for its New Year's Eve ball drop that happens every year. It is one of the most famous sights of New York.
When Dutch people first came to Manhattan, there were three small streams. They came together near what is now 10th Avenue and 40th Street. These three streams were part of a big stream called the "Great Kill" (Dutch: "Grote Kill"). From there the Great Kill went through the low-lying Reed Valley, known for fish and other water animals. Its end was a deep bay in the Hudson River at present-day 42nd Street. People lived in a small area named Great Kill, where carriages were made. The higher land to the south and east was called Longacre.
When the American Revolution was happening, John Morin Scott owned the land. Scott was in the army, which was led by George Washington. During the early 1800s, John Jacob Astor bought the land, then built houses and hotels for the rich on the land. By 1872, carriages were mainly made in Longacre. The city government named the area Longacre Square after Long Acre, a place in London where carriages were also made. Soon after, Broadway theaters were created around Longacre Square.
In 1904, "New York Times" moved to a new building on 42nd Street at Longacre Square. Under there, a New York City Subway station was built. The area has been called "Times Square" since April 8, 1904. The square took its name from the newspaper. In 1913, the "Times" moved again. The old Times Building, One Times Square, is best known for the Times Square Ball drop that happens every December 31.
Since 1913, the Lincoln Highway, the first road across the United States, has ended in Times Square. During the early 20th century, theatres, music halls, and very fancy hotels were built here. People called the area "The Tenderloin" because many people wanted to come to Times Square. Still, there were some gangsters in Times Square.
By the 1930s, Times Square was becoming a bad place to visit.
By the 1960s, "The New York Times" said that 42nd Street in Times Square was "the 'worst' [block] in town", By 1984, 2,300 crimes happened in Times Square; 460 were very bad crimes like murders. The NYPD did not help to get rid of the crime in Times Square. People moved out of Times Square, and it became empty.
In the 1980s through the mid-1990s, Rudolph Giuliani cleaned up the area. People did not want to go to Times Square in the 1970s. Giuliani got rid of prostitutes and drug dealers, and put in Disney stores and other places that tourists wanted to go.
There are many big signs on buildings in Times Square. There are as many big signs in Times Square than in Las Vegas.
After the September 11, 2001 attacks, more than seven thousand police officers came to Times Square. Before, there were only 3,500 officers.
On March 6, 2008, a bomb went off in Times Square. No one was hurt. On May 1, 2010, another bomb was found in Times Square, and everyone was asked to leave. The bomb did not go off.
On February 26, 2009, Mayor Michael Bloomberg closed Broadway to cars for a year. On February 11, 2010, Bloomberg said that Broadway in Times Square would be closed to cars forever.
Starting in February 2011, New York City stopped people from smoking in Times Square.
Times Square is the most visited place in the world. 360,000 people come here in a day, and 131 million visit Times Square in a year.
Even if people who live here are not counted, Times Square is the second most visited place in the world, behind the Las Vegas Strip. Because of the high number of visitors, Times Square gets $4.8 billion per year from stores, hotels, and attractions. In fact, 22 cents out of every dollar spent by visitors to New York City is spent within Times Square.

</doc>
<doc id="104176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104176" title="FutureSex/LoveSounds">
FutureSex/LoveSounds

FutureSex/LoveSounds is the second solo studio album by American pop singer Justin Timberlake. It was released on September 12, 2006 through Jive Records and Zomba Records. Timberlake started the FutureSex/LoveShow tour in support of the album in January 2007. He worked with several notable producers including: Danja, Rick Rubin, Timbaland and will.i.am. The album sold slightly more than his first solo album, "Justified", with worldwide sales in excess of 9 million, 4 million of which have been sold in the United States alone.
Disc 1
Disc 2<br>
DVD<br>

</doc>
<doc id="104178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104178" title="Dilemma (song)">
Dilemma (song)

"Dilemma" is the 2002 hit single by the rapper Nelly. The song featured Kelly Rowland from Destiny's Child. It was released from the 2002 album "Nellyville". "Dilemma" was Kelly Rowland's first international solo song away from Destiny's Child. She had previously appeared on Avant's "Separated", which was released in the United States only. It was also the first single from her debut album "Simply Deep". It is based melodically on and uses lyrical elements of Patti LaBelle's "Love, Need and Want You" from her 1983 album "I'm In Love Again". LaBelle also plays a part in the music video, as Kelly Rowland's mother. Kelly Rowland's part in "Dilemma" was originally offered to Christina Aguilera, but Aguilera declined the offer. Two years later, Nelly approached Aguilera once again for the recording of "Tilt Ya Head Back", a critically-acclaimed but less successful track (in terms of the Billboard Hot 100 chart) on Nelly's later album "Sweat".
"Side A"
"Side B"

</doc>
<doc id="104180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104180" title="Bring Me to Life">
Bring Me to Life

"Bring Me to Life" is the first single from Evanescence's multi-platinum first album "Fallen". At the 2004 Grammy Awards the song won the award for Best Hard Rock Performance.
The single for "Bring Me to Life" was released shortly before Evanescence's debut album "Fallen". These are two of the most widely available versions of the single; other, mainly localized, versions have also been released worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="104184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104184" title="Charybdis">
Charybdis

Charybdis is a sea monster in Ancient Greek mythology. It was said that she was a daughter of Posiedon and that when she breathed in and out the sea would rise and fall. She was also the sister of Scylla.

</doc>
<doc id="104187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104187" title="Scylla">
Scylla

Scylla was a sea monster in Greek mythology. She was said to be the daughter of Poseidon. Scylla was a water dwelling version of the Hydra and the sister of Charybdis.
Some myths explain Scylla's beginnings. One of them says she was one of the daughters of Phorcys the Greek God of the Deep. Another says that Scylla was a very pretty fairy who was liked by Poseidon, but the jealous Amphitrite turned her into a monster by poisoning the water of the place where Scylla would swim.
One says that a jealous Circe poured a potion into the sea water and then made Scylla transform into a monster with four eyes and six long necks with ugly heads. Her body had 12 tentacle looking legs and a tail. She attacked the ships of nearby people.
In another myth, Heracles (also known as Hercules) came across Scylla when traveling and then killed her. The sea-god Phorcys, then restored her to life.

</doc>
<doc id="104198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104198" title="Going commando">
Going commando

Going commando means wearing no underwear. 
People have many different reasons for going commando. Some people do it to feel comfortable. Other people do it because their culture (the group they grew up with) does not have underwear. People usually do not tell others that they are going commando.

</doc>
<doc id="104224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104224" title="Smurfette">
Smurfette

Smurfette is the only female smurf in Smurfland. Most of the other smurfs like her because of her beauty. She is not the smartest smurf. Often she gets caught in traps while looking at herself in the mirror. She does not seem to have an attraction for many of the other smurfs.
Later other female smurfs appeared, although it is unclear how they came into being.

</doc>
<doc id="104229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104229" title="Smuggler's Run">
Smuggler's Run

Smuggler's Run is an early video game developed by Angel Studios (now Rockstar San Diego) and published by Rockstar Games for the PlayStation 2 console. In the game you drive multiple vehicles including trophy trucks, SUVs, and cars. The game is rated T for teen and you can hit cops and animals but they will not die.
One sequel to the game was produced: "Smuggler's Run 2", which was released for the Sony PlayStation 2 on October 30, 2001. The game was later ported to the Nintendo GameCube on August 7, 2002 and renamed "".
The original "Smuggler's Run" is now a part of the Sony Greatest Hits series of games that have reached a particular sales milestone for the Sony PlayStation 2.
In the game you are a drug and weapons smuggler battling against rival factions. You must completed objectives such as drop offs, races, and smash-up derbies. This game is been questioned because it is very repetitive.
Although some reviews criticize the game for being repetitive and frustrating, the overall response was positive. It achieved an average score of 79/100 on review aggregator Metacritic.

</doc>
<doc id="104230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104230" title="My Gym Partner's A Monkey">
My Gym Partner's A Monkey

My Gym Partner's a Monkey is a show on Cartoon Network. It is about a human boy named Adam Lyon who used to go to a normal human school but the principal says he is an animal because he spelled "Lyon" with an "i". He then goes to Charles Darwin Middle School (named after the scientist Charles Darwin) and he makes friends with the animals at the school.

</doc>
<doc id="104246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104246" title="Systems science">
Systems science

Systems science is the interdisciplinary field of science, that studies the principles of systems in nature, in society and in science itself.
Types of systems science are systems theory, cybernetics and chaos theory, and all kinds of similar sciences.
The aim of systems science is to develop interdisciplinary foundations for all science. This foundation is used in a variety of areas, such as engineering, biology, medicine and social sciences.

</doc>
<doc id="104247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104247" title="Systems theory">
Systems theory

Systems theory is an interdisciplinary field of science and the study of the nature of systems in nature, society, and science. More specificially Systems theory is a framework to analyze or describe any group of objects that work in concert to produce some result. This can be a single organism, any organization or society, or any electronic, mechanical or informational artifact. 
Systems theory as a technical and general academic area of study. It is founded by Ludwig von Bertalanffy and others in the 1950s. 

</doc>
<doc id="104251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104251" title="Emotion (song)">
Emotion (song)

"Emotion" was remade by R&B group Destiny's Child in 2001, it was produced and arranged by Mark J. Feist. The song is a remake of Emotions by the Bee Gees and Samantha Sang.

</doc>
<doc id="104258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104258" title="McDonaldland">
McDonaldland

McDonaldland was a "fake" cartoon land made by the fast food restaurant, McDonald's. McDonaldland was used in commercials, which are short clips on TV to sell things. McDonaldland was used to sell McDonald's Happy Meals (the kid's meal). The McDonaldland people were Big Mac, Birdie, Captain Crook, CosMc, Fry kids, Grimace, Hamburglar, Iam Hungry, and some others. The main person is Ronald McDonald. McDonald's got sued (a case for money) by a company that said everything in McDonaldland was a ripoff (copy with little difference) of their TV show. McDonald's gave them one million dollars and lost many of the people who were in the commercials. 4 were left and they were in the real world instead of a cartoon land. Now in later years, Ronald has been in the commercials by himself without any of the McDonaldland people.

</doc>
<doc id="104260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104260" title="Atlético Madrid">
Atlético Madrid

Club Atlético de Madrid are a football team from Madrid, the capital city of Spain. They are managed by Diego Simeone and they play their home games at the Vicente Calderón Stadium. Some of their famous players at the moment are Fernando Torres, Jackson Martinez, Koke and Diego Godin.

</doc>
<doc id="104269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104269" title="Buttocks">
Buttocks

The buttocks are two parts of the body. They are on the back of the pelvic area and give padding when people sit. They can also arouse human sexuality.
Slang words for the buttocks include "booty'", "butt" and "ass".

</doc>
<doc id="104276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104276" title="Toyota Camry">
Toyota Camry

The Toyota Camry (; Japanese: トヨタ・カムリ) is a medium-sized car made by Toyota since 1980. The name "Camry" comes from the Japanese word "kanmuri" (冠, かんむり), which means "crown".
The Camry is Toyota's best-selling car in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="104284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104284" title="Kush">
Kush

Kush civilization had its center in the region of Nubia. This was in northern Sudan of today. We know about it through the Egyptians who moved south around 2500 BC. When the Middle Kingdom of Egypt ended an independent kingdom of Kush developed. About 1500 BC Egyptians moved southwards again, but this time met organized resistance. Historians are not sure whether this resistance came from many city states or a single unified empire. The Egyptians won, and the region became a colony of Egypt under the control of Thutmose I. The region supplied Egypt with resources.
In the eleventh century BC internal disputes in Egypt caused colonial rule to collapse and an independent kingdom based at Napata in Nubia. This kingdom was ruled by locals who overthrew the colonial regime. But Kush had many beliefs and gods in common with Egypt.
The name given this civilization comes from the Old Testament where Cush (Hebrew: כוש) was one of the sons of Ham (Son of Noah) who settled in Northeast Africa. The Bible refers to Cush on a number of occasions. Moses wife, Tzipporah, is described as a Kushite in the book of Numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="104287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104287" title="Cybernetics">
Cybernetics

Cybernetics is the study of control and communication in the animal and the machine. Norbert Wiener added: "Information is information, not matter or energy".
Ross Ashby defined it as: "the art of steermanship... co-ordination, regulation and control will be its
themes, for these are of the greatest biological and practical interest... it treats, not things but ways of
behaving. It does not ask “what is this thing?” but “what does it
do?” Ashby continued: 
Louis Couffignal said cybernetics was "the art of ensuring the efficacy of action". 
Cybernetics was from the first an inter-disciplinary field of study. It included people from at least a dozen academic disciplines. There were two events which sparked it off after World War II. The first was that scientists from different backgrounds had, during the war, worked together on various military projects. They learned a good deal about how to cooperate with their various partners. The second event was the invention of computers during the war. 
The countries which started cybernetics were Britain and the United States, but the idea spread quickly to France, Russia and other countries. Another, more famous, example of 'interdisciplinary studies' was molecular and cell biology.
Imagine a simple system such as a central heating system.
A goal-directed or control system has these four parts: 
The device which does this is called a thermostat.
Cybernetics started rapidly, and some of the greatest thinkers of the post-war era were interested in it. When this generation died, and some of the hopes for artificial intelligence and robotics were slow to produce results, cybernetics fell somewhat out of favour.

</doc>
<doc id="104288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104288" title="Complexity">
Complexity

Complexity is a property of something with many parts and a complicated arrangement. It is also the state of being complex. Its opposite is simplicity. In science, complexity is also the name for systems science. 

</doc>
<doc id="104289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104289" title="Complex system">
Complex system

A complex system is one where smaller elements make complex things happen. These smaller elements can be simple elements or they can be complex systems within themselves. Any such complex elements can be interrelated in simple or complex ways and may be hard to identify as distinct.
'Complex systems' is a field which studies the common properties of systems considered complex in nature, society and science. It is also called "complex systems theory", "complexity science", "study of complex systems" and/or "sciences of complexity".
The key problems of such systems are difficulties with their formal modeling and simulation. From such perspective, in different research contexts complex systems are defined on the base of their different attributes.

</doc>
<doc id="104290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104290" title="Control theory">
Control theory

Control theory is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and mathematics. It deals with the behavior of dynamical systems. The desired output of a system is called the "reference". 
In a control system a controller manipulates the inputs to a system. In the control systems one or more output variables of a system need to follow a certain reference over time. By manipulating the input, the controller wants to obtain the desired effect on the output of the system. If we were to take a system without a controller it would simply have an input and an output. As there is no way to track the output relative to the input then the system is practically useless. If we add a controller, by feeding the output through the controller back to the input the output can be manipulated to meet the desired criteria. For example, if a kettle did not have a controller and it were switched on it would continue to boil the water indefinitely. By adding a controller, the boiling water (reference) is fed back to the input through the controller. The controller then tells the input to turn off the power as the water is already boiling. The system without the controller is called the open-loop system. When you add a controller in a feedback loop you create a closed-loop system. Open-loop systems are rarely ever consider stable as they cannot be controlled. Closed-loop systems incorporate a controller or series of controllers which, depending on the current output, configure the input such that the output will have the desired response.

</doc>
<doc id="104296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104296" title="Acura">
Acura

Acura is the luxury brand of the car company Honda. It has been used in the United States, Canada and Hong Kong since March 1986. The brand has been used to market Honda's luxury cars and high performance models. Before Acura, most Japanese cars were economical in design.

</doc>
<doc id="104336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104336" title="Cabal Online">
Cabal Online

Cabal Online is a free Massive Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (MMORPG) created by ESTsoft Corporation.
There are six characters players can choose from in Cabal Online. They are: Warrior, Blader, Magician, Force Archer, Force Blader and Force Shielder.

</doc>
<doc id="104341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104341" title="Blackletter">
Blackletter

Blackletter or Gothic script is an old way to write. Everybody in Western Europe used to write in blackletter from about 1150 to the 17th century. It continued in use for printing in German until the 20th century.
Letter shapes in printing were copied from letter shapes in handwriting. So, the Gothic script of northern Europe and the Latin script used in Italy, were both copied into print typography.
Some people call blackletter Old English. This is not right, because Old English is a language, not a script, and many centuries older. Also "Gothic" script has nothing to do with the Goths. They lived in central Europe from the 3rd to 6th century and wrote in runes. Blackletter must not be confused either with the ancient Gothic alphabet or with the sans-serif typefaces that are also sometimes called "Gothic".
The term "Gothic" was first used to describe this script in fifteenth century Italy, in the midst of the Renaissance. Scholars thought it was a barbaric script: "Gothic" was a synonym for "barbaric". 
Not only were blackletter forms called "Gothic script", but any other seemingly barbarian script was also labeled "Gothic". In contrast, the humanists preferred the Carolingian minuscule, a highly legible script. They called it "littera antiqua", "the ancient letter", believing that it was the script used by the Romans. But actually it was invented in the reign of Charlemagne.
Carolingian minuscule was the direct and linear ancestor of blackletter. Blackletter came from Carolingian when Europe in the twelfth century needed new books in many different subjects when more and more people learned to read. New universities were founded, each writing books for business, law, grammar, history, and other topics, not only religious books, where earlier scripts were used.
These books needed to be produced quickly to keep up with demand. Carolingian, though legible, was time-consuming and labour-intensive to produce. It was large and wide and took up a lot of space on a manuscript in a time when writing materials were very costly. As early as the eleventh century, different forms of Carolingian were already being used, and by the mid-twelfth century, a clearly distinguishable form, able to be written more quickly to meet the demand for new books, was being used in north-eastern France and the Low Countries.

</doc>
<doc id="104350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104350" title="Super Smash Bros.">
Super Smash Bros.

In the game, people players can play as and against characters from Nintendo's video game series like characters from the "Mario" games, characters from the "Pokémon" games, characters from "The Legend of Zelda" games and many others. The "Super Smash Bros." games are very different compared to other fighting games.
Other characters include Ike, Marth, Zelda/Sheik, Kirby, Ganondorf, Sonic, Snake, Toon Link, Jigglypuff, and many others.
Super Smash Bros. has 12 characters. 8 starters and 4 unlockables. Pit, King Dedede, Mewtwo, Meowth, Bowser and Princess Peach were going to be in "Super Smash Bros.", but were removed. They all made it in either "Super Smash Bros. Melee" or "Super Smash Bros. Brawl". Meowth does appear in "Super Smash Bros." and "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" but only as a Pokéball Pokémon. Master Hand is a character that you will always fight last.
The point of the game is to beat the character(s) that you are fighting. To beat them you must hit them again until they are very hurt. Once they are very hurt, you have to knock them off of the stage in some way.
In 1P mode, you have to fight all of the characters in the game (including the one you are using) and Master Hand. You also play some mini-games along the way. In this mode, you can unlock characters and stages by doing certain things. It does not work like that with Master Hand, though. With Master Hand, you have to hit him again and again until he dies. You do not have to knock him off the stage. It's impossible to knock him off the stage.
In multiplayer mode, up to 4 people can play against each other non-stop. If there are fighters that have died at the same time, they will fight in a sudden death battle. In that battle, they are badly hurt and they have to fight other fighters who made it into the sudden death battle as well.
The two mini-games are "Break The Targets" and "Board The Platforms". In Break The Targets, you have to break 10 targets. It's very hard to get all 10 of the targets. The same goes for Board The Platforms except you have to just simply land on all of the platforms. Board The Platforms is a little bit harder than Break The Targets. Characters can be unlocked in these mini-games.
"Super Smash Bros." was made by HAL Laboratory in 1998. It was first called , and it did not have all those characters from different Nintendo games. Later, Sakurai had an idea of having characters from different Nintendo games to make it very fun. Lots of people liked it so he began making the game with some people. At first, it was only sold in Japan. Sakurai saw how many people bought the game and liked it so the game was sold in other countries as well.
"Super Smash Bros." became very popular, and quickly became a Player's Choice game (which means it's very good). In Japan, 1.97 million Super Smash Bros. CDs were sold, and 2.93 million Super Smash Bros. CDs have been sold in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="104351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104351" title="Falkland Island Fox">
Falkland Island Fox

The Falkland Islands Fox or Warrah used to live on the Falkland Islands. They were blamed for killing sheep, but it is not known if they did or not. The last fox died in 1876. This species probably fed on penguins, seals and vegetation.

</doc>
<doc id="104353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104353" title="SNoW">
SNoW

SNoW (born June 11, 1985 in Tokyo, Japan) is a J-Pop singer. She is now studying at Santa Monica College in California. She was raised in a two language environment. Her favorite artists include Ani DiFranco, Iggy Pop, Talking Heads, and Jack Johnson.
Her first single "Yes" was released under an indie record label in November 2004. In 2005, she changed labels to Sony Music Entertainment Japan. With Sony, she released "Hanabi made Ato Sukoshi" (花火まであとすこし - unofficial translation: "A Little Longer Until the Fireworks") in July. Her third single, "Sakasama no Chō" (逆さまの蝶, "The Inverted Butterfly"), was released on January 25, 2006. "Sakasama no Chō" was the opening theme of the 2005/2006 anime "Jigoku Shoujo" (地獄少女). It will also be used in the movie "Humoresque" to be released in February 2006. The opening theme for "Jigoku Shōjo"'s second season, "NightmaRe", was also performed by SNoW. It was released as a single on December 6, 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="104372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104372" title="Funnel cloud">
Funnel cloud

A funnel cloud is a funnel-shaped cloud of condensed water droplets. They usually appear with a rotating column of air. These extend from the bottom of a cloud that does not touch the ground or a water surface. A funnel cloud can usually be seen as a cone or needle shaped cloud that extends out from the main cloud base. Funnel clouds, very often, develop when supercell thunderstorms happen.
If a funnel cloud touches the ground, it becomes a tornado. Most tornadoes begin as funnel clouds. Many funnel clouds that appear do not actually touch the ground, and do not become tornadoes. Tornadoes can only be seen when they pick up stuff off the ground (debris), but one can see them from a distance of many miles.
A funnel cloud that makes contact with water is called a waterspout. 
A funnel cloud that touches the ground in front of a snow squall is called a winter waterspout.
Cold-air (or cold-core) funnel clouds are usually short-lived and are usually much weaker in strength than the tornadoes produced by supercells. Cold-air funnel clouds usually do not touch the ground, but here have been reports that it can happen. Then, they become weak tornadoes or waterspouts.
They are a common sight along the Pacific Coast and USA, usually seen in the spring or autumn.

</doc>
<doc id="104380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104380" title="Wallington High School">
Wallington High School

Wallington Jr/Sr High School is a six-year public high school that serves students in seventh through twelfth grade from Wallington, in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States, as part of the Wallington Public Schools.

</doc>
<doc id="104387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104387" title="Waterspout">
Waterspout

A waterspout is a funnel cloud over water. It is a nonsupercell tornado over water. Waterspouts do "not" suck up water; the water seen in the main funnel cloud is actually water droplets formed by condensation. It is weaker than most of its land counterparts.
Waterspouts that are not associated with a rotating updraft of a supercell thunderstorm, are known as "nontornadic" or "fair-weather waterspouts", and are by far the most common type.
Fair-weather waterspouts occur in coastal waters and are associated with dark, flat-bottomed, developing convective cumulus towers. 
A winter waterspout, also known as a snow devil, an icespout, an ice devil, a snonado, or a snowspout, is a very rare meteorological phenomenon in which a vortex from snow develops that looks like a waterspout. One does not know much about this rare happening and there are only six known pictures of this event so far.
There are three main things that produce a winter waterspout:
http://aoss-research.engin.umich.edu/PlanetaryEnvironmentResearchLaboratory/

</doc>
<doc id="104390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104390" title="Bob Jones University">
Bob Jones University

Bob Jones University (BJU) is a private Protestant Christian university in Greenville, South Carolina. The university was founded in 1927 by Bob Jones, Sr. (1883-1968), an evangelist. The school has around 3,000 students attending it, and there are 2,755 undergraduate students attending.

</doc>
<doc id="104392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104392" title="Mordecai Ham">
Mordecai Ham

Mordecai Ham (1877-1961) was an American evangelist. He entered his ministry in 1901. In 1936, he started his Christian radio evangelism career. He continued working as an evangelist until shortly before his death in 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="104393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104393" title="Charles Templeton">
Charles Templeton

Charles Bradley Templeton (October 7 1915 - June 7 2001) was a Canadian cartoonist, evangelist, agnostic, politician, newspaper editor, inventor, broadcaster and author. At the age of 17 during the Great Depression, "Chuck Templeton" (as he was then known) got his first job as a sports cartoonist for "The Globe and Mail". This would be the first of many of his careers. In the late 1990s, he was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. He died from problems with the disease in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="104395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104395" title="Billy Graham Evangelistic Association">
Billy Graham Evangelistic Association

The Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) is an organization founded by Rev. Billy Graham in 1950. The purpose of the "BGEA" is to tell the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people as they can. They have done this through crusades, evangelism training, youth outreach, television broadcasts, and radio programs, just to name a few.

</doc>
<doc id="104397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104397" title="Washington National Cathedral">
Washington National Cathedral

The Washington National Cathedral is a cathedral of the Episcopal Church in the United States. Congress officially made it the non-denominational National House of Prayer. Located in Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States, it is the sixth largest cathedral in the world and second largest in the United States. It was built between 1907 and 1990.
On Tuesday, August 23, 2011, the central tower on the Cathedral was damaged by an earthquake. A 5.8-magnitude earthquake struck northern Virginia, about from Washington D.C. The earthquake knocked off some of the cross-shaped finial stones. Finials are the decorative top of the pinnacles or towers. One pinnacle is leaning to the side. The inside of the cathedral did not receive any serious damage from the earthquake.
Officials have stated that it will cost millions of dollars to repair the damage. The cost of repairs will not be covered by insurance. There are many cracks in the limestone exterior. There was concern that the landfall of hurricane Irene would cause more damage. The hurricane did not cause any additional damage to the cathedral.
State funerals for three American Presidents have been held at the cathedral:
Memorial services were also held for presidents Warren G. Harding, William Taft, Calvin Coolidge, Harry S Truman, and Richard M. Nixon.

</doc>
<doc id="104398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104398" title="United States Postal Service">
United States Postal Service

The United States Postal Service (USPS) was founded in 1971, replacing the United States Post Office Department. It is in Washington D.C. In the United States, it is referred to as "the post office", "the postal service", or just "the mail". Its job is to deliver letters, packages, and other items to people.

</doc>
<doc id="104399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104399" title="Parkinson's disease">
Parkinson's disease

Parkinson's disease (or PD) is a disease that slowly damages the central nervous system. The central nervous system is made up of the brain and spine. When a person gets Parkinson's disease, the cells that make dopamine in a part of the brain die. Dopamine cells send information to other cells which makes us do the actions we do. Because of this, Parkinson's disease mainly affects the body's motor system.
Parkinson's disease is a disease that gets worse over time. People normally get Parkinson’s disease when they are over 50 years old. It is sometimes very hard for doctors to detect.
Doctors are studying the exact causes Parkinson's. Doctors have discovered some clues about the cause(s).It is caused by the destruction of specialised ganglions in the brain.The production of dopamine, a neurotransmitter reduces. Parkinson's can also be genetic. But research shows that genetic Parkinson's is not normal, and is uncommon.
Parkinson's disease can cause the brain to not respond. The patient may become paralyzed. The disease can give the patient slow reaction time and poor coordination between the hand and the brain.
It hurts the patient's movement skills and their speech. It can also affect mood, behavior and thinking. A common symptom of Parkinson’s disease is tremors. Tremors cause people's hands, legs, and arms to shake. Some symptoms include skin problems, depression, and difficulty swallowing.
The symptoms of Parkinson's disease include stiff muscles and trouble with movement. This disease gives patients slow reaction time. It makes it hard for them to do simple things like walking and talking. It also causes depression and other emotional changes.
Parkinson's disease cannot be completely cured yet. Still, people have tried to cure it with drugs. One treatment is to put back the lost dopamine. A group of drugs called dopamine receptor agonists acts similarly to dopamine when put in the brain. There are four different drugs included in that group. Many patients take one of those with another drug. That other drug is called L-dopa. Unlike the dopamine, the L-dopa can enter the brain. The dopamine cannot enter the brain. This is why many patients take L-dopa and dopamine together. In the beginning, L-dopa helps a lot. But as the disease develops, the L-dopa doesn't work as well. Two other drugs used are anticholinergics and selegiline. They both help lessen symptoms. Anticholinergics help the patient stop shaking. Selegiline is meant to protect the nerves in the central nervous system. Selegiline is not often used. This is because there is no real proof that it helps.

</doc>
<doc id="104404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104404" title="Samford University">
Samford University

Samford University is a private, Southern Baptist-related university in Homewood, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham, Alabama. Samford ranked 118 out of 262 institutions in "U.S. News and World Reports' " college rankings.
"Samford University" was founded as "Howard College" in 1841 and opened its doors to students on January 3, 1842, in Marion, Alabama. In 1887 the school moved to Birmingham.
Women were first admitted to "Howard College" in 1895. In 1920 the school joined the "Southern Association of Colleges" and in 1927 it added its pharmacy school. In 1965, "Howard" got back its master's degree program. This led to the college's becoming a well-known college by November 9, 1965. The school was renamed in honor of "Frank Park Samford", chairman of the Board of Trustees and most generous personal supporter, because there was already a "Howard University" in Washington, D.C..

</doc>
<doc id="104406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104406" title="Hainanese chicken rice">
Hainanese chicken rice

Hainanese chicken rice is a dish created by the people of Hainan. Hainan is an island that is to the south of China. It is a plate of chicken served with rice cooked in chicken oil.
Boil a large pot of water. Stuff the body of the chicken with scallion and ginger. Add chicken to boiling water, breast side-down. Lower the heat to a simmer just under boiling point and cook, covered until just cooked through, about 40 minutes. Bathe the chicken in an ice water bath till chicken is cold to create a nice texture. Heat oil in a rice cooker, add garlic, stir fry till fragrant. Add uncooked rice, stir fry for two minutes, add salt and enough chicken soup to cover 1/2 inch above the top of the rice. Boil on high heat, lower heat when steam holes form, cover and steam for 30 minutes till rice is cooked. Chop chicken and serve with steaming hot rice and chili sauce. Dark soya sauce is the ideal accompaniment.

</doc>
<doc id="104413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104413" title="Vortex (disambiguation)">
Vortex (disambiguation)

A vortex is a dynamic phenomenon of fluids.
Vortex could also mean:
In amusement:
In fiction:
In gaming:
In music:
In science and technology:
In television:
In other fields:

</doc>
<doc id="104414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104414" title="Vortex">
Vortex

A vortex (pl. "vortices") is a spinning, often turbulent, 
flow of fluid. The motion of the fluid swirling rapidly around a center is called a vortex. The speed and rate of rotation of the fluid are greatest at the center and become smaller with distance from the center.

</doc>
<doc id="104416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104416" title="Libertia">
Libertia

Libertia is a genus of monocotyledenous plants in the family "Iridaceae". There are 15 species in the genus. The plants can be found growing in the southern hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="104425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104425" title="Alan Dawazhouma">
Alan Dawazhouma

alan or 阿兰 is a Tibetan-Chinese singer and erhu player from Sichuan province who debuted in 2005 with 声声醉如. As well as Tibetan and Mandarin, she speaks some English and Japanese. Her first release in Japanese was the single, 明日への讃歌.
alan was born on 25 July 1987. Her stage name "alan" is pinyin for 阿兰, which is her surname. In Japan, she is also known as あらん. Her real name is Alan Dawa Dolma (阿兰达瓦卓玛 in Chinese, which is pronounced in pinyin as Alan Dawazhuoma).
alan grew up in the Meiren valley in the Danba County of Garze Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in China. Her father is a civil servant, while her mother was a former singer. She learned singing from a young age and started to learn how to play the erhu at the age of eight. At nine years old, alan was selected for the leading role in the TV drama Tai Yang Nu Shen and first pursued a career as an actress.
After graduating from her musically oriented high school, she enrolled in a relatively well known music school in China, the China National Chinese Opera and Dance Drama Company (解放軍芸術学院), where two members of 12 Girls Band were also being taught. Later in 2005, alan debuted with a cover album titled Sheng Sheng Zui Ru Lan under a Chinese independent label. Currently, the album has sold over 50,000 copies.
In October 2006 at the Shanghai International Art Festival, alan won second place (tied with Filipino singer Jimmy Layo Marquez) at the 9th Asia New Singer Competition. In July 2007 she graduated the China National Chinese Opera and Dance Drama Company with excellent grades.
alan was discovered when the Japan-based record label Avex Inc. held auditions in Beijing. Her first single was in November the same year. It was called "Ashita e no Sanka", which can be translated as "a song for tomorrow." She is currently still studying Japanese and only has a basic grasp of the language.

</doc>
<doc id="104427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104427" title="Tibetan">
Tibetan

Tibetan can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="104429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104429" title="V/Line">
V/Line

V/Line is a regional train operator in Victoria, Australia. They operate all regional trains outside the Connex network, as well as some bus services that take people a long way.

</doc>
<doc id="104435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104435" title="Carpool">
Carpool

Carpooling is sharing a car with other passengers to help share the cost of the gasoline. It is better than driving many cars at the same time, because less gasoline is used.

</doc>
<doc id="104438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104438" title="Middleweight">
Middleweight

In boxing, the term Middleweight is used for a specific group of people based on weight. A middleweight is a boxer weight does not exceed 160 pounds (73 kg).
Boxing organizations created many divisions so that fighters could fight people of the same size. 
The first heavyweight champion under modern rules was Irish boxer Jack (Nonpareil) Dempsey.
Famous heavyweight champions have include Bob Fitzsimmons, Nino Benvenuti, Rocky Graziano, Marvin Hagler, Bernard Hopkins, Roy Jones Jr., Jake LaMotta, Carlos Monzon, 
Sugar Ray Robinson, Tony Zale and Sugar Ray Leonard.

</doc>
<doc id="104443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104443" title="Moneymore">
Moneymore

Moneymore is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is from Cookstown and from Magherafelt.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 1,369 people living in Moneymore. They also saw that:

</doc>
<doc id="104446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104446" title="Denpasar">
Denpasar

Denpasar is the capital city of the province of Bali, Indonesia. It is also the site of Ngurah Rai Airport, the main gateway to Bali. It has a population of 491,500 (2002).

</doc>
<doc id="104447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104447" title="Toome">
Toome

Toome (or Toomebridge) is a village in Northern Ireland, in the United Kingdom. It is from Magherafelt and from Antrim. It is close to the River Bann.
On 29 April 2001 the United Kingdom government had a census and saw that there were 722 people living in Toome. They also saw that:

</doc>
<doc id="104448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104448" title="Kuta">
Kuta

Kuta is a town in southern Bali, Indonesia. Once it was a fishing village. It was one of the first towns on Bali to become popular with tourists. It is one of Indonesia's major tourist destinations. It has a long sandy beach, and many restaurants and bars. It is near Bali's Ngurah Rai Airport.
On October 12, 2002, a series of bombings killed more than 200 people in Kuta. The bombings occurred outside two nightclubs.

</doc>
<doc id="104451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104451" title="An Inconvenient Truth">
An Inconvenient Truth

An Inconvenient Truth is a 2006 documentary movie about global warming directed by Davis Guggenheim, presented by former United States Vice President Al Gore. The movie was first shown at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival. It opened in New York and Los Angeles on May 24, 2006. The movie was released on DVD on November 21, 2006. A companion book by Gore reached Number 1 on the paperback nonfiction New York Times bestseller list on July 2, 2006. The movie won Academy Awards for Best Documentary Feature and for Best Original Song.
"An Inconvenient Truth" is the story of Al Gore and his efforts to tell people about the climate change concerns. Gore says, "I've been trying to tell this story for a long time and I feel as if I've failed to get the message across." The movie closely follows a "slide show" presentation that Gore has shown throughout the world. It shows Gore's exploration of the global warming data, and predictions regarding climate change and its potential for disaster.

</doc>
<doc id="104453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104453" title="Gary Megson">
Gary Megson

Gary Megson (born: 20 June 1960) is an English football manager. He manages Bolton Wanderers F.C.. He has also managed other teams. They are:
Before managing teams, he used to play football. He played for:

</doc>
<doc id="104454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104454" title="Matt Hardy">
Matt Hardy

Matthew "Matt" Moore Hardy (born September 23, 1974) is a American professional wrestler. He currently works for OMEGA Championship Wrestling and Ring of Honor (ROH). He is best known for working for World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. He is known for teaming with his younger brother Jeff Hardy.

</doc>
<doc id="104455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104455" title="Kerobokan Prison">
Kerobokan Prison

Kerobokan Prison is a prison in the town of Kerobokan in Bali, Indonesia. In addition to local criminals, a number of foreigners are held there, notably Schapelle Corby and the Bali Nine — all convicted of drug smuggling.

</doc>
<doc id="104458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104458" title="Edmund Spenser">
Edmund Spenser

Edmund Spenser (; c. 1552 – 13 January 1599) was an important poet from England. He is most famous for his poem "The Faerie Queene", which talks about different knights who fight against evil. The poem also praises Queen Elizabeth I of England.

</doc>
<doc id="104459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104459" title="Papua">
Papua

Papua may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="104462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104462" title="Papuan languages">
Papuan languages

The term Papuan languages means languages of the western Pacific which are neither Austronesian nor Australian. That is, the term is defined negatively and does not mean a linguistic relationship. 
The majority of the Papuan languages are spoken on the island of New Guinea (which is divided between the country of Papua New Guinea and Indonesian provinces of Papua and West Irian Jaya), with a number spoken in the Bismarck Archipelago, Bougainville Island, and the Solomon Islands to the east, and in Halmahera, Timor, and the Alor archipelago to the west. One Papuan language, Meriam Mir, is spoken within the national borders of Australia, in the eastern Torres Strait. The only Papuan languages with official recognition are those of East Timor.
New Guinea is perhaps the most linguistically diverse region in the world. Besides the Austronesian languages, there are some 800 languages divided into perhaps sixty small language families, with unclear relationships to each other or to anything else, plus a large number of language isolates. 

</doc>
<doc id="104464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104464" title="Lombok">
Lombok

Lombok (population 2,950,105 in 2005) is an island in West Nusa Tenggara province, Indonesia. It is to the east of Bali on the other side of the Lombok Strait. The capital and largest city on the island is Mataram.
The Gili Islands are very popular with tourists. There are many places to dive and the beaches are lovely.
Mount Rinjani, 3,726 m (12,224 ft), is the third-highest volcano in Indonesia.

</doc>
<doc id="104465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104465" title="The Faerie Queene">
The Faerie Queene

The Faerie Queene is an English epic poem by Edmund Spenser. The poem was first published in 1590. A longer version of the poem was published in 1596. This version of the poem is in six parts or books. 
"The Fairie Queene" is about different knights who fight against evil. It is an allegorical work, and each book of the poem is about a different virtue. The poem also praises Queen Elizabeth I of England and her family, the Tudors. Queen Elizabeth liked the poem so much that she gave Spenser a pension as a reward.

</doc>
<doc id="104467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104467" title="Torres Strait Islanders">
Torres Strait Islanders

Torres Strait Islanders are the indigenous people of the Torres Strait Islands, part of Queensland, Australia. They are culturally related to the coastal peoples of Papua New Guinea. They are regarded as being distinct from other Aboriginal peoples of the rest of Australia. There are also two Torres Strait Islander communities on the nearby coast of the mainland.
There are 6,000 Torres Strait Islanders who live in the area of the Torres Strait, and 42,000 others who live outside of this area, mostly in the north of Queensland, particularly in Townsville and Cairns. 
The indigenous people of the Torres Strait have a distinct culture which has slight variants on the different islands where they live. They are a sea-faring people, and engaged in trade with peoples of Papua New Guinea. The culture is complex, with some Australian elements, some Papuan elements, and some Austronesian elements, just like the languages. The Islanders seem to have been the dominant culture for many centuries, and neighbouring Aboriginal and Papuan cultures show some Island influence in religious ceremonies and the like. Archaeological, linguistic and folk history evidence suggests that the core of Island culture is Austronesian. Unlike the indigenous peoples of mainland Australia, the islanders were traditionally agriculturalists although they supplemented their food supplies through hunting and gathering.

</doc>
<doc id="104472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104472" title="Australian megafauna">
Australian megafauna

Australian megafauna is a word used to describe a number of animal species in Australia that are quite a bit bigger than their closest living relatives. These species became extinct during the Pleistocene (16,100±100 - 50,000 years before present), but exact dates for their extinction have only been discovered recently.
Scientists have been unable to agree on the reasons the megafauna became extinct. It is possible when humans came to Australia (around 48,000-60,000 years ago), and began hunting and using fire, they may have caused the extinction of the megafauna. Climate change, which made the country much drier during an Ice Age about 18,000 years ago, may have also have led to the extinction of the megafauna. Some scientists say that climate change alone caused the extinction of the megafauna. This argument does not allow for the fact that the megaufaunal species had lived through two million years of climate changes. They had lived through a number of dry times before their sudden extinction.
Scientists have got new evidence, based on new and better ways of finding dates, using optically stimulated luminescence and Uranium-thorium dating of megafaunal bones. This suggests that humans were the main cause of the extinction of megafauna in Australia. The dates show that the last of the megafauna became extinct around the same time, about 47,000 years ago. This was the time in which humans first arrived in Australia. The dates suggest the main reason for extinction was human burning of the land. Many plants were not able to survive regular fires, and so the types of plants changed. Scientists have studied oxygen and carbon isotopes from teeth of megafauna. These show sudden, dramatic, non-climate-related changes in plants, and in the diet of surviving marsupial animals, as well as the loss of megafaunal species. Further study of the teeth of megafauna shows the climate was dry at the time of extinction, similar to the dry climate of today, and that the megafauna were able to live in dry climates.
The following is a list of some of the Australian megafauna. It shows:
Mammals are set out by size with largest at the top.

</doc>
<doc id="104475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104475" title="Omagh bombing">
Omagh bombing

The Omagh bombing was a bomb attack by the Real Irish Republican Army in Omagh, Northern Ireland, on 15 August 1998. 29 people died and over 300 people were hurt.

</doc>
<doc id="104476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104476" title="Themis (hypothetical moon)">
Themis (hypothetical moon)

On April 28, 1905, the American astronomer William H. Pickering said that he had found a tenth moon of the planet Saturn. Pickering named the moon Themis. No other astronomer has ever seen the moon that Pickering said he saw. Because of this, astronomers do not count Themis as an official moon of Saturn.
Pickering tried to figure out an orbit for Themis. He thought that Themis had an inclination of 39.1° to the ecliptic, with 0.23 eccentricity (0.23) and a semi-major axis distance of 1,457,000 km. This meant that Themis had an orbit like the moons Titan and Hyperion. Pickering believed that it took Themis 20.85 days to orbit Saturn, in a prograde motion.
Pickering thought that the diameter of Themis was about 38 miles (61 km). Pickering had also discovered the moon Phoebe, but modern astronomers know that Pickering made a mistake when he gave 42 miles (68 km) as the diameter of Phoebe. Because astronomers know how Pickering made his mistake, they can say that if Themis existed, it would have a diameter of 200 km.
In April 1861, Hermann Goldschmidt also thought he discovered a new satellite of Saturn between Titan and Hyperion. Goldschmidt called this moon Chiron. The moon Chiron also does not exist, but the name was used much later for the comet/asteroid 2060 Chiron.
In 1906, the French Academy of Sciences gave Pickering the Lalande Prize of the French Academy of Sciences for his "discovery of the ninth and tenth satellites of Saturn".
The actual tenth satellite of Saturn (in order of discovery) was Janus, which was discovered in 1966 and confirmed in 1980. Its orbit is far from the supposed orbit of Themis.
There is also an asteroid named 24 Themis.

</doc>
<doc id="104483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104483" title="Real Irish Republican Army">
Real Irish Republican Army

The Real Irish Republican Army (or Real IRA) is a group from Ireland who want Northern Ireland to become part of the Republic of Ireland, and want it to leave the United Kingdom. The group started after they left the Provisional Irish Republican Army, after an argument. On 15 August 1998 they did the Omagh bombing, which killed 29 people and hurt over 300 people. They have shot police officers and have also bombed places in England, such as London and Birmingham. It is against the law to be a member of the Real IRA.

</doc>
<doc id="104488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104488" title="The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck">
The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck

The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck is a comic book painted and written by Don Rosa. To make it, Rosa needed to see Carl Barks's stories and the more important facts of Scrooge's fictional life.
The story has 12 original parts, with more added later, that tell Scrooge's life:

</doc>
<doc id="104999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104999" title="General Certificate of Secondary Education">
General Certificate of Secondary Education

The General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) is a set of exams taken in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and other British territories. They are usually taken by students aged 15–16, after two years of study. Some pupils can take their exams early if their teachers think them able. Most students taking their GCSEs study between 5 and 12 subjects.
All pupils have to study English, mathematics and science until they are 15-16. They do not have to take the GCSE exams, but the large majority do so. In Wales, students must also study Welsh until they are 14.
Most schools require that a pupil passes 5 or more GCSE exams at grades C or above before they can move on to study A-levels. some schools you have to take I.T and R.E.
Many of the subjects in this list are not offered by every school.
In all schools students have to study Mathematics, Science, and English lingustics and literature.

</doc>
<doc id="105000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105000" title="Edo">
Edo

The site of the city, on what is now known as Tokyo Bay, had been settled for several centuries, but first became historically significant with the building of Edo Castle in 1457 by order of Ōta Dōkan. Kyoto was the site of the Japanese emperor's residence and the capital of Japan for many centuries, until the Tokugawa shogunate was established in 1603 and Edo became its seat of government. From that point Kyoto remained merely the formal capital of the country, while the "de facto" capital was now Edo, the center of real political power. Edo consequently rapidly grew from what had been a small, virtually unknown fishing village in 1457 to a big city of 1,000,000 residents by 1721, the largest city in the world at the time.
In 1868, when the shogunate came to an end, the city was renamed "Tokyo", meaning "eastern capital", and the emperor moved his residence to Tokyo, making the city the formal capital of Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="105003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105003" title="Renault Vel Satis">
Renault Vel Satis

The Renault Vel Satis was a large automobile created by the French car manufacturer Renault. It has five seats and four doors. It was produced from 2001 to 2009· It was known for its daring styling and was sold in the UK from 2002 to 2005 but was dropped there due to poor sales. 

</doc>
<doc id="105011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105011" title="Korean cuisine">
Korean cuisine

Korean cuisine came from very old traditions in Korea. It has developed through many environmental, political, and cultural changes. There are special rules for eating meals in Korea.
Korean cuisine is mostly made up of rice, noodles, vegetables, and meats. Most Korean meals have many side dishes (called "banchan") along with their steam-cooked rice. Kimchi is usually eaten at every meal. Sesame oil, "doenjang", soy sauce, salt, garlic, ginger, pepper and "gochujang" are ingredients that are often used in the food.
In different provinces of Korea, its ingredients and dishes are different, too. The Korean royal court cuisine used to serve all the best dishes from each province for the royal family. People follow special rules when they eat meals in Korea.
Traditional rice cakes like "tteok" are eaten as treats during holidays and festivals. "Tteok" means all rice cakes made from pounded rice (메떡, "metteok"), pounded glutinous rice (찰떡, "chaltteok"), or glutinous rice that has not been pounded. It is usually filled or covered with sweet mung bean paste, red bean paste, raisins, or a sweet, creamy filling made with sesame seeds, pumpkin, beans, pine nuts, and honey. "Tteok" is usually eaten for dessert or as a snack.
The oldest people are usually served first, and it is thought rude to pick up chopsticks or eat before the oldest people do so. In Korea, unlike in China and Japan, the rice bowl is not lifted up from the table. Spoons should not hit bowls while eating. You must not talk about dirty things. Some rules are now not important. For instance, talking used to be discouraged, but today people usually talk together at meals. Also, men usually ate at a different table than women, but now they eat all together. In Korea, they have both spoons and chopsticks, and together they are called "sujeou" (pronounced soo-juh - 수저). Usually, before they eat, people say, "Jalmukgessemnidah (잘 먹겠습니다)", and after they are finished, they say, "Jalmuggussemnidah (잘 먹었습니다)." Soups and stews must be set on the right side of the person who is eating.
ISBN 1405102136

</doc>
<doc id="105014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105014" title="Cryptanalysis">
Cryptanalysis

Cryptanalysis (from the Greek "kryptós", "hidden", and "analýein", "to loosen" or "to untie") is the study of methods for obtaining the meaning of encrypted information, without access to the secret information which is normally required to do so. Typically, this involves finding a secret key. In non-technical language, this is the practice of codebreaking or cracking the code, although "break" can also mean just a part of a complete solution.

</doc>
<doc id="105015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105015" title="International General Certificate of Secondary Education">
International General Certificate of Secondary Education

The International General Certificate of Secondary Education, or IGCSE, is an international exam for school students. It is typically taken by 14 to 16-year–olds, and it makes students ready for more academic work, including moving to A-Level and AS-Level study. The IGCSE is recognised as the same quality as the United Kingdom GCSE.
IGCSE courses cover subjects from a variety of areas: Languages, Humanities, Social Sciences, Mathematics, Creative, Technical and Vocational.
Most subjects can be studied at two levels of ability, either an easier level or a harder level. This is so that the IGCSE is appropriate for students with different levels of ability. It is planned to be appropriate for students whose first language may not be English and this is seen in all the tests for the IGCSE.
The following is a list of subjects for which IGCSEs are available:

</doc>
<doc id="105025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105025" title="Sánchez Ramírez Province">
Sánchez Ramírez Province

Sánchez Ramírez is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the central part of the country. Its capital city is Cotuí.
It was created in 1952. It was a municipality of the Duarte province before being elevated to the category of province.
The Sánchez Ramírez province is in the centre of the country, in the southeast limit of the Cibao Valley (part of the region called "Eastern Cibao"). It is bordered to the north by the Duarte province, to the east and south by the Monte Plata province, to the southwest by the Monseñor Nouel and La Vega provinces.
The province was named after Juan Sánchez Ramírez, who was born in Cotuí and who fought against the French army when the country was a colony of France. When the country was again a Spanish colony, Sánchez Ramírez was the governor of the colony.
The territory of the province was part of the La Vega Province from the Dominican independence (in 1844) until 1945 when most of the territory was made part of the Duarte Province.
On 3 March 1952, the province was created with the territory of Cotuí, part at that moment of the Duarte Province, and the southeastern part of La Vega Province. When it was created, it had only two municipalities: Cotuí, the provincial capital, and Cevicos.
The Sánchez Ramírez province has a total area of 1,196.13 km². It has 2.5% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 21st (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.
There are four municipalities and eight municipal districts in the province.
The municipalities and their municipal districts (M.D.) are:
In 2010 (last national census), there were 151,392 people living in the Sánchez Ramírez province, and 85,207 (56.28%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 127 persons/km².
Its population represents 1.6% of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 19th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.
The largest city of the province is Cotuí, its head municipality or capital, with a population (in 2010) of 64,133 inhabitants.
There are two regions in the country. The valley of the River Yuna on the north and the northeast of the province, and the Sierra de Yamasá in the southern part of the province.
The valley of the River Yuna is part of the large region of Eastern Cibao; it is flat and with very good soils.
The Sierra de Yamasá is the eastern mountain range of the Cordillera Central ("Central mountain chain") with low mountains. The highest mountain in the province is in this mountain range; it is "La Naviza" (sometimes written La Navisa) and it is 680 metres high.
The most important river is the Yuna, that flows from west to east; the other rivers are all tributaries of this river. Other rivers are Cevicos, Chacuey and Maguaca; they flow from the Sierra de Yamasá into the River Yuna.
The main economic activities in the province are farming and mining. Close to the town of Las Lagunas, in the Sierra de Yamasá, are the gold mines.
The main products of farming in the Sierra de Yamasá are cacao, oranges and tobacco. In the Yuna valley, rice is the most important product but pineapple and orange are also produced.
Cattle are also important in the province, mainly in the northwestern part of it.

</doc>
<doc id="105027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105027" title="Diane Abbott">
Diane Abbott

Diane Julie Abbott (born 27 September 1953) is a British politician. She was born and raised in London. Her parents were Jamaican immigrants. She is the Member of Parliament for the Hackney North and Stoke Newington constituency in London. She was the first black woman to be elected to the House of Commons when she was elected in the 1987 General Election. In 2010, Abbott became Shadow Public Health Minister after unsuccessfully standing for election as leader of the Labour Party.
She attended Newnham College, Cambridge.
Abbott is a frequent public speaker, newspaper contributor and TV performer. She has been on programmes such as "Have I Got News For You", "Celebrity Come Dine with Me" and "Cash in the Celebrity Attic".

</doc>
<doc id="105028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105028" title="Hywel Francis">
Hywel Francis

Dr Hywel Francis (born 1946) is a Welsh politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberavon constituency in the United Kingdom. He was elected in the 2001 General Election.
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105029" title="Frank Doran">
Frank Doran

Frank Doran (born April 13, 1949 in Edinburgh, Scotland) is a Scottish politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberdeen North constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1987 general election for Aberdeen South but was defeated in 1992. 
He was re-elected at the 1997 general election for the new constituency of Aberdeen Central. The boundary of the constituency was changed, and in 2005 he was elected for the Aberdeen North constituency.
He is the partner of fellow Labour MP Joan Ruddock.
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105030" title="Anne Begg">
Anne Begg

Dame Anne Begg, DBE (born December 6, 1955) is a Scottish politician and the Member of Parliament for the Aberdeen South constituency in the United Kingdom. She was elected in the 1997 general election.
Begg is the first permanent wheelchair user in the House of Commons.
She is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105033" title="John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan">
John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan

John Reid, Baron Reid of Cardowan (born 8 May 1947) is a Scottish football club chairman and a Labour Party politician. He was the Member of Parliament for the Scottish constituency of Airdrie and Shotts in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1987 general election for the Motherwell North constituency. The boundary of the constituency was changed, and in the 1997 election he was elected to the new constituency of Hamilton North and Bellshill. After more boundary changes in 2005 he was elected to the new constituency of Airdrie and Shotts.
He is the former Home Secretary. 
Reid did not stand in the 2010 election, and was made a life peer instead.
He is Chairman of Celtic Football Club in Glasgow.
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105034" title="Gerald Howarth">
Gerald Howarth

James Gerald Douglas Howarth, known as Gerald Howarth (born September 12, 1947) is a British politician and the Member of Parliament for the English constituency of Aldershot in the United Kingdom. He was first elected to the House of Commons in the 1983 general election for the Cannock and Burntwood constituency but lost in the 1992 general election. 
He was re-elected at the 1997 General Election as MP for Aldershot. 
He is currently Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence as Minister for International Security Strategy.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105046" title="Mount Agung">
Mount Agung

Mount Agung or Gunung Agung is a volcano on Bali. Mount Agung last erupted in 1963-1964. The lava just missed the Mother Temple of Besakih, which is located on high on the slopes of this sacred mountain. Over 1,000 people were killed and a number of villages were destroyed in this eruption.

</doc>
<doc id="105047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105047" title="Mount Batur">
Mount Batur

Mount Batur or Gunung Batur is a volcano on Bali. Mount Batur last erupted in 2000. It is a volcano inside an older, larger, volcano. The original eruption, about 30,000 years ago, is one of the largest known volcanic events on Earth. The volcano is now 1,717 metres (5,633 feet) high. There are many people — whole villages — living inside the caldera.

</doc>
<doc id="105049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105049" title="Mount Rinjani">
Mount Rinjani

Mount Rinjani or Gunung Rinjani is an active volcano on Lombok, Indonesia. It is high, making it the second highest volcano in Indonesia. It last erupted in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="105051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105051" title="Mataram">
Mataram

Mataram is a city on the west side of the island of Lombok, Indonesia. It is the capital and largest city of West Nusa Tenggara province, and has a population of around 342,896 people as of the year 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="105053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105053" title="Megawati Sukarnoputri">
Megawati Sukarnoputri

Diah Permata Megawati Setiawati Soekarnoputri (born January 23, 1947), was President of Indonesia from July 23, 2001 to October 20, 2004. She was the country's first female President, and the first Indonesian leader born after independence. On September 20, 2004, she lost her campaign for re-election in the 2004 Indonesian presidential election. She is the daughter of Indonesia's first president, Sukarno.

</doc>
<doc id="105054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105054" title="Kingdom of Kerma">
Kingdom of Kerma

The Kingdom of Kerma was a state in Nubia from around 2500 BC to about 1520 BC. It was based in the city of Kerma in Upper Nubia and was a major centre during the Middle Kingdom period of Egypt. It had a distinct civilization (for example very fine and original ceramics have been found).
The site of Kerma includes both an extensive town and a cemetery consisting of large tumuli. Because one can find there much examples of Nubian culture and burial practices at the site, scholars think that the Egyptian statues and other Egyptian objects found at Kerma arrived through trade.
In 2003, a Swiss archaeological team working in northern Sudan uncovered one of the most remarkable Egyptological finds in recent years. At the site known as Kerma, near the third cataract of the Nile, archaeologist Charles Bonnet and his team discovered a ditch within a temple from the ancient city of Pnoubs, which contained seven monumental black granite statues. Magnificently sculpted, and in an excellent state of preservation, they portrayed five pharaonic rulers, including Taharqa and Tanoutamon, the last two pharaohs of the 'Nubian' Dynasty, when Egypt was ruled by kings from the lands of modern-day Sudan. For over half a century, the Nubian pharaohs governed a combined kingdom of Egypt and Nubia, with an empire stretching from the Delta to the upper reaches of the Nile.

</doc>
<doc id="105072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105072" title="Aladdin (1992 movie)">
Aladdin (1992 movie)

Aladdin is a 1992 American animated musical fantasy movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. "Aladdin" is the 31st animated movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It was part of the Disney movie era known as the Disney Renaissance. The movie was directed by John Musker and Ron Clements. It is based on the Arab folktale of Aladdin and the magic lamp from "One Thousand and One Nights". The voice cast features Scott Weinger, Jonathan Freeman, Robin Williams, Linda Larkin, Frank Welker, Gilbert Gottfried, and Douglas Seale.
"Aladdin" was released on November 25, 1992. It got positive reviews and was the most successful movie of 1992, earning over $217 million in revenue in the United States, and over $504 million worldwide. The movie also won many awards, most of them for its soundtrack. "Aladdin"s success led to other material inspired by the movie, including two direct-to-video sequels, "The Return of Jafar" and "Aladdin and the King of Thieves"; an animated television series; toys, video games, spin-offs, and Disney merchandise. A Broadway adaptation debuted in 2014.
The movie opens on a fictional Arabian kingdom named Agrabah where a scandal happens: the Sultan wants his daughter Jasmine to get married but she refuses all suitors and escapes from the palace. In the marketplace, she meets a poor boy of the streets named Aladdin. Meanwhile, at the palace's high tower, the evil wizard Jafar discovers that Aladdin is the man that can help him to find a magic lamp. Jafar sends the royals guards to arrest Aladdin. In the dungeon, Jafar tells Aladdin to enter the Cave of Wonders to get a lamp.
Aladdin and his pet monkey Abu enter the cave and find mountains of gold, jewels and a magic carpet. After being told not to touch anything but the lamp, Abu tries to steal a forbidden treasure and the cave destroys itself. When Aladdin tries to clean the lamp, Genie escapes and offers Aladdin three wishes. Aladdin agrees and first wishes to become a prince, thus letting him marry Princess Jasmine. With much celebration, Aladdin travels to the palace and announces to the Sultan that he wishes to marry the princess. 
That night, Aladdin and Jasmine fly on the magic carpet and they fall in love. The next morning, Jasmine announces to the whole kingdom that she had chosen a suiter. After hearing the news, Jafar, whose plan was to marry Jasmine and become Sultan, steals the lamp from Aladdin and uses his first wish to become the Sultan. The new evil Sultan reveals Aladdin's true character, the average "streetrat", and sends him to the end of the earth. He then makes Jasmine and the former Sultan his servants and tells the genie to construct his palace.
Aladdin escapes the ends of the earth and returns to the palace to rescue Jasmine and defeat Jafar. When she sees Aladdin approaching, Jasmine distracts Jafar by pretending to fall in love with him. The plan fails when Jafar sees Aladdin's reflection in Jasmine's tiara and attacks him. When Jafar boasts that he is the "most powerful sorcerer in the world", Aladdin argues that a genie has more power. Upset by this fact, Jafar uses his last wish to become an all-powerful genie. Aladdin reminds Jafar of everything involved in being a genie, and Jafar is confined to the lamp, unable to use his power. The lamp is sent back to the Cave of Wonders, to ensure that Jafar never escapes. Agrabah is put back under the old Sultan, whose first change is a new law that a princess can marry a common man, not only another royal figure. Jasmine is free to marry Aladdin. At the end of the movie, Aladdin wishes Genie free, as he had promised in the beginning.

</doc>
<doc id="105075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105075" title="D. B. Cooper">
D. B. Cooper

D. B. Cooper (also known as Dan Cooper) is an alias (false name) for a man who hijacked an airplane in November 24, 1971. At that time, airline passengers were not searched before boarding their planes. He carried a bomb onto a flight between Portland, Oregon and Seattle, Washington. He received the ransom payment of $200,000. He jumped from the airplane, which was a Boeing 727. When he jumped, the airplane was in the Pacific Northwest, perhaps over Woodland, Washington. Hundreds of suspects have been named through the years, but no conclusive evidence has surfaced regarding who Cooper was, or where he lived. The FBI believes he did not survive the jump. Several people have tried to explain what happened after the jump. Some of these explanations contradict each other.
Because no one expected he would jump and because little is known of what happened afterwards, people are still interested in the case. The Cooper case (code-named "Norjak" by the FBI) remains an unsolved mystery.
The case is famous for its lack of evidence. A few important clues have arisen, nevertheless. In late 1978, a placard, which had instructions on how to lower the rear stairs of a 727 was found just a few flying minutes north of Cooper's projected drop zone. It is believed that this is from the rear stairway of the plane from which Cooper jumped. In February 1980, eight-year-old Brian Ingram found $5,880 in decaying $20 bills on the banks of the Columbia River.
In October 2007, the FBI announced it was able to get a partial DNA profile of Cooper from the tie he left on the hijacked plane. The FBI warehouse had lost other material with his DNA. On December 31, 2007, the FBI revived the unclosed case: They published never before seen composite sketches and fact sheets online. They did this because some people might remember them, and help identify Cooper. In a press release, the FBI said that it still does not believe Cooper survived the jump, wanted to know who Cooper was. In March 2008, the FBI announced that another possible clue was being investigated after a torn, tangled parachute was found within the bounds of Cooper's probable jump site near the town of Amboy, Washington. However, the FBI announced on April 1, 2008 that the parachute in question was not D. B. Cooper's. The man responsible for packing the four parachutes said that the recently discovered parachute was not Cooper's, as his was nylon, and the newly discovered parachute was silk, dating from the 1940s.
Normally, the criminal laws cannot work against people years after their crimes (statute of limitations). In 1976, to prevent D. B. Cooper from escaping punishment, a Portland grand jury charged D. B. Cooper with crimes.
Since 1999, Ariel, Washington holds an annual D. B. Cooper celebration on the anniversary of his jump.

</doc>
<doc id="105077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105077" title="Alistair Darling">
Alistair Darling

Alistair Maclean Darling (born November 28, 1953) is a British Labour Party politician who was the Chancellor of the Exchequer from June 2007 to May 2010 and also held several posts in Tony Blair's government. He is the Member of Parliament for Edinburgh South West.
Alistair Darling was born in London. He was first elected to the House of Commons at the 1987 General Election. His government posts under Tony Blair include: Chief Secretary to the Treasury (1997-1998), Secretary of State for Work and Pensions (1998-2002), Transport Secretary (2002-2006), Scottish Secretary (2003-2006) and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (2006-2007).

</doc>
<doc id="105081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105081" title="Moa">
Moa

The Moa were large flightless birds. They lived only in New Zealand, and are now all extinct.
There were eleven species (in six genera) of Moa. The largest and best known were the genus Dinornis, which grew up to 3.6 meters (12 feet) tall, and weighed as much as 230 kilograms (510 pounds). 
The group of birds to which the Moa belongs had been in existence since the Cretaceous period. The Māori people arrived in New Zealand from Oceania about a thousand years ago. Then, moas lived in large numbers, especially on South Island. Archaeological sites with evidence of Moa hunting are all over New Zealand. The moas became extinct about five hundred years ago. The moas had survived being hunted by Haast's Eagle. However, they could not survive being hunted for food by the Maoris.
Recent extinctions (also mostly birds) have been caused by habitat change and introduced species.

</doc>
<doc id="105087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105087" title="Malacology">
Malacology

Malacology is the study of molluscs. These animals include snails, slugs, octopus, squid, and bivalves generally, such as clams and mussels. Most of them have shells. The shells are often collected for their beauty and interest. Many people eat molluscs, especially those people who live near the ocean.
Those scientists who study molluscs are called "malacologists". They identify and classify them, and find out everything they can about their lives.
Journals within the field of malacology include:
Museums that have either exceptional malacological research collections (behind the scenes) and/or exceptional public exhibits of mollusks:

</doc>
<doc id="105089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105089" title="Placard">
Placard

A placard is a sign made to inform people about something. Often, they are used to warn about danger. Very often, hazard symbols (special pictograms) are used. 
Sometimes, placard is also used to mean a leaflet that shows how a certain machine should be operated.

</doc>
<doc id="105101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105101" title="Budíkov">
Budíkov

Budíkov is a village in the Pelhřimov District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 283 people live there and it has 6,64 km². Budíkov was first documented in 1226.

</doc>
<doc id="105103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105103" title="Typha">
Typha

Typha is a genus of plants. They are found in wetland habitats. They are commonly found in the Northern Hemisphere, but may be found in wetlands elsewhere. These plants are known in British English as bulrush, bullrush or reedmace, and in American English as cattail or punks.
Cattails were once used to make paper. Cattail paper is very heavy and coarse, and is rarely used today. Cattail has also been used as a water filter to remove the poisonous chemical arsenic from drinking water.

</doc>
<doc id="105106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105106" title="Sickle-cell disease">
Sickle-cell disease

Sickle cell anaemia is a genetic disease. It affects red blood cells. It changes the cells from flexible disks into rigid crescents. When many red cells take this shape veins get blocked. This can cause damage to many organs. The organ damage increases with time and leads to an early death.
This is a lifelong disease which starts in childhood. The red blood cells take up an abnormal, rigid, sickle shape. The cells also become sticky. This causes difficult blood flow when cells flow through long narrow capillaries. Low oxygen increases the problem. As they pass through low oxygen areas most cells take up this shape. The cells then stick to the inner wall of blood vessels, especially the branching point of veins. This leads to a blockade of blood flow in many organs. Severe complications may result.
The classic example of a sickle cell crisis is "acute chest syndrome"(ACS). This is unique to sicklers, and can cause death in a day or two unless treated. Historically, acute chest syndrome was considered different from infection (pneumonia). But in treatment there is not much point making that distinction.
ACS is a clinical diagnosis helped by at least one chest X-ray. In all other organs low oxygen causes widening of blood vessels. But the lung is a unique organ where blood vessels become narrower when oxygen is low. This unique problem makes the lung a major target of the disease. Fever is the most common symptom of ACS in children because infection is more common. In the adults circulating clots and broken pieces of bone marrow can also add to the blockage of vessels in the lung and lead to ACS. ACS can be partially treated by blood transfusion to dilute the sickled cells with some normal red blood cells. An even better treatment is a procedure called red blood cell exchange. Automated apheresis machines can do RBC exchange.
A milder and more frequent problem is 'painful crisis'. Painful crisis involves flank, back and thigh pains that can be relieved by treatment. A painful crisis may evolve into worse problems such as acute chest and other organ failures e.g. strokes, heart attacks. Both strokes and heart attacks are general problems which may happen in older people. But in sickle patients these can happen even in the young.
The spleen is involved differently in different ethnic groups with this disease. Spleen is the organ which filters old RBCs and destroys them. Old RBCs are stiff and cannot pass through some very narrow slits in the spleen. But in sickle patients all cells very quickly become stiff and thus keep clogging up the spleen. Starting from a very young age segments of the spleen die because of this problem. In the pure form of this disease the whole spleen is dead and shrunken before the patient become adult. Normal spleen keeps a large store of B cells which make antibodies and protect us from bacteria. Loss of a working spleen leads to loss of protection from such bacteria.
In many Asian populations beta thalassaemia occurs together with sickle cell disease. Thalassemia itself is another form of anaemia. But the nature of the two disease are opposite. Thalassemia increases red cell flexibility. However, thalassemia itself can be a serious disease.
The sickling occurs because of a single point mutation in the gene for the beta chain of haemoglobin. Sickle-cell disease occurs more commonly in people (or their descendants) from parts of tropical and sub-tropical regions where malaria is or was common. One quarter of all people of Sub-Saharan African origin carry the gene.
We all inherit two copies (alleles) of the hemoglobin beta gene. One comes each parent. Some people are heterozygous: they have the sickle mutation in one copy and the other copy is normal. Such people are called sickle trait or a carrier. People with sickle trait are more resistant to malaria than normal people.
When both alleles of a gene are similar (homozygous) a person has copies mutated or both normal. If both alleles have the mutation, it causes the full disease. In malaria prone areas, normal people die frequently of malaria often before they had children. Those with both copies with sickle mutation die of sickle disease before they can reproduce. But the heterozygotes have a better survival (and have more children) than both homozygous groups. Thus, the inheritance of the disease is an example of 'heterozygous advantage'.
In the full (homozygous) disease life expectancy is shortened, in fact it is near-fatal in pre-modern societies. Sir Cyril Clarke said (referring to East Africa in the 1960s) "Almost all the children (with sickle-cell disease) will die in infancy".. Studies in the modern U.S.A. report an average life expectancy of 42 years for males and 48 years for females.

</doc>
<doc id="105108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105108" title="David Miliband">
David Miliband

David Wright Miliband (born 15 July 1965) is a British politician who was the Foreign Secretary from June 2007 to May 2010 and a member of Tony Blair's cabinet. He was the Member of Parliament for South Shields in Tyne and Wear. He is the CEO of the International Rescue Committee.
David Miliband was born in London to Polish-Jewish parents and is an atheist. He was raised in Primrose Hill, London. He is the elder son of Marxist Ralph Miliband and Marion Kozak. He is the elder brother of Labour leader Ed Miliband. He was educated at the University of Oxford and was the head of the Number 10 Policy Unit from 1997-2001. He was first elected in the 2001 general election. After being part of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown's governments, Miliband was a candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership contest. Despite Miliband being favourite to win the contest, his brother Ed narrowly won the contest in September 2010. Miliband chose not to be a member of Ed's shadow cabinet.

</doc>
<doc id="105109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105109" title="Jack Straw">
Jack Straw

John Khoo Cheng Straw (born 3 August 1946 in Buckhurst Hill, Essex, England) is a British politician. He held several cabinet posts in the Labour governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Blackburn.
Jack Straw became a Labour Party MP at the 1979 General Election for the constituency of Blackburn. He was promoted to the shadow cabinet in 1987 and became the Home Secretary when Labour returned to power in 1997. His other cabinet posts included: Foreign Secretary (2001-2006), Leader of the House of Commons (2006-2007) and Justice Secretary (2007-2010). He did not choose to become a member of Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet.
Straw's first marriage, in 1968, to teacher Anthea Weston ended in divorce in 1977. They had a daughter, Rachel, born on 24 February 1976. She died after five days because of a heart defect.
On 10 November 1978 he married Alice Perkins, a senior civil servant. They have two adult children, William and Charlotte.
He supports his local football club Blackburn Rovers. He was made an Honorary Vice President of Blackburn Rovers in 1998 by Jack Walker. 
Straw has tinnitus.

</doc>
<doc id="105110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105110" title="Jacqui Smith">
Jacqui Smith

Jacqueline Jill "Jacqui" Smith (born 3 November 1962) is an English politician. She was the first female Home Secretary of the United Kingdom. She was born in Malvern, Worcestershire. She was the Member of Parliament for the Redditch constituency. She was first elected in the 1997 general election. She lost her seat at the 2010 General Election.
She is a member of the Labour Party.
Smith married Richard Timney (born 1963 in Ealing, London) in October 1987 in Malvern, Worcestershire. They have two sons. 
In December 2008, it was discovered that Timney wrote a series of letters praising the work of Smith. These letters were sent to newspapers. He did not say that he was her husband and managing her constituency office.
In June 2008 the "Independent newspaper" reported that she was a season-ticket holder at Aston Villa Football Club.

</doc>
<doc id="105111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105111" title="Des Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton">
Des Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton

Desmond ""Des"" Henry Browne, Baron Browne of Ladyton (born March 22, 1952) is a Scottish politician and was Secretary of State for Defence and Secretary of State for Scotland. He was first elected in the 1997 general election, and was the Member of Parliament for the Kilmarnock and Loudoun constituency in the United Kingdom until 2010, when he was created a Life Peer 
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105112" title="Alan Johnson">
Alan Johnson

Alan Arthur Johnson (born 17 May 1950) is an English politician and former Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was born and raised in London. He has been the Member of Parliament for the Hull West and Hessle constituency in the East Riding of Yorkshire since the 1997 general election.
He is a member of the Labour Party.
Johnson has been married twice. His first marriage was to Judith Elizabeth Cox. They had one son and two daughters. After his divorce he married Laura Jane Patient in 1991. They had a son, born in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="105113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105113" title="Hilary Benn">
Hilary Benn

Hilary James Wedgwood Benn (born 26 November 1953) is an English politician. He was born in Hammersmith, west London. Since October 2010, he has been the Shadow Leader of the House of Commons. He is the Member of Parliament for the Leeds Central constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in 1999 in a by-election. He is a member of the Labour Party. He is the middle son of Tony Benn (1925-2014) and Caroline Benn (1926-2000).

</doc>
<doc id="105114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105114" title="Douglas Alexander">
Douglas Alexander

Douglas Garven Alexander (born October 26, 1967) is a Scottish politician. Before the 2010 General election he was Secretary of State for International Development, afterwards he became the Shadow Secretary of State for International Development and is now Shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. He is the Member of Parliament for the Paisley and Renfrewshire South constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in 1997 in a by-election. 
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105115" title="John Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness">
John Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness

John Matthew Patrick Hutton, Baron Hutton of Furness (born 6 May 1955) is an English politician. He is a member of the Labour Party.
He was the Member of Parliament for the Barrow and Furness constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election, and retired in 2010. In March 2011 he published a report on public sector pension reform.
The report states that radical reform to the pension plans of six million public sector workers still leave them with "hugely generous" settlements. The retirement crisis has been caused by the scrapping of gold-plated final salary pension schemes for private sector workers coinciding with low interest rates and a lacklustre stock market. House prices have also fallen. "Future pensioners are likely to be confronted by a crisis of expectations and a squeeze in income", the report warns.

</doc>
<doc id="105116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105116" title="Harriet Harman">
Harriet Harman

Harriet Ruth Harman (born 30 July 1950) is a British politician and is the Deputy Leader of the Labour Party. She was born and raised in West London. She has held cabinet posts in the governments of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. Following Brown's resignation as Labour leader on 10 May 2010, Harman was the acting leader of the Labour Party until Ed Miliband was elected on September 25, 2010. Currently, she is Deputy Leader and ex-officio member of the Shadow Cabinet. She is also Shadow Deputy Prime Minister and Shadow Secretary of State for International Development.
She is the Member of Parliament for the Camberwell and Peckham constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. She was first elected for Peckham in a by-election in 1982. 
On February 24 2014 Harman's was on "Newsnight" to say that she did not support the Paedophile Information Exchange.
Harman would not say sorry.
Harman is a feminist. She has been married to Jack Dromey since 1982. The couple have two sons and a daughter.

</doc>
<doc id="105117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105117" title="James Purnell">
James Purnell

James Mark Dakin Purnell (born March 2, 1970) was an English politician was Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in 2010. He was the Member of Parliament for the Stalybridge and Hyde constituency in the United Kingdom from the elected in the 2001 general election until he retired at the 2010 general election. He is currently the Head of the Open Left project at the left leaning think tank Demos
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105118" title="Paul Murphy">
Paul Murphy

Paul Peter Murphy, KCMCO, KSG (born November 25, 1948) is a Welsh politician and held several cabinet posts, including Secretary of State for Wales. He is the Member of Parliament for the Torfaen constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election. 
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105119" title="Ruth Kelly">
Ruth Kelly

Ruth Maria Kelly (born May 9, 1968) is now an economist working for the HSBC Bank. She was a British politician and had been a Cabinet Minister. 
She was the Member of Parliament for the Bolton West constituency in the United Kingdom from the 1997 general election to the 2010 general election
She is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105120" title="Hazel Blears">
Hazel Blears

Hazel Anne Blears (born May 14, 1956) is an English politician. and is the Member of Parliament for the Salford and Eccles constituency. She was first elected in the 1997 general election as member for the Salford constituency. 
She held several government posts under Prime Ministers Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, including Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, up until the 2010 general election
She is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105121" title="Geoff Hoon">
Geoff Hoon

Geoffrey William Hoon (born 6 December 1953) is an English politician and held several government posts. He was born in Derby. He was the Member of Parliament for the Ashfield constituency in the United Kingdom from his first elected in the 1992 general election until he retired in 2010.
Hoon is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105122" title="Ed Balls">
Ed Balls

Edward Michael 'Ed' Balls (born 25 February 1967) is a British politician. He was the shadow Home Secretary in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He was born in Norwich, Norfolk and moved to Nottinghamshire during his childhood. He is the Labour Party and was theCo-operative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Morley and Outwood in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.
He was first elected in the 2005 general election and held the post of Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families from June 2007 to May 2010. He was a candidate to become leader of the Labour Party in September 2010 and lost to Ed Miliband. Ed Balls lost his seat in the 2015 general election

</doc>
<doc id="105123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105123" title="Ed Miliband">
Ed Miliband

Edward Samuel Miliband (born 24 December 1969) is a British politician. He was the leader of the Labour Party and of the Official Opposition. He is also the Labour Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Doncaster North, and is a former cabinet minister.
He was born in University College Hospital, Bloomsbury, London and raised in Primrose Hill. His parents were Polish-Jewish immigrants. He is the younger son of the Marxist thinker Ralph Miliband. At the London School of Economics, he obtained a Master's degree in Economics, and then became an advisor to Labour politicians such as Harriet Harman and Gordon Brown. At the 2005 general election, he was elected to be the MP for Doncaster North. His first job in government was as the "Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change", which he took up on October 3, 2008 and remained as until Labour lost the 2010 General Election.
In September 2010, he defeated his brother David Miliband by a small number of votes to become leader of the Labour Party.
He resigned as leader in May 2015 after Labour lost to the Conservative Party in the 2015 General Election. Jeremy Corbyn replaced him.

</doc>
<doc id="105124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105124" title="Andy Burnham">
Andy Burnham

Andrew Murray Burnham (born 7 January 1970) is an English politician. He was a candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership election. As of 2012 Burnham was Shadow Secretary of State for Health within Ed Miliband's Shadow Cabinet. He is the Member of Parliament for the Leigh constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election. 
Burnham was born in Old Roan, Aintree, Lancashire and raised in Culcheth, Warrington.
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105125" title="Shaun Woodward">
Shaun Woodward

Shaun Anthony Woodward (born 26 October 1958 in Bristol, England) is a British politician and is the Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet. He is the Labour Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of St Helens South in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 
He was first elected in the 1997 general election as the Conservative Party MP for the constituency of Witney but changed to Labour in 1999. At the 2001 General Election he was made the MP for the St Helens South constituency and was the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland from 2007 to 2010. When Ed Miliband became Labour leader, Shaun Woodward was made the Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. 

</doc>
<doc id="105126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105126" title="Yvette Cooper">
Yvette Cooper

Yvette Cooper (born 20 March 1969) is an British politician and the current Shadow Home Secretary. She is the Member of Parliament for the Normanton, Pontefract and Castleford constituency in the United Kingdom. She was first elected in the 1997 general election as member for Pontefract and Castleford.
Her husband, Ed Balls, represents the neighbouring constituency of Morley and Outwood.
She is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105127" title="John Denham">
John Denham

John Yorke Denham (born July 15, 1953) is an English politician. He is the Member of Parliament for the Southampton Itchen constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election. 
He has held many ministerial posts, including
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105138" title="Limnology">
Limnology

Limnology is the study of waters that are not part of the oceans or seas. This includes rivers, lakes, swamps, streams, wetlands, water under the ground, and even bodies of water made by people. Scientists who study this are called "limnologists". Their work includes biology, chemistry, physics, geology, and hydrology.
The "International Society of Limnology" promotes limnology to scientists throughout the world. There are many centres for such research throughout the world. 
Limnology helps to explain why some lakes have lots of plants and animals and some have very few. The Freshwater Biological Association which is based next to Windermere in England did a lot of the early work. Limnologists there worked out why deep lakes have cold water at the bottom in summer-time but not in Winter. The reason was that winds in Autumn mix the waters up.

</doc>
<doc id="105153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105153" title="Toyota RAV4">
Toyota RAV4

The Toyota RAV4 is a small sized SUV made by Toyota. Toyota has made the RAV4 since 1994, but has sold it in America since 1996. The RAV4 is sold in a 4-door with an optional V6 engine, the RAV4 is more of a car-like SUV than a truck sized one. The RAV4 EV was an electric version sold in California from 1996 to 2003. The RAV4 shares competition with the similar Honda CR-V, Subaru Forester and Ford Escape. RAV4 stands for Recreational Active Vehicle with 4-wheel-drive.

</doc>
<doc id="105155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105155" title="Toyota MR2">
Toyota MR2

The Toyota MR2 and MR2 Spyder were sports cars made by Toyota. They were sold from 1984 until 2007. The MR2 is a mid-engine sports car, similar to cars by Ferrari and Porsche. MR2 is an acronym for midship, rear-wheel-drive, two-seater.

</doc>
<doc id="105160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105160" title="Wheaton College">
Wheaton College

Wheaton College is a private Evangelical Protestant college in Wheaton, Illinois, a suburb west of Chicago in the United States. It was founded in 1860.

</doc>
<doc id="105163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105163" title="Sacred site">
Sacred site

A sacred site is a place that is thought of as sacred (or holy) to a particular religion. Every one of the world's major religions has sacred sites. Some religions, such as Islam, think of the sacred sites as being very important to their faith. In other religions such as Protestant Christianity, sacred sites are not very important.
The idea that some places are "sacred" or especially holy has existed for many thousands of years. The idea that a place is sacred often comes from something that has happened at the place, or a religious story about that place. Mount Sinai is a sacred site for Jews and Christians because it was on Mount Sinai that Moses received the Ten Commandments of God.
The "sacred site" might be a natural site, or it might be a building of some sort. One of the most famous natural sites that is also a sacred site is Uluru (also called Ayre's Rock) in Central Australia. It is believed to have been sacred to the aboriginal people for about 40,000 years. Other famous natural sites are the sacred trees of India, Japan and South East Asia.
Very often, buildings have been made on natural sites that were already thought of as sacred. For example, a spring of water coming from the ground might be said to have healing powers. A special well-house might be built around the spring to protect it, and as a place where people might leave offerings (gifts to a god).
Other sites are thought of as sacred because a holy person or saint lived there, or died there, or their body is kept there. The Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem is one of the most sacred sites to Christianity because it is believed that Jesus' body was placed in a tomb there. The city of Mecca is sacred to all Muslim people as the birthplace of the prophet Muhammad.
Many people make a special visit to a sacred site. This is called a pilgrimage. A person who travels on pilgrimage is called a "pilgrim". Pilgrimage is very important in Islam, because every Muslim person is expected to make a pilgrimage to the city of Mecca once in their lifetime, if they can possibly do so.
Many Christians also make pilgrimages to sacred sites. Pilgrimage became very important in the Middle Ages when thousands of people travelled to many sacred sites, particularly to Jerusalem, to the famous Christian basilicas of Rome, to the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in Spain and Canterbury Cathedral in England. In modern times, sacred sites of Christian pilgrimage include Assisi in Italy, Lourdes in France, Fatima in Portugal and the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City.
In Buddhism, the sacred sites are four places in India where Buddha lived and preached. These are Kapilavastu, Bodh Gaya, Benares and Kusinagara.

</doc>
<doc id="105170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105170" title="Basil II">
Basil II

Basil II (958 – December 15 1025), was a Byzantine emperor from the Macedonian dynasty from January 10 976 to December 15, 1025. Under his reign, the Byzantine Empire reached its greatest height in nearly five centuries.

</doc>
<doc id="105174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105174" title="Battle of Manzikert">
Battle of Manzikert

The Battle of Manzikert, or Malazgirt (Turkish: "Malazgirt Savaşı") was fought between the Byzantine Empire and Seljuq Empire. The Seljuq forces attacked on August 26, 1071 near Manzikert, (modern Malazgirt, Turkey). Its result was one of the most decisive defeats of the Byzantine Empire and the capture of the Byzantine Emperor Romanos IV Diogenes. The Battle of Manzikert played an important role in breaking the Byzantine resistance and preparing the way for the Turkish settlement in Anatolia. 

</doc>
<doc id="105184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105184" title="Mark Lawrenson">
Mark Lawrenson

Mark Thomas Lawrenson (born Preston, Lancashire, June 2, 1957) is a former professional football player, a defender in the Liverpool and Irishfootball teams of the 1980s; he has since become a radio, television and internet pundit for the BBC. 
Despite being born in England, UK, he played for the Republic of Ireland national football team due to his Irish ancestry.

</doc>
<doc id="105185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105185" title="Red Square">
Red Square

Red Square (, ) is the most famous city square in Moscow, Russia. The square separates the Kremlin, the former royal citadel and currently the official residence of the President of Russia, from a historic merchant quarter known as Kitay-gorod (China-Town). As major streets of Moscow radiate from here in all directions, being promoted to major highways outside the city, the Red Square is often considered the central square of Moscow and of all Russia.
Red Square and the Kremlin are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Joseph Stalin's body was preserved near Red Square, in Lenin's mausoleum. It was later moved and reburied deep behind the Kremlin Wall without any ceremony.
Red Square is a popular tourist attraction in Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="105192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105192" title="George I of Great Britain">
George I of Great Britain

George I (George Louis) was born in Osnabrück, Germany, on 28 May 1660, and was the ruler of Hanover in North Germany. He died while going back to Hanover from England on 11 June 1727.
George married his cousin Sophia Dorothea (the daughter of his father's brother George William) in 1682.
On 10 November 1683, their first child and only son, George Augustus, was born. When George Louis was King of Great Britain, George Augustus was the Prince of Wales. When the father died, the son became king, as George II.
On 16 March 1687, their second child and only daughter was born. She was called Sophia Dorothea, after her mother. She later married and became the Queen in Prussia. Because she was married, she did not live in Britain with her father, but in Prussia with her husband.
George and his wife drifted apart, because he preferred his mistress Melusine, with whom he had three daughters, Anna, Melusine and Margaret. Meanwhile, his wife was having an affair with Count Philip Christopher of Königsmarck, who was found dead in a river, rumoured to have been murdered on George's orders.
The marriage was ended in 1694, on the grounds that Sophia Dorothea had effectively abandoned George. Sophia Dorothea's father, George William, and George Louis, had Sophia Dorothea imprisoned in Ahlden Castle in Celle, where she was unable to see her father, former husband, or children.
When Queen Anne of Great Britain died in 1714, an act of parliament said the next ruler must be a Protestant. George was not the closest relative, but was the closest Protestant one. Closer relatives were all Roman Catholic, so George became King of Great Britain and Ireland on 1 August 1714.
He was the first ruler of Great Britain from his family, the House of Hanover. 
Many of the British people did not like the new king. It was thought that he did not speak English, but this may have been untrue.

</doc>
<doc id="105194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105194" title="Official Opposition (United Kingdom)">
Official Opposition (United Kingdom)

Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition, or the Official Opposition in the United Kingdom is led by The Leader of the Opposition. This is usually the political party with the second largest number of seats in the House of Commons, as the largest party will usually form the government. Since May, 2010, the Official Opposition has been the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105195" title="Leader of the Opposition (United Kingdom)">
Leader of the Opposition (United Kingdom)

The Leader of the Opposition (sometimes known as the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons) in the United Kingdom is the politician who leads Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition is normally the leader of the second largest party in the House of Commons.
The current Leader of the Opposition is Jeremy Corbyn of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105198" title="David Davis">
David Davis

David Michael Davis (born 23 December 1948) is an English politician. In July 2016, Davis became the first Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union under the Theresa May cabinet.
Davis was born in York and raised in south London.
He is the current Shadow Home Secretary. He is the Member of Parliament for the Haltemprice and Howden constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election for the Boothferry constituency.
On 12 June 2008, Davis said he was going to resign as an MP, and was immediately replaced as Shadow Home Secretary. This was to force a by-election in his seat, for which he intended to seek re-election by mounting a specific campaign designed to provoke wider public debate about the erosion of civil liberties in the United Kingdom. Following his formal resignation as an MP on 18 June 2008, he officially became the Conservative candidate in the resulting by-election and won it on 10 July 2008.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105199" title="William Hague">
William Hague

William Jefferson Hague (pronounced "HAIG"; born March 26, 1961) is a British politician and is the current Foreign Secretary and Secretary of State. He was the leader of the Conservative Party from June 1997 to September 2001. He is the Member of Parliament for the Richmond (York) constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 
William Hague was born in Rotherham in West Riding of Yorkshire, England. He first gained national attention when he spoke at the 1977 Conservative Party conference aged 16. He was educated at the University of Oxford. Hague first became a Member of Parliament at a by-election in 1989. In 1995, William Hague was made the Secretary of State for Wales until 1997 when the Conservatives lost the general election. He was elected as Conservative Party leader in 1997. Following the Conservative's defeat in the 2001 General Election, he resigned from the position and was succeeded by Iain Duncan Smith.
He went on to write biographies of William Pitt the Younger and William Wilberforce. In 2005, when David Cameron became the Conservative Party leader, Hague was made the Shadow Foreign Secretary and Secretary of State.

</doc>
<doc id="105200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105200" title="George Osborne">
George Osborne

George Gideon Oliver Osborne (born May 23, 1971) is a British politician. He was the Chancellor of the Exchequer from 2010 through 2016 in the David Cameron government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the Tatton constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election.
George Osborne was born in Paddington, London, England and was educated at the University of Oxford. He became an MP in 2001 and entered the shadow cabinet in 2004. In 2005, Osborne was made the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer by Michael Howard and held this post when David Cameron became leader of the Conservative Party. Osborne became Chancellor of the Exchequer on 12 May 2010 and has then has outlined £6.2 billion worth of cuts to help reduce the budget deficit. He left office on 13 July 2016 when Theresa May became Prime Minister. He was replaced by Philip Hammond.
Osborne is part of the old Anglo-Irish aristocracy, known in Ireland as the "Ascendancy". He is the heir to the Osborne baronetcy (of Ballentaylor, in County Tipperary, and Ballylemon, in County Waterford).

</doc>
<doc id="105223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105223" title="Trojanus of Saintes">
Trojanus of Saintes

Trojanus of Saintes (died c.530) was a 6 century bishop of Saintes, in France. 
He is a Catholic saint, also known as Trojan and Troyen. His feast day is held on 30 November.

</doc>
<doc id="105225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105225" title="530">
530

Year 530 was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="105227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105227" title="Celestus microblepharis">
Celestus microblepharis

Celestus microblepharis are a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica.

</doc>
<doc id="105228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105228" title="Anguidae">
Anguidae

Anguidae is a family of lizards.
Family Anguidae

</doc>
<doc id="105229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105229" title="Celestus">
Celestus

Celestus is a genus of lizards.
Genus "Celestus"

</doc>
<doc id="105230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105230" title="Celestus warreni">
Celestus warreni

The giant Hispaniolan galliwasp (Celestus warreni) is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can be found in the Dominican Republic and Haiti. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests underneath leaf litter and underneath forest debris. Giant galliwasps are opportunistic predators that feed on insects, earthworms, small mammals, and other reptiles. 
It is threatened by habitat loss.

</doc>
<doc id="105234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105234" title="Celestus duquesneyi">
Celestus duquesneyi

Celestus duquesneyi is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica.

</doc>
<doc id="105235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105235" title="Celestus fowleri">
Celestus fowleri

Celestus fowleri is a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It can only be found in Jamaica.

</doc>
<doc id="105236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105236" title="Jamaica giant galliwasp">
Jamaica giant galliwasp

The Jamaica giant galliwasp (Celestus occiduus) was a kind of lizard of the Anguidae family. It was only found in Jamaica, and it is now extinct.
likely exterminated by introduced predators like mongooses. Wikipedia b

</doc>
<doc id="105239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105239" title="Tammy Wynette">
Tammy Wynette

Virginia Wynette Pugh (usually known as Tammy Wynette, May 5, 1942 – April 6, 1998), was an American country music singer. She was born in Mississippi.
The best-known of her songs is "Stand by Your Man". She had 17 number-one hits during her career.
She died of pulmonary thrombosis.
Wynette was married 5 times. Her third husband was George Jones, also a singer of country music.

</doc>
<doc id="105246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105246" title="Tricity">
Tricity

Triciti (Polish Trójmiasto) is the unofficial name of an urban area with 3 cities: Gdańsk, Gdynia and Sopot in Pomeranian Voivodeship. Tricity is a big centre for tourism.

</doc>
<doc id="105247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105247" title="Kaliningrad Oblast">
Kaliningrad Oblast

Kaliningrad Oblast (, ) is an exclave of Russia bordered by Poland, Lithuania and Baltic Sea. The capital of Kaliningrad Oblast is Kaliningrad, formerly Königsberg.
It is quite unusual, first because it is not attached to Russia. It is an exclave, with no land connection to the rest of Russia, on the Baltic coast. It has a population of 941,873 (2010 Census). It has a continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
Its territory was part of historical East Prussia (German: Nord-Ostpreussen), which was an exclave of Germany from World War I until 1945. That year, it was occupied by the Soviet Union. The region was later annexed to the Soviet Union under border changes of the Potsdam Agreement, when it was attached to the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR). Most of its German population were killed or fled west to West Germany during the last months of the war. The rest were expelled between 1944 and 1950. Russian settlers were moved in and the population is now mainly Russian.

</doc>
<doc id="105253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105253" title="Coat of Arms of Poland">
Coat of Arms of Poland

A official Coat of Arms of Poland is the White Eagle with golden crown in its head on red shield.
The White Eagle came from a legend about Lech.

</doc>
<doc id="105254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105254" title="Christianization">
Christianization

Christianization is when country, nation or region change faith to Christianity. Very often it is started by taking Baptism by local ruler.

</doc>
<doc id="105264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105264" title="Adam Sandler">
Adam Sandler

Adam Sandler (born September 9, 1966) is an American actor, comedian, musician, screenwriter, and movie producer. He is best known for his comedic roles, such as in the movies "Billy Madison", "Happy Gilmore", "The Wedding Singer", "The Waterboy", "Big Daddy", "Little Nicky", "Spanglish" and "I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry". Sandler was born in New York City and grew up in New Hampshire.

</doc>
<doc id="105265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105265" title="Anguis">
Anguis

Even though they are lizards, slow worms have lost their legs and are usually mistaken for snakes.
Subfamily Anguinae

</doc>
<doc id="105266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105266" title="Anguis fragilis">
Anguis fragilis

Anguis fragilis (the slow-worm, or blind worm) is a lizard which is limbless (meaning it has no legs or arms). It has a wide distribution in Europe and Asia, and is one of the few reptiles native to Britain.
When a slow-worm is in danger it can shed (break off) its tail and escape. It can then grow back a new, shorter tail, which it cannot shed.
The female often has a stripe along the back and the male may have blue spots.
Instead of laying eggs, the females give birth to live young (viviparous birth). In the days leading up to birth the female can often be seen basking in the sun on a warm road. 
Slow-worms are often called snakes, but they are not. Slow-worms can blink, but snakes cannot. They shed their skin in patches like other lizards, rather than the whole skin as most snakes do.
Adult slow-worms grow to be about 50 centimetres long. They are known for their very long life. One was said to have been fifty four years old. 
There are not as many slow-worms as there used to be. Many places where they used to live have been built on. In gardens they can be killed by cats.

</doc>
<doc id="105269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105269" title="Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio">
Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio

Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio is a broadcast presentation of Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio. The games include the Opening Day game, the Sunday Night Baseball games, Saturday afternoon games, holiday games (like Memorial Day games) and September pennant race games. The All-Star Game and all of the playoffs can also be heard on ESPN Radio including the Division Series, League Championship Series and the World Series.
In addition to affiliate stations on AM/FM radio, ESPN Radio's game broadcasts are also on XM Satellite Radio. They are not included in the subscription "Gameday Audio" package on MLB.com, however.
On September 27, 1997, ESPN outbid CBS Radio to become the exclusive national radio broadcaster of Major League Baseball. This was very surprising, considering that CBS Radio had been the national broadcaster since 1976. 
The agreement lasted seven years through 2004 and gave ESPN Radio the rights to broadcast numerous games including opening Day, "Sunday Night Baseball", Saturday "Game of the Week", holiday games, September pennant race games, the All-Star Game and all of the playoffs, including the World Series.
Then on October 21, 2004, ESPN Radio extended its then seven year relationship with Major League Baseball with a five year, $55 million dollar contract extension through the 2010 season.
The agreement also added a weekly program devoted to baseball, which became "The Baseball Show" from 3 p.m. ET to 7 p.m. ET on Sundays during the regular season. The program is hosted by John Seibel and Steve Phillips.
ESPN Radio's lead broadcasting crew consists of Gary Thorne and Dave Campbell. Thorne succeeded Dan Shulman, who had called for the network since 2002; Shulman, in turn, had been preceded by Charley Steiner from 1998-2002. Campbell replaced Kevin Kennedy as analyst in 2000. The pregame host for all of the games since its debut has been Joe D'Ambrosio.
The broadcast team for the World Series and one League Championship Series is Jon Miller and Hall of Famer Joe Morgan. During all of the games there is also the "ESPN Radio SportsCenter" every twenty minutes with live cut ins during the games.

</doc>
<doc id="105281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105281" title="Calixa Lavallée">
Calixa Lavallée

Calixa Lavallée, (born Quebec, 28 December 1842; died Boston, 21 January, 1891), was a Canadian-American composer. For many years he was a travelling musician. Later he worked hard to improve music education in Canada. He is famous for composing the music for the Canadian national anthem "O Canada".
Lavallée was born into a French-Canadian family. Originally his name was Calixte Paquet. His father made musical instruments and played in a band. He learned to play the piano, violin and cornet. He went to the United States and played in a band during the American Civil War. For many years he travelled, playing and teaching. He became artistic director of the New York Grand Opera House which put on minstrel shows rather than proper operas. When the theatre closed in 1872 he went back to Montreal. His friends got enough money together to help him go to France to study at the Paris Conservatoire. There he studied under famous teachers including Boieldieu.
When he went back to Canada he wanted to help to improve the state of music education there. He set up a small music school in Quebec but it was always difficult for him to get money from the authorities. He composed the music to “O Canada” which soon became the Canadian national anthem.
Shortly after that he went to the United States again. He became music director of the Roman Catholic cathedral in Boston and became very active with the Music Teachers’ National Association. He died of tuberculosis in 1891. In 1933 his remains were taken back to Montreal where they were buried in the cemetery.
Besides the tune to "O Canada", Lavallée wrote many works, including some comic operas: "Loulou", "Tiq" and "The King of Diamonds". Most of the music that was published consists of his lighter pieces, including a short piece for piano called "Papillon" ("Butterfly") which became extremely popular in North America as well as Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="105295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105295" title="Sepsis">
Sepsis

Sepsis is a very dangerous disease. It occurs when an infection goes wrong. Normally the immune system of the body is able to fight the germs and overcome the infection, but in the sepsis something goes wrong. The pathogen was at some point able to get into the blood or tissues. The term sepsis is frequently used to refer to septicemia (blood poisoning). Septicemia is only one type of sepsis. Bacteremia specifically refers to the presence of bacteria in the bloodstream (viremia and fungemia are the terms used for viruses and fungi). A sepis is a medical emergency, as it can put the life in danger, if it is not acted on.
Common symptoms of sepsis are inflammations all over the body. This is often combined with high fever. Today, people believe, these symptoms are caused by the immune system trying to fight the disease. Because of the strong reactions, organs can be damaged in the process. In a sense, the immune system over-reacts the germs and goes awry, causing damage to the organs.
In the United States, sepsis is the leading cause of death for ICU patients which do not have heart problems. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows it is the tenth most common cause of death overall. Older people, those with a weak immune system and those with a strong illness suffer from sepis more often. It is also more dangerous to them. It occurs in 1%-2% of all hospitalizations and accounts for as much as 25% of intensive care unit (ICU) bed utilization. It is a major cause of death in intensive care units worldwide, with mortality rates that range from 20% for sepsis to 40% for "severe sepsis" to over 60% for "septic shock".
Severe sepsis and septic shock are more severe forms of sepsis. With severe sepsis, one or more organs fail to work. Septic shock is when sepsis is combined with very low blood pressure.
Today, the bacterial forms of sepsis can be treated with antibiotics. In addition, the fluids (blood) containing the germs have to be replaced. It might also necessary to functionally replace the organs that failed. It is important to begin to treat the sepsis as quickly as possible, as each hour left untreated will raise the chances of death by 5% to 10% each hour.
About half the people affected and untreated die from the condition. Rapid access to treatment will increase the chances of survival, in most cases.

</doc>
<doc id="105297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105297" title="Patrick McLoughlin">
Patrick McLoughlin

Patrick Allen McLoughlin (born November 30, 1957) is an English politician and the current Chief Whip, which is the same job he had in opposition. He was first elected in 1986 in a by-election as the Member of Parliament for the West Derbyshire constituency in the United Kingdom, and since 2010 for its successor, the Derbyshire Dales constituency. 
He is a member of the Conservative Party. In July 2016, Prime Minister Theresa May made McLoughlin Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and Chair of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105298" title="Oliver Letwin">
Oliver Letwin

Oliver LetwinMP FRSA (born 19 May 1956) is an English politician. He is currently the Minister of State at the Cabinet Office as well as the Chairman of Policy Review, and Chairman of the Conservative Research Department.. He is the Member of Parliament for the West Dorset constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1997 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.
He married Isabel Grace Davidson on 14 September 1984 in Cambridge. They have a twin son and daughter born in July 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="105299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105299" title="Caroline Spelman">
Caroline Spelman

Caroline Alice Spelman (born 4 May 1958) is an English politician. She was born in Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire. She is the Meriden constituency in England. She was first elected in the 1997 general election.
In May 2010 she became Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in David Cameron's coalition cabinet, and was sworn as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.
She is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105300" title="Philip Hammond">
Philip Hammond

Philip Hammond (born 4 December 1955) is an English politician. He was born in Epping, Essex. He became Chancellor of the Exchequer in 2016. He became Secretary of State for Transport on 12 May 2010, and a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010. He is the Member of Parliament for the Runnymede and Weybridge constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1997 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105301" title="Andrew Mitchell">
Andrew Mitchell

Andrew John Bower Mitchell (born 23 March 1956) is an English politician. He was born in Hampstead, London. He was appointed as Secretary of State for International Development on 12 May 2010, and as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Sutton Coldfield constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1987 general election for the Gedling constituency but lost in 1997. He returned to parliament in the 2001 general election. 
His father, David Mitchell (1928-2014), was also an MP.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.
In 2007 he started Project Umubano.
On 19 September 2012 he allegedly said to a police officer, 'You don't run this fucking government... You're fucking plebs.' The media called what happened 'Plebgate'. 

</doc>
<doc id="105303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105303" title="David Mundell">
David Mundell

David Gordon Mundell (born May 27, 1962) is a British politician and is the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for the Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale constituency in the United Kingdom. Currently, he is the only Conservative Party MP who represents a Scottish constituency. In July 2016, Mundell became the Secretary of State for Scotland.
David Mundell was born in Dumfries, Scotland and was educated at the University of Edinburgh. In 1999 and 2003, he was elected as a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for the South of Scotland region however resigned as an MSP following the 2005 General Election when he was elected as an MP. From December 2005 to the 2010 General Election, he was the Shadow Secretary of State for Scotland. After the 2010 election, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition was formed and because the Liberal Democrats have more Scottish MP's than the Conservatives, a Liberal Democrat was given the post of Scottish secretary.
On 13 January 2016, Mundell came out as gay on his personal website.
He was previously married to Lynda Carmichael but the couple have divorced. He has three children, one of whom, Oliver Mundell, is a Conservative candidate for the Scottish Parliament in May 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="105304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105304" title="Cheryl Gillan">
Cheryl Gillan

Cheryl Elise Kendall Gillan (born 21 April 1952 in Cardiff, Wales) is a British politician. She was the Secretary of State for Wales from 2010 to 2012. She is a Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the Chesham and Amersham constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.
She was first elected in the 1992 general election and became the Shadow Secretary of State for Wales in 2005. When the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition was formed on 11 May 2010, she became the Secretary of State for Wales.

</doc>
<doc id="105305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105305" title="Owen Paterson">
Owen Paterson

Owen William Paterson (born June 24, 1956 in Shropshire, England) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. He is a Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of North Shropshire in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.
He was first elected in the 1997 general election and first entered the shadow cabinet in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="105306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105306" title="Alan Duncan">
Alan Duncan

Alan James Carter Duncan (born 31 March 1957) is an English politician and a former Minister of State in the Department for International Development. He was born in Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire.
He is the Member of Parliament for the Rutland and Melton constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.
He is openly gay and in a civil partnership with James Dunseath.

</doc>
<doc id="105307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105307" title="Theresa May">
Theresa May

Theresa Mary May (née Brazier, born 1 October 1956) is a British politician and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom since 2016. She was born in Eastbourne, Sussex, and grew up in Oxfordshire. She is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Maidenhead in the House of Commons. She was the Home Secretary in the David Cameron Conservative government. 
May was born on 1 October 1956 in Eastbourne, Sussex. May is the only child of Zaidee Mary (née Barnes; 1928–1982) and Hubert Brasier (1917–1981). Her father was a Church of England clergyman. May was educated at Oxfordshire primary and grammar schools in the State sector. 
From 1977 and 1983 May worked at the Bank of England, and from 1985 to 1997 as a financial consultant and senior advisor in International Affairs at the Association for Payment Clearing Services. May's parents died during this period, her father in a car accident in 1981 and her mother of multiple sclerosis a year later. May served as a councillor for the London Borough of Merton from 1986 to 1994, where she was Chairman of Education (1988–90) and Deputy Group Leader and Housing Spokesman (1992–94).
She first became a Conservative Party MP at the 1997 general election and was promoted to the shadow cabinet in 1999. She held several positions in the shadow cabinet, including Chairman of the Conservative Party (July 2002-November 2003) and Shadow Leader of the House of Commons (December 2005-January 2009). 
She became the Home Secretary and Minister for Women and Equality on 12 May 2010.
In December 2010, May declared that deployment of water cannon by police forces in mainland Britain was an operational decision which had been "resisted until now by senior police officers." She rejected their use following the widespread rioting in Summer 2011. In 2010, May promised to bring the level of net migration down to less than 100,000. In February 2015, "The Independent" reported, "The Office for National Statistics (ONS) announced a net flow of 298,000 migrants to the UK in the 12 months to September 2014—up from 210,000 in the previous year." 
At the Conservative Party Conference on 4 October 2011, while arguing that the Human Rights Act needed to be amended, May gave the example of a foreign national who the Courts ruled was allowed to remain in the UK, "because—and I am not making this up—he had a pet cat".
In May 2012, she said she supported same-sex marriage. She recorded a video for the Out4Marriage campaign.
In July 2013, May decided to ban the stimulant khat, against the advice of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD). The council said that there was "insufficient evidence" it caused health problems.
May was a candidate in the upcoming election for leadership of the Conservative Party. May described herself as a candidate who will unify the party after a 'divisive' referendum (Brexit). She won the first ballot on 5 July 2016 by a large margin with 50% of the votes. On 7 July, May won the votes of 199 MPs, facing the vote of Conservative Party members in a contest with Andrea Leadsom. 
Leadsom's withdrawal from the contest on 11 July led to May being set to be appointed party leader and hence, Prime Minister, an office she assumed on 13 July 2016.
After being appointed by the Queen on 13 July 2016, May became the United Kingdom's second female Prime Minister, after Margaret Thatcher. She is the first female Prime minster of the 21st century.
May told the media on 12 July 2016 that she was "honoured and humbled" to be the party leader and to become prime minister. Responding to some calls for a general election (reported by the news media) to confirm her mandate, "sources close to Mrs May" said there would be no such election according to the BBC.
She married Philip John May on 6 September 1980. She has no children because she was unable to have them. 
In 2013, she was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes.
May is a member of the Church of England and regularly worships at church on Sunday.

</doc>
<doc id="105308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105308" title="Francis Maude">
Francis Maude

Francis Anthony Aylmer Maude (born 4 July 1953) is an English politician and the current Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General. He is the Member of Parliament for the Horsham constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1983 general election for the North Warwickshire constituency but lost in 1992. He returned to parliament in the 1997 general election.
Maude was born in Abingdon-on-Thames, Berkshire. He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105309" title="Jeremy Hunt">
Jeremy Hunt

Jeremy Hunt, PC, MP (born November 1, 1966) is an English politician. He was born in Kennington, London. He is the Member of Parliament for South West Surrey and the Secretary of State for Health. He was first elected in the 2005 general election.
He gained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Magdalen College, Oxford. He is a member of the Conservative Party.
He was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="105310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105310" title="Eric Pickles">
Eric Pickles

Eric Jack Pickles (born 20 April 1952 in Keighley, West Riding of Yorkshire, England) is a British politician and the current Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Brentwood and Ongar in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. 
He was first elected in the 1992 general election and entered the Shadow Cabinet in 2007. He was the Chairman of the Conservative Party from January 2009 to May 2010, when he was replaced by Sayeeda Warsi, Baroness Warsi and was appointed the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government instead.

</doc>
<doc id="105311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105311" title="Peter Ainsworth">
Peter Ainsworth

Peter Michael Ainsworth (born November 16, 1956) was an English politician and was Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. He was the Member of Parliament for the East Surrey constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election, but decided not to stand for reelection in 2010.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105312" title="Chris Grayling">
Chris Grayling

Christopher Stephen Grayling (born April 1, 1962) is an English politician and current Secretary of State for Transportation. He is the Member of Parliament for the Epsom and Ewell constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2001 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.
He was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 9 June 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="105313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105313" title="Nick Herbert">
Nick Herbert

Nicholas Le Quesne Herbert (born April 7, 1963) is an English politician and the Member of Parliament for the Arundel and South Downs constituency. He was the current Shadow Justice Secretary, and is currently Minister of State for Police/Justice, with his time split between the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice. He is . He was first elected in the 2005 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105314" title="Theresa Villiers">
Theresa Villiers

Theresa Anne Villiers (born March 5, 1968) is an English politician. She was first elected in the 2005 general election. She is the Member of Parliament (MP) for Chipping Barnet and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . Villiers was the Minister of State for Transport from 2010 to 2012.
She was appointed as a Privy Counsellor on 9 June 2010. 
She is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105315" title="Andrew Lansley">
Andrew Lansley

Andrew David Lansley (born 11 December 1956 in Hornchurch, Essex, England) is a British politician who is the Secretary of State for Health in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He is the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the South Cambridgeshire constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. He was first elected as an MP in the 1997 general election.
He was made a Privy Counsellor on 13 May 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="105316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105316" title="David Willetts">
David Willetts

David Linsay Willetts (born 9 March 1956) is an English politician. He was born in Birmingham. He is the current Minister of State for Universities and Science in the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. He is the Member of Parliament for the Havant constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 1992 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party.

</doc>
<doc id="105317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105317" title="Michael Gove">
Michael Gove

Michael Andrew Gove (born 26 August 1967) is an British politician. He is the Secretary of State for Justice. He has been Shadow Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families, and was the Secretary of State for Education from 12 May 2010 to 15 July 2014. He is the Member of Parliament for the Surrey Heath constituency in the United Kingdom. He was first elected in the 2005 general election.
He is a member of the Conservative Party. He was one of the candidates in the 2016 Conservative leadership election. 
Gove was born in Edinburgh, adopted as a baby and raised in Aberdeen. He studied English at Lady Margaret Hall at Oxford University. Gove is married to Sarah Vine, a writer for "The Times". They have a daughter and son. He belongs to the Church of England.
Gove is a Queens Park Rangers F.C supporter.

</doc>
<doc id="105318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105318" title="Liam Fox">
Liam Fox

Liam Fox (born September 22, 1961 in East Kilbride, Scotland) is a British politician who was the Defence Secretary in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Woodspring constituency in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and since 2010 has represented North Somerset.
Liam Fox studied at the University of Glasgow and became a Conservative Party MP at the 1992 General Election. He served in the shadow cabinet from 1999 to 2010 and became Shadow Defence Secretary in December 2005. In 2005, he tried to become leader of the Conservative Party and lost to David Cameron. Fox stood for leader again in 2016, and lost to Theresa May, who became Prime Minister on 13 July 2016. 
May appointed Fox as the first Secretary of State for International Trade in July 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="105320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105320" title="Missionary">
Missionary

A missionary is a person who tries to convert people to his own faith. In Christianity, this is called evangelism. Missionaries are usually sent from churches or worship places of the religion. They can also do other things, such as deliver medicines and cure diseases. Most major religions of the world have "missionaries". Some famous missionaries are:

</doc>
<doc id="105337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105337" title="Partnership">
Partnership

A partnership is when two or more people work together to complete a task. Those people are partners. Partner may share a business together for the profit of each other. If one business partner ends up making money they both share the profit.
A partner may also be somebody who lives with another person, e.g. a husband or wife (marriage partners), or a very good friend who shares his or her life with the other person. The word partner in this sense is used a lot in modern times because it does not discriminate between married or unmarried couples.
The word partner can be used in other senses, e.g. dancing partners (two people who dance together) or partners at a card games such as bridge in which partners work together against the other partners (their opponents).

</doc>
<doc id="105339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105339" title="Ruth Graham">
Ruth Graham

Ruth Bell Graham (June 10, 1920 – June 14, 2007) was the wife of evangelist Billy Graham. She was born at Qingjiang, Kiangsu, China as Ruth McCue Bell, the second of five children. Her parents, Dr. and Mrs. L. Nelson Bell, were medical missionaries at the Presbyterian Hospital 300 miles north of Shanghai.

</doc>
<doc id="105350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105350" title="Patrick Star">
Patrick Star

Patrick Star is a fictional character in the Nickelodeon animated television series "SpongeBob SquarePants". Bill Fagerbakke plays him. Patrick first appeared in the series' pilot episode, "Help Wanted", which played on May 1, 1999. Patrick was made by animator Stephen Hillenburg. Patrick's biggest character trait is his lack of common sense, which sometimes makes him a bad influence on his best friend, SpongeBob SquarePants.
Patrick is as a pink starfish who is silly, fat, lazy, immature, forgetful, rude, and generally ignorant. He has been shown to make many silly mistakes such as forgetting how to eat, and not realizing that the character Sandy Cheeks is a girl. But, he sometimes is portrayed as a savant, with articulate observance to certain subjects in specific detail. However, he always quickly turns back to his usual, silly self after. He does not have a job. But, he worked at the Krusty Krab for short periods of time in many positions (often unpaid), and mostly spends his days either goofing off with SpongeBob or resting beneath the rock. He lives under the rock. At home, Patrick is usually either sleeping (stuck to the bottom of his rock), watching TV (whether the TV is actually on or not), or doing the "art of doing nothing." He is very good at that. All of the furniture under his rock are made of sand, and Patrick can simply build new furniture as needed. But even so, his living space contains only the most basic things. His best friend SpongeBob is often impressed by Patrick's ability to come up with silly yet genius plans or solutions. But, Patrick often irritates those around him and is confused by the simplest questions or subjects. The characters of Mr. Krabs and Squidward Tentacles have no patience for Patrick's stupidity. They don't pay him much regard. Sandy Cheeks often gets annoyed by Patrick, but still sees him as a friend.
"SpongeBob SquarePants" maker Stephen Hillenburg began making cartoons and caricatures of tide pool-dwelling sea life, including starfish, while teaching marine biology at the Orange County Marine Institute in Dana Point, California, from 1984 to 1987. In 1987, Hillenburg left the institute. This is so he could become an animator. Patrick Star is voiced by Bill Fagerbakke.
In 2005, a video that involves SpongeBob promoting diversity and tolerance was criticized by a Christian evangelical group in the United States because they saw the character was being used for homosexual people, but the video had "no reference to sex, sexual lifestyle or sexual identity."
This made questions about whether or not SpongeBob, his best friend Patrick, and the rest of the series' characters are homosexual characters. In 2002, Hillenburg said that his characters were not gay. He clarified the issue and said "We never made them gay on purpose. I think they are almost asexual. We are just trying to be funny and this has got nothing to do with the show."
Jeffrey P. Dennis, writer of the journal article "The Same Thing We Do Every Night: Signifying Same-Sex Desire in Television Cartoons," argued that SpongeBob and Sandy are not in love, while adding that he believed that SpongeBob and Patrick "are paired with arguably big intensity." Dennis noted the two are "not thought of as romantic partners," since they live in separate places, and have different groups of friends, but claimed that in the series, "the possibility of same-sex desire is never excluded." Martin Goodman of "Animation World Magazine" described Dennis's comments regarding SpongeBob and Patrick as "interesting."

</doc>
<doc id="105372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105372" title="Nick Clegg">
Nick Clegg

Nicholas William Peter "Nick" Clegg (born 7 January 1967) is a British politician. He was the Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government and was also the leader of the Liberal Democrats. He is the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Sheffield Hallam. 
Nick Clegg was a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) from 1999 to 2004 and was first elected as a Liberal Democrat MP in the 2005 general election. He became the leader of the Liberal Democrats in December 2007. Following the 2010 General Election, he was made Deputy Prime Minister after a coalition deal with the Conservative Party. He resigned as party leader in 2015 after the May 2015 election because of the party's poor election results and moved to Spain as of January 2016.
Clegg has been married to Miriam González Durántez since 2000; they have three sons. Durantez is a Spanish Roman Catholic. Their children are being raised as Catholics, even though Clegg is an atheist.
Clegg's family has many foreign members- his grandmother on his father's side was a Russian Baroness before the Russian Revolution, with German and Ukrainian ancestors, while Clegg's Dutch mother was imprisoned by the Japanese in World War II. Clegg is multilingual (he speaks Dutch, English, French, German and Spanish fluently). He says that his family's experience of persecution is one of the reasons he is liberal.
Clegg was born in Buckinghamshire. He went to Caldicott primary school and Westminster secondary school. He spent a gap year working as a skiing instructor in Austria before starting university at Robinson College, Cambridge, where he studied Anthropology.
After his degree, he was given a scholarship to study for a Master's degree at the University of Minnesota. He then worked as an intern for Christopher Hitchens in New York for a while before going to Brussels to work for the European Union as a trainee aid organiser. He then studied for a second Master's at the College of Europe in Bruges where he met Durantez.
From 1994 to 1998, he worked at the European Commission, where he developed aid programmes to the former Soviet Union and helped the World Trade Organisation to negotiate the entries of Russia and China.
In 1999, Clegg was elected as the Member of the European Parliament for the East Midlands. As an MEP, he helped to start a campaign for greater accountability in the European Parliament.
In 2004, he left the Parliament in order to campaign for the Sheffield Hallam constituency seat in the 2005 General Election. During the campaign, he worked as a part-time lecturer at the University of Sheffield.
Clegg won the 2005 election, and became the Member of Parliament for Sheffield Hallam in May 2005. As an MP, he campaigned to change the prison and immigration systems, and to make sure that the government did not take away too much freedom from people in their work against terrorism. He said that the Iraq War was wrong.
In 2007, he was voted as leader of the Liberal Democrats, and in 2008 he joined the Privy Council, a group of advisors to the British Monarch. .
As leader of the Liberal Democrats, Clegg's main policies have been to get rid of the Trident missile system, to give NHS patients the choice of private medical care, to make the length of time between elections 5 years (at the moment it only has a 5-year limit, meaning that the government can begin a new election at any time), giving more power to local government, tax cuts for the poor and for the government to do more about the environment.
In May 2009, the Liberal Democrats' approval ratings were higher than the Labour Party's for the first time since 1987.
In May 2010, the UK had a General Election which did not produce a clear winner. David Cameron, leader of the Conservative Party, who had got the most votes, asked to form a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats. Clegg accepted, and became Deputy Prime Minister.
In July 2010, he revealed plans to have 50 fewer MPs in Parliament, to change the number of MPs needed to begin a new election without the agreement of the Prime Minister to 65% and to hold a referendum on whether or not to change the system of voting in General Elections.
After the government revealed plans to drastically cut government spending, Liberal Democrat approval ratings dropped to 14%, almost half the 34% rating that was recorded in April 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="105377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105377" title="Magnús Eiríksson">
Magnús Eiríksson

Magnús Eiríksson (born 22 June, 1806 in Skinnalón, Iceland; died 3 July, 1881 in Copenhagen, Denmark) was an Icelandic theologian. He lived in Copenhagen at the same time as Søren Kierkegaard (1813-1855) and Hans Lassen Martensen (1808-1884) and viewed their opinions on religion and Christianity with a critical eye.
Here are some works by Eiríksson, with the Danish title on the right:

</doc>
<doc id="105382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105382" title="John Wark">
John Wark

John Wark (born Glasgow, 4 August 1957) is a former Scottish footballer. He used to play football for Ipswich Town F.C. and Liverpool F.C..

</doc>
<doc id="105391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105391" title="Nusa Penida">
Nusa Penida

Nusa Penida is an island to the southeast of Bali, Indonesia. The island is a subdistrict of the Klungkung regency. There are two small islands nearby: Nusa Lembongan and Nusa Ceningan. The Badung Strait separates the island from Bali while the Lombok Strait separates it from Lombok.
Diving is very popular around the island and there are many Macaques living on the island.

</doc>
<doc id="105397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105397" title="Dungeons &amp; Dragons">
Dungeons &amp; Dragons

Dungeons & Dragons is a paper-and-pencil roleplaying game. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson created Dungeons and Dragons in the year 1974.
Many people today think that role-playing games (RPG's) are only played on a computer, but that is not true. From the early 1970s, role-playing games have been played by people sitting together at the same table, using their imaginations and the written rules of the game to play (as well as dice to generate random numbers when needed). 
Players of this type of role-playing game play as imaginary characters that go on heroic adventures. The characters can be many types: a strong warrior, a wise wizard, a skilled thief. One person in the group acts as a moderator, or referee (called the "dungeon master," or DM, in Dungeons and Dragons), of the game. This person is responsible for making sure there is a fair use of the rules and is often also in charge of designing fun, interesting adventures for the other players.
There are now many types of fantasy role-playing games, both traditional paper-and-pencil games and computer games. Many genres of games are played (fantasy, science fiction, horror, war, and so on), and there are hundreds of companies that produce their own written rules systems and software products.
Several versions of Dungeons and Dragons have been released. The first version was just called "Dungeons & Dragons." Several rule books were available, depending on the levels of the characters. The first books dealt with characters from levels 1-3. As characters got stronger, players had to move to the more advanced rule books to manage their characters.
After Dungeons and Dragons came Advanced Dungeons and Dragons. This was a new ruleset that was unrelated to the original rules. A second edition of AD&D was released, which is still popular today.
After Wizards of the Coast bought the rights to Dungeons and Dragons, a more streamlined version of the game was released, called Dungeons and Dragons 3rd Edition. This version had simpler rules. Most die-rolls were done with a 20 sided die, instead of different types of multi-sided dice. 
The 3rd edition rules were eventually revised, and version 3.5 was released. 
The 4th edition rules were published in June 2008. 
The 5th edition rules were published, after a two year testing period, in late 2014. 
Before playing the game, each player make his or her character and writes the details on a "character sheet." First, players make their character's six statistics called "ability scores": Strength (How strong you are), Dexterity (How skilled and fast you are), Constitution (How tough you are), Intelligence (How smart you are), Wisdom (How well you use your smarts), and Charisma (How well you control and influence people). Each version has different methods to make the stats.
Each player then selects a race (species) such as human or elf, as well as a class (job or occupation) such as Fighter or Wizard, and their alignment (Their moral and ethical views). Players also invest in a number of skills, feats and powers to make their characters stronger and better. Adding details not covered by the rules like history and personality are used often to develop the character.
While playing Dungeons and Dragons, the players detail the actions of their characters to the referree, such as hitting an enemy or hiding from the guards, or talking to another character. The referree describes the results of the characters' actions or answers the players. Actions that are really easy will always work, like when opening an unlocked door or picking up an apple. The results of hard actions are decided by rolling dice.
As the game is played, the characters grow and increase in power. Characters may gain experience, skills, wealth. The main way that characters gain experience is through defeating powerful enemies or doing an important or hard work. Getting enough experience allows a character to get a level, getting more job abilities, skills, and powers.
Hit points (HP) measure a character's health. When a character is harmed, s/he loses hit points. When a character loses all of his or her hitpoints, s/he dies. To avoid being harmed, most characters can wear armor of different types. You might also use "Saving Throws" against indirect harm, such as poison, or magical effects.
The story is a combined effort of everyone who plays. It can either be a story someone has made up. So can the setting (Where the adventure takes place). There are also books that give all that information as well.

</doc>
<doc id="105402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105402" title="Sakoku">
Sakoku

Sakoku (Japanese: 鎖国, literally "country in chains" or "lock up of country") was the foreign policy of Japan under which no foreigner or Japanese could enter or leave the country on penalty of death. The policy was enacted by the Tokugawa Shogunate under Tokugawa Iemitsu through a number of edicts and policies from 1633-1639 and remained in effect until 1853 with the arrival of Commodore Matthew Perry and the opening of Japan. It was still illegal to leave Japan until the Meiji Restoration (1868).
But Japan was not completely isolated under the "sakoku" policy. Rather, it was a system in which strict regulations were applied to commerce and foreign relations by the shogunate.
On July 8, 1853, Commodore Matthew Perry of the U.S. Navy with four warships demanded that Japan open to trade with the West. 
The following year 1854, Perry returned with seven ships and forced the Shogun to sign the "Treaty of Peace and Amity", establishing formal diplomatic relations between Japan and the United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="105404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105404" title="Borneo">
Borneo

Borneo is the third largest island in the world and can be found at the centre of maritime southeast Asia. Administratively, this island is divided between Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei. Indonesia's region of Borneo is called "Kalimantan" (although Indonesians use the term for the whole island), while Malaysia's region of Borneo is called East Malaysia or Malaysian Borneo. The independent nation of Brunei occupies the remainder of the island.
Borneo is surrounded by the South China Sea to the north and northwest, the Sulu Sea to the northeast, the Celebes Sea and the Makassar Strait to the east, and the Java Sea and Karimata Strait to the south. It has an area of 743,330 km² (287,000 square miles). Borneo is home to a few of the oldest rainforests in the world.
Borneo is home to a vast array of wildlife, including the endangered orangutan, as well as other animals such as monkeys, elephants, snakes, parrots, clouded leopards, hornbills, tarsiers and deer.

</doc>
<doc id="105406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105406" title="List of islands by area">
List of islands by area

This is a list of islands in the world ordered by area. It includes all islands with an area greater than 250,000 km² (96,526 square miles). Although an island is, in general, any land mass that is completely surrounded by water, some definitions exclude land masses large enough to be considered continents. Placing Australia in the latter category (even though arguments can be made whether it is technically a continent, or merely part of the larger continent called Australasia) makes Greenland the largest island. For the sake of classification the list of islands will begin with Greenland.

</doc>
<doc id="105409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105409" title="Baffin Island">
Baffin Island

Baffin Island () is an island in the territory of Nunavut. It is the largest member of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is the largest island in Canada and the fifth largest island in the world, with an area of 507,451 km² (195,928 sq mi). It has a population of 11,000 people as of the year 2007. It is named after the British explorer William Baffin. The island was known to the Norse as Helluland.

</doc>
<doc id="105412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105412" title="Substitution cipher">
Substitution cipher

A substitution cipher is a form of cryptography. 
In a substitution cipher, a rule is used to change each letter of the message, one at a time. The rule says to replace (or "substitute") each letter with another letter from the alphabet. 
For instance, this table gives a rule for a substitution cipher:
Using this rule, the sentence "Jack and Jill went up the hill" is changed to "Etar tzn Evmm gkzc dw cuk uvmm". The Caesar cipher is one example of a substitution cipher.
Substitution ciphers are not safe enough to use for important messages. Substitution ciphers can be broken by an idea called "frequency analysis". Some letters are more common than others in English sentences: "E" is the most common, then "T", then "A", and so on. A message that has been changed by a substitution cipher will have different common letters, but this gives a hint about the rule. The most common letters in the changed message are likely to be the most common letters in English. 
Breaking "cryptograms" (messages hidden with a substitution cipher) is a common puzzle often found in newspapers.
Suppose the changed message is:
For this example, capital letters are used for unknown letters, and lowercase letters are used to denote letters we know or can guess. 
By counting up the letters, we see that the most common is I, which we will guess is an e. X is also quite common, and XLI is found many times; we guess that this is the, the most common three-letter group in English.
E is the second most common letter. We already have a guess for e and t, so we guess that E is a. We now have:
We can now make some more guesses: heVe may be here; Rtate may be state, and atthattMZe could be atthattime. Filling in these guesses, we get:
This lets us make more guesses, which lead to more, until we have guessed everything:
At this point, we can insert spaces and punctuation:
If we had made a wrong guess, we would have found out at some point, and could go back and make a new guess.

</doc>
<doc id="105429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105429" title="Ken Spreitzer">
Ken Spreitzer

Kenneth J. Spreitzer wrote the original PC program called "UnInstaller". It was first licensed to MicroHelp and now (Feb 1998) sold by CyberMedia. After writing the program, Mr. Spreitzer went on to found Maximized Software.
Mr. Spreitzer is a graduate of the University of California, Irvine in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. He was also the radio personality "Captain Sensible" as heard on KUCI.

</doc>
<doc id="105432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105432" title="Brandy &amp; Mr. Whiskers">
Brandy &amp; Mr. Whiskers

Brandy and Mr. Whiskers is an American animated television series from Disney Channel. It is about a female dog named Brandy and a rabbit named Mr. Whiskers. They both get stuck in the Amazon Rainforest together and have to work together to survive.

</doc>
<doc id="105436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105436" title="Dwyane Wade">
Dwyane Wade

Dwyane Tyrone Wade (born January 17, 1982) is an American basketball player. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. His parents divorced a short time after he was born. He attended college at Marquette University on a scholarship. He was on scholarship for basketball but he did not play his first year because of academic problems. The next year he started on Marquette and led them to a good season. The year after that he led the "Marquette Golden Eagles" to the Final Four in the NCAA tournament.
Wade went on to the NBA and was selected as the 5th pick overall in the NBA draft by the Miami Heat. He had a good rookie season in the NBA, averaging 15 points per game and 6 assists per game. He soon became a superstar and led the Heat to an NBA championship in 2006. Wade was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the 2006 NBA Finals, in which the Heat beat the Dallas Mavericks.

</doc>
<doc id="105446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105446" title="Himalayan Wolf">
Himalayan Wolf

The Himalayan Wolf is a kind of wolf that was thought to belong to the Tibetan Wolf family, but it, in fact, may be its own species, "Canis himalayensis".
It is usually found in a small part of northern Republic of India, in Himachal Pradesh state and also in Indian Kashmir and, also in the eastern part of Nepal in the Himalayas. The habitat of the Himalayan Wolf (also known as the Tibetan Wolf) is only in small parts of Pakistan and Kashmir, the Republic of India, and into China and Mongolia.

</doc>
<doc id="105451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105451" title="Angelroda">
Angelroda

Angelroda is a municipality of the district Ilm-Kreis Rural District, in Thuringia, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="105454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105454" title="Elgersburg">
Elgersburg

Elgersburg is a municipality in the Ilm-Kreis Rural District, in Thuringia, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="105457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105457" title="Hull, Florida">
Hull, Florida

Hull, Florida is an unincorporated community in Southwest DeSoto County, Florida. About 150 people live there.
Hull had a creosote tie treating plant for the Charlotte Harbor and Northern Railroad. The railroad was bought by the Seaboard Air Line Railroad in the 1920s. The Seaboard Railroad kept using the creosote plant through the 1950s. In the late 1920s, Hull became the junction of a new line of the SAL to Fort Myers and Naples. Passenger service was done on the branch. This line was stopped in 1953.

</doc>
<doc id="105460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105460" title="Seii">
Seii

Seii (; 1326 – c. 1354) was the 2 king of the Okinawan kingdom of Chūzan. He ruled after his father, Tamagusuku, in 1336, when he was only ten years old.

</doc>
<doc id="105473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105473" title="Cecil Rhodes">
Cecil Rhodes

Cecil Rhodes (July 5 1853 - March 26 1902) was an English-born South African businessman and politician. He was the son of an Anglican vicar. He graduated from an English grammar school and at the age of 16 was sent to the British colony of Natal in South Africa due to poor health. There he became involved in diamond mining. He later went back to England to go to Oriel College at Oxford. He was the starter of Rhodesia. He was the starter of the British South Africa Company, which was a corporation that ruled various territories in South Africa that eventually were called Southern Rhodesia and Northern Rhodesia. He also was Prime Minister of Cape Colony. He was supported by the Afrikaner Bond in the Cape Colony until he betrayed the Afrikaners by supporting a rebellion against their relatives the Afrikaners of the South African Republic by his associate Leander Starr Jameson in 1895, after which the Bond forced him to resign. He supported the Liberal Party and the Irish Parliamentary Party in domestic politics in the UK. Rhodes was the starter of the Rhodes scholarships, program by the United Kingdom permitting citizens of British colonies, of the United States, and of Germany, all to study at Oxford on a scholarship if they demonstrated certain academic and character qualities. He was a Freemason. In his last years he was the victim of stalking by Princess Catherine Radziwill, a Polish adventuress.

</doc>
<doc id="105486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105486" title="Kaioo">
Kaioo

kaioo is a social networking website where people can communicate using messages, video and photo uploads, blogs, social groups, and music. Users can also create their own networks that are within the kaioo-network. This means they get a network where the user can change the style and their own Domain (such as myschool.kaioo.com or myschool-network.com).
"kaioo" is a non-profit organisation. There is no advertisement in the networks. Only in the geographical networks like Language, Country, City there will be advertisement. kaioo gives all money they earn with these advertisements to poor people.

</doc>
<doc id="105493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105493" title="Akira Toriyama">
Akira Toriyama

Akira Toriyama (born on April 5, 1955, in Kiyosu, Aichi Prefecture, Japan) is the creator of many popular anime and manga series, most notably the Dragon Ball franchise. It has many media adaptions, and is now one of the most popular series of all time.

</doc>
<doc id="105495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105495" title="I. M. Pei">
I. M. Pei

Ieoh Ming Pei (born April 26, 1917) is a Chinese American architect. Pei has been an important name in his field, with his buildings built all over the world. When he was a child, he learned basic knowledge about architecture from his father. 
Pei made innovations in architecture, and won the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Medal for Architecture. He built the Allied Bank Tower in Dallas, Texas, as well as the Louvre Pyramid, which is the main entrance to the Louvre Museum in Paris. In 1983, Pei won the Pritzker Prize.
"I. M. Pei." Notable Asian Americans. Ed. Helen Zia and Susan B. Gall. Detroit: Gale, 1995. Biography in Context. Web. 29 May 2015. 
"I. M. Pei." Newsmakers. Detroit: Gale, 1990. Biography in Context. Web. 29 May 2015. 

</doc>
<doc id="105497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105497" title="Isaac Bashevis Singer">
Isaac Bashevis Singer

Isaac Bashevis Singer (November 21, 1902 – July 24, 1991) was a leading writer in Yiddish literature. He was an American who was born in Poland. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature.

</doc>
<doc id="105498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105498" title="John von Neumann">
John von Neumann

John von Neumann (December 28. 1903 – February 8. 1957) was a Hungarian-American mathematician and physicist who made contributions to many fields including:
He is generally regarded as a prodigy, polymath and one of the most important mathematicians of the 20th century. 
He was a member of a group called the 'Martians'. They were Hungarian immigrants to the US of extraordinary intellect. Others people in this group were Edward Teller, Paul Erdős, Leó Szilárd and Eugene Wigner.

</doc>
<doc id="105501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105501" title="Iwan Roberts">
Iwan Roberts

Iwan Wyn Roberts (born 26 June, 1968 in Bangor, Wales) is a Welsh football player. He played for the Welsh national team and several English teams, including Norwich City F.C. and Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C..
At Norwich, Roberts twice won the "player of the year" trophy.
As a player, Roberts was a striker.

</doc>
<doc id="105502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105502" title="Ballpoint pen">
Ballpoint pen

A ballpoint pen (also called a biro - pronounced "BY-roe" - in British English after its inventor László Bíró), is a modern kind of pen for writing. The ink is inside a long, thin unit inside the pen. When a person writes with it, the ink comes onto the small, ball-shaped tip of the unit. The ink dries almost as soon as it is on the paper.
Before the ballpoint pen was invented people usually wrote with pens which were dipped into ink, or fountain pens which were filled with ink whenever the ink was all used up. When the ballpoint pen was invented, many people thought they were bad things to use because people's handwriting was not so good. Children in schools had to continue to use ordinary ink pens. However, ballpoint pens were improved, and they are much easier to use than pens that need to be dipped in ink, so almost everybody writes with them now.
Galileo Galilei were working on a draft for an invention similar to the ballpoint pen in the early 1600s.
The inventor László Bíró registered his invention of the ballpoint pen in 1938.
There are two kinds of ballpoint pens:

</doc>
<doc id="105503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105503" title="Bando kickboxing">
Bando kickboxing

Bando kickboxing is the modern, sport form of "lethwei", nicknamed in Europe "Burmese boxing of four arms". It has been born in North America in the beginning of the years 1960, this type of fencing with feet and with gloved fists in a ring has given life, in the USA of the years 1970, to several forms of full contact and of kickboxing. 
There exist, in competition, two forms of fight: "controlled bando kickboxing" (light contact) where the blows only touch the opponent in order to not hurt him, and the "Bando kickboxing of full contact" where the blows with full power are acceptable, destined to the adults who are more expert. According to the age and to the technical level, the rules and the conditions of competition are variable: particularly, there change the authorized and forbidden techniques, the time of fight, the type of surface of fight (carpet or ring) and the wearing of certain protections (helmet, plastron (protector of chest and abdomen), protectors of shins, slippers, etc.). 

</doc>
<doc id="105509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105509" title="Spratly Islands">
Spratly Islands

The Spratly Islands are 100 small uninhabited islands in the South China Sea. A lot of fish are found around them so countries like China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam are interested in them. These countries share control of the islands but each of them want to take control of all or most of the islands.

</doc>
<doc id="105527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105527" title="Sumba">
Sumba

Sumba is an island in Indonesia, and is one of the Lesser Sunda Islands. It has an area of 11,153 km², and the population was at about 611,422 people as of the year 2005. There is a dry season from May to November and a rainy season from December to April. Historically, this island exported sandalwood.

</doc>
<doc id="105528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105528" title="Gili Trawangan">
Gili Trawangan

Gili Trawangan is the largest of Lombok's Gili Islands. It is the only one to rise notably above sea level. It is long and wide. The island has a population of about 1000 people. Of the Gilis, Trawangan has the most tourist facilities. The pub Tîr na Nôg says that Trawangan is the smallest island in the world with an Irish pub. The most crowded part of Trawangan is on the eastern side.
On Gili Trawangan (as well as the other two Gilis), there are no motorized vehicles. The main means of transportation are bicycles (rented by the people who live on the island to tourists) and cidomo (a small horse pulled carriage). For traveling to and from each of the Gilis, motorized boats and speedboats are used.
Some of the first people to live on Gili Trawangan were from Sulawesi. They were fishermen and farmers. Before they came to Gili Trawangan, the island was covered in forest and deer lived there.
The economy of Gili Trawangan centres on tourism. The island is too small to support large amounts of agriculture. It is also to far away from other places to be useful for either industry or commerce. 

</doc>
<doc id="105530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105530" title="Gili Meno">
Gili Meno

Gili Meno is an island in Indonesia. It is the middle of Lombok's three Gilis. It has population of about 300, mainly concentrated on the center of the island. The main income of the population comes from tourism, coconut plantation, and fishing. On the west side of the island there is a small shallow lake that produces salt in the dry season. Until a few years ago there was also a small production of seaweed on the reef at the north end of the island. It has swimming beaches all around the island, as well as an impressive bird sanctuary.

</doc>
<doc id="105531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105531" title="Gili Air">
Gili Air

Gili Air is the smallest of the Gilis and it is closest to the Lombok mainland, making it popular with honeymoon couples and travelers seeking a quiet retreat. It has population of about 1,000 and administratively lies in the West Nusa Tenggara province. The island offers excellent snorkeling and SCUBA diving off its east coast, and turtles can be seen along the coral reef. 
There is a quickest way to get to Gili Air. fast Boat from Bali to Gili Air are offering a daily departure from Padang(Northeast Bali and Sanur(Southeast Bali). to get the ticket you can book in some tourist information or go to some online portal that provide the fast boat ticket to Gili Air. Gilibestdeal offers cheap fast boat to Gili Air. The fast boat operator provides a free hotel pick up and drop off in Bali.

</doc>
<doc id="105533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105533" title="Gili Islands">
Gili Islands

The Gili Islands (Indonesian:Tiga Gili [Three Gilis], Kepulauan Gili [Gili Islands]) are an archipelago of three small islands – Gili Trawangan, Gili Meno and Gili Air — just off the northwest coast of Lombok, Indonesia.
The islands are a popular destination for Western tourists looking for a remote island experience. Each island has several small resorts, usually consisting of a small collection of huts for tourists, and a restaurant. Most local inhabitants live in the hilly interior of the island. Automobiles and motorized traffic are prohibited on the islands by local ordinance, so the preferred method of transportation is bicycle or the horse-drawn carriage called a "cidomo". Diving in and around the Gilis is also popular, although the prices are fairly high due to local cartel activities. The name "Gili Islands" is a bit of a misnomer, because "Gili" simply means "small island" in Sasak.

</doc>
<doc id="105535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105535" title="Cidomo">
Cidomo

A Cidomo is a small horse-drawn carriage used on Indonesia's Gili Islands used instead of motorized transport which is not allowed.

</doc>
<doc id="105537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105537" title="Grease (musical)">
Grease (musical)

Grease is a 1971 musical by Jim Jacobs and Warren Casey. It takes its name from the 1950s United States working-class culture known as the greasers. It is set in 1959 in a made-up school called Rydell High in Chicago and is about the romance between high schoolers Danny Zuko and Sandy Dumbrowski.
"Grease" had its world premiere in Chicago in 1971. Its Broadway premiere occurred at the Broadhurst Theatre on 7 June 1972. It closed on 13 April 1980 after a run of 3,388 performances. It opened on the West End in 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="105538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105538" title="Ryan Giggs">
Ryan Giggs

Ryan Joseph Giggs (born 29 November 1973) is a Welsh former footballer and manager. 
Giggs was born in Canton, Cardiff, and grew up in Ely, Cardiff. He has Sierra Leonean and Dutch ancestry. 
As well as the Wales national team, he also played for the Great Britain squad at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Manchester United, where he has spent his whole career until now. His playing position was as a left winger. Giggs also loves rugby league and follows the Warrington Wolves and Melbourne Storm as his father Danny Wilson is a former rugby league player. 
563||103||64||10||34||8||129||26||790||147
563||103||64||10||34||8||129||26||790||147
!Total||63||12

</doc>
<doc id="105539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105539" title="Ian Rush">
Ian Rush

Ian Rush (born 20 October 1961) is a former Welsh international football player, who notably played for Liverpool and Juventus.
He was a very successful striker, who set many goal-scoring records for Liverpool in particular.
When he retired from playing, he managed teams including Tranmere Rovers.
572||246
29||7
2||1
603||254
!Total||73||28

</doc>
<doc id="105548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105548" title="Ogoh-ogoh">
Ogoh-ogoh

An Ogoh-ogoh, a papier-mâché and wood puppet built on Bali for the New Year Holiday Nyepi. They are primarily constructed by young Balinese men and frequently depict caricatures of the many tourists. On the evening before Nyepi they are paraded about and then burnt. Nyepi is known as the day of silence.

</doc>
<doc id="105549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105549" title="Padangbai">
Padangbai

Padangbai is a small town in eastern Bali, Indonesia. It serves as a ferry port for travel to Lombok, The Gilis and other of the Lesser Sunda Islands. It is also a lovely beach town that is popular with those who prefer a small town atmosphere over the large scale beach party that is Kuta.
Besides the beach near the ferry terminal there is a beach just to the north known locally as the "Blue Lagoon" and the especially nice "Secret Beach" just to the south of town. These pleasant beaches have clusters of small family owned warungs that will be glad to prepare a meal and serve beer.

</doc>
<doc id="105561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105561" title="Tokugawa shogunate">
Tokugawa shogunate

The Tokugawa shogunate, also known as the , and the , was a feudal Japanese military government. The heads of government were the shoguns. Each was a member of the Tokugawa clan.
These years are known as the Edo period. The period takes its name from the city where the Tokugawa shoguns lived. This time is also called the Tokugawa period or pre-modern ("Kinsei").
In 1603, Tokugawa Ieyasu and the Tokugawa clan established a military government in Edo, now Tokyo. 

</doc>
<doc id="105563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105563" title="Liberal Democrats">
Liberal Democrats

The Liberal Democrats, often shortened to Lib Dems, is a centrist political party in the United Kingdom that promotes liberal policies. Its leader is Tim Farron. It was started on 2 March 1988 by joining the Liberal Party, which had been a powerful political party in Britain in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and the Social Democratic Party, which had been formed from the Labour Party in 1981. The two parties had already been working together for seven years. 
The Liberal Democrats are strong supporters of the European Union, as well as environmentalism and they are in favour of creating a new British House of Commons which is elected using proportional representation.
The party has 8 out of 650 seats in the House of Commons, 105 out of 793 seats in the House of Lords, 1 out of 73 British seats in the European Parliament, 5 out of 129 seats in the Scottish Parliament and 5 out of 60 seats in the Welsh Assembly. The party was in a coalition government with the Conservative Party and the party leader Nick Clegg was the Deputy Prime Minister until the May 2015 General Election.
Most Liberal Democrats believe in the following things:
Asterisk (*) means that this person was an interim leader, meaning he was just standing in as leader because the previous leader resigned.

</doc>
<doc id="105573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105573" title="Houten">
Houten

Houten() is a town in Utrecht province in the Netherlands. The population of the town in 2007 was about 45,000.
Houten lies on the railway line from Utrecht to Tiel and 's Hertogenbosch. In 2004, the railway line needed fixing, but the old station building was in the way. What was done is pretty unique: the old station building was lifted off its foundations, and moved a few hundred metres to new foundations. 
Many people living in Houten have jobs in Utrecht. According to plans of the government, the city should grow to about 50.000 people by 2010.
People have lived in the area since Roman times. 

</doc>
<doc id="105581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105581" title="Northampton">
Northampton

Northampton () is a big market town and a local government district of the East Midlands part of the United Kingdom. The district has a population of 200,100 people.
Northampton has a major entertainment centre called the Derngate.

</doc>
<doc id="105593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105593" title="West Slavs">
West Slavs

West Slavs are part of the Slavic peoples. Czechs, Kashubians, Poles, Slovaks, and Sorbs are West Slavs. The most of them are in three countries: in Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. West Slavs' national languages are languages from West Slavic languages group.

</doc>
<doc id="105596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105596" title="WWE Judgment Day">
WWE Judgment Day

Judgment Day is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event made World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).
Judgment Day (2000) took place on May 21 2000 at Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky. 
Judgment Day (2001) took place on May 20 2001 at the Arco Arena in Sacramento, California. 
Judgment Day (2002) took place on May 19 2002 at the Gaylord Entertainment Center in Nashville, Tennessee. The tagline for the event was ""Judge, Jury and Executioner"". The official theme song was ""Broken"" by 12 Stones. This was the first pay-per-view to use the WWE name after the change from WWF.
Judgment Day (2003) took place on May 18 2003 at the Charlotte Coliseum in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was the last joint pay-per-view before WWE started having brand exclusive PPVs. 
Judgment Day (2004) took place on May 16 2004 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. The tagline for the event was ""Souls Will Cry"." 

</doc>
<doc id="105597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105597" title="Tokugawa Ieyasu">
Tokugawa Ieyasu

At birth, his name was Matsudaira Takechiyo. 
In 1562, he changed his name to Matsudaira Motoyasu. The second syllable -- "-yasu" -- comes from the name of his grandfather Kiyoyasu. A few months later, he changed his first name to the one by which he is known today. The first syllable -- " Ie-" -- comes from the last part of the name of Minamoto Yoshiie, who was a famous ancestor. He received permission from the emperor to change his family name from Matsudaira to Tokugawa.
Ieyasu was the first shogun of the Tokugawa shogunate.

</doc>
<doc id="105604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105604" title="Billy Graham Center">
Billy Graham Center

The Billy Graham Center was founded and opened in 1981 on the campus of Wheaton College. Named after Billy Graham, the center is the main place for many of Wheaton College's bible and theology classes. There are eleven areas of work focused on "Stimulating Global Evangelism" with 25-40 staff, carrying out the work.

</doc>
<doc id="105607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105607" title="Revival meeting">
Revival meeting

A Revival meeting is an event organised by Christian missionaries. The purpose of the meeting is to inspire people to convert to Christianity or to raise funds for the church. The name means to bring "revival" (meaning to "reawaken") to a group or area. It is most common in American Protestant churches.

</doc>
<doc id="105608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105608" title="Revival">
Revival

Revival could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="105618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105618" title="Death Note">
Death Note

The best detective in the world, an eccentric genius named "L", works with the Japanese police, as well as Light's own father, to find out Kira's identity and catch him. He suspects all along that it's Light, who, as a part of the police department, works alongside L in the investigation. It becomes a contest of wit and intelligence between L and Light, both of whom are very clever. At one point, Light temporarily gives up the Death Note, along his memories of it, as an ally continue writing the names of criminals. This "proves" to the police that he is not Kira. However, he later gets the Death Note back and kills L with it.
After L dies, his successors, two orphans named "Mello" and "Near", take over the Kira investigation. Near is a child prodigy who clearly mirrors L, and Mello is an impulsive, antisocial teen obsessed with one-upping Near. Mello refuses to work with Near and leaves the orphanage, joining the American Mafia; Near forms a task force to catch Kira. In the end, Near proves that Light is Kira, leading to Light's death.
Besides the manga and anime, Death Note was also made into a light novel, various video games, two animated films, a live-action television drama, a musical, and several live-action films.

</doc>
<doc id="105619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105619" title="Bob Jones, Sr.">
Bob Jones, Sr.

Bob Jones, Sr (October 30, 1883—January 16, 1968) was an American, Christian, Fundamentalist, evangelist, broadcaster, and founder of Bob Jones University. He was born the eleventh of twelve children to "William" and "Georgia Jones". 
In 1905, Jones married Bernice Sheffield, who got tuberculosis and died within ten months of their marriage. On June 17, 1908, he married Mary Gaston Stollenwerck, whom he had met as a choir member. Their only child, Bob Jones, Jr. was born October 19, 1911 in Montgomery.

</doc>
<doc id="105620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105620" title="Auditorium">
Auditorium

An Auditorium (plural auditoriums, or less commonly auditoria) is the room in a theatre, cinema, concert hall, or other place where the audience is located to hear or watch the show. Auditoriums are made with great sound. The sound is easily heard by everyone in the auditorium.

</doc>
<doc id="105623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105623" title="Pulpit">
Pulpit

A pulpit (from Latin "pulpitum" "scaffold", "platform", "stage") is a small lifted platform where a member of the clergy stands to read a Gospel lesson, or give a sermon. In some Protestant churches, the "pulpit" is thought to be the most important piece of furniture in the sanctuary.

</doc>
<doc id="105624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105624" title="Level crossing">
Level crossing

A level crossing (also called a grade crossing, a railway crossing, or a railroad crossing) is a place where a railway line and a road meet each other on the same level. This means that the grades are not separated, like using a bridge or a tunnel. Usually, there are signs indicating the crossing. There may also be barriers/gates that go down before a train passes. 
Depending on how much traffic there is, there are different measures to make the crossing more secure:
Since level crossings are dangerous (there are many accidents), they are usually grade separated once there is more traffic, or high speed trains.

</doc>
<doc id="105636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105636" title="Macaulay Culkin">
Macaulay Culkin

Macaulay Carson Culkin (born on August 26, 1980 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American actor, voice actor and musician. He is perhaps most notable and best notable for his prominent kiddie roles in the first 2 "Home Alone" movies as Kevin McCallister. These blockbuster movies still continue to be very popular with many American audiences to this day onwards much to a cult following. His parents are Patricia Brentrup and Christopher 'Kit' Culkin.
Culkin began acting ever since at the age of 4 when he then became famous and well-known around the world in 1990 as a Hollywood child star when "Home Alone" was released. In the movie, Culkin played the main character, Kevin McCallister. He was then nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor on Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. Culkin mysteriously dropped out of acting at the age of 14 but later returned at the age of 23 for in a couple of movies as a recurring adult actor. 
In 2012, Culkin had founded and started up an anti-folk band called The Pizza Underground. This musical band plays songs which are related to about pizza.
In 1998, Culkin married Rachel Miner. In 2000, Culkin and Miner divorced because Culkin had decided and wanted to go back acting again as a new recurring adult actor.
Culkin has then dated actress Mila Kunis from May 2002 to 2011.
Culkin has since then been dating actress Jordana Lane Price since as of November 2013.
At around the same time that "Home Alone" was released, Culkin also became very good friends with the late Hollywood singer and King of Pop Michael Jackson. He has also acted in Jackson's 1991 "Black or White" music video. In 2005, Culkin testified and had said at Jackson's trial for charges of child molestation that he had once slept in Jackson's bedroom but was never molested or touched in improper ways though. Culkin also attended Jackson's burial and death memorial which was then held on October 6, 2012. He is also the godfather of Jackson's 2 older children with Debbie Rowe, Prince and Paris Jackson.

</doc>
<doc id="105648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105648" title="Tencent QQ">
Tencent QQ

Tencent QQ, also known as QQ, is a popular instant messaging software in mainland China. It was created by Tencent Inc. in 1998.
Tencent QQ is a multi lingual web page, offers languages such as: English, French, Japanese, Spanish, German & Korean.
For users who do not speak Chinese, translations are also available in 50 different languages. 

</doc>
<doc id="105655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105655" title="Princess Jasmine">
Princess Jasmine

Princess Jasmine is a fictional character of in the movie "Aladdin".
Jasmine was born in Agrabah, in the royal Palace. She lived surrounded by all kinds of luxuries and comforts, and she had as her only friend the tiger Rajah. She lost her mother early in life (when not mentioned) and, hence, was educated by her father, the Sultan. She was happy until the day that the Sultan tried to force her to marry before her 16th birthday. 
Unhappy about being forced to marry, Jasmine fled the palace. In the streets, she finds out that Aladdin is arrested for stealing. Later, Jafar takes the control of the city of Agrabah, reducing Jasmine to the position of a slave. Aladdin arrives and defeats Jafar. Jasmine realizes that she loves Aladdin and the two decide to marry. She has since married and has become queen.

</doc>
<doc id="105656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105656" title="Fürstenfeldbruck Rural District">
Fürstenfeldbruck Rural District

Fürstenfeldbruck is a rural district in Upper Bavaria in south Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="105658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105658" title="José Zorrilla y Moral">
José Zorrilla y Moral

José Zorrilla y Moral (February 21, 1817 - January 23, 1893), was a Spanish Romantic poet and dramatist.

</doc>
<doc id="105661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105661" title="Ottobrunn">
Ottobrunn

Ottobrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District. It was started in 1955 and the German headquarters of the EADS are there.

</doc>
<doc id="105662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105662" title="Ja'far">
Ja'far

Ja'far may mean:
In fictional characters
In historical persons
In people

</doc>
<doc id="105663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105663" title="Aying">
Aying

Aying is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Bavaria, Germany. The Ayinger Brewery is there.

</doc>
<doc id="105670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105670" title="Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn">
Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn

Höhenkirchen-Siegertsbrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural Distrcit in Upper Bavaria, Germany. It lies south of Munich. It is the municipality with the longest name in Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="105671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105671" title="Habitation at Port-Royal">
Habitation at Port-Royal

The Habitation at Port-Royal was an early French colonial settlement. Today it is a National Historic Site in Port Royal in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia.
Port Royal was founded by the French explorer Champlain after half of his men had died of Scurvy in his first settlement. Champlain worked with the Algonquain tribe to found Port Royal and, in return, fought with them and the Hurons against the Iroquoians. 
In May, 1613 the Jesuits moved on to the Penobscot River valley and in July, the settlement was attacked by Samuel Argall of Virginia. Argall returned in November that same year and burned the Habitation down while the settlers were away nearby. Poutrincourt returned from France in spring 1614 and found "Port-Royal" in ruins. The settlers were living with the Mi'kmaq. Poutrincourt then gave his holdings to his son and returned to France. Poutrincourt's son gave the settlement to Charles de Saint-Étienne de la Tour upon his own death in 1623.
A replica of the settlement was built in 1939-1940. Today, this replica serves as the cornerstone of Port-Royal National Historic Site of Canada, and together with the nearby Fort Anne National Historic Site of Canada in Annapolis Royal, continues to remind of this important historic region for Canadians and visitors.

</doc>
<doc id="105675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105675" title="Mi'kmaq">
Mi'kmaq

The Mi'kmaq (; (also spelled Míkmaq, Mi'gmaq, Mi'qmac, or formerly Micmac) are a First Nations or Native American in the United States people, indigenous to northeastern New England, Canada's Atlantic Provinces, and the Gaspé Peninsula of Quebec. The word Míkmaw is an adjectival form of the plural noun for the people, "Míkmaq". 
The nation has a population of about 40,000 of whom approximately one-third still speak the Algonquian language L'nuí'simk which was once written in Míkmaq hieroglyphic writing and is now written using most letters of the standard Latin alphabet. 
In the Canadian provinces of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador, October is celebrated as Mi'kmaq History Month and the entire Nation celebrates Treaty Day annually on October 1.
Mi'kmaq names in the table have all been spelled according to a several orthographies. The Mi'kmaq orthographies in use are Mí'kmaq hieroglyphs, the orthography of Silas Tertius Rand, the Pacifique orthography, and the most recent Smith-Francis orthography, which has been adopted by most of the Mi'kmaq First Nation.

</doc>
<doc id="105676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105676" title="Wang Xiaobo">
Wang Xiaobo

Wang Xiaobo (; pinyin: Wáng Xiǎobō; May 13, 1952–April 11, 1997) is a famous writer in mainland China. His most famous and successful Literary works is "Golden Time".
Xiaobo was born in Beijing, China. In 1972, he became a teacher in the Shandong province. In 1978, he started studying at the Renmin University of China. Xiaobo's most famous novel was published in 1994. It was named "Golden Time".

</doc>
<doc id="105678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105678" title="Chengdu">
Chengdu

Chengdu (also called The Hibiscus City), is the fourth largest city in People's Republic of China. It is the capital of Sichuan province and is on top of the Chengdu Plain.

</doc>
<doc id="105679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105679" title="Hohenbrunn">
Hohenbrunn

Hohenbrunn is a municipality in the Munich Rural District in Upper Bavaria, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="105686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105686" title="Albert Schweitzer">
Albert Schweitzer

Albert Schweitzer, MD, OM, (14 January 1875 – 4 September 1965) was a German theologian, musician, philosopher and physician. He was born in Alsace, at the time a part of the German Empire.
He wrote books about music and religion. He started a famous hospital in Lambarene, Africa. He received the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize.
Albert Schweitzer was born in Alsace, Germany on 14 January 1875. He lived in the village of Gunsbach, where his father was a local pastor. His father taught him how to play music. In 1893, Schweitzer passed his Baccalaureat.
After this, Schweitzer went to Paris to learn philosophy and music, before returning to his birthplace to study theology. He spent nine years studying medicine and surgery. He would dedicate his life to helping people and curing diseases.
Schweitzer was a famous organist and was extremely interested in the music of Johann Sebastian Bach. He developed a simple style of performance, which he thought to be closer to what Bach had meant. In 1908, he completed the final version of his book "Johann Sebastian Bach". In the book, he argued for the new style, which has had great influence on the way Bach’s music is now treated. 
When Schweitzer was in Lambarene, his main recreation was to play Bach’s music. He also gave musical performances to raise money for medical supplies in Gabon.
Recordings of Schweitzer playing the music of Bach are available on CD. Between 1934 and 1935, he had a trial recording for HMV on the organ of the old Queen's Hall in London. In mid-December 1935, he began to record for Columbia Records on the organ of All-Hallows-by-the-Tower, Barking, London.
Schweitzer became well known for his books on Jesus and Christianity. He was not so much interested in the historical study of Jesus, as in the Christian idea of the end of the world, which can be found in the Bible and the teachings of Jesus. Schweitzer also served as a minister for Saint Nicholas Church in Strassburg.
In the philosophy of Albert Schweitzer, the most important idea is the respect for life. In his book "The Philosophy of Civilization", he wrote that "true philosophy" begins with the idea that: "I am a life that wants to live, in the midst of life that wants to live."
Albert Schweitzer’s ethical principles meant that he tried to have a personal and spiritual relationship with the universe. It also meant that he was vegetarian.
Albert Schweitzer spent most of his life in Lambarene, Africa. In 1904, he was inspired to help sick people in the world, so he studied medicine. After his medical studies in 1913, he went to Lambarene with his wife to establish a hospital that would serve thousands of Africans.
During World War I, the French made Schweitzer and his wife, both Germans, leave Africa. In 1924, he returned to Lambarene and managed to rebuild the destroyed hospital, where he served as a physician .
From 1939-1948, he stayed in Lambarene since he could not go to Europe during the war. Three years later he resumed his medical practices. But he was no longer just a medical doctor and whenever possible he went to Europe to lecture at universities. Slowly his ideas become known, not only in Europe but worldwide. 
In 1952 Dr Albert Schweitzer was awarded The Nobel Prize for peace. He gave a famous speech ""The Problem of Peace"". He died on 4 September 1965 at his hospital in Lambarene.

</doc>
