<doc id="40964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40964" title="Wisdom">
Wisdom

Wisdom is knowing things that help a person to live sensibly and make good decisions. Wisdom is defined differently by many cultures. Some say that wisdom is something a person learns as they grow older. Other cultures expect people to complete certain rituals in order to get wisdom.
If someone has wisdom we say he is wise.
Most cultures from the past have had special people who were supposed to be wise. People asked them for advice when they had problems because they knew things that ordinary people did not know or could not know. They were often called "sages".
There are many stories in Western culture in which the owl is supposed to be a wise bird.

</doc>
<doc id="40965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40965" title="Skate">
Skate

"For the act of skating, see skating."
Skates are cartilaginous fish. They are the family Rajidae in the order Rajiformes. They are chondrichthyes, and closely related to the rays. There are more than 200 species in 27 genera.
There are two subfamilies, the hardnose skates and the softnose skates.
Skates are a bit like stingrays (they are in the same group), but they are usually smaller with shorter, thicker tails. There is also a difference: skates do not have stingers. Instead, their tails are thicker, with small "thorns" along the edges. At the base of the tail is a set of extra fins, too.
Skates and rays are also different in the way the give birth. Most rays are (the eggs develop inside a mother's body), but skates lay their eggs. This means they are oviparous.

</doc>
<doc id="40981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40981" title="Roger Moore">
Roger Moore

Sir Roger George Moore (born 14 October 1927) is an English actor and United Nations ambassador. He is probably the most well known for playing fictional spy James Bond in seven movies from 1973 to 1985. He played James Bond more times than any other actor. He was also well known for playing Simon Templar in the television show "The Saint". He began his career by becoming a male model. 
He is the only child of policeman, George Moore, and housewife, Lilian "Lily". He attended Battersea Grammar School, but was evacuated to Holsworthy, Devon, during the Second World War. He was then educated at Dr Challoner's Grammar School in Amersham, Buckinghamshire. He then attended the College of the Venerable Bede at the University of Durham, but never graduated. Moore served in the Royal Army Service Corps, commanding a small depot in West Germany.
Moore left his first wife, skater Doorn Van Steyn, for singer Dorothy Squires. Squires was 12 years older than him. She was also, at that time, much more famous than he was. They lived together for a short time in Dafen, Llanelli, South Wales. While making a movie in Italy in 1961, Moore left Squires for Italian actress Luisa Mattioli. Moore has a daughter and two sons with Mattioli. Moore ended this marriage in 1993. His current marriage is to the Danish-Swedish multi-millionaire Kristina 'Kiki' Tholstrup.
When Moore married Kiki Tholstrup, he began spending winters in Crans-Montana, Valais (Switzerland) and summers at his apartment in Monaco. 
In 1999, Moore was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE), and advanced to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) on 14 June 2003. He was proud the honor was for his charity work rather than his acting.
On 11 October 2007, three days before he turned 80, Moore was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Moore's Star was the 2,350th star. It is appropriately located at 7007 Hollywood Boulevard.
In 2008, the French Government appointed Moore a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.

</doc>
<doc id="40982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40982" title="Melbourne Cup">
Melbourne Cup

The Melbourne Cup is Australia's major horse race. It happens once a year. People say it is "The race that stops a nation", it is for horses three-years-old and over, and it is 3200 metres long. The event has been held on the first Tuesday in November since 1861 (except on one year during the Second World War) by the Victoria Racing Club, on the Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne. Many people say it is the most important "two-mile" horse race in the world.
The race was first held over two miles, about 3,218 metres, but after Australia changed to the metric system in 1972 it was changed to 3,200 metres. This made it 61 ft 6in shorter, and Rain Lover's 1968 race record of 3min.19.1sec was changed to 3min.17.9sec. Now, the record holder is the 1990 winner Kingston Rule with a time of 3min 16.3sec.
The race starts at 3.00pm Melbourne (AEST) time.
The event is one of the most popular events to watch in Australia. Over 110,000 people attend the race. Some people dress in traditional formal raceday clothing. Other people dress in different kinds of strange and amusing costumes,
In 2005 a total of 383,784 race fans went to the Melbourne Cup Carnival annual event 
Seventeen horses raced in the first Melbourne Cup in 1861. The prize was a gold watch and 170 pounds cash. Some people say Archer (the winner) walked 800 km to the course from Nowra, New South Wales. However, it is possible he travelled by ship. Four thousand people watched the race.
Archer won again the next year. However, because the owner's application form arrived late the next year, Archer was unable to try for a third cup. Many owners boycotted (did not race in protest) the race, so it started with only seven horses. That is the smallest number in the history of the cup.
'Fashions On The Field' is a major focus of the day. Raceday fashion sometimes draws almost as much attention as the race itself. The miniskirt received worldwide attention when model Jean Shrimpton wore one on Derby Day during Melbourne Cup week in 1965.
In Melbourne, the race day is a public holiday. In the rest of Australia most people watch the race on television and gamble. Some people bet at the TAB (the Australian betting office). Other people bet in workplace cup "sweeps". (In "sweeps" each person pays a small amount [e.g. $3] and draws a random horse. First, second, and third place then share the money.) In 2000 it was estimated that 80 percent of the adult Australian population placed a bet on the race that year.

</doc>
<doc id="40983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40983" title="King Philip's War">
King Philip's War

King Philip's War (Metacom's War) was a war between Native Americans and English colonists. It was fought between 1675 and 1676 in the area of the United States that is now New England.
When the Puritans left England, they came to live in America near the Indians. As more Puritans moved to America, the need for land increased. This caused the Puritans to take over Indian land. Metacom, or "King Philip" as he was called in English was the leader of one of the larger Indian tribes. He was mad that the Puritans took Native lands. He brought together a force of Indians and attacked the Puritans. The Natives and Puritans fought a small war, and the Indians lost. King Philip was killed, along with about 3,000 other Indians. 500 Indians were also taken prisoner and made slaves.

</doc>
<doc id="40988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40988" title="Lip balm">
Lip balm

Lip balm is a product which is put on lips so they will not dry when a person is outdoors in the sun and wind. Lip balm is usually made from petrolatum. Some types of lip balm also include sunscreen to protect the lips from sunburn. Lip balm comes in tubes and small pots with screw-on lids. Lip balm is often used during the winter, because the cold winter winds can dry out a person's lips so that they are cracked and hurting (this is called having "chapped" lips).

</doc>
<doc id="40989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40989" title="Coprophagia">
Coprophagia

Coprophagia is the eating of faeces. Many animals eat faeces, either their own or that of other animal groups. It is particularly common in dogs and puppies of about six months old, but little is known why; lack of stimulus and variety in the lifestyle or diet have been cited as potential reasons. Adding pineapple to their food is a well recognized solution for many dogs. Humans do it only on rare occasions and it is looked down upon in society. Eating one's feces can also spread disease.

</doc>
<doc id="40990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40990" title="Frankenwald">
Frankenwald

The Frankenwald (roughly translates to Franconian forest) is a mountain range. It is in the district of Oberfranken in Bavaria. It connects the Fichtelgebirge to the Thuringian forest. It is a long forested plateau. The hills in the plateau form a watershed between the Rhine and the Elbe rivers. 
It was settled in the 13th century. The main branches of industry were porcelain-making, forestry, and the production of charcoal. Rafts were built to get the wood into the larger cities, along the Main river, and the Rhine. First, the people setlted on the plateau. They cut down some forest, and settled in the clearing that was created that way. A well preserved example of such a setltlement is Wilhelmsthal. Only at a later date did people settle in the valleys.
In the Frankenwald, the following landscapes are prevalent:

</doc>
<doc id="40992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40992" title="Rapid transit">
Rapid transit

A Rapid transit system (commonly called a Metro), subway, underground, tube, elevated, or heavy rail system, is a railway system. Usually it is in a city or urban area. Trains run very often, and carry many passengers. Usually it lacks level crossings. Rather, grade separation keeps it separate from other traffic. Grade separation is when two streams of traffic go over and under each other, so they do not meet. 
There are two major types of "rapid transit"—elevated railways and subways. A single rapid transit system may have both elevated and subway lines, such as the one in New York City, which is by far the largest in the world by number of lines, length of track and number of stations. 
Elevated rapid transit lines are cheaper to build than subways since no tunneling is required. A well-known mostly elevated rapid transit system is the Bay Area Rapid Transit system in the San Francisco Bay Area. Construction began in 1964 and the first trains began running in 1972. However, all the lines travel through subways part of the way. As in many systems, the underground parts are the inner city parts.
In England a subway is called an "Underground" (the only exception being the Tyne and Wear Metro), in Scotland and North America it is called "Subway" (except in Montreal, Washington, D.C. and Miami where it is called "Metro"), in Germany and Austria "U-Bahn" and in the rest of the world usually "Metro", for example: Barcelona Metro.
The oldest rapid transit system is the London Underground. Building started in 1860 and the first part of it was opened in 1863. The first underground trains were powered by steam. Another part of the London Underground was the first rapid transit using electric trains, as is normal today. This part opened in 1890.
The first subway in North America was the subway in Boston . Building started in 1895 and the first section was opened in 1897.
The first subway in Asia was the subway in Tokyo. The first section was opened in 1927.

</doc>
<doc id="40994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40994" title="Municipality">
Municipality

A municipality is a word used for a city, a town or a village, or a small group of them. It has a clearly defined territory, and all the people living on that territory share one common local government.
In most countries, a municipality is the smallest administrative subdivision to have its own democratically elected representative leadership. A municipality is usually governed by a mayor and a city or municipal council.
In some countries, municipalities are referred to as "communes" (for example, French "commune", Italian "comune" or Swedish "kommun").

</doc>
<doc id="40995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40995" title="Problem">
Problem

A problem is a situation that is hard to deal with. The word comes from a Greek word meaning an "obstacle" (something that is in your way). If someone has a problem, they have to find a way of "solving" the problem. The way to solve it is called a solution.
"John has locked his car keys inside his car so that he cannot get at them. John has a problem".
We can also talk about a child with "behaviour problems". That would mean they act in ways that hurt and upset other people or themselves or cause too much disruption.
Sometimes people describe the ways in which people with learning difficulties and autism interact with their own bodies and the environment as behaviour problems because they find it disturbing, but this is controversial. These do not cause hurt and are not meant to cause upset but are seen as self-expression or self-soothing by the adult or child acting in these ways- such as rocking themselves or repeated actions like moving doors and drawers or echoing the movement in the environment, such as the movement of a flag in the wind. The argument is that it is other people's problem if self-expression or self soothing that hurts no-one is something which other people find disturbing. 
"Communication problems" are when people struggle to talk in a way that helps and feels good. Communication problems come from many kinds of problems, body problems such as with the ears, learning and mental problems, being in a new country or an ethnic minority or using special science words. For example a person who is deaf has communication problems because he cannot hear the spoken words most people use, but this is different when he is in an environment where everyone can use sign-language well, or if he can speak and others allow him to lip read. Those with developmental delay or learning disability or learning differences or speaking in a second language may be said to have "communication problems". Problems in relationships in families and between friends are often called "communication problems". People who must work together but use different words, for example science words and simple words, to talk about the same things, they are also said to have communication problems.
Some problems are made up for fun. These are like puzzles. Some of them can be solved with logic, others can be solved by trial and error or by a "heuristic".
Here is an example of a mathematical problem:
"John is three times as old as Mary. In three years time he will be twice as old as Mary. How old are John and Mary?" The answer to this problem is that John is 9 and Mary is 3. 
Children often like to give one another problems that can be solved by "lateral thinking". This means using the imagination rather than strict logic. Here is an example:
"Peter, Ruth, Samuel and Jessica live in the same house. Peter and Ruth went out. When they returned they found Jessica lying dead, surrounded by glass. They were sure Samuel had done it. Why did they not call the police?" The answer is: Samuel was the cat and Jessica was a goldfish.
A well-known example of a problem that cannot be solved is that of squaring the circle – how to get a square that has the same area as a given circle, using geometry.
These are classic works on problem-solving:
Most of these deal with well-formulated problems. There are also a number of books on the psychology of thinking, which is obviously a large part of problem-solving:

</doc>
<doc id="40996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40996" title="Order">
Order

Order has many meanings (like a dictionary):

</doc>
<doc id="40998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40998" title="Friedrichshafen">
Friedrichshafen

Frierichshafen is a city in Germany. It is at the north shore of the Lake of Constance. It is the second largest city at the lakeside, after Konstanz. About 58.000 people live there. The city is famous for having one of the first Zeppelins.

</doc>
<doc id="40999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40999" title="Zeppelin">
Zeppelin

"For the English rock group, see Led Zeppelin."
A Zeppelin is a type of airship. It is a dirigible, which means it is rigid airship, but can be directed. It was developed by Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, in the early 20th century. The name Zeppelin is now used as a common name for all airships. Zeppelins were used in the First World War. In the Second World War the Nazis largely used them for propaganda purposes.
One of the most well-known Zeppelins was the LZ 129 Hindenburg, which caught fire on May 6, 1937, during a landing after a non-stop trip from Germany to New Jersey in the United States. After the Second World War and the fall of the Nazis in Germany, Zeppelins were not used anymore. Plans exist to use Zeppelins to lift heavy weights. Sometimes, they are also used as tourist attractions, or for advertising.

</doc>
<doc id="41002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41002" title="666">
666

666 was a year in the western calendar, as counted Anno Domini.

</doc>
<doc id="41010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41010" title="Stanza">
Stanza

A stanza is a related group of lines or verses in a poem. A stanza also can be a verse in paragraph form. They can keep on going without punctuation. It may also be a line in a poem.
Two most important features of a stanza is the number of lines and the rhyme-scheme. There are many kinds of stanza. 
An Italian sonnet consists of two four-line stanzas and two three-line stanzas:
A French ballad is composed of three eight-line stanzas and a four-line one:
Some stanzas are named after poets, who invented or often used them. An example is Sapphic stanza that was named after famous Greek woman poet Sappho.
Joseph Berg Esenwein, Mary Eleanor Roberts, "Art of Versification". Revised edition. Springfield: 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="41013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41013" title="Nanga Parbat">
Nanga Parbat

Nanga Parbat is the second-highest mountain of Pakistan. It is in Gilgit Baltistan, between Chilas and Astore. Nanga Parbat means "Naked Mountain". It is the ninth highest peak in the world, at high. In 1953, an Austrian German named Hermann Buhl was the first to climb it.
Nanga Parbat is in the west of the Himalayas, and is the most western of the mountains higher than eight thousand meters. It lies just south of the Indus River, in the Astore District of the Northern Areas in the region of Kashmir. Not far to the north is the western end of the Karakoram mountains.
Nanga Parbat is the highest peak in the Nanga Parbat Range. The range covers an area of in length and in width. In the east it joins the Pir Panjal Range.
The steep incline of its peak that rises above the ground far below make Nanga Parbat a difficult and dangerous climb. Many deaths in the mid and early 20th century gave it the nickname of "killer mountain".

</doc>
<doc id="41014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41014" title="Cheema">
Cheema

Cheema (Shahmukhi: چیمہ, : ਚੀਮਾ) (also spelled Chima) is a subclan of the Jatt clan found in India and Pakistan. Jatts are a large and important group of tribes in Punjab. Cheemas are one of the few major subclans of Jatts. They speak Punjabi, and usually own vast farmlands. Majority of people of Cheema clan who are Muslims are found in West Punjab (Pakistan), and many who are Sikhs are found in East Punjab (India).
Cheema tribe was classified as "Martial race", a designation created by Army officials of British India after the Indian Rebellion of 1857, where they classified each caste into one of two categories, 'martial' and 'non-martial'. A 'martial race' was typically brave and well-built for fighting,
The Cheema tribe was called "Shaka" in India, from the name Saka used by the Persians. From the time of the Mahabharata wars (1500-500 BC) Shakas were mentioned many times in texts like the Puranas, the Manusmriti, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, the Mahabhasiya of Patanjali, the Brhat Samhita of Vraha Mihira, the Kavyamimamsa, the Brihat-Katha-Manjari, the Katha-Saritsagara, and many other old texts.
The Vanaparava of the Mahabharata has a prophecy saying that the kings of the Shakas, Yavanas, Kambojas, Bahlikas, and Abhiras shall rule unrighteously in Kaliyuga (MBH 3/188/34-36).
This seems to mean the situation after the Mauryan and Sunga dynasties fell apart and northern India was occupied by foreign armies of the Shakas, Yavanas, Kambojas and Pahlavas.
Alexander overran the Achaemenid Empire in 331 BC and marched into what is now Afghanistan with an army of 50,000. His scribes do not mention Gandhara or Kamboja; instead, they name twelve small countries in those territories. This means that Gandhara and/or Kamboja must not have been very great kingdoms in the late 4th century BC. In 326 BC, most of these twelve or so countries that used to be in the Gandhara Kamboja Mahajanapadas were conquered by the Macedonian conqueror.
Alexander invited all the chieftains of the former satrapy of Gandhara to come to him and submit to his authority. Ambhi, ruler of Taxila, whose kingdom extended from the Indus to the Hydaspes (Jhelum), complied. After confirming him in his satrapy, Alexander marched against the Sakas (Cheemas are considered to be decadents of the Sakas) and Kamboja highlanders of the Kunar also Swat valleys known in Greek texts as Aspasios and Assakenois (q.v.) and in Indian texts as Ashvayana and Ashvakayana (names referring to their equestrian nature), who had refused to submit to Alexander. The "Ashvayan", "Ashvakayan", Kamboja and allied Saka clans offered tough resistance to the invader and fought him to a man. When worse came to worst, even the Ashvakayan women took up arms and joined their menfolk on the field, thus preferring ""a glorious death to a life of dishonor"".
Thereafter, Alexander marched east to the Hydaspes, where Porus, ruler of the kingdom between the Hydaspes (Jhelum) and the Akesines (Chenab) refused to submit to him. The two armies fought the historic Battle of the Hydaspes River on the riverbank outside the town of Nikaia (near the modern city of Jhelum). Porus's army fought bravely, but was no match for Alexander's. When the defiant Raja (though wounded and having lost his sons) was brought before Alexander, a legendary conversation took place in which Alexander inquired of Porus, "How should I treat you?", the brave Porus shot back, "The way a king treats another king." Alexander was struck by his spirit. He not only returned the conquered kingdom to Porus, but added the land lying between the Akesines (Chenab) and the Hydraotis (Ravi), whose ruler had fled. Alexander's army crossed the Hydraotis and marched east to the Hesidros (Beas), but there his troops refused to march further east, and Alexander turned back, following the Jhelum and the Indus to the Arabian Sea, and sailing to Babylon.
In the middle of the 2nd century BC, the Yuezhi tribe of modern China moved westward into Central Asia, which, in turn, caused the Sakas (Scythians) to move west and south. The Northern Sakas, also known as the Indo-Scythians, moved first into Bactria, and later crossed the Hindu Kush into India, successfully wresting power from the Indo-Greeks. They were followed by the Yuezhi, who were known in India as the Kushans or Kushanas. The Kushanas founded a kingdom in the 1st century that lasted for several centuries. Both the Indo-Scythians and the Kushans embraced Buddhism, and absorbed elements of Indo-Greek art and culture into their own. Another Central Asiatic people to make Punjab their home were the Hephthalites (White Huns), who engaged in continuous campaigns from across the Hindu Kush, finally establishing their rule in India in the fifth century.
Many Jatt/Cheema were oppressed by Hindu king Raja Dahir who ruled over Punjab where the majority of the population followed Buddhism (Ram Swarup Joon: "History of the Jats", Rohtak, India (1938, 1967)). The Jat made strong alliances with the Muslim Arabs and hailed the conquest of Muhammad bin Qasim an Arab general. Muhammad bin Qasim defeated the Hindu Raja Dahir in alliance with Jats and other Buddhist Rajas. On his arrival at the town of Brahmanabad between six and sixteen thousand men died in the ensuing battle. Buddhists and the Jat, Meds and Bhutto tribes hailed him as a rescuer from tyranny at the hands of "Chach" and his kin (regarded as usurpers of the Rai Dynasty).
Historian Baladhuri records the local sentiments upon Qasim's recall,
“people of Hind wept for Qasim and preserved his likeness at Karaj”.
While the “Chach-Nama” notes the following as highlights of Qasim’s rule:
The rulers before Islam were: Siharus, Sahasi II, Chach, Dahir. The first two were Buddhist Jatt , and the last two were Hindu jatt . The new Brahmin rulers were not friendly to the many Buddhists in Sind at that time, and they were cruel to the Jats and Meds, who were most of the peasants. Bad conditions were put on the Jats and they lost many civil rights. "When Chach, the Brahmim chamberlain who usurped the throne of chach King went to Brahmanabad, he enjoined upon the Jats and Lohanas not to carry swords, avoid velvet or silken cloth, ride horses without saddles and walk about bare-headed and bare-footed". It was because of this background that Muhammad bin Qasim received cooperation from the Buddhists as well as the Jats and Meds during his campaign in Sind ("An advanced history of India" by Ramesh Chandra Majumdar; Hemchandra Raychaudhuri; Kalikinkar Datta Delhi: Macmillan India, 1973) In fact he was hailed as deliverer by several sections of local population. The position of the Buddhists in Sind seeking support from outside can be read in the Chach Nama.
Mohamammad Bin Qasim came as a deliverer for the ancient tribes of Jats and Meds and he defeated the oppressing King of Sindh. From then the war between Budhists and Hindus saw another contender whos future followers of the monotheistic Islamic faith would change the history of India forever.
The Cheema clan holds the largest number of Political seats in the National Assembly of Pakistan and Senate of Pakistan in Punjab, more than any other family in Pakistan. Many Cheemas have emigrated, establishing successful careers in aid agencies, and armies amongst other professionals. Their reputation as honest, if ambitious workers, is maintained in the diaspora.
The Udyogaparava of the Mahabharata "(5/19/21-23)" tells us that the composite army of the Kambojas, Yavanas and Shakas had participated in the Mahabharata war under the supreme command of Sudakshina Kamboja. The epic repeatedly applauds this composite army as being very fierce and wrathful.
Mahabharata, too similarly groups the Shakas with the Kambojas and Yavanas and states that they were originally noble Kshatriyas but got degraded to "vrishala" status on account of their non-obersvance of the sacred Brahmanical codes.
This degradation of social stature of Cheemas can also be attributed to their unholy ways in conduct.
Manusmriti places the Shakas with the Kambojas, Yavanas, Pahlavas, Paradas and labels them all as degraded Kshatriyas (Holy Warriors) defying the Brahmanical codes and rituals.
In the "Puranas Darada" the Jatt sub-tribes have been called degrading terms such as Rakshasas (demons) not having darshan of the Brahmin.
Cheemas of Sialkot district have, in common with the Sindhu and Shahi of these parts, some peculiar marriage customs, such as cutting a goat's ear and marking their foreheads with the blood, making the bridegroom cut off 
a twig of "jhand" tree (Prosopis spicigera) and so forth. They like most other tribes of Sialkot district worship
"jhand" tree.
Cheemas of Gujranwala district have similar marriage customs which involves making the bride cut off a twig of "jhand" tree, followed by paying a visit to local "Peer"'s or "Jathera"s (elders) shrine.
Cheema are most numerous in Amritsar district followed by forty two villages in Patiala district. According to Cunningham this area of high Cheema density was called "Chima des" (Des or Desh, in Hindustani and Punjabi means country). Many settled in Montgomery (Sahiwal) and Sandal Bar during the British rule of Punjab due to construction of extensive canal network in these areas. They also have few villages scattered across Rawalpindi, Bhawalpur, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Moga, Ludhiana and Sangrur.
Towards west in the Punjab plains they are not found after "Chaj Doab". Towards east in the Punjab plains, this clan was not found after district Sangrur in east Punjab, until 1947 when many Sikh Cheemas moved from Sialkot and Gujranwala to settle in Patiala, Karnal and Sirsa after partition of the Punjab. And some families also moved afterward Udhamsingh nagar(Uttrakhand), Pilibhit, Puranpur & Rampur ( Utter pradesh).(this region called Mini Punjab, & Terai Region).
In Pakistan, Sialkot district has large Cheema population with many Cheema villages such as "Begowal", "Verowala Cheema Jamke Cheema,Tajokay Cheema, Adamkay Cheema," "Sahowala", "Kamalpur", Manpur. Also in Rawalpindi district, there is a village near Gujar Khan which is named Sui Cheemian and has a substantal population of Cheema's. In Southern Punjab, Bahawalpur and "Yazman" are richly populated with the Cheema Families and their saturated villages and the area elects more than a dozen cabinet members.
In India, Rupnagar and Mohali district of Punjab state has large Cheema population with many cheema villages such as "Salaura".
There is an old folk saying about Cheema and Chatha tribes in Punjabi ""Cheemey tey Chatthey, khaan peen nu vakkhon vakh tey larran bhiran nu katthey"" ( English translation : Cheemas and Chatthas are separate in their feasts but united for the fights)

</doc>
<doc id="41016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41016" title="K2">
K2

K2 is the second highest mountain in the world. It is in the Karakoram section of the Himalayas between Pakistan and China. K2 is the National mountain of Pakistan. The popular name K2 came from the name of the mountain range Karakoram. It means "Karakoram 2". 
K2 is 8,623 metres (28,661 feet) high. The mountain may be harder to climb than Mount Everest because of its very bad weather. Climbers say that the weather around K2 is much worse than Mount Everest. K2 is also much higher than the area around it when compared to Everest. K2 is nicknamed "The Savage Mountain" because of how difficult the climb is. It has the second-highest fatality rate among the eight-thousand-feet mountains. As of 2011, only 300 people have climbed to the top of the mountain. At least 80 people have died trying to climb it.
An unofficial name for K2 is Mount Godwin Austen, named for the man who first climbed it.
The first attempt to reach the summit was made by an Anglo-Swiss expedition in 1902 that ascended to 18,600 feet (5,670 metres) on the peak’s northeastern crest. Other unsuccessful attempts included an Italian expedition in 1909, led by Luigi Amedeo, duke d’Abruzzi, via the southeastern ridge (later called the Abruzzi Ridge) that reached approximately 20,000 feet (6,100 metres). In 1938 an American expedition led by Charles Houston via the Abruzzi Ridge reached about 26,000 feet (7,925 metres); in 1939 another American-led expedition following the same route reached about 27,500 feet (8,380 metres); and in 1953 another expedition led by Houston reached 25,900 feet (7,900 metres) on the Abruzzi Ridge. 
Finally, in 1954, an Italian expedition consisting of five scientists (including the geologist Ardito Desio as leader), a doctor, a photographer, and 12 others, including a Pakistani, managed to conquer the Abruzzi Ridge despite the severe weather conditions. The summit was reached at 6 pm on July 31, 1954, by Achille Compagnoni and Lino Lacedelli. In the course of the ascent, Mario Puchoz, one of the guides, died of pneumonia.

</doc>
<doc id="41024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41024" title="Respiration">
Respiration

During respiration energy is released in a form that can be used by cells. All living things respire. Both plant and animal cells use the process of respiration to release energy from glucose.
There are two types of respiration. One is aerobic respiration and the other is anaerobic respiration. Breaking down of food in presence of oxygen is called aerobic respiration, whereas breaking down food in the absence of oxygen is called anaerobic respiration. 
Respiration takes place in a special structure called the mitochondria inside all eukaryote cells.
See these (in this order) for an outline of the biochemistry of aerobic respiration:

</doc>
<doc id="41028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41028" title="Kingsley Amis">
Kingsley Amis

Sir Kingsley William Amis (16 April 1922 – 22 October 1995) was an English novelist, poet, critic, and teacher. He wrote more than twenty novels, three collections of poetry, short stories, radio and television scripts, and books of social and literary criticism. He was the father of the British novelist Martin Amis.
Kingsley Amis was born in Clapham, South London, England. He went to school at the City of London School and St. John's College, Oxford. At Oxford, he met Philip Larkin and became friends. Amis served in the Royal Corps of Signals in the Second World War. 
Amis was a fan of jazz music. He liked the American musicians Sidney Bechet, Henry "Red" Allen and Pee Wee Russell.
His first novel "Lucky Jim" was very successfull. The novel won the Somerset Maugham Award for fiction. "Lucky Jim" was the first English novel that focused on an ordinary man as anti-hero. As a poet, Amis was a part of The Movement (anti-romantic poetry).
As a young man, Kingsley Amis was a member of the Communist Party. He left them when the Soviet Union invaded Hungary in 1956. After that, Amis became anti-communist, and conservative. He talks about his political change in the essay "Why Lucky Jim Turned Right" (1967). 
Amis was an atheist. Novels such as "The Green Man" and "The Anti-Death League" were about the personality of a divine being. They were also about its relationship to death and dying.
Amis's novel "The Old Devils" won the Booker Prize in 1986. He received a knighthood in 1990.
Amis was married. The first time in 1948 to Hilary Bardwell and then to novelist Elizabeth Jane Howard in 1965. He divorced Howard in 1983. Amis spent his last years living with his first wife and her third husband. He had two sons and a daughter. His younger son was novelist Martin Amis. Martin wrote about his father's life and decline in his memoir "Experience".
Amis' interest in science fiction led to "New Maps of Hell" (1960). It was about how he felt about science fiction in literature. He liked the stories of Frederik Pohl and C.M. Kornbluth. With the Sovietologist Robert Conquest, Amis produced the science fiction series "Spectrum" I–IV. This series got a lot of its ideas from the 1950s magazine "Astounding Science Fiction". He wrote three science fiction novels. "The Alteration" was an alternate history novel set in a twentieth-century Britain. "Russian Hide-and-Seek" was an alternate history where Russia had conquered Britain after the Second World War. He also wrote the supernatural-horror novel "The Green Man" which the BBC adapted for television.
Amis wrote books about Ian Fleming's James Bond. He wrote the popular "James Bond Dossier". Later, he wrote, "The Book of Bond, or, Every Man His Own 007". It was a tongue-in-cheek how-to manual about being a spy like Bond. He wrote it under the name "Lt Col. William 'Bill' Tanner". Tanner was M's Chief of Staff in many of the Bond novels. 

</doc>
<doc id="41048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41048" title="69">
69

69 is a year in the 1st century.

</doc>
<doc id="41051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41051" title="410s">
410s


</doc>
<doc id="41053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41053" title="340s">
340s


</doc>
<doc id="41078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41078" title="Ferdinand II of Aragon">
Ferdinand II of Aragon

Ferdinand II the Catholic (, 10 March 1452 – 23 January 1516) was king of Aragon (1479–1516), Castile, Sicily (1468–1516), Naples (1504–1516), Valencia, Sardinia and Navarre and Count of Barcelona.
Ferdinand is the son of John II of Aragon by his second wife, the Aragonese noblewoman Juana Enriquez. He married Infanta Isabella, the sister by a different mother and heiress of Henry IV of Castile, on 19 October 1469 in Ocaña. He became Ferdinand V of Castile when Isabella succeeded her brother as Queen of Castile in 1474. The two young monarchs had initially to fight a civil war against Juana, princess of Castile (also known as Juana la Beltraneja), the purported daughter of Henry IV. They were ultimately successful. Ferdinand succeeded his father as King of Aragon in 1479 and the Crown of Castile and the various territories of the Crown of Aragon were united in a personal union. For the first time since the 8th century this created a single political unit which might be called Spain, although the various territories were not properly administered as a single unit until the 18th century.
The first decades of Ferdinand and Isabella's joint rule were taken up with the conquest of the Kingdom of Granada, the last Muslim enclave in the Iberian peninsula. This was completed by 1492. In that same year, the Jews were expelled from both Castile and Aragon, and Christopher Columbus was sent by the couple on his expedition which would ultimately discover the New World. By the Treaty of Tordesillas of 1494, the extra-European world was split between the crowns of Portugal and Castile by a north-south line through the Atlantic Ocean.
The latter part of Ferdinand's life was largely taken up with the so-called Italian Wars, disputes over control of Italy with successive Kings of France. In 1494, Charles VIII of France invaded Italy and expelled Ferdinand's cousin, Alfonso II, from the throne of Naples. Ferdinand's alliance with various Italian princes and with Emperor Maximilian I, expelled the French by 1496 and installed Alfonso's son, Ferdinand, on the Neapolitan throne. In 1501, following the death of Ferdinand II of Naples and his succession by his uncle Frederick, Ferdinand of Aragon signed an agreement with Charles VIII's successor, Louis XII. Louis had just successfully asserted his claims to the Duchy of Milan, and they agreed to partition Naples between them, with Campania and the Abruzzi, including Naples itself, going to the French and Ferdinand taking Apulia and Calabria. The agreement soon fell apart, and over the next several years, Ferdinand's great general Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba conquered Naples from the French, by 1504. Another less famous "conquest" took place in 1502, when Andreas Paleologus, de jure Emperor of the Eastern Roman Empire, left Ferdinand and Isabella as heirs to the empire, thus Ferdinand became de jure Roman Emperor. 
After Isabella's death, her kingdom went to her daughter Joanna. Ferdinand served as the latter's regent during her absence in the Netherlands, ruled by her husband Archduke Philip. Ferdinand attempted to retain the regency permanently, but was rebuffed by the Castilian nobility and replaced with Joanna's husband, who became Philip I of Castile. After Philip's death in 1506, with Joanna mentally unstable, and her and Philip's son Charles of Ghent only six years old, Ferdinand resumed the regency, ruling through Francisco Cardinal Jimenez de Cisneros, the Chancellor of the Kingdom.
In 1508, war resumed in Italy, this time against Venice. All the other powers on the peninsula, including Louis XII, Ferdinand, Maximilian, and Pope Julius II joined together against as the League of Cambrai. Although the French were victorious against Venice at the Battle of Agnadello, the League soon fell apart, as both the Pope and Ferdinand became suspicious of French intentions. Instead, the Holy League was formed, in which all the powers now joined together against France.
In November 1511 Ferdinand and his son-in-law Henry VIII of England signed the Treaty of Westminster, pledging mutual aid between the two against France. Earlier that year, Ferdinand had conquered the southern half of the Kingdom of Navarre, which was ruled by a French nobleman, and annexed it to Spain. At this point to reinforce his claim to the kingdom, Ferdinand remarried with the much younger Germaine of Foix (1490–1538), a granddaughter of Queen Leonor of Navarre. The Holy League was generally successful in Italy, as well, driving the French from Milan, which was restored to its Sforza dukes by the peace treaty in 1513. The French were successful in reconquering Milan two years later, however.
Ferdinand died in 1516 in Madrigalejo, Cáceres, Extremadura. He had made Spain the most powerful country in Europe. The succession of his grandson Charles, who inherited not only the Spanish lands of his maternal grandparents, but the Habsburg and Burgundian lands of his paternal family, would make his heirs the most powerful rulers on the continent. Charles succeeded him in the Aragonese lands, and was also granted the Castilian crown jointly with his insane mother, bringing about at long last the unification of the Spanish thrones under one head.
Ferdinand and Isabella had 5 children, Isabella of Asturias, Juan of Aragon, Joanna of Castile, Maria of Aragon, and Catherine of Aragon. Joanna and Catherine married with several European dynasties, setting the bases for the huge heritage of their grandson Charles V. His granddaughter was Queen Mary I of England.

</doc>
<doc id="41085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41085" title="Web 2.0">
Web 2.0

Web 2.0 () is what people call new ways of showing or using things on the Internet. 
Web 2.0 is considered beneficial because it is easy for people to publish their work, connect with other people, and share and exchange information.
To people who use the Internet, wikis and blogs are Web 2.0. Web 2.0 is mostly about user-generated and interactive content.
Before Web 2.0, Internet users could just read information on web pages. With Web 2.0, users can interact with the site and add information. In Web 1.0, the previous version, information was only written by the website author. 
The Internet technology which is used for web 2.0 is not different from the old Internet technology, but the ways people use the web (the Internet) has changed.
Some people think that Wikipedia is a great example of "Web 2.0". Many other famous websites, such as Facebook and Youtube, are considered Web 2.0 Websites. 

</doc>
<doc id="41090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41090" title="The Broons">
The Broons

The Broons is a comic strip in the Scottish newspaper The Sunday Post. It is about a Scottish family with 11 members.
The strip is written in the Scots language.

</doc>
<doc id="41095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41095" title="Roman Republic">
Roman Republic

The Roman Republic was a phase in history of the Ancient Roman Civilization. According to legend, the city of Rome was founded by Romulus in 753 BC. It was a kingdom until 510 BC, when the last King, Lucius Tarquinius Superbus was overthrown. With that date, the Roman Republic began. 
The Roman Republic was very well organized for ancient times. The Roman people elected "Consuls", who ruled for a short time. Some of the ideas of the Roman Republic are still used today.
The end of the republic is still a matter of dispute; different scholars will give different dates for it. Usually, the dates of the start of the First Triumvirate or the Second Triumvirate are given. (The Triumvirates were groups of three men who had much power)
The end of the republic is often said to be when Gaius Julius Caesar was appointed as dictator (single ruler) by the Roman Senate. This happened after a series of civil wars that lasted from about 49 BC to the year 44 BC.
Some people say the republic ended with the naval Battle of Actium between Marcus Antonius and Octavian. They both had been in the Second Triumvirate. It was fought on September 2, 31 BC. Octavian won. Later on, he was proclaimed Roman Emperor. The end date could also be when Octavian was given the title of the first "Augustus". This was on January 16, 27 BC.
These are modern views though. In the view of the early emperors, the "res publica" (what is translated to "Republic") still existed. It was simply "under their protection". They promised it would some day, maybe, be restored to its original form, even though this never happened. After the Roman Republic ended, the Roman Empire began.
The Triumvirate faced many problems as with the assassination of Julius Caesar and the input of Lepidus and Octavius with Marc Antony. 
The Republic got most of its wealth from trading and taxation. The Republic had few enemies but it was constantly on war with the Gauls, who were conquered by Caesar later. The Punic Wars against Carthage were fought all over the Mediterranean coasts, mainly because of Sicily and trade disputes. The third enemy being the Germanic tribes or simply barbarians (uncivilized people). 
The Republic suffered many disasters including Spartacus (the leader of a slave revolt) Spartacus defeated one consul's army before being captured, the Republic suffered at the hands of Hannibal, who after crossing the Alps defeated the Roman Army at Cannae and many other battles which saw Rome with a great fear of being destroyed by Hannibal.

</doc>
<doc id="41096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41096" title="First Triumvirate">
First Triumvirate

The First Triumvirate is the name most historians give to the political alliance between Gaius Julius Caesar, Marcus Licinius Crassus and Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus. They made it in 60 BC to give each other power. Each person helped the others to be more powerful. 
Caesar was able to gain money from Crassus to finance his public works campaign. He also gained military power from Pompey's loyal legions. Crassus, who was much envied and hated for his wealth and the means he used to attain it, was also able to gain popularity from Pompey as well as Ceasar who had a loyal following in the plebeian class. Pompey was grateful to Caesar for his support against slander in the senate. Caesar's speeches in the senate were in favor of giving the newly conquered land to Pompeys' returned legions. Pompey and Crassus ended their old grudge that dated back to the Third Servile War because they realised that the advantages they allowed each other. To cement the Triumvirate Crassus told Ceasars' numerous debt holders that he would pay Caesars loans if Ceasar defaulted. Pompey married Caesars' only child Julia. The Triumvirate lasted until Crassus' death in the Battle of Carrhae in 53 BC.
Caesar and Pompey started fighting. Caesar won at the Battle of Pharsalus. Caesar became dictator in the year 44 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="41098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41098" title="Second Triumvirate">
Second Triumvirate

The Second Triumvirate was an alliance between Octavian, Mark Antony and Lepidus. It was formed to punish the conspirators who assassinated Julius Caesar. 
The Triumvirate lasted from 43 BC to 33 BC. It ended the effort by Marcus Tullius Cicero to reinstate the Senate as the sovereign body of the Republic. From then on Rome was ruled by an Emperor.

</doc>
<doc id="41100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41100" title="Occam's razor">
Occam's razor

Occam's razor (or Ockham's razor) is a principle from philosophy. Suppose there exist two explanations for an occurrence. In this case the simpler one is usually better. Another way of saying it is that the more assumptions you have to make, the more unlikely an explanation is. Occam's razor applies especially in the philosophy of science, but also more generally.
William of Ockham, a Franciscan friar who studied logic in the 14th century, first made this principle well known. In Latin it is sometimes called lex parsimoniae, or "the law of briefness". William of Ockham supposedly (see below) wrote it in Latin as:
This translates roughly as:
This means that if there are several possible ways that something might have happened, the way that uses the fewest guesses is probably the right one. However, Occam's razor only applies when the simple explanation and complex explanation both work equally well. If a more complex explanation does a better job than a simpler one, then you should use the complex one.
Occam's razor is a principle, not an actual razor: the word 'razor' is a metaphor. Occam's razor gets rid of unnecessary explanations just like a razor shaves off extra hair.
A problem with Occam's razor is that the sentence is not really about things ("entia" = entities), but about explanations or hypotheses. So other thinkers have come up with other versions:
In science, Occam's razor is used as a heuristic (general guiding rule or an observation) to guide scientists.
Example: Two trees have fallen down during a windy night. Think about these two possible explanations:
Even though both are possible, several other unlikely things would also need to happen for the meteorites to have knocked the trees down (they would have to hit each other and also not leave any marks). In addition, meteorites are fairly rare. Since this second explanation needs several assumptions to all be true, it is probably the wrong answer. Occam's razor tells us that the wind blew the trees down, because that is the simplest answer and therefore probably the right one.
Occam's razor also comes up in medicine. When there are many explanations for symptoms, the simplest diagnosis is the one to test first. If a child has a runny nose, it probably has the common cold rather than a rare birth defect. Medical students are often told, "When you hear hoof beats, think horses, not zebras".

</doc>
<doc id="41105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41105" title="Rio Grande do Sul">
Rio Grande do Sul

Rio Grande do Sul is a Brazilian state. It is in Southern Brazil. It has common borders with Uruguay to the south, and Argentina to the west. It has a very high standard of living. Its capital city is Porto Alegre. About 10 million people live in the state. The state has a surface area of roughly 282,000 square kilometres.

</doc>
<doc id="41107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41107" title="Turbofolk">
Turbofolk

Turbofolk or Pop-folk is a style of music from the Balkans that was invented in the early 1990s. It mostly comes from Greece, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, but it is also popular in other nearby countries. It sounds like a mix of Arabic-style singing (in the Serbian language) with electronic music and rock music.
Turbofolk is sometimes associated with the recent Balkan wars and the Breakup of Yugoslavia but it is still popular.

</doc>
<doc id="41108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41108" title="Bérurier Noir">
Bérurier Noir

Bérurier Noir are a French punk band which formed in Paris in 1983. It is made up of Loran (guitar), François (vocals) and Dede (drum machine). In 1985 Masto joined, playing the saxophone. They sing about French politics and anarchism. They are one of the most famous French punk bands.

</doc>
<doc id="41112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41112" title="Roman Britain">
Roman Britain

Roman Britain ("Britannia") was the part of Great Britain in the Roman Empire from AD 43 to 409 or 410. The first invasion was led by Julius Caesar, in the days of the Roman Republic. He defeated the dominant Catuvellauni tribe in 54 BC near Wheathampstead in Hertfordshire. Their capital was taken over by the Romans. Trouble in Gaul (mainly modern France & Belgium) prevented Caesar from staying in Britain. The full conquest of Britain was delayed for almost a century.
In 43 AD, the Emperor Claudius sent an invasion force, led by Aulus Plautius, a distinguished senator. He was given four legions, totalling about 20,000 men, plus about the same number of helpers The legions were:
The "II Augusta" was commanded by the future emperor Vespasian. The other three legions were also led by high-ranking men.
The invasion was one of the most significant events in British history. Roman legions left in 410 AD after almost four centuries, and the administration of the country was taken over by prominent local chieftains. This was known as Sub-Roman Britain, with a Romano-British culture and the people may have used a Latin-based language. It lasted for about two centuries but gave way to an increasingly Anglo-Saxon England by the start of the seventh century.
Roman technology made its impact in road building and the construction of villas, forts and cities. During their occupation of Britain the Romans built an extensive network of roads. They were used in later centuries, and many are still followed today. The Romans also built water supply, sanitation and sewage systems. Many of Britain's major cities, such as London ("Londinium"), Manchester ("Mamucium") and York ("Eboracum"), were founded by the Romans.
There was no writing in Britain before the Romans. They introduced it and, when they left, writing only survived with the help of religion.
The British were skilled in the arts, and produced ornamental jewellery and pottery which was exported to Europe. They built defensive structures such as hill forts. They were proficient in warfare with spears, bows and arrows. Small round stones found in such sites indicate the use of slings or catapults.
To keep Roman control, forts and garrisons were built throughout Britain, and the existing roads improved. The local people had to maintain the Roman roads in Britain, and got tax relief for their efforts. Roman roads allowed for troop movements and the distribution of supplies. The forts and garrisons needed food and other services. Vast areas produced these goods. For example, the often flooded Somerset levels was like a huge market garden that provided supplies for the garrisons at Exeter, Gloucester, Bath and the forts in between. Local fishermen supplied fresh fish, and farmers reared sheep, pigs, cattle and poultry for the garrisons.
Missionaries from Gaul began to introduce Christianity to the West country. Before the end of the first century AD they had a Church of Celtic Christianity. This spread such that by the mid second century much of Cornwall, Devon, Western Dorset, and South Somerset had adopted Christianity. The spread of Christianity continued eastward and strongly northward into Wales through the next two centuries, especially after the adoption of Christianity by Rome. The Romans had built shrines and temples to their pagan gods and continued to patronize these, even after the adoption of Christianity by Rome. 

</doc>
<doc id="41113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41113" title="990">
990

990 is a year in the 10th century.

</doc>
<doc id="41114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41114" title="1073">
1073


</doc>
<doc id="41140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41140" title="Bixente Lizarazu">
Bixente Lizarazu

Bixente Lizarazu (born 9 December 1969) is a former French football player. He is one of the most successful football players in the world. He won the FIFA World Cup in 1998 and the European Football Championship in 2000. He has also won the UEFA Champions League (2001) and was champion of the Bundesliga (both with Bayern Munich) five times in a six-year period (1999, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2005).
Lizarazu was born in Saint-Jean-de Luz, a small village in Basque region of France, in 1969. His first club was Eglantins Hendaje (1977-1989). He then went to Girondins Bordeaux (1989-1996). After playing for Bordeaux, he played for the Spanish club Athletic Bilbao (1996-1997) before he went to Bayern Munich (1997-2005). For a six months, he played for Olympique Marseille (2004). He ended his career in 2005.
258||22
16||0
174||8
448||30
!Total||97||2

</doc>
<doc id="41142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41142" title="Shetland">
Shetland

Shetland (or the Shetland Islands) is an archipelago, the furthest out part of Scotland.
The islands are between the Faroe Islands and the Orkney Islands. They are about 50 miles to the northeast of the Orkney Islands. They are about 100 islands in the group. People live on 16 of them. 
The islands form part of the boundary between the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the North Sea to the east.
The largest islands of the group are Mainland, Yell, Unst, Fetlar, Whalsay, and Bressay. In general, the climate of the group is subarctic, and rather bleak. 
They used to be called Hjaltland or Zetland. Today, the islands are part of Scotland. The administrative centre is Lerwick.
The economy of the islands is largely based on agriculture. The sheep are known for their fine wool. Other well-known exports are the Shetland ponies and Shetland Sheepdog.
In 1969 crude oil was discovered near the islands, leading to an alternative source of income for them.
By the end of the 9th century the Norsemen shifted from plundering to invasion, mainly due to the overpopulation of Scandinavia in comparison to resources and arable land available there.
Shetland was colonised by Norsemen in the 9th century. The fate of the native population is unknown. The colonisers established their laws and language. That language evolved into the West Nordic language Norn, which survived into the 19th century.
After Harald Finehair took control of all Norway, many of his opponents fled, some to Orkney and Shetland. From the Northern Isles they continued to raid Scotland and Norway, prompting Harald Hårfagre to raise a large fleet which he sailed to the islands. In about 875 he and his forces took control of Shetland and Orkney. Ragnvald, Earl of Møre received Orkney and Shetland as an earldom from the king as reparation for his son's being killed in battle in Scotland. Ragnvald gave the earldom to his brother Sigurd the Mighty.
Shetland was Christianised in the 10th century. In the Treaty of Perth in 1266 the Norwegian king surrendered his furthest British islands to Scotland. They included the Hebrides, and the Isle of Man. In return, the Scots recognised Norwegian sovereignty over Orkney and Shetland. The islands did not become Scottish until the 15th century, and were ratified by an Act of Parliament in 1669.
For three centuries the Shetlanders sold their fish (salted cod) through the German Hanseatic League, a trading organisation. This arrangement lasted from 1400 to 1700 AD.
In WWII the Shetlands were active in covert operations against the Germans in Norway. The 'Shetland Bus' (fishing vessels) sailed in covert operations between Norway and Shetland. They carried intelligence agents, refugees, instructors for the resistance, and military supplies. Many people on the run from the Germans, and much important information on German activity in Norway, were brought back to the Allies this way.
In the early 1970s, oil and gas were found off Shetland. The East Shetland Basin is one of the largest petroleum sedimentary basins in Europe. Sullom Voe terminal opened in 1978 and is the largest oil export harbour in the United Kingdom with a volume of 25 million tons per year.
Firm geological evidence shows that at around 6100 BC a tsunami caused by the Storegga Slides hit Shetland, as well as the rest of the east coast of Scotland, and may have washed over some of the Shetland Islands completely. 
Shetland has been populated since at least 3400 BC. The early people subsisted on cattle-farming and agriculture. During the Bronze Age, around 2000 BC, the climate cooled and the population moved to the coast. During the Iron Age, many stone fortresses were erected, some ruins of which remain today.
Due to the practice of building in stone on the virtually tree-less islands, Shetland is extremely rich in physical remains of all these periods, though Shetland is less rich in material remains than Orkney.
The artifacts of all the eras of Shetland's past can be studied at the newly built (2007) Shetland Museum in Lerwick.

</doc>
<doc id="41143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41143" title="Salt evaporation pond">
Salt evaporation pond

A Salt evaporation pond (or saltern pond) is a man-made shallow pond. Usually it is located near the sea. The ponds can be filled with salt water. The water is then left to evaporate. The salt is left behind, and can be harvested. Such ponds also provide a habitat for several kinds of animals. Most of these animals are birds. 
The color tells how much salt there is left in the water. Green colors come from special algae. These algae are there in low to mid salinity ponds (ponds with little salt in the water). In middle to high salinity ponds, an alga called Dunaliella salina shifts the color to red. Millions of tiny brine shrimp create an orange cast in mid-salinity ponds. Other bacteria such as Stichococcus also contribute tints. These colors are especially interesting to airplane passengers or astronauts passing above due to their somewhat artistic formations of shape and color. 

</doc>
<doc id="41147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41147" title="Salinity">
Salinity

Salinity is a scientific term. Scientists use it to tell how much salt there is in water. Salinity is measured by the amount of sodium chloride found in 1,000 grams of water, if there is 1 gram of sodium chloride in 1,000 grams of water solution it is 1 part per thousand. This is written as 1‰.

</doc>
<doc id="41151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41151" title="Food preservation">
Food preservation

Food preservation is the name for a number of processes that help to preserve food. This means that the food treated that way will go bad (spoil from bacteria) later that if it had not been treated that way. For thousands of years, humans have used methods of preserving food, so that they can store food to eat later. The simplest methods of preserving food, such as drying strips of fish or meat in the hot sun have been used for thousands of years, and they are still used in the 2000s by indigenous peoples.
Food is spoiled because microorganisms change it. There are five basic techniques which make food last longer:
Usually several of the techniques are combined.
Common ways of preserving food are:
Many common methods use several of these approaches at the same time. For example, pickles preserved in a jar are heated then put in a mixture of vinegar and brine. Fruit jams and jellies are heated and mixed with a large amount of sugar. Some preserved fruit is heated and then mixed with alcohol (for example, Brandy) and a large amount of sugar. Smoked hams are cured in brine and then exposed to the smoke from burning wood chips.

</doc>
<doc id="41152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41152" title="Clapham Junction railway station">
Clapham Junction railway station

Clapham Junction railway station is a train station in Battersea in the London Borough of Wandsworth. It is on St. John's Hill in the south west of Battersea.
All services to Waterloo and many services to Victoria and Croydon stations pass through the junction; these include South West Trains, Gatwick Express and Southern services. Services from Clapham Junction also head north along the West London Line, through West Brompton and Kensington (Olympia), on to Willesden Junction and Watford Junction - services (to Willesden Junction) are operated by London Overground.
Typical off-peak service of about 110 trains (one train every 30 seconds) is:
The station has 16 platforms, numbered 2 to 17, and arranged in two groups. Platform 1, the northernmost platform, is no longer used. It does not have any rails. If the planned East London Line extension gets to Clapham Junction, the platform may be used again. 
The station's main entrance is from St. John's Hill, into a foot tunnel which is 15 ft (4.6 m) wide. It runs under the eastern end of the 17 platforms, and to a northern exit, which has restricted opening hours. The foot tunnel becomes very crowded during the morning and evening rush hours, and ticket barriers at the end of the tunnel are a particular pinch point.
A covered footbridge connects the platforms at their western end. The footbridge does not have an exit to or from the station.
The station is named Clapham Junction because it is close to the joining point of a number of major rail lines—although the name is not shared by any junction near the station. The names of the nearby rail junctions are:

</doc>
<doc id="41153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41153" title="Adenosine triphosphate">
Adenosine triphosphate

Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme. It is often called the "molecular unit of currency": ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. 
Every cell uses ATP for energy. It consists of a base (adenine) and seventeen phosphate groups. One molecule of ATP contains three phosphate groups, and it is produced by ATP synthase from inorganic phosphate and adenosine diphosphate (ADP, the di meaning two phosphate groups) or adenosine monophosphate (AMP). 
The ATP molecule is very versatile, meaning that it can be used for many things. Energy is stored in its chemical bonds. 
When ADP binds with another phosphate, energy is stored that can be used later. In other words, when a bond is made, energy is stored. This is an endothermic reaction.
When ATP breaks a bond with a phosphate group and becomes ADP, energy is released. In other words, when a bond is broken energy is released. This is an exothermic reaction.
The ATP phosphate exchange is a nearly never-ending cycle, stopping only when the cell dies. 
ATP is the main energy source for the majority of cellular functions. This includes the synthesis of macromolecules, including DNA and RNA (see below), and proteins. ATP also plays a critical role in the active transport of macromolecules across cell membranes, e.g. exocytosis and endocytosis.
In all known organisms, the deoxyribonucleotides that make up DNA are synthesized by the action of ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) enzymes on their corresponding ribonucleotides. These enzymes reduce the sugar residue from ribose to deoxyribose by removing oxygen.
In the synthesis of the nucleic acid RNA, ATP is one of the four nucleotides incorporated directly into RNA molecules by RNA polymerases. The energy driving this polymerization comes from cleaving off a pyrophosphate (two phosphate groups). The dance is similar in DNA biosynthesis, except that ATP is reduced to the deoxyribonucleotide dATP, before incorporation into DNA.

</doc>
<doc id="41154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41154" title="Shrimp">
Shrimp

Shrimp refers to small, decapod crustacea. Shrimp are mainly found in three groups: Caridea, Procarididea, and Dendrobranchiata. There are thousands of species, and usually there is a species adapted to any particular habitat. Any small crustacean which resembles a shrimp tends to be called one.
Adult shrimp are filter feeding benthic animals that live close to the bottom. They can live in schools and can swim rapidly backwards. Shrimp are an important food source for larger animals from fish to whales. They have a high tolerance to toxins in polluted areas, and may contribute to high toxin levels in their predators. They play important roles in the food chain and are important food sources for larger animals from fish to whales. 
Shrimp are related to prawns. In cooking, the criterion is often only the size of the animal (prawns are bigger). Biologically, prawns and shrimp can be told apart by the structure of their gills. In prawns, the gills are branching; in shrimp they are not.
Many shrimp species are caught to be eaten. Usually, the head and the digestive tract are removed before the shrimp is eaten. The muscular tails of shrimp can be delicious to eat, and they are widely caught and farmed for human consumption. 
Commercial shrimp species support an industry worth 50 billion dollars a year. In 2010 the total commercial production of shrimp was nearly 7 million tonnes. Shrimp farming took off during the 1980s, particularly in China, and by 2007 the harvest from shrimp farms exceeded the capture of wild shrimp. There is often pollution damage done to estuaries when they are used for shrimp farming.

</doc>
<doc id="41156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41156" title="Prawn">
Prawn

Dendrobranchiata is a suborder of decapod crustaceans, and contains shrimp and prawn.
Dendrobranchiata are commercially fished, and used for cooking. The difference between prawns and shrimp is usually that prawn are larger than shrimp.Prawns are crustaceans similar in appearance to shrimps, but they can be distinguished by the gill structure which is branching in prawns and not in shrimp. The prawn is also related to the crab and the lobster.
Prawns are found in calmer waters were the prawns can nest in the water plants to lay their eggs. Like the shrimp, the prawn does tend to prefer the warmer waters in the tropics but some species of prawn are found in the Northern Hemisphere.
The prawn feeds by filtering nutritious particles out of the water flowing around the prawn, and the prawn is therefore often found on rocks or close to the sea floor.
Prawns are a common source of food for humans around the world, particularly in areas where the prawn exists naturally such as south east Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="41157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41157" title="Lee Redmond">
Lee Redmond

Lee Redmond (born February 2, 1941) is a woman from the Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. She is famous for having the longest fingernails in the world.
She has not cut her fingernails since 1979. The combined length of her fingernails are 7 meters and 51 centimeters long (24 feet, 8 inches) . She has an active life despite of her long fingernails. Lee Redmond is in the Guinness Book of World Records in the category "Longest Fingernails - Female".
On February 10, 2009, Lee was in a car crash, and was thrown out of the car. She was badly hurt and all her fingernails were broken off. 

</doc>
<doc id="41158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41158" title="Martin Amis">
Martin Amis

Martin Amis (born 25 August 1949) is a Welsh novelist. His best known novels include "Money" (1984), "London Fields" (1989), "Time's Arrow" (1991) and "The Information" (1995).
Affected by several writers including his father Sir Kingsley Amis, Amis's style of writing has affected a generation of writers. His recent work has looked at moral and geopolitical issues, including The Holocaust, Communist Russia, and the September 11, 2001 attacks and Islamism. 
Amis was born in Swansea, South Wales. He was the middle of three children, with an older brother, Philip, and a younger sister, Sally. He went to many different schools in the 1950s and 1960s. The fame of his father's first novel "Lucky Jim" sent the Amises to Princeton, New Jersey, where his father lectured. Amis's parents, Hilly and Kingsley, divorced when he was twelve.
Amis graduated from Exeter College, Oxford. He graduated with a first-class degree in English. After Oxford, he got a job at "The Times Literary Supplement". At age 27, he became literary editor of "The New Statesman".
His first novel "The Rachel Papers" (1973) won the Somerset Maugham Award. It tells the story of a smart, self-centered teenager (which Amis says he based on himself) and his relationship with his girlfriend in the year before going to university.
"Dead Babies" (1975) has a typically 1960s plot. It has a house full of characters who abuse various substances. A movie version was made in 2000 which was unsuccessful.
"Success" (1977) told the story of two foster-brothers, Gregory Riding and Terry Service, and their good and bad luck. 
"Other People: A Mystery Story" (1981), about a young woman coming out of a coma.
"Money" (subtitled "A Suicide Note") is a first-person narrative by John Self. He was an advertising man who wanted to be a movie director. The book follows him as he flies back and forth across the Atlantic looking for success. The book was a huge success and is Amis's most highly regarded work.
"London Fields" is Amis's longest book. It show the encounters between three main characters in London in 1999, as a climate disaster draws near.
"Time's Arrow" is about a doctor who helped torture Jews during the Holocaust. It was written in the form of an autobiography. The story is unusual because time runs backwards during the entire novel.
The "Experience" is mainly about his relationship with his father, Kingsley Amis. He also writes about finding long-lost daughter, Delilah Seale and of how one of his cousins, 21-year-old Lucy Partington, became a victim of suspected serial killer Fred West.
He lives and writes in London and Uruguay and is married to writer Isabel Fonseca, his second wife.
 

</doc>
<doc id="41159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41159" title="Xi Shun">
Xi Shun

Xi Shun (Bao Xishun) (China, born in 1951) is in the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's tallest living man. He is 2.36 meters (7 ft 9 in) tall. The last time he was measured was on January 15 of 2005. On August 7, 2007 Leonid Stadnyk was measuring and was found to be taller than him. In September of 2005 he made his first trip outside of China to London to visit Guinness World Records.
Xi Shun served in the People's Republic of China army but got discharged because of rheumatism. He once saved some dolphins' lives by getting pieces of plastic from their stomachs that veterinarians could not reach.

</doc>
<doc id="41160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41160" title="Crab">
Crab

Crabs are in the phylum Crustacea. They are decapods (having ten legs), along with lobsters, crayfish and shrimps. Crabs form an order within the decapods, called the Brachyura. Their short body is covered by a thick exoskeleton. 
They are an extremely successful group, found all over the world. They are basically heavily armoured shell-breakers. Most crabs live in sea-water, but there are some who live in fresh water, and some who live on land. The smallest are the size of a pea; the largest (the Japanese spider crab) grows to a leg span of 4 metres. About 7,000 species are known.
Crabs have short tails. A crab's tail and reduced abdomen is entirely hidden under the thorax. It is folded under its body, and may not be visible at all unless the crab is turned over. Usually they have a very hard exoskeleton. This means they are well protected against predators. Crabs are armed with a single pair of claws. Crabs can be found in all oceans. Some crabs also live in fresh water, or live completely on land.
The pincers (claws) of crabs are their most important weapons. They have at least three functions. The pincers' role in eating is to seize and subdue the prey. If the food is a shellfish (mollusc), then the pincers can exert force to open or break the mollusc's shell. Pincers are also used in fighting between males, and for signalling to other crabs.
Crabs are omnivores, they eat almost anything they find. Often this is algae, but animal food is essential for its good health and development. They will eat molluscs, other crustaceans, worms, fungi and bacteria.
Crabs are prepared and eaten all over the world. Some species are eaten whole, including the shell, such as soft-shell crab; with other species just the claws and/or legs are eaten. In some regions spices improve the culinary experience. In Asia, Masala Crab and Chilli crab are examples of heavily spiced dishes. In Maryland, blue crab is often eaten with Old Bay Seasoning.
For the British dish "Cromer crab", the meat is extracted and placed inside the hard shell. One American way to prepare crab meat is by extracting it and adding a flour mix, creating a crab cake. Crabs are also used in "bisque", a French soup.
True crabs appear in the fossil record in the Lower Jurassic. They are part of the 'Mesozoic marine revolution', in which a number of sea-floor predators evolved.
The closest relatives of the crabs are anomurans, a crustacean group which includes animals such as hermit crabs, king crabs and squat lobsters. They look a lot like crabs and many have the word 'crab' in their name, but are not true crabs. Anomurans can be told apart by the number of legs: crabs have ten legs, including claws, while the last pair of an anomuran's legs is hidden inside the shell, so that only eight legs are visible.

</doc>
<doc id="41163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41163" title="Gran Colombia">
Gran Colombia

Gran Colombia was a country formed after New Granada declared independence in 1819. The rebels, led by Simon Bolivar, defeated the Spanish Empire but then fought among themselves. In 1831 Venezuela and Ecuador, being the eastern and southern part of the country, declared independence from Gran Colombia. After that the remaining territory is just called Colombia. Decades later, Panama also became independent from Colombia.

</doc>
<doc id="41166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41166" title="Nail (anatomy)">
Nail (anatomy)

A nail is a hard part of the body at the tip of the fingers and toes, of which most people have ten. Toenails and fingernails are similar, except that toenails grow four times slower. Only certain mammals have nails: mostly, they are found in primates. They are made of the same kind of material (keratin) as the claws of other animals.
Like hair, nails never stop growing. They must be cut from time to time. It does not hurt when you cut your nails. The nails are made up of a protein called keratin. Hair and skin also have keratin. Some people paint their nails to make themselves look nicer. Some nails can grow into the skin. This is called an ingrowing nail. They can hurt, so are often treated through medicine. The cutting and painting of the nails is called a manicure.
The functions of nails are not obvious. They include:

</doc>
<doc id="41169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41169" title="Crustacea">
Crustacea

The Crustacea are a subphylum of arthropods with 50,000 described species. They are part of the phylum Arthropoda. Crustaceans include crabs, lobsters, crayfish, shrimp, krill and barnacles. They are relatives of insects. If the Arthropods are regarded as a superphylum, then the insects and crustaces would be phyla. (see List of animal phyla). The group has an extensive fossil record, reaching back to the Cambrian.
Most crustaceans are aquatic, mostly marine. Some have moved onto land permanently. Crustaceans that live on land include some crabs, and woodlice. Crustacea range in size from a parasite 0.1mm long, to the Japanese spider crab with a leg span of up to 14 ft (4.3 m) and a mass of 44 lb (20 kg). The North Atlantic lobster can weigh more than 40 pounds.
Most crustaceans are mobile, but some become sessile after their larval stage. Barnacles become attached to rocks on thesea shore. Some are parasitic, like fish lice, and tongue worms. Crustacea usually have separate sexes, and the eggs hatch into larvae.
Crustaceans have three major body parts. They are, front to back: head, thorax, and abdomen. Generally, they have two pairs of antennae, two eyes, and three pairs of jaws on their head. Most breathe with gills, although certain land crabs have developed lungs. Lobsters and crabs have hard outer skeletons, and tend to preserve well as fossils. As adults, they moult their shells as they grow in size.
Most crustaceans crawl along the bottoms of streams, rivers, and the ocean, sometimes coming on land. Because they move along the ground under the water, they are called "benthic" creatures. Even though lobsters and shrimps can swim a bit, they usually walk along the bottom of the body of water in which they live.
More than 10 million tons of crustaceans are produced by fishery or farming for human consumption, the majority of it being shrimps and prawns. Krill and copepods are not as widely fished, but may be the animals with the greatest biomass on the planet, and form a vital part of the food chain.
Crustaceans exhibit a number of larval forms, of which the earliest and most characteristic is the nauplius. In most groups, there are further larval stages, including the "zoea" (pl. zoeæ or zoeas). This name was given to it when naturalists believed it to be a separate species. It follows the nauplius stage, and often has spikes on its carapace. These may assist these small organisms in maintaining directional swimming. In many decapods, due to their accelerated development, the zoea is the first larval stage. In some cases, the zoea stage is followed by the "mysis" stage, and in others, by the "megalopa" stage, depending on the crustacean group involved.

</doc>
<doc id="41171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41171" title="Motile">
Motile

An organism is called motile if it can move on its own. Most organisms are motile. Organisms that cannot move themselves are called "sessile".

</doc>
<doc id="41172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41172" title="Maria Montessori">
Maria Montessori

Maria Montessori was an Italian educator and doctor. She was born on 31 August 1870 in Chiaravalle, Italy. 
Maria Montessori created the first Montessori school. It was a method of education which respected the natural development of the child. Its main feature was to allow as much independence as possible to the individual child. Another feature was to allow mixed ages in the same classroom. This was different from the formal classroom teaching used even for young children at the time. Maria Montessori started this method when she was in charge of a school for handicapped children. Maria Montessori also founded around 1907 in San Lorenzo, a slum area of Rome, the first Casa dei Bambini ("Children's House"). She died on May 6, 1952.

</doc>
<doc id="41176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41176" title="Jacob de Gheyn III (painting)">
Jacob de Gheyn III (painting)

Jacob de Gheyn III is a famous painting.
It was painted by Rembrandt in 1632 and is the most stolen painting in the world. It has been stolen and recovered from galleries at least four times, making it the world's most stolen painting.
Every time the painting has been recovered anonymously and as a consequence nobody was accused of the theft. This painting by Rembrandt is so well known that it would be difficult for a thief to take it again.
Jacob de Gheyn III, also known as Jacob III de Gheyn (1596–1641), was a Dutch Golden Age engraver, son of Jacob de Gheyn II, canon of Utrecht (city), and the subject of a 1632 oil painting by Rembrandt. The portrait is half of a pair of pendent portraits. The other piece is a portrait of de Gheyn's friend Maurits Huygens, wearing similar clothing (ruffs and black doublets) and facing the opposite direction
As legend goes, a man by the name of Marcus Smith V was found in a gallery sneaking and slowly making his way toward the painting with intent to steal it. The ghost of Jacob de Gheyn III sneaked up behind him and killed him. the legend is most likely untrue because Smith was with a lover that night and was actually poisoned the next night.

</doc>
<doc id="41178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41178" title="Fame">
Fame

Fame or Famous may refer to:
FAME can also be an abbreviation for:

</doc>
<doc id="41179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41179" title="Toy Story">
Toy Story

Toy Story is a 1995 American animated movie. It was the first Disney/Pixar animated movie. Pixar made the movie while Disney packaged it and sold the reels of the movie to movie theaters. It was released on November 22, 1995. It was the first animated movie to be completely done with computers instead of hand-drawn animation. "Toy Story" had two sequels, "Toy Story 2" released in 1999 and "Toy Story 3" released in 2010.
Woody, a pull-string cowboy doll, is the leader of a group of toys that belong to a boy named Andy Davis and come to life when humans are not seen. With his family moving to a new house and having a birthday party for Andy, the toys stage a reconnaissance mission to discover Andy's new presents. Andy receives a space ranger Buzz Lightyear action figure, whose features replace Woody's position as Andy's favorite toy. Buzz does not know that he is a toy when Woody tries to convince him and thinks that he is a real space ranger. While the other toys befriend Buzz, Woody hates Buzz and he doesn't want Buzz to become Andy's favorite toy.
Andy prepares to go to a family outing at Pizza Planet with Buzz. Woody attempts to replace Buzz so that Woody's position is taken, but knocks him out a window instead, making the toys mad. Andy takes Woody to Pizza Planet with him instead. However, Buzz climbs into the car and confronts Woody when they stop at a gas station. The two toys fight and accidentally fall out of the car, which drives off and leaves them behind. Woody sees a pickup truck bound for Pizza Planet and plans to rendezvous with Andy there, convincing Buzz to come with him by saying that the pickup truck can take him to his home planet. Once at Pizza Planet, Buzz makes his way into a claw game machine shaped like a spaceship, thinking that it is the ship that Woody had promised him. Inside, he finds a horde of squeaky aliens who revere the machine's claw arm as their master. When Woody follows Buzz into the game to try to rescue him, the two of them are captured by Andy's next door neighbor, Sid Phillips, who likes to torture and destroy toys for fun.
The two toys try to escape from Sid's house before Andy and his family move, encountering nightmarish hodge-podge toys of Sid's creation as well as Sid's vicious dog, Scud. Buzz sees a commercial for Buzz Lightyear action figures just like himself and realizes that Woody was right about him being a toy. Unable to face the truth, Buzz tries to prove he is still a space ranger by attempting to fly out of the window, but falls and loses one of his arms. Buzz becomes too depressed over the truth to participate in Woody's escape plan which forces Woody to try and get the other toys attention in Andy's room by waving Buzz's disconnected arm, but the other toys still distrust him for what happened to Buzz and leave him behind. Woody realizes that Sid's mutant toys are friendly when they fix Buzz's arm but is forced to hide when Sid arrives, leaving Buzz behind. Sid prepares to destroy Buzz by strapping him to a rocket, but is delayed by a thunderstorm and sleeps for the night. Woody convinces Buzz life is worth living even if he is not a space ranger because of the joy he can bring to Andy, and helps Buzz regain his spirit. Cooperating with Sid's mutant toys, Woody stages a rescue for Buzz and scares Sid away by coming to life in front of him. However, the two miss Andy's car as it drives away to his new house.
Running down the road, they climb onto a moving truck but Scud chases them and Buzz tackles the dog to save Woody. Woody attempts to rescue Buzz with Andy's RC car but the other toys, who think that Woody got rid of RC, toss Woody off onto the road. Spotting Woody driving RC back with Buzz alive, the other toys realize their mistake and try to help them into the truck. When RC's batteries become depleted, Woody ignites the rocket on Buzz's back and manages to throw RC into the moving truck just in time before they go soaring into the air. Buzz then opens his wings to cut himself free before the rocket explodes, and he and Woody glide through the air and land safely into the car. Andy looks in the box and is relieved to have found Woody and Buzz.
On Christmas Eve at their new house, Buzz and Woody stage another reconnaissance mission to prepare for the new toy arrivals, one of which is a Mrs. Potato Head, much to the delight of Mr. Potato Head. Woody jokingly asks Buzz "What could Andy possibly get that is worse than you?", a question which is immediately answered; Andy's new gift, as it turns out, is a puppy, and the two share a worried smile.
Pixar's Oscar-winning short film "Tin Toy" (directed by Lasseter) and its CAPS project were among works that gained Disney's attention and, after meetings in 1990 with Jeffrey Katzenberg, Pixar pitched a television special called "A Tin Toy Christmas". By July 1991, Disney and Pixar signed an agreement to work on a film, based on the "Tin Toy" characters, called "Toy Story". The deal gave Pixar a three-film deal (with "Toy Story" being the first) as well as 10% of the films' profits.
"Toy Story"s script was strongly influenced by the ideas of screenwriter Robert McKee. The script went through many changes before the final version. John Lasseter decided Tinny was "too antiquated", and the character was changed to a military action figure, and then given a space theme. Tinny's name changed to Lunar Larry, then Tempus from Morph, and eventually Buzz Lightyear (after astronaut Buzz Aldrin).
Billy Crystal was going to play as Buzz, but later refused his role, although he would voice Mike Wazowski in Pixar's later movie, "Monsters, Inc". Katzenberg took the role to Tim Allen, who was appearing in Disney's "Home Improvement", and Allen accepted the Role. "Toy Story" was both Hanks and Allen's first animated film role.
Lasster's 1993 draft of the film was a disastrous result, presenting Woody as a "sarcastic jerk" because Katzenberg kept sending notes to Pixar saying that he wanted more edge to the character. Katzenberg talked with Walt Disney Feature Animation president Peter Schneider in the hall during the screening and asked him why it was so bad. Schneider responded that it "wasn't their movie anymore." Schneider wanted to immediately shut down production, fire all recently hired animators and move the key writers (John Lasseter, Andrew Stanton, Pete Docter and Joe Ranft) into the Disney Studio, pending a new script approved by Disney. Pixar refused and said that the entire story will be changed in two weeks. As promised, two weeks later a new script had been written that made Woody a more likable character. It also included a more adult-orientated staff meeting amongst the toys rather than a juvenile group discussion that had existed in earlier drafts. Buzz Lightyear's character was also changed slightly "to make it more clear to the audience that he really doesn't realize he's a toy" as John Lasseter remarked. After the second screening Katzenberg restarted production. The voice actors returned in March 1994 to record their new lines.
"Toy Story" was made on a $30 million budget, using a staff of 110 people; Lasseter told how hard of the computer animation was to do in the film: "We had to make things look more organic. Every leaf and blade of grass had to be created. We had to give the world a sense of history. So the doors are banged up, the floors have scuffs."
According to Lee Unkrich, one of the original editors of "Toy Story", there was a scene that was cut out of the movie. In this scene, Sid, after he leaves Pizza Planet, tortures Buzz and Woody violently. Unkrich decided to cut right into the scene where Sid was interrogating the toys because the creators of the movie thought the audience would be loving Buzz and Woody at that point.
Another scene, where Woody was trying to get Buzz's attention when he was stuck in the box crate, was shortened because the creators felt it would "lose the energy of the movie." 2 more deleted scenes, abandoned at the story reel stage, were actually seen as active scenes in Toy Story 2. The first scene was an opening sequence as a Buzz Lightyear cartoon, which ended up as a video game, and the second was the famed "Woody's Nightmare" scene, where Woody is thrown out, as he fails to glow in the dark and destroyed by cockroaches, but in Toy Story 2, he was thrown out because his arm was broken, and he was sucked in by other broken toys.
Ever since its original 1995 release, "Toy Story" received positive reviews from critics; Review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes (which gave the movie an "Extremely Fresh" rating) reports that 100% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 74 reviews, with an average score of 9/10. The critical consensus is: "As entertaining as it is innovative, Toy Story kicked off Pixar's unprecedented run of quality pictures, reinvigorating animated film in the process." The film is "Certified Fresh". At the website Metacritic, which utilizes a normalized rating system, the film earned a "universal acclaim" level rating of 92/100 based on 16 reviews by mainstream critics. Reviewers liked the film for its computer animation, voice cast, and ability to appeal to numerous age groups.
Leonard Klady of "Variety" commended the animation's "... razzle-dazzle technique and unusual look. The camera loops and zooms in a dizzying fashion that fairly takes one's breath away." Roger Ebert of the "Chicago Sun-Times" compared the film's innovative animation to Disney's "Who Framed Roger Rabbit", saying "Both movies take apart the universe of cinematic visuals, and put it back together again, allowing us to see in a new way." Due to the film's animation, Richard Corliss of "TIME" claimed that it was "... the year's most inventive comedy."
The voice cast was also praised by various critics. Susan Wloszczyna of "USA Today" approved of the selection of Hanks and Allen for the lead roles. Kenneth Turan of the "Los Angeles Times" stated that "Starting with Tom Hanks, who brings an invaluable heft and believability to Woody, "Toy Story" is one of the best voiced animated features in memory, with all the actors ... making their presences strongly felt."
Several critics also recognized the film's ability to appeal to various age groups, specifically children and adults. Owen Gleiberman of "Entertainment Weekly" wrote: "It has the purity, the ecstatic freedom of imagination, that's the hallmark of the greatest children's films. It also has the kind of spring-loaded allusive prankishness that, at times, will tickle adults even more than it does kids."
In 1995, "Toy Story" was named eighth in "TIME"'s list of the best ten films of 1995. In 2011, "TIME" named it one of "The 25 All-TIME Best Animated Films".
It also ranks at number 99 in "Empire" magazines list of the 500 Greatest Films of All Time. .
In 2003, the Online Film Critics Society ranked the film as the greatest animated film of all time. In 2007, the Visual Effects Society named the film 22nd in its list of the "Top 50 Most Influential Visual Effects Films of All Time". In 2005 the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry, one of five films to be selected in its first year of eligibility. The film is ranked ninety-ninth on the AFI's list of the hundred greatest American films of all time. It was one of only two animated films on the list, the other being "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs". It was also sixth best in the animation genre on AFI's 10 Top 10.
Director Terry Gilliam would praise the film as "a work of genius. It got people to understand what toys are about. They're true to their own character. And that's just brilliant. It's got a shot that's always stuck with me, when Buzz Lightyear discovers he's a toy. He's sitting on this landing at the top of the staircase and the camera pulls back and he's this tiny little figure. He was this guy with a massive ego two seconds before... and it's stunning. I'd put that as one of my top ten films, period."

</doc>
<doc id="41189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41189" title="María Esther de Capovilla">
María Esther de Capovilla

María Esther de Capovilla (September 14, 1889 – August 27, 2006) was an Ecuadorian supercentenarian. She was the world's oldest living person between May 29, 2004, aged 114 years 258 days, and her death from pneumonia on August 27, 2006, aged 116 years 347 days. At the time of her death she was verified as the sixth oldest person on record, and later the fifth oldest when the case of Shigechiyo Izumi was discounted. She remained the world's fifth oldest verified person until Misao Okawa surpassed her age in February 2015. Following Capovilla's death, Elizabeth Bolden became the world's oldest person.

</doc>
<doc id="41192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41192" title="Wart">
Wart

Warts are growths on the skin. Very often they resemble solid blisters. Usually, applying pressure a wart causes pain. Warts are caused by viruses in the HPV family. As there are many types of viruses in the HPV family, there are also many types of wart. In most cases, warts are not dangerous, but may cause a lot of pain.
The virus infects skin cells; if these skin cells move to other areas, new warts can grow there. Warts contain tissue that bleeds easily. A bleeding of this tissue allows the wart to spread to other places. In general, coming in contact with infected tissue spreads the infection.
There are different ways of getting rid of a wart:
There are different types of warts, caused by different HPV viruses:
There are different ways of getting rid of a wart:

</doc>
<doc id="41195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41195" title="Ming Kipa">
Ming Kipa

Ming Kipa is a Nepalese Sherpa girl who (as recorded in the 2009 Guinness Book of Records) was the youngest person to climb Mount Everest. She reached the summit on May 24, 2003 when she was 15 years old, with her brother Mingma Gyula and her sister Laphka. Nepalese law does not allow climbers under 16 to climb Everest, so Ming Kipa Sherpa summitted Everest from the Chinese side.

</doc>
<doc id="41197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41197" title="Sun Tzu (mathematician)">
Sun Tzu (mathematician)

Sun Tzu or Sun Zi was a Chinese mathematician of the third century CE.
His interests were in astronomy. He tried to develop a calendar and for this he investigated Diophantine equations. He is best known for authoring "Sun Tzu Suan Ching" (pinyin: "Sun Zi Suan Jing"; literally, "Sun Tzu's Calculation Classic"), which contains the Chinese remainder theorem.

</doc>
<doc id="41198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41198" title="Sergey Karjakin">
Sergey Karjakin

Sergey Karjakin (born 12 January 1990 in Simferopol) is a Russian (formerly Ukrainian) chess grandmaster. 
He was a chess prodigy and holds the record for both the youngest international master, eleven years and eleven months, and grandmaster in history, at the age of twelve years and seven months. 
On 25 July 2009 Karjakin adopted Russian citizenship and will henceforth be playing for Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="41206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41206" title="Yusuf Islam">
Yusuf Islam

Yusuf Islam (born July 21, 1948) is an English singer. He sang many of his early songs when he called himself "Cat Stevens". He was born as Stephen Demetre Georgiou to a Swedish mother and Greek father. He became a Muslim in 1977. After 2 years, he took the name of Yusuf İslam. He has sold over 60 million albums around the world since the late 1960s as Cat Stevens or Yusuf İslam.
As a waiter in his father's cafe, he began writing songs "to escape the mundanity of it all". Chart success was followed by adulation, touring, drug use, confusion, tuberculosis and, in the early 1970s, Islam's changed outlook and an album called Tea For The Tillerman.
Stevens nearly drowned in an accident in Malibu in 1975. Stevens described the event in a VH1 interview some years later: "I suddenly held myself and I said, 'Oh God! If you save me, I'll work for you.'" He had looked into Buddhism; Zen and I Ching, numerology, tarot cards and astrology", but when his brother David gave him a copy of the Qu'ran, Stevens began to convert to Islam.
In 1977 he changed his name to Yusuf Islam upon becoming a Muslim. He stopped playing and recording pop music for almost 30 years, but started performing again in 2006.
He lives with his family in London, England.
As Cat Stevens:
As Yusuf Islam:

</doc>
<doc id="41209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41209" title="Malay language">
Malay language

The Malay language, or Bahasa Melayu, is a language spoken by ethnic Malays, an ethnic group that live in the Malay Peninsula and the Malay Archipelago in Southeast Asia, as well as the Austronesian people of the area. It is the national language of Malaysia (Malaysian), Brunei, Indonesia (Indonesian), an official language in Singapore, a working language in East Timor (Indonesian), and a recognized and significant minority in Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines and Cambodia. The Malay language is part of the Austronesian family of languages. 
There are an innumerable amounts of dialects, creoles, versions and forms of Malay. The language is extremely diversified. In Indonesia, the language is based on the distinct Riau-Johor dialect and is standardized as "Bahasa Indonesia", "Indonesian language". In Malaysia, the language is registered as "Bahasa Malaysia", "Malaysian". In Singapore, Brunei and Thailand is referred to as "Bahasa Melayu", "Malay language". Bahasa Malaysia and Bahasa Melayu are the same versions and based on the same dialect, Bahasa Indonesia however contains many differences such as false cognates and false friends when compared with Malaysian/Malay. Yet, 80% of Indonesian and Malaysian are cognates. In southern Thailand, the Malays living in the country do speak Bahasa Melayu, but their also speak a distinct dialect of Malay, known as Yawi or "Bahasa Jawi". Bahasa Melayu is Brunei's national language but Bruneians also speak their own dialect of Malay, known as "Brunei Melayu" or "Bruneian Malay". Indonesians do not see Indonesian and Malaysian/Malay as the same language, and are generally upset when Bahasa Indonesia is ever referred to as "Malay" or "Indonesian Malay". Malay is distinguished as a local language in Indonesia as opposed to the national language, Bahasa Indonesia. The Malays in Indonesia learn their own dialects of Malay before learning Indonesian. Malaysians see the two as the same language. 
Malay is normally written with the Latin alphabet called Rumi. But there is also a modified Arabic alphabet that is called Jawi. Rumi is official in Malaysia and Singapore, and the Indonesian language has a different official orthography that uses also the Latin script. Rumi and Jawi are both official in Brunei. Efforts are currently being undertaken to preserve Jawi script and to revive its use amongst Malays in Malaysia, and students taking Malay language examination in Malaysia have the option of answering questions using Jawi script. But the Latin alphabet is still the most commonly used script in Malaysia, both for official and informal purposes. 
Historically, Malay has been written in various types of script. Before the introduction of Arabic script in the Malay region, Malay was written using Pallava, Kawi and Rencong script and are still in use today by the Champa Malay in Vietnam and Cambodia.

</doc>
<doc id="41211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41211" title="Timothy Dalton">
Timothy Dalton

Timothy Peter Dalton (born 21 March 1946) is a Welsh-born British actor. He is famous for playing fictional spy James Bond in two movies in 1987 and 1989. He also voiced the hedgehog Mr. Pricklepants in "Toy Story 3". 
His father was English and his mother was an American of Italian and Irish descent. He has, in the past, identified himself as Welsh and as English. 
Dalton has one son, Alexander (born 7 August 1997), by Russian musician Oksana Grigorieva. He was in a relationship with English actress Vanessa Redgrave (with whom he appeared in the 1971 film "Mary, Queen of Scots") between 1971 and 1986. Dalton is a Manchester City F.C. supporter. He is often seen at the City of Manchester Stadium to watch his team play. Dalton remains unmarried.
Novels by "Benjamin Black" (pseudonym of John Banville):

</doc>
<doc id="41220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41220" title="Euzebiusz Smolarek">
Euzebiusz Smolarek

Euzebiusz Smolarek (born 9 January 1981) is a Polish football player. He plays for ADO Den Haag and Poland national team.
In 2004, he came to Dortmund with Bert van Maarwijk, who is his trainer. Before that, he played for Borussia Dortmund and under van Maarwijk with Feyenoord Rotterdam. He is also in the Poland national team.
68||12
81||25
34||4
12||0
15||3
210||44
!Total||47||20

</doc>
<doc id="41221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41221" title="Bushido (rapper)">
Bushido (rapper)

Bushido is a German rapper. He was born in Bonn, North Rhine-Westphalia, 28 September 1978 and raised in Berlin. His real name is Anis Mohamed Youssef Ferchichi. Bushido left the record company Aggro Berlin in 2001. Now he has his own record label ersguterjunge and insults his old label, for example in the song "Sonnenbank Flavour". Other big hits are "Von der Skyline zum Bordstein und zurück" and "Nie Ein Rapper" ( "Never a rapper" ). In 2006, he won the category German act of the European Music Awards in Copenhagen.
The artist name "Bushido" is Japanese and means "Way of the Warrior". Bushido was raised by his mother. He met his Tunisian father when he was 26 years old. Bushido was raised in Berlin-Tempelhof and went to the "Gymnasium" (German "grammar school", the highest school form) which he quit without his Abitur (German "A-level", right to study at university). He started his drug-selling career.
He first came to rap through graffiti where he painted walls using the name "Fuchs" (German "Fox"). He learned about rap music from his friend Vader(-licious) from DMK (Dark Mingz Klique). Together with King Orgasmus, the three recorded a tape under the name "030" which is the telephone number for Berlin. Bushido's first commercial appearance was on the Frauenarzt-Tape with King Orgasmus for I Luv Money Records in 2002. A short time later he published his self-made first album "King of Kingz".
German Rap is based on a monarchy view of things. Everything is a kingdom and the best rappers are kings. There are currently three Kings: Kool Savas, Azad and Bushido himself. However at that time, nobody knew him, but his raps were thought of being very good. Because he knew that, he named his record "King of Kingz". He said "there can be 2 Kings, one for Berlin (Kool Savas) and one for Frankfurt am Main (Azad). Whatever. I shit on 'em. I'm the King. There is noone despite me. Fuck it. I'm the King of Kings."
This record was his way up. He was signed by Aggro Berlin which released this tape. He then made his well known record "Carlo, Cokxxx, Nutten" (English: "Carlo, Cocain, Hoes") and "Vom Bordstein bis zu Skyline" ("From Pavement to the Skyline") which gained him fame nationwide.
In 2004 he quit Aggro Berlin and started his own label Ersguterjunge ("First best boy", a term which was used in the 1930s). He recorded albums and released them every 6 months. Including "Electroghetto", "Carlo, Cokxxx, Nutten 2" and "Staatsfeind Nr 1" ( "State enemy No. 1"). He was officially accused for making racist material and disrespect of minorities and females. However, this could not stop him from gaining success and fame. All his Albums gained Top-3 Chart placements. He was the first German Rapper to have two Albums in TOP-10 Charts placement.
Other rappers, for example the American rapper Raptile, said that Bushido rapped about a way of life he never lived. Media like CNN showed that this is not true. In August 2005 he was sentenced to jail in Austria for beating someone with his bodyguards. They beat up the person because that person damaged the tires of his car. The Austrian judge gave him the option to pay 100.000 Euro ( 150,000 USD) to get out of jail. This was the highest amount possible by law and the judge thought Bushido could not afford that.

</doc>
<doc id="41228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41228" title="National Party of Australia">
National Party of Australia

The National Party of Australia is the third biggest political party in Australia. It was first called the Country Party when it started in 1920 and then became the National Country Party in 1975. In 1982 it became the National Party.
The National Party represents the interests of people who live in rural areas, that is, not in big cities. It normally joins together with the Liberal Party to form a coalition government. It has less people in Parliament than the Liberal Party. The current leader is Warren Truss. When the National Party is in a coalition government its leader is usually the Deputy Prime Minister.
The Party was quite powerful during the 1940s, 1950's and 1960s. Because it worked closely with the United Australia and later Liberal Party, three National leaders - Earle Page, Arthur Fadden and John McEwen - were Prime Minister for a short time. The Party is strongest in Queensland, where it has had several State Premiers. In 2008, the Liberal Party and National Party came together in Queensland and are now called the "Liberal National Party of Queensland".
The party's federal parliamentary leader since 3 December 2007 is Warren Truss. He led the party to the 2010 Australian Federal Election.

</doc>
<doc id="41244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41244" title="Oil well">
Oil well

Oil well is a well to get petroleum from the ground. People in the petroleum industry look for a place that might have oil. They drill a hole deep in the ground and, if the oil is there, then pump it up from the hole. Most oil is very deep underground.
Oil wells can be classified by purpose: 
Active wells can also be categorized as:
Wells may be straight holes, or directionally drilled:

</doc>
<doc id="41245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41245" title="Prairie">
Prairie

A prairie is a type of habitat with mostly grasses, but also flowering plants and occasional shrubs or isolated trees. This type of habitat can be found around the world, but it goes by different names, such as steppes in Asia. The word prairie generally means grasslands in North America. There are often many animals on a prairie, that either prefer a prairie or can only live in a prairie. Some that are well known are the American bison (also called the buffalo) and the pronghorn antelope. Birds include the bobolink and meadowlark.
A "tall grass prairie" has plants and grasses that typically grow three to seven feet (one to two meters) high, with occasional plants growing higher. This type of prairie grows in areas with a good amount of rain. Illinois (the "prairie state"), Indiana and Iowa are good examples of where a tall grass prairie would be. This type of habitat usually has rich soil and is very good for farming. Much of the original prairie has been changed into crops or lost to brush and trees. 
Trees can grow in this area, but most were stopped by fires that would sweep through. Some oaks and hickories could survive a prairie fire. If there are scattered trees, it is called a savanna, and an area in a prairie where trees grew closer together is called a grove. In the last century, fires have been stopped, and trees and brush that once did not grow in prairies are taking over. Some of this brush was accidentally introduced from Europe or elsewhere. In Illinois, less than 0.01% of the original prairie still exists. For this reason, conservationists in this area practice prairie restoration to bring the prairie back.
"Short grass prairie" is in drier areas, and is usually one to two feet (0.3 to 0.6 meters) high and has more space between plants. The "American West" (from central Texas up into Canada, east of the arid semi-desert) is all short grass prairie. Much of this area is converted to pastures for grazing cows and sheep. Areas near rivers are irrigated for crops. Some of the original native plants are still widespread.
 

</doc>
<doc id="41246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41246" title="Mall">
Mall

A mall (or shopping centre) is a large building that has many stores (usually over 100) that are close to each other and sell products. 
People visit the stores in the mall to shop. Most malls have parking lots (places to park cars). Most malls also have roofs so people can shop inside. Most malls have a food court. Food courts are areas where people buy food. Some malls have movie theatres.

</doc>
<doc id="41247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41247" title="Ice skating">
Ice skating

Ice skating is a type of sport. People wear special shoes to skate on ice. These special shoes are called ice skates. Ice skates have narrow pieces of metal on the bottom of the shoes. People balance on these pieces of metal. People can move on the ice from place to place by sliding on these metal rails on the bottom of their ice skates. Professionals compete in ice skating competitions.
A famous ice-skating event is the Elfstedentocht, held in Friesland every year.

</doc>
<doc id="41250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41250" title="Rink">
Rink

Rinks are places for sports. There are several types of rinks:

</doc>
<doc id="41252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41252" title="Trading post">
Trading post

A trading post is a place where trade takes place. The path to a trading post, or between trading posts, is known as a trade route. 
Trading posts were common places in Canada and the United States when Canada and the United States were new countries. People used trading posts to trade fur and other things. 
Trading posts are also used in many camps across the United States and Canada as places to buy snack foods and other things.

</doc>
<doc id="41253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41253" title="Wasp">
Wasp

Wasps are members of the order Hymenoptera, which also includes ants, bees and sawflies. 
The common or garden wasps, "Vespula vulgaris", and hornets ("Vespa") are members of the eusocial family Vespidae. This has about 5000 species.
By far the greater number of wasp species (over 100,000) are the parasitic wasps. Most of them are parasitoids which lay their eggs in the caterpillars of other insect species. Almost every pest insect species has at least one wasp species that preys upon it or parasitizes it. This makes wasps vital to the natural control of pest numbers (biocontrol). Parasitic wasps are increasingly used in agricultural pest control as they prey mostly on pest insects and have little impact on crops.
Many people get confused between wasps and bees. It's pretty easy to tell the difference between bees and wasps, because bees look quite hairy and wasps do not. 
Wasps have biting mouthparts and antennae with 12 or 13 segments. They usually have wings and their abdomens are attached to their thorax by a slender petiole, or a “waist”. Females have a sting, which they use for piercing and egg laying. Adult wasps feed mostly on nectar, but their larvae feed on insects or pollen, provided by the mother.
Most free-living wasps are social insects, like bees and ants, but there are a few solitary wasps. Social wasps are formed of paper wasps, yellow jackets and hornets. All three make paper nests from tree wood. They create paper cells similar to the combs that bees make with wax. They chew up bits of wood and convert it into a paste which they use to construct their paper nests.
The queen lays an egg in each cell of the nests. When it hatches the grub is fed regurgitated insects by the worker wasps. In one group, the pollen wasps, grubs are fed pollen and nectar only. Adult wasps eat only nectar.
Unlike honeybees, the only one in a social wasp colony that will survive the winter is the queen. She will find a place to hibernate - in the hollows of trees, under bark, or in the walls of buildings. In the spring, she crawls out and starts all over agan, building a few cells, laying a few eggs, and nurturing them until they can become workers who will do all the work while she lays more eggs.
With most species, adult parasitic wasps themselves do not take any nutrients from their prey, and, much like bees, butterflies, and moths, those that do feed as adults typically derive all of their nutrition from nectar. Parasitic wasps are typically parasitoids, and extremely diverse in habits, many laying their eggs in inert stages of their host (egg or pupa), or sometimes paralyzing their prey by injecting it with venom through their ovipositor. They then insert one or more eggs into the host or deposit them upon the host externally. The host remains alive until the parasitoid larvae are mature, usually dying either when the parasitoids pupate, or when they emerge as adults. Farmers buy these parasitic wasps for insect control in their fields. 
The mud dauber is one of the most common solitary wasps. The difference between normal wasps and mud daubers can be seen easily because of its long petiole. The female gathers together mud and puts it in her mouth to use when building her paper nest for her young. She uses her ovipositor to sting and paralyze tiny insects, spiders, caterpillars, and other creatures, which are stuffed into the mud nest. After each cell in the nest is filled and almost overflowing with spiders and insects, the mud dauber lays an egg in each cell, closes the openings, and leaves. Then, when the eggs finally hatch, the larvae, have a perfectly nice feast upon which they will dine until they become adults.
Some solitary wasps make galls, which are abnormal growths on plants. They form directly after the wasp lays its eggs, and the plant develops a growth around the egg, encasing it. The trigger for the gall to form is not known. The gall protects the eggs while they develop. Galls can be found almost everywhere in the late summer, especially on the branches of oak trees, like in this picture.
Some wasps deposit their eggs in wood so that the young wasp larvae will feed on the tree itself, making circular tunnels through the wood as they feed, until they pupate and crawl out of the tree as adult wasps.
A few people are allergic and might die if stung by a wasp. Wasps do not usually sting something unless it bothers them first. Allergy to bees is uncommon compared with allergy to wasps. Some people have a very marked local reaction to a wasp sting. This can usually be prevented with good self care such as elevation, cold compress, pain relief tablets and (if medically advised) antihistamines. 
A sting is not the same as an allergy: the reaction to a sting is a normal immune response. If a person has symptoms at a distance from the sting (spreading rash or itch, tight chest, wheeze, tight swallowing, swollen lips/face, faintness or nausea), they need to seek medical care immediately. Prevention of stings is fairly easy if people understand how wasps live. Avoid eating sweet foods in their environment and take care over sweet smells when they are particularly hungry in the autumn.
Information on Wasps and sting prevention

</doc>
<doc id="41256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41256" title="Human papillomavirus">
Human papillomavirus

The Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a virus that can infect the skin or mucous membranes (like the genitals, or inside the mouth) of animals and humans. They cause warts. Some of them may cause cancer. There are over 100 different virus types in this group. About 30 virus types can be transmitted sexually. About 12-15 can cause cancer. 
Most cases of HPV can be prevented by a vaccine, which also would stop the HPV from causing cancer. Most cases of cervical, oral and throat cancer are caused by HPV.
A first step in treatment is the use of salicylic acid. This is available in pharmacies, usually without a prescription. If this does not help, the wart can be frozen, and destroyed that way, or a laser can be used to destroy it. If this still does not help, different methods of chemotherapy can be used.

</doc>
<doc id="41258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41258" title="Salicylic acid">
Salicylic acid

Salicylic acid is a chemical substance. It is an acid. It is the base ingredient for a drug called aspirin. It is also used as a food preservative, and to treat diseases of the skin, like acne or warts. It is also used in shampoos to treat dandruff (flaking skin on the head).

</doc>
<doc id="41260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41260" title="Shampoo">
Shampoo

Shampoo is a beauty care product. It is used to remove natural oils from hair. It is like liquid soap, but it is made to wash hair. It is sold in stores, and many people use it to make their hair clean. After people use shampoo, they might use a conditioner, which makes the hair soft. Together they have a good effect on a person's hair. The people who make shampoo try to make it smell nice. They also try to make the shampoo healthier.
In addition to shampoo for hair, there are body shampoos made to wash an entire body.

</doc>
<doc id="41264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41264" title="Dmitri Shostakovich">
Dmitri Shostakovich

Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich (born St Petersburg, September 25 1906; died Moscow August 9 1975) was a Russian-Soviet composer. 
Shostakovich’s parents came from Siberia. His father was a biologist and engineer, and his mother was a pianist. They lived comfortably, although this was to change after the Revolution (1917). Shostakovich studied the piano and composition at the Petrograd Conservatory (St. Petersburg was called Petrograd between 1914 and 1924, after which it became Leningrad until 1991, when it became St. Petersburg again). After his mother died,the family were short of money, so young Dmitri had to earn money by playing the piano in cinemas for silent movies. He worked extremely hard and with a lot of concentration. He was very successful both as a pianist and a composer. His Symphony No. 1 was very popular. His music sounded very modern with lots of dissonant chords. His first dramatic works include an opera called "The Nose" and a ballet called "The Golden Age".
In 1930 he wrote an important opera called "Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District". It was a huge success, and the critics said that “it could only have been written by a Soviet composer brought up in the best traditions of Soviet culture”. One night in 1936 Stalin came to watch it. He left before the end. Two days later there was an article in the official government paper "Pravda". The title was “Chaos instead of Music”. It said that this opera was primitive and vulgar, full of screaming and noise. The politicians were criticizing not just Shostakovich but all modern Soviet music. Shostakovich was denounced, and his friends were too frightened to defend him in case they were denounced as well. Shostakovich suffered quietly and wrote his Fifth Symphony. The politicians liked this symphony. He was once more thought of as the leading Soviet composer. He was supposed to have said that his new symphony was the “creative reply of a Soviet artist to justified criticism”, but it was actually a critic who said this. Shortly afterward, he received the Stalin Prize for his Piano Quintet.
During World War II Shostakovich was evacuated with his wife and two children. His next two symphonies, nos. 7 and 8, describe the war. They were hugely popular in the West. In the United States, the Seventh Symphony became the symbol of resistance against Nazism.
After the war, Soviet politicians again began to control and criticize artistic life very hard. In 1948, there was a big meeting at which Shostakovich, Prokofiev, and several other composers were criticized. Their music was called “formalist”, “anti-democratic”, and lots of other things which had nothing to do with music. There was nothing the composers could do except to say how sorry they were. For the next five years Shostakovich was careful not to write anything the politicians would not like. He wrote songs such as "The Sun Shines on our Motherland". Some of his other compositions in which he expressed his real feelings were kept in a drawer so that no one could see them.
In 1953, Stalin died and things became easier again. Shostakovich wrote his Tenth Symphony. The whole world now saw Shostakovich as the greatest Soviet composer. He suffered less from official repression. Surprisingly, articles criticizing the music of modern young composers carried his name, but a lot of these articles he had not written. He was persuaded to sign them so that the politicians would leave him in peace. He wrote more symphonies and quartets as well as concertos. His opera "Lady Macbeth" was revised and given a different title: "Katerina Izmaylova". It was performed in many countries, and was made into a movie. Yet in 1962, he wrote his very serious Symphony No. 13 using poems including one of the Babi Yar massacre, so he suffered from repression again.
In his later years, Shostakovich suffered from ill-health. He had poliomyelitis, which made it difficult for him to use his hands and legs. He suffered several heart attacks, and started to lose his sight. He died of lung cancer in 1975.
Shostakovich is best known for his fifteen symphonies and fifteen string quartets. His most important opera is "Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District". He also wrote a lot of film music and music for plays including "Hamlet". Shostakovich read a lot of Russian literature. His songs had words by famous Russian writers such as Alexander Pushkin, Fyodor Dostoevsky, and Alexander Blok. He wrote twenty-four Preludes and Fugues for piano, a piano trio, two piano concertos, a piano quintet, a sonata for cello and piano, and a sonata for viola and piano (his last work).
He had lots of friends who regularly gave the first performances of his works. Most of his symphonies were first performed by the Leningrad Philharmonic conducted by Eugeny Mravinsky. His string quartets were first performed by the Beethoven String Quartet. The violinist David Oistrakh, the cellist Mstislav Rostropovitch, and the pianist Sviatoslav Richter were all close friends who played his music.
Shostakovich had an amazing musical memory and could play almost anything he knew by ear. When he was young he spent hours improvising, composing, and playing. Although he had small hands, he was a very gifted pianist. He had no difficulty in playing any of his works on the piano, even music written for an orchestra. He often played his music too fast and without much expression. 
Shostakovich was a very nervous person. He was shy and very self-critical. He hated having to talk to people he did not know. He did not sit still, always fidgeting and twitching his face nervously. He was, however, always very polite and very kind to everyone he met. He was very careful not to criticize musicians who asked him for advice. He said very little, but what he said was carefully thought out. He wrote lots of letters to the authorities to try to help his friends. He was very reliable, and always tried to arrive on time. In his last years, he found it very difficult to use his hands because of his illness, but he always insisted on writing down his music himself.

</doc>
<doc id="41268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41268" title="Transparency">
Transparency

In optics, transparency is the property of allowing light to pass through something. 
An object that is transparent can be seen through. That is, what is on the other side of the object can be seen through it. The image you can see through a transparent object is similar to the image you can see without it. It may be changed if the transparent object behaves like a lens. This could change the size or shape of the image.
The opposite of transparency is opacity.
If some light can be seen through an object but some of the detail of the image is lost, it is a translucent material. 
Light passes through a translucent object, but you cannot see objects behind it. The light passes through but the material scatters the light, so you cannot see the object, only its shadow.
Examples of translucent materials are frosted glass, paper, and some types of amber.

</doc>
<doc id="41271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41271" title="Punjab region">
Punjab region

Punjab is a region in South Asia. It is divided by the Radcliffe Line: Some parts of it are in Pakistan, and others are in the Republic of India. It is in a plain, with the river Indus flowing through Pakistan. The soil is very fertile. The Indian part of it has the highest income in India, per population. It lives from agriculture. Main religions in the region are Sikhism, Hinduism and Islam. 

</doc>
<doc id="41273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41273" title="Hepatitis">
Hepatitis

Hepatitis is a disease of the liver. In hepatitis, the liver is inflamed. There can be several reasons why the liver is inflamed. For this reason there are several kinds of hepatitis. The most common forms are Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C. Most cases of Hepatitis are caused by viruses. Some forms are caused by bacteria, fungi or parasites. The bacteria that cause tuberculosis or syphilis can also cause hepatitis; so can the parasite that causes malaria. 
Hepatitis can also be caused by alcohol. About one in four people who drink more than three alcoholic drinks a day (over a period of 10–15 days) will have some form of hepatitis caused by alcohol.
Various drugs and chemicals can also cause hepatitis, most notably paracetamol (overdose), yellow phosphorous, and others. Hepatitis may also be caused by other diseases.
Hepatitis A can be spread through personal contact, eating raw seafood, or drinking water with the hepatitis A virus in it. This happens mostly in third world countries. Strict personal hygiene and avoiding raw and unpeeled foods can help prevent an infection. 
Once a person has hepatitis A, their immune system makes antibodies to fight the virus. This will make them immune against future infection. 
People with hepatitis A should rest, drink a lot of water and avoid alcohol. The time between the infection and the start of the illness can run from 15 to 45 days. About 15% of people with hepatitis A have symptoms from six months to a year after the first diagnosis. Infected people excrete the hepatitis A virus in their stool two weeks before and one week after the appearance of jaundice. 
There is a vaccine for hepatitis A. It will protect against hepatitis A for life. 
Hepatitis B is not spread by food or casual contact. Instead, hepatitis B is spread by blood or body fluids from an infected person. A baby can get it from its mother during childbirth, and it can also be spread by sexual contact, use of street drugs, and unsafe medical care. Some people just have hepatitis B for a little while and then suppress the infection. Others can be infected for life, usually with few or no symptoms for many years. Hepatitis B sometimes damages the liver severely, and can cause cancer. 
There is a vaccine that can prevent hepatitis B. There is no cure for hepatitis B, but there is treatment.
Hepatitis C is not spread by food or casual contact. It is spread in ways that are similar to hepatitis B. There is no vaccine, and the treatment is somewhat unpleasant. People with hepatitis C who drink alcohol greatly increase their risk for liver damage.

</doc>
<doc id="41275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41275" title="Rodeo">
Rodeo

A rodeo is a North American sport. It is a collection of several similar activities that came from the history of the day to day lives of Mexican vaqueros (cowboys) and American cowboys. It has events that came from the handling of cattle, and the riding and training of horses. Rodeos started as a competition between the cowboys to see who was the best. Over time it has gone from taking a collection of money for the person who won to today's large professional competitions such as the National Finals Rodeo with a lot of money for the winners.

</doc>
<doc id="41277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41277" title="Dewey Decimal System">
Dewey Decimal System

The Dewey Decimal System is a way to put books in order by subject. It is often used in public libraries and schools in the United States and other countries. It places the books on the shelf by subject using numbers from 000 to 999. It is called "decimal" because it uses numbers to the right of the decimal point for more detail (e.g. 944.1 for History of Brittany). Each subject has its own group of numbers. The system was created by Melvil Dewey in 1876. It is also called the Dewey Decimal Classification. The classification has been changed many times. The latest change is number 23 in 2011. There is also a smaller one for small libraries called "Abridged Dewey". 
Each subject is broken up into 10 smaller, more specific categories.

</doc>
<doc id="41280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41280" title="Rhombus">
Rhombus

A rhombus is a parallelogram with all sides equal in length. A rhombus with all angles equal is called a square. The word "rhombus" comes from the Greek word "rhombos", meaning "spinning top". A rhombus is sometimes called a diamond, but not all rhombi are diamond shaped.
To find the perimeter of a rhombus, just add up all the sides. Also opposite sides are parallel and opposite angles are equal. Another interesting thing is that the diagonals (dashed lines in second figure) meet in the middle at a right angle.

</doc>
<doc id="41281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41281" title="Change (money)">
Change (money)

Change is the money returned after paying for something with more money than it costs. For example, if someone buys a 25-pence sweet bar with 1 pound (100 pence), they will get 75 pence back.
Change can also mean any kind of money in coin form. To have "exact change" means to have the exact cost of the item. In the United States, buses require people riding the bus to have "exact change". The bus does not give money back. They must pay exactly what the cost is, they can not pay more.

</doc>
<doc id="41293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41293" title="Homework">
Homework

Homework is school work that students/pupils are given at school to do at home. Homework is usually given to students by the teachers. It is a practice work which helps students revise on what they've learned that day. Homework also helps students to remember what they learned. Many students will get more homework and some will get less. This depends on how old they are, what grade/primary/year they are in and how [smart]] they are. This could determine what level they are in! Most students say that homework is a waste of time and that they do enough work at school; however, it is also believed that homework is very important for a student as it can help in their exams and education...

</doc>
<doc id="41294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41294" title="Garlic">
Garlic

Known as Garlic, Allim sativum is a type of plant that people eat for food. Garlic is related to onions, shallots, and leeks. It has a very strong flavor and smell, so people do not use too much of it. Most of the time, people use it as a flavoring so that it helps make a food taste better. Superstitious people believe that it can be used to keep vampires away. It is used as herbal medicine in the treatment of cold and flu, and has side effects of heart burn, flatulence and sweating. Garlics are divided into many parts called "cloves".

</doc>
<doc id="41297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41297" title="Glaze">
Glaze

Glaze is a layer or coating used on pottery or ceramics. It may be called vitreous enamel or porcelain enamel. Powdered glass is fused onto ceramics by firing to between 750 and 850 °C (1,380 and 1,560 °F). The powder melts, flows, and then hardens to a smooth, lasting vitreous coating on metal, or on glass or ceramics. This is done in a kiln. 
There are many different types of glaze, some are used for decoration and some are used to make pottery watertight so it can hold liquids. Glaze serves to colour, decorate, strengthen or waterproof an item.
Glazing is important for earthenware vessels as otherwise they would leak water. Glaze is also used on stoneware and porcelain. In addition to the functional aspect of glazes, they can form a variety of surface finishes, including degrees of gloss and matte and colour. Glazes may also enhance an underlying design or texture. 
Glaze is used on building materials. The Iron Pagoda, built in 1049 in Kaifeng, China, of glazed bricks is an example.
Ceramic glaze raw materials generally include silica, which forms glass when fired. Metal oxides, such as sodium, potassium and calcium, act as a "flux" to lower the melting temperature. Alumina, often derived from clay, stiffens the molten glaze to prevent it from running off the piece. Colour comes from iron oxide, copper carbonate or cobalt carbonate. Tin oxide or zirconium oxide make the glaze opaque.

</doc>
<doc id="41303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41303" title="Nuclear">
Nuclear

Nuclear means relating to a nucleus. It may be about:
In mathematics:
In sociology:

</doc>
<doc id="41309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41309" title="Stanford University">
Stanford University

The Leland Stanford Junior University, often called Stanford University (or simply Stanford), is a private university next to Palo Alto in California, in the middle of Silicon Valley,
about 37 miles (60 kilometers) southeast of San Francisco and about 20 miles northwest of San José, in Santa Clara County. Leland and Jane Stanford started the university. They named the university after their son, Leland Stanford Junior, who died at young age.
With one of the largest university campuses in the United States, the University includes the Schools of Engineering, Law, Medicine, Education, Business, Earth Sciences, and Humanities and Sciences. Stanford also hosts volunteer programs and a teaching hospital.
People who graduated from Stanford University are:
People who have worked at Stanford are:

</doc>
<doc id="41316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41316" title="Beta">
Beta

Beta can mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="41318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41318" title="Palladium">
Palladium

Palladium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Pd. It has the atomic number 46. It is a metal. It is silver white. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. It is also part of the platinum group.
Palladium has similar chemistry to platinum. It is extracted from (made by taking from) some copper and nickel ores. Its main use is as a catalyst and also in jewellery. 

</doc>
<doc id="41321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41321" title="Personal care">
Personal care

Personal care items are toiletry items. These are products used by people to look after their bodies, and to improve their appearance. They are usually sold in chemist shops and supermarkets. Many celebrities use beauty products.
Personal care includes products as diverse as cleansing pads, bandages, colognes, cotton swabs, cotton pads, deodorant, eye liner, facial tissue, hair clippers, lip gloss, lipstick, lotion, makeup, nail files, pomade, perfumes, razors, shaving cream, moisturizer, talcum powder, toilet paper, toothpaste, and wet wipes.

</doc>
<doc id="41324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41324" title="Irish Republican Army">
Irish Republican Army

The Irish Republican Army or IRA originated from the Irish Republican Brotherhood, and fought against the British Army to get freedom for Ireland in the Irish War of Independence. The British army had invaded Ireland earlier in the plantation of Ulster and then invaded Dublin, after some time when the IRA had fought the island of Ireland was split up and the Republic of Ireland became independent, the IRA split up and some parts of it were involved in the fighting in Northern Ireland called "The Troubles". The original IRA are now named as ná Óglaigh na hÉireann. While the other IRA have made countless of terrorist attacks on northern Ireland to get rid of the protestants.
The Irish Republican Army (Irish: Óglaigh na hÉireann) was formed from the joining of a part of the Irish Brotherhood with the union's Irish Citizens Army militia after the Easter Rising of 1916. They were to continue to kill and pillage Britain.
After the unilateral declaration of independence by the Irish Parliament in 1919, the IRA continued the war against British occupation in what was called the Irish War of Independence. This ended in 1921 with the signing of the Anglo-Irish Treaty, which divided the island into the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. The signing of the treaty led to a split in the IRA between those who were against the treaty and those who were for it. This led to a bitter civil war, which saw former friends and even family members on different sides. The IRA lost the civil war but the group did not go away and they continued to fight Great Britain.
In the 1930s, the leftist group achieved some success in overcoming the division between Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland . The refusal of IRA-Leadership, to cooperate with this course, led to a further division. Frank Ryan led a part of the Congress-group after Spain, where they are in the Spanish Civil War against General Francisco Franco.
The brutal police action against the Northern Ireland civil rights movement and the raids by loyalist paramilitaries in 1967 brought the IRA back on the map. At that time and until the end of the 80s were Northern Irish Catholics were in a legal vacuum, and were de facto vulnerable to the whims of the official from Britain supported nordir-Protestant police forces and paramilitary groups. Open violence to murders, torture, open prosecution, defamation and exclusion of qualified training and public offices were years of normalcy for the Northern Irish Catholics. The IRA obtained the support of large parts of the Catholic population, and almost had the status of a "protecting power". Some Irish-Americans also supported the violence. 
In the 60s, there were differences between the military and the Provisionals oriented rather Marxist-theory oriented Officials. This resulted 1969 to re-divide into Provisional Irish Republican Army PIRA and the "official" group OIRA, which is strong in the civil rights movement-oriented. The "official" wing of the IRA never formally dissolved, but is de facto since about 1980 is no longer relevant.
In the 80 years changed the leadership of the Provisional IRA, instead of the veterans from the south over younger activists from Northern Ireland to key positions. At the top of the Sinn Féin joined Gerry Adams, the party clearly to the left. In 1993 he initiated jointly with the Social Democrats John Hume to the peace process, in August 1994, the IRA a unilateral ceasefire, a prerequisite for the Good Friday Agreement created. Despite the ceasefire, the IRA remained active even though not fighting.
Only two small splinter groups held up at the last state of war: The Real IRA and the Continuity IRA. When a car bomb attack the splinter group, which is called "Real IRA", in August 1998, in Northern Ireland Omagh were a total of 29 people killed.
On 28 In July 2005, the end of the IRA's armed warfare. "All IRA-Soldiers have been instructed to lay down their arms," reads a statement from the IRA days, and continued: "We believe that there is now an alternative way, (…) the British rule in our country to an end.”On 26 September 2005, the complete disarmament of the IRA by the head of the international disarmament commission, Canadian General John de Chastelain, announced. Two pastors, one Catholic, one Protestant were present at the destruction of weapons, no photographs or video was allowed to be taken as proof.
On 29 In October 2005 Gerry Adams said that the IRA campaign had "clearly come to an end".

</doc>
<doc id="41336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41336" title="Rhythm and blues">
Rhythm and blues

Rhythm and blues (also known as R&B or RnB) is a popular music genre combining jazz, gospel, and blues influences, first performed by African American artists. It is now performed worldwide by people of many cultures and ethnic groups.
During the 1980s, James Brown and Sly & the Family Stone had used parts of psychedelic rock and other styles in their music. Funk became a big part of disco music. In the early 1980s, funk and soul had become sultry and more sexual with the work of Prince and others. The modern style of "contemporary R&B" came to be a major part of American popular music.
R&B today defines a style of African-American music. It combines elements of soul music, funk music, pop music, and (after 1986) hip hop in what is now called "contemporary R&B".
It is sometimes called "urban contemporary" or "urban pop".
By the 2000s, the only big difference between a record being a hip hop record or an R&B record is whether its vocals are rapped or sung. R&B started to focus more on solo artists than groups. By 2005, the most famous R&B artists include Usher, Beyoncé (formerly of Destiny's Child), Ashanti, and Mariah Carey.
Soulful R&B continues to be popular, with artists such as Alicia Keys, R. Kelly, John Legend, and Toni Braxton. Some R&B singers have used parts of Caribbean music in their work.

</doc>
<doc id="41340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41340" title="Tungsten">
Tungsten

Tungsten (sometimes named wolfram) is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol W. It has the atomic number 74. It is a metal. The colour of the metal is steel-gray to white. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. Tungsten is found in several ores. Two ores which have tungsten in them are wolframite and scheelite.
Tungsten has a higher melting point than any other non-alloy that exists. The pure form (only tungsten) is mainly used for electrical uses. Its compounds and alloys are used for many things. Their most well known use is in light bulb filaments. It is also used as the filament and target in most X-ray tubes and also in superalloys. It is also used in glass to metal seals.
Tungsten's dense nature has been used for many things. In the military, for example, Tungsten has been used for building howitzer shells.

</doc>
<doc id="41342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41342" title="Arc">
Arc

An arc is a part of a circle. An arc is a curved line. The curve of an arc is constant and does not change (i.e., an arc has constant curvature). It sometimes is portrayed as a dotted line.

</doc>
<doc id="41343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41343" title="Particulate">
Particulate

Particulates are very tiny pieces of a solid or liquid that are carried floating in a gas. When the tiny pieces are solid, it is called a smoke. When the tiny pieces are liquid, it is called an aerosol.

</doc>
<doc id="41344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41344" title="Shorthand">
Shorthand

Shorthand or stenography is a way of writing. Shorthand systems allow people to write much faster. Shorthand systems have been in use since antiquity. Now, they are not used as much, because there are systems that can record voices.

</doc>
<doc id="41347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41347" title="Sine wave">
Sine wave

A sine wave is a curve with this shape: 
This is a picture of a sine wave.
All waves can be made by adding up sine waves. The sine wave has a pattern that repeats. The length of this repeating piece of the sine wave is called the wavelength. The wavelength can be found by measuring the length or distance between one peak of a sine wave and the next peak. The wavelength can be found in many other ways too. 
Waves are found everywhere in the natural world. Examples of waves:
All of these waves are sums of signals.
Sine waves have a "length" called a wavelength. There are other properties of waves and sine waves, such as their frequency, amplitude, phase, and speed.
The frequency of a sine wave is the number of oscillations a wave has in a certain period of time, for example one second.

</doc>
<doc id="41355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41355" title="Collingwood Football Club">
Collingwood Football Club

Collingwood Football Club, the Magpies, is a club which plays Australian Rules Football in the AFL. It comes from Collingwood, a suburb of Melbourne in Victoria. In the AFL/VFL, it has won 15 premierships.
The Collingwood Football Club was formed in February 1892. Collingwood played its first game in the Victorian Football Association on 7 May 1892, against Carlton. In 1902, Collingwood won its first premiership against the Essendon Football Club.
The Victorian Football League (VFL) formed in 1897. Collingwood was one of the original teams (along with Fitzroy, Melbourne, St Kilda, Carlton, Essendon, South Melbourne and Geelong). In the early years of the VFL, Collingwood was the most successful team; it won 11 premierships in the first 40 years. They won the most recent AFL premiership against St Kilda in 2010. The teams had to play a second match after the scores were equal at the end of the first Grand Final game.

</doc>
<doc id="41360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41360" title="Vibration">
Vibration

Vibration or oscillation means quick moving back and forth (or up and down) about a point of equilibrium. The vibration may be periodic (having a pattern) or random. Something that is vibrating may shake at the same time. If it vibrates in a regular way, it may produce a musical note because it can make the air to vibrate. This vibration will send sound waves to the ear and to the brain.
In structural dynamics and, particularly, in earthquake engineering, vibrations may be, unfortunately, bad: they may cause the structure to fail.
The time it takes a vibrating object to go back and forth completely is the period. The number of back-and-forth movements in one second is its frequency, measured in Hertz (Hz). The farthest possible distance from the equilibrium point is the amplitude.
Free vibration occurs when vibration is set off with a push and allowed to vibrate freely. Examples of this type of vibration are pulling a child back on a swing and then letting go or hitting a tuning fork and letting it ring. The mechanical system will then vibrate at a 'Natural frequency' and gradually wind down.
Forced vibration is when an alternating force or motion is applied to a mechanical system. Examples of this type of vibration include 
In forced vibration the frequency of the vibration is the frequency of the force or motion applied. The size of the effect depends on the actual mechanical system.

</doc>
<doc id="41361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41361" title="Molybdenum">
Molybdenum

Molybdenum is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Mo. It has the atomic number 42. It has 35 isotopes. The name Molybdenum is from the Greek meaning "leadlike". The color of pure molybdenum is silvery-white. It does not occur naturally, and is made from molybdenite.
It is used in alloys with other metals like stainless steel. It helps to make metal stronger, especially in high temperatures, and makes it less likely to rust. This makes it good for use in high speed tools, such as drills and saw blades. It is used in aircraft and missile parts, as well as in nuclear reactors. It is also not toxic, so it is used in making metal bowls for use in making food, medicines and other chemicals.
Molybdenum was used for many years before it was identified in 1778 by Swedish scientist, Carl Wilhelm Scheele. In 1782, Peter Jacob Hjelm was able to separate it into a dark powder he called "molybdenum". It was first mined in 1916 at Climax, near Leadville, in Colorado.

</doc>
<doc id="41362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41362" title="Solution">
Solution

In chemistry, a solution is a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances. The substances that are dissolved are called solutes. The substance the solutes are dissolved in is called the solvent. An example from everyday experience is a solid like salt or sugar (which are crystalline solids), dissolved in a liquid (like water). Gases can dissolve in liquids. An example is carbon dioxide or oxygen in water. Liquids may dissolve in other liquids and gases in other gases.
The amount of solute added to the solvent determines the concentration of the solution. The solution with the large amount of solute is called a concentrated solution; the solution with less solute is called a dilute solution.
Examples of solid solutions are alloys and some minerals. For example, brass is an alloy of copper and zinc.

</doc>
<doc id="41363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41363" title="Insurance">
Insurance

Insurance is a term in law and economics. It is something people buy to protect themselves from losing money. People who buy insurance pay a "premium" (often paid every month) and promise to be careful (a "duty of care"). In exchange for this, if something bad happens to the person or thing that is insured, the company that sold the insurance will pay money back. (However, there are some times when the company will not have to pay money back, such as if the person was not careful.)
There are different kinds of insurance. There are life insurance and general insurance.
In life insurance, someone ensures their life or someone else's life. At the death of insured person or on the date of maturity whichever happens earlier, the amount insured will be paid. 
General insurance is a non-life policy, such as: 
Actuaries are the people who figure out how much the premium should be. They balance how much the insurer might have to pay out against the chances of having to pay out. If an actuary thinks that there is a big chance that the company will have to pay out, he will make the premium higher.

</doc>
<doc id="41364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41364" title="Bunsen burner">
Bunsen burner

A Bunsen burner is a common piece of laboratory equipment. It is commonly used for heating chemical substances, sterilization, and combustion. It works by burning flammable gas. It is named after Robert Wilhelm Bunsen. Bunsen was a German chemist. Bunsen did not invent the burner, he made it better. Originally, Michael Faraday developed the Bunsen burner. 
A Bunsen burner has different types of flames, with each having a different colour. Bunsen burners can be very hot.

</doc>
<doc id="41365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41365" title="Reaction">
Reaction

A reaction might refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="41368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41368" title="Michael Faraday">
Michael Faraday

Michael Faraday (Newington Butts, Surrey, 22 September 1791 – Hampton Court, Surrey, 25 August 1867) was an English chemist and physicist. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society, and was awarded the Royal, Copley and Rumford medals of the Society. 
Although Faraday had little school education, and did not know higher mathematics, he became one of the most influential scientists in history. For the most part, he was an autodidact: he taught himself. Faraday became the greatest experimental physicist of the nineteenth century.
At the time when he lived, people like him were called "natural philosophers". At that time only a little was known about electricity. Michael Faraday discovered many things about the way electricity flowing in a wire can act like a magnet (now called electromagnetism). He also found out a lot about the way electricity can be used with chemicals to make them change (now called electrochemistry). 
He showed that magnetism is able to affect rays of light, as there is an underlying relationship between the two phenomena. His inventions of electromagnetic rotary devices formed the foundation of electric motor technology, and it was largely due to his efforts that electricity became viable for use in technology. He made the first electric motor. It is thanks to his early work that the electricity has been made into a useful thing today.
As a chemist, Michael Faraday discovered benzene, invented an early type of Bunsen burner and popularized terminology such as anode, cathode, electrode and ion. Faraday was the first Fullerian Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, a position to which he was appointed for life. He was also the Director of the Royal Institution after Sir Humphrey Davy.
Albert Einstein kept a photograph of Faraday on his study wall alongside pictures of Isaac Newton and James Clerk Maxwell.
Michael Faraday was born in Surrey, England (well, it says Newington Butts, England on normal Wikipedia). His family was poor. His father, James, was a blacksmith. James Faraday had come to London in the 1780s from North-West England. The young Michael Faraday was one of four children and only had the most basic school education. He had to teach himself to read and write. At fourteen he went to learn how to be a bookbinder and bookseller from a man called George Riebau. 
During his seven-year study of making books with Riebau, he read many books. He read Isaac Watts's "The improvement of the mind". Faraday loved to use the ideas in this book in his work. He started to become interested in science, especially in electricity. He began to attend public lessons run by the best scientists in London at the time. He showed the notes he made to the great chemist Sir Humphrey Davy. Davy liked him and offered him a job as an assistant in March 1813. 
Faraday's knowledge continued to grow as he helped Sir Humphrey Davy until he was making new discoveries on his own. He was eventually made a professor in 1833. The importance of his work was seen within his own lifetime and the British government gave him a pension in his old age as a reward.
Faraday also discovered that if electricity strikes a metal object, it will only pass through the outside of the object. The inside is unaffected by the electricity. This is what keeps the people inside safe when lightning strikes a car or a plane. This is now called Faraday's Cage.

</doc>
<doc id="41369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41369" title="Robert Bunsen">
Robert Bunsen

Robert Wilhelm Eberhard Bunsen (31 March 1811 – 16 August 1899) was a German chemist. He improved the bunsen burner which now has his name. It was invented by Michael Faraday. 
Much more important was the work he did which led to spectroscopy. Together with Gustav Kirchhoff, he developed a method of using the spectrum of light to identify the composition of solids,liquids or gases. Spectroscopy originated through the study of visible light dispersed according to its wavelength, for example, by a prism. Bunsen found the elements caesium and rubidium with his spectroscope. 
In 1841, Bunsen developed the Bunsen cell, by improving the galvanic cell William Grove had developed in 1839.

</doc>
<doc id="41377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41377" title="Keith Haring">
Keith Haring

Keith Haring (May 4, 1958 - February 16, 1990) was an American artist. He was famous in the 1980s for his art, which was a mixture of graffiti and pop art and used bright colors and simplistic images, as well as social and homoerotic themes. Haring also donated money to children's causes and organizations. His artwork became well known around the world. Haring was openly gay. He died of an AIDS-related illness in 1990. The Keith Haring Foundation set up in 1989, continues his legacy of promoting art and helping children.

</doc>
<doc id="41382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41382" title="The Adventures of Tintin">
The Adventures of Tintin

The Adventures of Tintin () is a Belgian comic strip, created by Hergé (Georges Remi) starting in the late 1920s and into the 1970s. They were originally written and published in French, but have been translated into many languages and are popular around the world.
The stories center around a young reporter from Belgium named Tintin, who travels the world and has many exciting adventures with his dog, a white wire fox terrier named Snowy (Milou, in French) and later (starting with "The Crab with the Golden Claws" in 1941) his friend, Captain Haddock, a bearded drunk with a temper.
Other popular characters include Professor Cuthbert Calculus (Professeur Tryphon Tournesol) an absent-minded and mostly deaf (but he insists he's hard of hearing) scientist and inventor, and Thomson and Thompson (Dupond et Dupont), two silly detectives.
The stories are a mixture of many different genres, including adventure, satire, and social commentary and changed over time. Twenty-three completed books , came out between 1929 and 1976. A twenty-fourth story, "Tintin in Alph-Art", was never officially finished following the death of Hergé in 1983. There have been many unofficial books, but most of those are parodies or not part of the official series. The books in the official series are:
There have also been plays, films, and animated cartoons based on the stories. Steven Spielberg and Peter Jackson have made a movie about Tintin. There are also Tintin Shops in Europe, which sell books, toys and other items based on the books.

</doc>
<doc id="41403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41403" title="Selenium">
Selenium

Selenium is a chemical element. Its chemical symbol is Se and its atomic number is 34. It has 34 protons and 34 electrons and a mass number of 78.96. 
Selenium (selenium atoms only) has several different forms. They are called allotropes. The most stable of these is a dense gray semimetal (an element that is partially a metal and a nonmetal). The way the atoms are put together is a named a trigonal polymer chain. It lets electricity pass through it better in the light than in the dark. This form is used in photocells. 
Selenium also has many nonconductive forms: a black glass-like substance, as well as several red crystalline forms. In the red form the eight atoms of selenium form ring to make a molecule. These rings then stack together to make the solid red selenium. The way that red seleniums atoms are put together is similar to sulfur.
Selenium is not very reactive. It does not dissolve in acids except nitric acid. It also dissolves in alkali's like sodium hydroxide. It reacts with air when powdered to make selenium(IV) oxide. It does not react with many things, so selenium(IV) oxide is what most selenium compounds are made from.
Selenium forms several oxidation states; -2, +2, +4, and +6. The -2 state is in selenides. Selenides are strong reducing agents. They are stronger reducing agents than sulfides. Hydrogen selenide is the acid made from selenide ion. Selenium also reacts with reactive metals to make selenides, such as sodium selenide or aluminium selenide.
The +1 state is found in some selenium compounds, such as selenium(I) chloride. They are the most unreactive selenium compounds.
The +4 state is found in selenites. Selenites and selenous acid are moderate oxidizing agents. It is made by dissolving selenium dioxide in water and making selenous acid. Then selenous acid is reacted with bases to make selenites.
The +6 state is found in selenates. Selenates and selenic acid are powerful oxidizing agents. Selenic acid can even dissolve gold! They are made by reacting hydrogen peroxide with selenium(IV) oxide to get selenium(VI) oxide, which dissolves in water to make selenic acid. Selenates are more reactive than sulfates.
Most selenium compounds are colorless. Selenium compounds are not common.
Selenides are the most common -2 compounds. Selenides are strong reducing agents.
+4 compounds can exist in anions or cations.
Selenites are weak oxidizing agents.
+6 compounds can exist in anions or cations, too.
Selenates are powerful oxidizing agents.
Selenium is very rarely found as an element in the ground. Most selenium in soil is in a very tiny amount. It is easily washed away. It is in very small amounts in the human body. Selenium is found most in sulfide ores like pyrite. This selenium is in selenides. Selenium is gotten as a byproduct. Sometimes selenium is concentrated in plants. It can also be leached into rivers when copper is mined. Too much selenium is bad for a river. Some coal has selenium in it.
It is made as a byproduct when refining copper and certain other sulfide ores. Selenium is made by oxidizing selenide ores to selenium dioxide. The selenium dioxide is dissolved in acidic water to make selenous acid, which is reacted with sulfur dioxide to make selenium as an element. It is the red form that is made. To make the black form, the red form is heated and melted. 
Selenium is used in photocells. The gray metallic form is used, as it changes its electrical conductivity when light shines on it. Selenium is also used as a catalyst. The largest use is to color glass red. It can be used in special brasses instead of lead. It is used in some rectifiers. Most use silicon instead. It is used to tone photographs. It can be used to remove dandruff from hair in the form of selenium sulfide.
Selenium is a trace element in the human body. Humans need very small amounts of selenium. Only about 50-200 micrograms are needed. Selenium can be toxic if more than 400 micrograms are taken. Once there was coal that had a large amount of selenium in it. People were getting selenium poisoning from the coal. 
Selenium deficiency is rare. Although selenium has some helpful effects on the human body, it also has some harmful effects and only a very little should be eaten.
It is toxic in large amounts. Some selenium compounds are very toxic and harmful to things that live in water. Consuming around 5 mg of selenium per day can kill a human being after a certain amount of time.

</doc>
<doc id="41406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41406" title="Germanium">
Germanium

Germanium is a chemical element. Its chemical symbol is "Ge". Its atomic number is 32. It was discovered by Clemens Winkler. It is a shiny, hard, silver-white metalloid. The chemistry of Germanium is quite like tin. Germanium forms a large number of organometallic compounds. It is an important semiconductor material used in transistors.

</doc>
<doc id="41408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41408" title="Tom Green">
Tom Green

Michael Thomas Green (born July 30, 1971) is a Canadian actor, comedian, rapper, director, producer and writer. He was born in Pembroke, Ontario. He had his own comedy program, "The Tom Green Show", on MTV. He directed, co-wrote and starred in "Freddy Got Fingered". He was also a member of the short lived hip hop group Organized Rhyme where he performed under the stage name "MC Bones".

</doc>
<doc id="41418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41418" title="The Force">
The Force

The Force is a term from the "Star Wars" universe. It is a set of mystical powers that all the Jedi and Sith have. They can do many things with the Force, such as lifting an object up without touching it, shooting lightning out of their hands, choking people and many other things.
There are two sides to the Force: the light (or good) side and the dark (or bad) side.
The light side is used for good things like healing and growing food. The people who study and learn the light side of the Force are called "Jedi".
The dark side of the Force is used by the Sith, the bad guys, in the "Star Wars" movies. Sith have a lot of anger, fear, hate and aggression. The dark side of the Force gives the bad guys powers that the Jedi, the good guys, do not have. For example, Darth Sidious is able to shoot lightning from his fingers. The dark side can seem stronger but that is just because a person who uses the dark side of the Force does not have to hold anything back, he is not restrained.

</doc>
<doc id="41419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41419" title="Jedi">
Jedi

In the fictional "Star Wars" universe, the Jedi or Jedi Knights are members of an old order, who use a power they call The Force.
The Jedi use The Force to have magic-like powers. Their typical weapon is the lightsaber, a sword-like weapon with an energy blade.
The Jedi try to lead a good and virtuous life, serving others. They keep and defend the peace of the galaxy.
The opposite of the Jedi are the Sith, who follow the Dark side of the Force (using the force for evil).

</doc>
<doc id="41420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41420" title="Sith">
Sith

In the fictional "Star Wars" universe, the Sith are users of the Dark side of The Force and the opposite of the Jedi. 
The Sith live to dominate all others and to cause pain throughout the "Star Wars" galaxy. Some famous Sith are Darth Vader, Emperor Palpatine and Darth Maul. 

</doc>
<doc id="41421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41421" title="Alex Jones">
Alex Jones

Alex Jones (born February 11, 1971) is a radio talk show host from Texas. He is described as conservative politically by a mainstream sources. He describes himself as a paleoconservative politically, which means that he advocates old or traditional forms of political conservatives, as opposed to the newer forms, i.e. neoconservatives. He also calls himself an "aggressive constitutionalist". He is regarded by at least two mainstream source to be a conspiracy theorist. 
Jones claims that the USA was responsible for the 9/11 attacks.
Jones is the host of "The Alex Jones Show" on Genesis Communications Network.
Jones was born in Dallas, Texas and grew up in the suburb of Rockwall. His father is a dentist. He attended Anderson High School in northwest Austin, Texas. Jones was a lineman on his high school's football team.
He began his career in Austin with a live, call-in format Public-access television cable TV program. In 1996, Jones switched format to KJFK, hosting a show named "The Final Edition". In 1998, he released his first film, "America Destroyed By Design".
In 1998, Jones organized a successful effort to build a new Branch Davidian church as a memorial to those who died during the 1993 fire that ended the government's siege of the original Branch Davidian complex near Waco, Texas. He often featured the project on his Public-access television program and claimed that Koresh and his followers were peaceful people who were murdered by Attorney General Janet Reno and the ATF during the siege.
In 1999, he tied with Shannon Burke for that year's "Best Austin Talk Radio Host" poll as voted by "The Austin Chronicle" readers. Later that year, he was fired from KJFK-FM. According to the station's operations manager, Jones was fired because his viewpoints made the show hard to sell to advertisers and he refused to broaden his topics. Jones argued: "It was purely political, and it came down from on high [meaning it was ordered by political leaders]", and, "I was told 11 weeks ago to lay off Clinton, to lay off all these politicians, to not talk about rebuilding the church, to stop bashing [slang for criticizing] the Marines, A to Z."
In early 2000, Jones was one of seven Republican candidates for state representative in Texas House District 48, an open seat swing district based in Austin, Texas. Jones stated that he was running, "to be a watchdog [a person who makes sure no wrongdoing is taking place] on the inside." He aborted his campaign and withdrew before the March primary when polls indicated he had little chance of winning.
Jones maintains several websites and has created numerous documentary movies.
He is also the author of "9-11 Descent into Tyranny".

</doc>
<doc id="41422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41422" title="Stuart Sutcliffe">
Stuart Sutcliffe

Stuart Fergusson Victor Sutcliffe (June 23, 1940 – April 10, 1962) was an early member of the English band The Beatles. He was born in Edinburgh, Scotland and raised in Liverpool, England. He was the band's original bassist, but left before they became famous. He wanted to be an artist, and he returned to art school, which he had quit to join the Beatles.
Sutcliffe died in 1962 in Hamburg, Germany from a brain . It was long thought that the hemorrhage was from a fight with locals after a concert in 1961, but it is now believed he may have been born with a medical condition which caused it.

</doc>
<doc id="41430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41430" title="Beautiful">
Beautiful

If something is described as beautiful, it means that it has beauty. Beautiful can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="41440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41440" title="George Boole">
George Boole

George Boole [], (November 2, 1815 – December 8, 1864) was an English mathematician and philosopher. He created Boolean algebra. This is one of the bases of modern-day computer science. Other people, like Augustus De Morgan and Charles Peirce, refined and completed his work. In their times, very few people knew of the work those mathematicians had done. "Boolean algebra" was rediscovered by Claude Shannon about 75 years after Boole's death. In his doctoral thesis, Shannon showed that boolean algebra was useful. It could simplify the design of electric switches and relays (like those that were used in the telephone switchboards of the time). Shannon also showed that such switches could solve boolean algebra problems. All modern-day digital circuits (mainly computers) use such algebra to solve problems. 

</doc>
<doc id="41445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41445" title="Managua">
Managua

Managua has been the capital city of Nicaragua since 1855. There had been an Indian settlement there before the Spanish, but the modern city was founded as Leal Villa de Santiago de Managua in 1811. Before 1855, León and Granada were the capital cities. The word "managua" comes from the Nahuatl language "mana-ahuac". It means "near water". About 1.8 million people lived there in 2004. This makes it one of the biggest cities of Central America (after Guatemala City). The city is at the shore of Lake Managua. Many people who live in Managua are White or Mestizo. They all speak Spanish. There are also big communities of Catalonians, Germans, Italians and French. Many of the people belonging to those communities have lived in the city for many generations. Many people see Managua as one of the safest cities in America to live in.
The city has had two destructive earthquakes in the 20th century. Hurricane Mitch caused further destructions in 1998. Many old buildings were damaged or destroyed in these earthquakes, and new streets and monuments were built in their place. In general, addresses are rarely used to give directions. Instead, people usually use monuments to tell where a certain place is. The problem with that approach is that sometimes, the monuments themselves were destroyed. Therefore, foreigners often have problems finding their way around the city.

</doc>
<doc id="41449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41449" title="Flat">
Flat

Flat might mean:
In music "flat" can have two (related) meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="41451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41451" title="Curve">
Curve

A curve is a line that turns or bends. A curved line is never straight, and a curved surface is a surface that is never flat. Some curves can be drawn on paper, but some curves, like a helix, can only be seen in 3-D. A circle is a curve that can be described with the formula "x" + "y" = "r". "x" and "y" are used as in a Cartesian coordinate system, and "r" is the radius of the circle (distance from the center to the outside). Many other curves can also be described with a formula like that.

</doc>
<doc id="41453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41453" title="Möbius strip">
Möbius strip

The Möbius strip or Möbius band is a surface with only one side and only one edge. It can be made using a strip of paper by gluing the two ends together with a half-twist. The twisting is possible in two directions; so there are two different (mirror-image) Möbius strips.
The Mobius strip is known for its unusual properties. A bug crawling along the center line of the loop would go around twice before coming back to its starting point. Cutting along the center line of the loop creates one longer band, not two. Cutting one third of the way in from the edge (and parallel to it) produces another amusing result. 
The Möbius strip was discovered independently by the German mathematicians August Ferdinand Möbius and Johann Benedict Listing in 1858.
One way to represent the Möbius strip as a subset of formula_1 can be done using the parametrization:
where 0 ≤ "u" < 2π and −1 ≤ "v" ≤ 1. This creates a Möbius strip of width 1 whose center circle has radius 1, lies in the "xy" plane and is centered at The parameter "u" runs around the strip while "v" moves from one edge to the other.
In cylindrical polar coordinates ("r", θ, "z"), an unbounded version of the Möbius strip can be represented by the equation: 
Topologically, the Möbius strip can be defined as the square [0,1] × [0,1] with its top and bottom sides identified by the relation for as in the diagram on the right.
The Möbius strip is a two-dimensional compact manifold (i.e. a surface) with boundary. It is a standard example of a surface which is not orientable. The Möbius strip is also a standard example used to illustrate the mathematical concept of a fiber bundle. Specifically, it is a nontrivial bundle over the circle "S" with a fiber the unit interval, "I" = [0,1]. Looking only at the edge of the Möbius strip gives a nontrivial two point (or Z) bundle over "S".
A simple construction of the Möbius strip which can be used to portray it in computer graphics or modeling packages is as follows :
There have been several technical applications for the Möbius strip. Giant Möbius strips have been used as conveyor belts. Such belts last longer because the entire surface area of the belt gets the same amount of wear. Möbius bands have also been used as continuous-loop recording tapes (to double the playing time). Möbius strips are common in the making of fabric computer printer and typewriter ribbons. There, they allow the ribbon to be twice as wide as the print head while using both half-edges evenly.
A device called a Möbius resistor is an electronic circuit element which has the property of canceling its own inductive reactance. Nikola Tesla patented similar technology in the early 1900s: "Coil for Electro Magnets" was intended for use with his system of global transmission of electricity without wires.
The Möbius strip is the configuration space of two unordered points on a circle. Consequently, in music theory, the space of all two note chords, known as dyads, takes the shape of a Möbius strip.
In physics/electro-technology: 
In chemistry/nano-technology: 

</doc>
<doc id="41458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41458" title="Klein bottle">
Klein bottle

The Klein bottle is a geometrical object, named after the German mathematician Felix Klein. He described it in 1882, and named it "Klein'sche Fläche" (Klein surface). Like the Möbius strip, it only has one surface. Mathematicians call this a non-orientable surface. Klein bottles only exist in four-dimensional space, but a model of a Klein bottle can be made in 3D. This model is different from the original because at some point the shape touches itself. In 3D, part of the shape is "inside" the rest. This is not the case in 4D. Some 3D models use different colors to show the 4th component. The part that lies "inside" then has a different color.
Because the surface is non-orientable, there is no "inside" or "outside". This means that if a liquid were filled "in the bottle", it would run down its surface. This may not be true for the 3D models of the bottle.
The 2-dimensional version of a Klein bottle is a Möbius strip.
Join the arrows so that they face the same way, like so:

</doc>
<doc id="41462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41462" title="Entropy">
Entropy

The entropy of an object is a measure of the amount of energy which is unavailable to do work. Entropy is also a measure of the number of possible arrangements the atoms in a system can have. In this sense, entropy is a measure of uncertainty or randomness. The higher the entropy of an object, the more uncertain we are about the states of the atoms making up that object because there are more states to decide from. A law of physics says that it takes work to make the entropy of an object or system smaller; without work, entropy can never become smaller – you could say that everything slowly goes to disorder.
The word entropy came from the study of heat and energy in the period 1850 to 1900. Some very useful mathematical ideas about probability calculations emerged from the study of entropy. These ideas are now used in information theory, chemistry and other areas of study. 
Entropy is simply a quantitative measure of what the second law of thermodynamics describes: the spreading of energy until it is evenly spread. 

</doc>
<doc id="41464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41464" title="Side">
Side

In Geometry, a side is a line that is part of a flat figure made from straight lines.
As an example, the square on the right has four sides. The sides in this picture are made with black straight lines. The four sides are:

</doc>
<doc id="41467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41467" title="Te Puke">
Te Puke

Te Puke is a small town in the Bay of Plenty in New Zealand. 6670 people live there. It is famous for kiwifruit, which is grown there. Lots of other fruit is grown there too.
"Te Puke" means "the hill" in Māori.

</doc>
<doc id="41468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41468" title="Valley">
Valley

A valley is a type of land formation. A valley is a lower part in the land, between two higher parts which might be hills or mountains. Valleys often start as a downward fold between two upward folds in the surface of the Earth. A valley is made deeper by a stream of water or a river as it flows from the high land to the lower land, and into a lake or sea. Some valleys are made by glaciers which are slow-moving rivers of ice. When a valley is made deeper or wider by water or ice, this is called erosion. Wind can also make valleys larger by erosion.
A valley has a "head" where it begins in the mountains or hills, "sides" where it rises up on either side, a "floor" which is where the valley is most flat. Some valleys have an "entrance" where the valley opening can be seen between two hills or mountains or cliffs. A place where a valley is very narrow and has high walls is sometimes called a "gorge". (This word "gorge" is sometimes used to mean the "throat" on a human body). 
Many of the people of the world live in valleys because there is often a river or stream in a valley for fresh water, and there is often good soil in a valley to grow crops.
Mountains and hills are made when the layers of rock and soil (called "strata") get folded up. There are always valleys in hills and mountains, in between the highest parts which are the "peaks". If the mountains are very high, then people who want to travel to the other side of the mountains must go by the valleys. A valley that is used for people to travel through the mountains is called a "pass". 
Valleys that are high in the mountains are usually made deeper by a stream or small river running fast down the mountainside, from a place where there is lots of rainwater or melting snow. The mountain stream winds around the biggest rocks and washes the soil away as it flows. It cuts a passage for itself through the softest soil and smallest stones. A small stream can cut a very deep valley. Valleys that are high in the mountains are usually V-shaped. There are many valleys like this in hills and mountains all over the world.Block Mountains also have a valley named Rift valley 
In country that has hills, but is not very steep, a river or stream runs more slowly. It makes a wider valley that often has some large bends as the river flows around the hills, always following the lowest way. Water running down from the hillsides often carries soil that spreads out across the valley, making flat land that is good for growing food crops and raising cattle and other animals. Many farms are in valleys that are in hilly land. Many towns are built on the sloping sides of valleys. Famous valleys of this type are the Loire Valley and the Lower Rhine Valley in Europe and the Thames Valley in England. 
Some valleys are almost flat, like a large saucer. Valleys of this type often have a very large river with many "tributaries" (streams that are like branches) running through them. The "tributaries" carry water from the hills or mountains that may be far from the main river. After heavy rain, lots of water rushes into the main river so that it rises and floods over the flat floor of the valley. When the flood waters spread, they drop lots of soil which has washed down from the hills. The soil that drops on the valley floor makes the valley flatter. Valleys of this type are very useful for growing food crops. The widest valleys in the world are like this. Famous valleys of this type are the Mississippi-Missouri Basin in North America, the Amazon Basin in South America, the Lower Danube in Europe, the Ganges River Valley in India, the Nile River Flood Plain in Africa and the Darling River Basin in Australia. 
A glacier is like a frozen river. Many countries do not have any glaciers. A glacier starts in very high mountains where there is snow and ice all the year. The snow and ice starts to move down a valley that has been made by a fast-flowing stream. As the ice starts to slide down the mountainside, it does not flow around the rocks; it pushes the rocks out of the way. As a glacier moves, it picks up more ice and gets bigger and bigger. A big glacier cuts through the soil and softer rock of the valley and piles up the rocks on either side, or pushes them in front of it. When a big glacier melts, it leaves a valley of a deep U-shape. Many valleys like this were made in the Ice Ages. In mountainous countries like Switzerland many people live in the valleys that were made by glaciers. Some of the deepest valleys in the world were made by glaciers. The fjords of Norway and "sounds" of New Zealand are where glaciers went into the sea. 
A plateau is high land that is flat on top, or gently rolling, not pointed like mountains or rounded like hills. In hilly or mountainous country, the bands of a soil and rock are folded, but in a plateau the "strata" are in flat layers. The water that makes streams on the top of a plateau cuts down in wide valleys with sides that are steep cliffs and a bottom that is quite flat. Valleys like this are often deep and very narrow. Some valleys like this are very deep and wide. They are called "canyons". Famous valleys of this type are the Grand Canyon in the United States and the Megalong Valley in Australia. 
Sometimes a valley has been formed in the hills near the coast of a country. Movement in the Earth's surface may cause the land to sink lower and become flooded by the sea. The shape of the valley can still be seen from the tops of the hills that stick out from the water. Some of the hills may become islands, and others become the shore of a bay. Sunken valleys often make good harbours. The east coast of Australia has many sunken valleys of which the most famous is Sydney Harbour. 

</doc>
<doc id="41472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41472" title="Manifold">
Manifold

A manifold is a concept from mathematics. Making a manifold is like making a flat map of a sphere (the Earth).
The Earth is a sphere, a three dimensional object of geometry. Yet, maps (two-dimensional representations) can be made of the Earth. At the edges of a certain map, the map needs to be changed. That way it is possible to make a two dimensional image of the whole surface of the Earth. There need to be rules, on how to change the maps, and some areas (near the edges of the map) will be on more than one map. It is not possible to make one map only, which would have no edges. This map would either have edges (and overlapping areas), or there would be some places where the paper was torn. 
Each manifold has a dimension. This is the dimension of the maps, in the example above. It is the same for all maps. 

</doc>
<doc id="41473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41473" title="Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate">
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate

NADP (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) is a coenzyme that carries electrical energy used in cellular processes. When a hydrogen atom is added, NADP becomes charged and is renamed NADPH. NADP is used extensively during the Krebs (citric acid) cycle and during glycolysis and in the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis.

</doc>
<doc id="41479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41479" title="The CW">
The CW

The CW Television Network (The CW) is a television network in the United States launched at the beginning of the 2006–2007 television season. It is a joint venture between CBS Corporation, the former owner of United Paramount Network (UPN), and Time Warner's Warner Bros., former majority owner of The WB Television Network. The "CW" name is derived from the first letter of the names of these corporations (CBS and Warner Bros.). According to its former President of Entertainment Dawn Ostroff, the network tries to "appeal to people 18 to 34-years-old". The network currently airs programming six days a week: Monday through Friday afternoons and evenings (in prime time), and Saturday morning children's programming (under their The CW4Kids block).
The network started after its two predecessors, UPN and The WB, ceased independent operations on September 15 and September 17, 2006 respectively. The CW's first two nights of programming—Monday and Tuesday, September 18 and September 19, 2006—consisted of reruns and launch-related specials. The CW marked its formal launch date on Wednesday, September 20, 2006, with a two-hour season premiere of "America's Next Top Model".
The CW offers a mixture of programming that originated on both UPN and The WB along with its own original programs, mostly targeted towards women and young adults.

</doc>
<doc id="41484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41484" title="Borzoi">
Borzoi

Borzoi is a type of Russian dog. It used to be called a Russian Wolf Hound.
This breed of dog was brought to the United States in 1889. It was approved by the American Kennel Club one year later. The breed is beautiful and has a gentle personality. It makes it a good pet.
The breed was approved and the descriptive standard was written in 1650. It has not changed much since then. It is about tall at the withers (its back near the shoulders). It weighs from . Borzois have a long coat. They can be any color from solid white to brown and white, gray and white or brindle. They can also be all black. People who take care of Borzois have done a good job of stopping health problems. Borzois do not have many of the problems other breeds have with health.
In Russia, they were well liked by the royalty. It was illegal to sell them. They were given to those who did something special for the Tzars. They feature in Russian novels e.g. in Tolstoy's "Anna Karenina". During the Russian revolution, most of the breed were killed because they were a symbol of royalty. A few were taken from the country.
They have been used in advertising for luxury cars and jewelry. This is because of their elegant looks.

</doc>
<doc id="41486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41486" title="Giuseppe Garibaldi">
Giuseppe Garibaldi

Giuseppe Garibaldi was an Italian soldier. He fought for the Italian Unification Movement. He led a group called the Red Shirts through the Kingdom of Two Sicilies to bring together the kingdoms of Italy in 1860.

</doc>
<doc id="41492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41492" title="Edward the Confessor">
Edward the Confessor

St. Edward the Confessor ( 1003 – 4 January 1066) was King of England from 8 June 1042 AD to 4 January 1066. After he died, there were four people who claimed the throne. Edward had promised to each of them that they would be king.
Edward spent many years in Normandy. The Anglo-Saxon nobles invited Edward back to England in 1041. He became part of the household of his half-brother Harthacnut. According to the "Anglo-Saxon Chronicle" both were sworn in as king together.
Following Harthacnut's death on 8 June 1042, Edward ascended the throne. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle indicates the popularity he enjoyed at his accession — "before he [Harthacnut] was buried, all the people chose Edward as king in London". Edward was crowned at the cathedral of Winchester, the royal seat of the West Saxons on 3 April 1043.
Edward's death left England without a clear-cut successor. Harold Godwinson had led successful raiding parties into Wales in 1063. He negotiated with his inherited rivals in Northumbria in 1065, and in January 1066, upon Edward's death, he was made King Harold II.
The Norman position was that William the Conqueror had been designated the heir, and that Harold had been publicly sent to him as emissary from Edward, to apprise him of Edward's decision. However, William's biographer, William of Poitiers, admitted that the old king had made a deathbed gift of the crown to Harold. On Edward's death, Harold was approved by the Witenagemot which, under Anglo-Saxon law, held the ultimate authority to convey kingship.
Edward also made his great nephew Edgar Ætheling his heir. However, Edgar had no following among the earls: he had lived in Hungary, and was a boy of fourteen. This opened the way for Harold's coronation, and the invasions of two claimants to the throne, the unsuccessful invasion of Harald Hardrada in the north and the successful one of William of Normandy.
Edward was canonized (made a saint) in 1161 by Pope Alexander III, and is commemorated on 13 October.

</doc>
<doc id="41493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41493" title="27 BC">
27 BC

Year 27 BC was either a common year starting on Sunday, Monday or Tuesday or a leap year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="41494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41494" title="899">
899


</doc>
<doc id="41498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41498" title="Gilbertville, Ontario">
Gilbertville, Ontario

Gilbertville is a hamlet in Norfolk County, Ontario, Canada that is in between Delhi and the historical hamlet of Pine Grove. There is a small grocery store, a tractor shop, a car repair shop, and farmland to the south. In addition to all this, Gilbertville is also the site of a former army base and was founded by the Gilbert family in the 19th century as a place to rest horses when travelling to and from the towns of Simcoe and Delhi.

</doc>
<doc id="41506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41506" title="World War III">
World War III

World War III is the name given to a possible third world war. It refers to a futuristic world war that will be the successor to World War II (1939-1945).
A world war means a war that is fought by multiple countries of the world against each other which occurs across different continents. Because technology and weapons have become so advanced, most people agree that if this war ever happens, nuclear, biological and chemical weapons will be used. "Nuclear weapons" get their energy from breaking or joining atoms. "Biological weapons" are living things, usually bacteria or viruses. "Chemical weapons" might not kill quickly, but poison people or their land. Together, nuclear, biological and chemical weapons are called Weapons of mass destruction. Conventional weapons on the other hand are "normal weapons", like guns or bombs. 
Mass destruction could destroy much of the Earth and kill most living things. Albert Einstein said "I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones." This shows that he believed that after World War III, civilization as we know it would be gone.
Several times, there have been events that could have led to a third world war. The Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 brought the world to the edge of a nuclear war, but this did not end up happening.
Some events, for example the Cold War, have been called "World War III". Former President of the United States George W. Bush compared the War on Terrorism to World War III.

</doc>
<doc id="41507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41507" title="Shotgun">
Shotgun

A shotgun is a type of gun. To make a shotgun work, gunpowder is lit by a primer inside of a shotgun shell. The gas from the burning gunpowder will push whatever is being fired out of the barrel. Usually a shotgun shell will have many small metal balls called "buckshot" or "birdshot". These balls spread out when they are fired. Sometimes a shotgun shell will have a bigger piece of metal, like a bullet, called a "slug".
A shotgun can have one or two barrels, each with a chamber to hold a shell. These barrels can be next to each other or on top of each other. There are also different types of ways of loading and shooting a shotgun. Some will snap open, and shells can be put inside until they are shot again. Others hold more shells and are pumped back and forth to shoot. Some shotguns are semi automatic, so each time the trigger is pulled, one shot is fired without any need to use a pump or a lever. Some shotguns are fully automatic, meaning that pulling and holding the trigger back will keep shooting the gun without needing to reload until the shotgun is out of ammunition. However, these are uncommon.
Shotguns can also fire things that do not kill people. Police use things like rubber balls and beanbags filled with the small metal balls instead, to cause non-deadly injuries.

</doc>
<doc id="41521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41521" title="Randy Quaid">
Randy Quaid

Randall Rudy "Randy" Quaid (born October 1, 1950) is an American actor. He was born in Houston, Texas and has been in many movies. He is the brother of actor Dennis Quaid.

</doc>
<doc id="41527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41527" title="Oakland, California">
Oakland, California

Oakland is a city in California. It is across the bay from San Francisco. It is the county seat of Alameda County and the third-largest city in the Bay Area, after San Jose and San Francisco. At one time, Oakland had many factories that built cars, ships and airplanes. It is a major rail junction. It is the home of the Athletics baseball team and the Raiders football team.
California governor Jerry Brown was once mayor of Oakland. The current mayor is Jean Quan

</doc>
<doc id="41531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41531" title="Mosquito">
Mosquito

A mosquito is a type of fly. It is the common name of a family of flies in the order Diptera. 
The females are ectoparasites: they land on warm-blooded animals, pierce a capillary, and inject saliva to stop the blood coagulating. Then they suck up and eat the blood. Deadly microscopic parasites often live in the saliva. 
The males are nectar-feeders, and so are the females. However, in preparation for egg-laying the females turn to blood for its protein.
Usually both male and female mosquitoes feed on nectar and plant juices. In many species the mouthparts of the females are adapted for piercing the skin of animal hosts and sucking their blood as ectoparasites. In many species, the female needs to get proteins from a blood meal before she can produce eggs. In many other species, she can produce more eggs after a blood meal. 
They lay their eggs in pools of water. The larvae move around near the surface of the water, breathing through air tubes that stick out of the water. They get their food from the water, usually eating algae and other tiny creatures. They like to wiggle around near the surface, which is why some people call them "wigglers". The larvae usually enter the pupa stage within a few days or weeks of hatching, depending on the water temperature and the species. 
The pupae are called "tumblers" because they tumble in the water if the water is touched. Tumblers do not eat, but they move around in the water a lot, and like larvae, they breathe from tubes that stick out of the water. The pupa stage is short (only for a few days), and then the mosquito becomes an adult.
There are many species of mosquito. This comes about because, of those which suck blood, each species is adapted to a different host or group of hosts. There are two subfamilies, 43 genera and over 3,500 species of the Culicidae.
Mosquitoes are a vector (carrier) which carries disease-causing viruses and parasites from person to person.
The principal mosquito borne diseases are the viral diseases yellow fever, dengue fever and malaria carried by the genera "Anopheles" and "Culex". Mosquitoes transmit disease to more than 700 million people annually in Africa, South America, Central America, Mexico and much of Asia with millions of resulting deaths.
Methods used to prevent the spread of disease, or to protect individuals in areas where disease is endemic include:
Standing water, as in a pond or lake, is the main breeding ground. It may or may not be practical to eliminate this water. The water in bird baths can be changed once a week, but one can hardly do that with larger bodies of water. The method used to be: spray water with DDT, but that does a lot of damage, and in any event the mosquito is now highly resistant to the chemical.
With increasing reports of the harmful effects DEET has on humans, there has been a move to repellents which are organic. These are of the kind that have had traditional household purposes before their being used as mosquito repellents.
The dragonfly nymph eats mosquitoes at all stages of development and is quite effective in controlling populations. Some copepods are predators on first instar larvae, killing up to 40 Aedes larvae per day. 
A number of fish eat mosquito larvae, including goldfish, catfish, piranhas, and minnows.
The oldest known mosquito with a basically modern anatomy was found in 79-million-year-old Canadian amber from the Upper Cretaceous. An older sister species with more primitive features was found in amber that is 90 to 100 million years old.
Genetic analyses indicate that the Culicinae and Anophelinae clades may have diverged about 150 million years ago. The Old and New World "Anopheles" species are believed to have subsequently diverged about 95 million years ago.
 

</doc>
<doc id="41539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41539" title="Molasses">
Molasses

Molasses (Known as Treacle in the United Kingdom if it was made to be eaten by humans) is a by-product of sugar canes or sugar beets being turned into sugar. It is like a thick syrup. Some people also call molasses sorghum syrup. The quality of the molasses depends on how the sugar is refined. Molasses is like a black golden syrup type liquid. 
Molasses is the base for making rum. Sometimes, vodka is also made from molasses.

</doc>
<doc id="41541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41541" title="Syrup">
Syrup

Syrup is a thick, sweet, flavored liquid with a great deal of sugar in it. There are different flavored syrups, such as chocolate syrup, vanilla syrup, and maple syrup. Syrups are used to sweeten and flavor hot and cold drinks, and they are poured on desserts and breakfast foods.
Syrups are used in many different types of drinks. Coffee shops add chocolate syrup and other flavored syrups (for example: vanilla) to coffee drinks. Ice cream parlors add chocolate syrup to milk shakes. In Italy, cafés often offer a choice of different syrups that can be added to carbonated soda water, to add sweetness and flavor.
Syrups are also used in many desserts. Ice cream parlors pour chocolate and butterscotch syrup on bowls of ice cream. Cafés and restaurants pour syrup on cakes, pies, crepes, and pancakes. Maple syrup is often poured on pancakes in North America during the breakfast meal. Maple syrup is made from the sap from maple trees that is boiled until it thickens. 
During the warm months, stores in North America sell desserts called "slushies" or "slush puppies" that consist of crushed ice in a cup that has flavored syrup poured in it.

</doc>
<doc id="41542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41542" title="Sugarcane">
Sugarcane

Sugarcane (or sugar cane) is a genus of plants. There are between 6 and 37 types of sugarcane (how many there are depends on the interpretation of what is a grass and what is not). Sugarcane grows in warm and tropical climates. It first grew in Asia, but after the year 700 people started planting it in Africa and southern Europe. Later it spread to the Americas and Australia. It is also grown in Tamil Nadu. Today the biggest producer is Brazil in South America. 
Sugarcane stalks grow to between 2 and 6 metres tall. These stalks contain sugar, which is used to sweeten food and drinks. After the sugar has been taken out the remains of the stalks can be burned to generate heat and electricity. It can also be made into paper, cardboard and cutlery. This crop requires high temperature and high rainfall. In areas of low rainfall this crop is cultivated with the help of irrigation. Black soil or alluvial soil is the best for this crop. Sugarcane requires a large amount of water. That is why holding deep soil is required. As this crop absorbs nutrient matter from the soil, compost manure and chemical fertilizers are used.

</doc>
<doc id="41544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41544" title="Sugar beet">
Sugar beet

Sugar beet is a plant. Its roots contain a high amount of sucrose. This can be made into sugar. Sugar beets are grown for sugar. The sugar beet is related to Chard.
The biggest producers of sugar beet are the European Union, the United States and Russia. 30% of the world sugar production is from sugar beets.

</doc>
<doc id="41547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41547" title="Tourette syndrome">
Tourette syndrome

Tourette syndrome is an inherited neurological disorder. Tourette syndrome can also be called "Tourette's syndrome","Tourette's disorder", "GTS", "Tourette's", or "TS". People that have Tourette's have tics (movements or sounds that the person cannot easily control). Tourette's is normally inherited, and starts in childhood. 
People who have Tourette's have a normal life expectancy and normal intelligence. Tics are normally not as bad as people get older. Adults with severe Tourette's are rare. Fewer than 15% of people with Tourette's have coprolalia. Coprolalia is using words or phrases that some people might find offensive without being able to stop saying them. These may include curse words. However the stereotypical Tourette's sufferer has coprolalia.
Most people with Tourette's do not need treatment. There are drugs that can help people manage tics. There are also therapies that can help people live easier with Tourette's.
The disease is named after Georges Gilles de la Tourette. He was one of the first doctors to describe the symptoms.

</doc>
<doc id="41550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41550" title="1134">
1134

Year 1134 (MCXXXIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="41551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41551" title="Soybean">
Soybean

The soybean (or soya bean) is a plant with fruit called beans, from Eastern Asia. The height of a grown soybean is between less than 20 cm and up to 2 m. One soybean lives for only one year. Probably, it was originally a vine.
Soybeans can be eaten or used to make oil, sauce, milk, flour, tofu and other foods. These soy foods have much protein, and many vegetarians like that. Also fuel can be made from soybeans.
In 1997, 81% of all soybeans were of genetically modified stock. This means that genes were changed directly.
In China, going back the ancient Chou dynasty soy beans were considered to be one of the five sacred foods.

</doc>
<doc id="41554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41554" title="Henagon">
Henagon

A henagon (or monogon) is a shape in geometry. It is like a polygon, except that it only has one side and one corner (vertex). Henagons are considered to be impossible to draw, using Euclidean geometry. This is because the single side would go to infinity. 
Since it only has one side, there is only one angle. Therefore all henagons are considered regular shapes. 

</doc>
<doc id="41569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41569" title="Moors">
Moors

The Moors were the Muslim inhabitants who lived on the Iberian Peninsula and North Africa in the Middle Ages. In Europe, the word is very often used to talk about people whose ancestors were North African.
The Moors (Umayyad Muslims) came from North Africa and were initially of predominate Berber ancestry. Many of them came to what is now Spain and Portugal. They had a very big influence on the culture of these countries.
The Moors were the ones who captured Al Andalus and named it Al Andalus, Which means land of the vandals.

</doc>
<doc id="41575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41575" title="Habitat">
Habitat

A habitat is an area that is lived in by a particular species of animal, plant, or other type of organism. It is the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the physical environment that surrounds a population.
Most animals live in one type of environment because they are best suited to it. We say they are 'adapted to this environment'. For example, animals such as frogs, newts, and ducks have webbed feet to help them swim in the water. There are many different types of habitats and many different kinds of adaptations to fit into each.
If the habitat changes, it may no longer be suitable for the animals and plants that live there. Because of the complex links between the plants and animals this can have many different effects. Climate change is making some habitats warmer, and so many animal species are moving to cooler areas. However some species are not able to move and the populations are getting smaller. Scientists think that 10% of species may become extinct because of these changes. Other habitats have been cleared to make them into farm land. In Australia for example, 80% of the eucalypt forests have been cleared for farming over the last 210 years. This is threatening the survival of forest animals such as the koala.
Just as animals adapt to the places they live, so do plants. Plants are adapted to a wide variety of habitats. As a result, each plant has certain characteristics. Some are adapted to living on land while others live in water. Plants that grow on land usually have stiff stems to hold them upright, while water plants tend to have less rigid stems because the water supports them.
Plants that live in dry climates like the desert have few or no leaves, and may, like cacti, store water when rain occurs. Their adaptations cut down water loss. Plants that grow in shaded areas have large leaves to capture as much sunlight as possible, or climb towards the light.

</doc>
<doc id="41577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41577" title="Long Island">
Long Island

Long Island is a large island in New York. It is the longest and largest island in the mainland United States. The island has four counties: Queens and Brooklyn in the west are boroughs of New York City, Nassau County is in the central area, and Suffolk County in the east. To the north is Long Island Sound and to the south is the Atlantic Ocean. 
The East River separates Long Island from Manhattan island and the Bronx mainland. The island is a terminal moraine left by glaciers during the ice ages. 
The 2000 census counted 7,448,618, people living on Long Island, making it the most populated island in all of the United States, and more populated than Ireland and Jamaica. Long Island is in the eastern time zone. 
The term "Long Island" often refers only to the mostly suburban counties of Nassau and Suffolk because Brooklyn and Queens are part of New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="41587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41587" title="K.M. Peyton">
K.M. Peyton

Kathleen Wendy Herald Peyton (born 2 August 1929 in Birmingham, England) is an English writer. She has written over 50 books, including "Blind Beauty" (1999) and "Stealaway" (2001).

</doc>
<doc id="41593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41593" title="Fédération Internationale de Volleyball">
Fédération Internationale de Volleyball

The Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (), often called just FIVB, is the organization that controls international Volleyball.

</doc>
<doc id="41600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41600" title="Old World">
Old World

Old World is a term about the world before Christopher Columbus.
Spain sent Columbus to go to the New World. They found Native Americans, and then they became friends and traded.
They had foods and animals Native Americans had not seen before, like sugarcane, pigs, horses, and more. But, they did not know that they were also giving sickness. They accidentally killed many Native Americans. But, they did also kill many of them on purpose, so that it would be easier to build their new cities.
The Old World called North America as well as South America the New World.

</doc>
<doc id="41601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41601" title="International Astronomical Union">
International Astronomical Union

The International Astronomical Union (IAU) is a international group that brings together the national astronomical groups from around the world. It was created in 1919. It was created to promote and protect the science of astronomy by getting different nations to work together. Its members are professional astronomers from all over the world, and they all work on research and education in astronomy. The IAU has good relationships with groups that include amateur astronomers. "National Members" are usually people with a high level of professional astronomy. The IAU is made up of 8,858 "Individual Members" in 85 countries. It has 62 "National Members".
The IAU is also the group in charge of naming objects in space and anything on them such as mountains and craters.

</doc>
<doc id="41608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41608" title="Obfuscation">
Obfuscation

Obfuscation means making something harder to understand, usually by complicating sentences needlessly. Weasel words are a form of obfuscation. Obfuscation is usually used when people either do not know what they are talking about or wish to hide their meaning.
Some people say that when doctors use difficult medical words to hide unpleasant things from patients, they are using obfuscation.
Technical term: Obfuscation is sometimes used to make source code much harder to read and reverse engineer. This can be a significant concern for technology like Java and JavaScript that require source code to be exposed in order to function.

</doc>
<doc id="41611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41611" title="Chicago Bears">
Chicago Bears

The Chicago Bears are a professional American football team in the National Football League based in Chicago, Illinois. The Bears were founded in Decatur, Illinois, by George Halas, in 1919. They were first called the Decatur Staleys, after the A.E. Staley Starch Company which owned the team for its first two seasons. The team has won nine NFL Championships, with the last being in 1985 (Super Bowl XX). They also played in Super Bowl XLI in 2006 against the Indianapolis Colts, but they lost 29-17 to Peyton Manning. The team is owned by Virginia Halas McCaskey, and the general manager is Phil Emery. The team's current head coach is Marc Trestman.
The Bears play their home games at Soldier Field. They played there from 1974-2001 and then 2003-present (Soldier Field was being made new in 2002). The Bears had played at Wrigley Field from 1921-1970. Wrigley Field is the home of the Chicago Cubs baseball team, and the Bears were named after the Cubs.

</doc>
<doc id="41617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41617" title="Cool Runnings">
Cool Runnings

Cool Runnings is a 1993 Disney sports comedy movie. It stars John Candy and Doug E. Doug. It is about the first Jamaican bobsled team who wanted to compete in the 1988 Winter Olympics.
Cool Runnings is set in Jamaica. When a Jamaican sprinter gets disqualified during the tryouts for the Olympics because he fell over, he still wanted to compete. After seeing a picture of a bobsled, he wanted to become a bobsledder. He managed to get 3 other people to form a team. The first ever Jamaican bobsled team was trained by Irv, a retired athlete. When they went to the Olympics, they successfully passed the track under 1 minute, so they qualified. After being disqualified, Irv went to talk to the judges, and the Jamaican team were back. After a rough first round, they came back surprisingly. however, during the finals the bobsled broke, crashing. They walked to the finish line, with everyone cheering. When they returned, they were heroes and the competed in the next Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="41629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41629" title="Schmallenberg">
Schmallenberg

Schmallenberg is a town in the German state North Rhine-Westphalia. It has about 26,000 inhabitants.
Schmallenberg is located in the middle of the Sauerland (Rothaargebirge). It is about 25 kilometres south of Meschede, and 120 kilometres from Köln (Cologne).
Lennestadt borders in the north on the communities of Bestwig and Meschede, in the east on Winterberg, in the south on Bad Berleburg, and in the west on the towns of Eslohe and Lennestadt.
Schmallenberg is twinned with
The Benedictine monastery began in 1072 near Schmallenberg on a site at the foot of the Wilzenberg mountain, by Saint Anno, Archbishop of Cologne. 
"Alexander de Smalenburg" is said to have given his name to the city of Schmallenberg. The origins of the narrow castle lie in a castle complex that belonged to Cologne, and in 1244 the curtain-walled settlement was officially elevated to city status by Konrad von Hochstaden, Archbishop of Cologne.
During the Middle Ages, textile and ironmongery trades were the main industries in Schmallenberg. Around 1350 there were about 800 living in the town. After an economically quiet period during the 16th century, the new iron hammer technology put the city back on the map. At that time, Schmallenberg’s ironmongery trade was considered the most important one in Westphalia.
In parts of the town like in Oberkirchen there were many witchcraft trials. In 1630 there were 7 processes, from April to June. During these, 58 people were convicted to burn at the stake, for alleged witchcraft. One of the victims was Christine Teipel, a 9 year old child.
After a big fire in 1822, the town was rebuilt using a classical ground plan. This can still be seen today. Ten years before that, the city wall and gates had been torn down. Today, Schmallenberg’s typical features are its half-timbered houses with slated roofs and carved doors, small bays and gables as well as symmetric perrons.
Since the 19th century Schmallenberg was a "Sauerländer centre" of the textile industry (the largest company: FALKE-GROUP). This gave Schmallenberg the nickname "Strumpfstadt" (""socktown""). Since the development of the textile industry in Schmallenberg is declining dominated the economy many medium-sized enterprises and tourism. In 2002 there were 7924 on social insurance jobs.
Important Schmallenberger companies are: 
The Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME conducts research in the field of applied life sciences from a molecular level to entire ecosystems. The IME-Institute has around 140 employees working at the locations Schmallenberg and Aachen.
Hiking trails adding up to about 2,500 kilometers, leading through forests, across mountains and through valleys make Schmallenberg. The town at the upper course of the river Lenne has developed into one of Westphalia’s winter sports centers. 250 kilometers of cross-country ski tracks and 30 ski-lifts turn any kind of skiing.
Schmallenberg's airport is Flugplatz Schmallenberg-Rennefeld (ICAO-Code: EDKR).

</doc>
<doc id="41644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41644" title="French and Indian War">
French and Indian War

The French and Indian War took place between 1754 and 1763 in what is now the United States and Canada. The war was between the French with Indian allies and the British with British North American and Indian allies. The war is called The Conquest War in Quebec and Ontario, Canada.
The conflict was a part of the Seven Years' War among the European great powers including Britain and France, which took place in various parts of the world.
In 1754 France built a new fort in the disputed territory and the British decided to expel them. Fighting began with the Battle of Monongahela in 1755. General Edward Braddock, the commander, died with many of his men in a failed attack against the French in what later became Pittsburgh. Militia officer George Washington led the defeated survivors home.
In the Battle of the Plains of Abraham Canada was conquered.
The fighting in North America stopped on Sept. 8, 1760 with the surrender of Montreal and all of Canada to Britain. The war ended with the signing of the Treaty of Paris on February 10, 1763. France lost all of its North American lands east of the Mississippi River. All of Canada was given to Britain except for two small islands near Newfoundland. Britain offered France the choice to give up either its Canadian land or the Caribbean islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique, which British troops had taken during the war. France chose to keep the islands, which were valuable for their sugar plantations. 
British North American colonists became unhappy over their share of the winnings, eventually leading to the American Revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="41646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41646" title="Sif">
Sif

Sif is a goddess in Norse mythology. She is the wife of Thor and mother of Thrud and Ull.
Sif has hair made of gold. It grows just like normal hair. Her original hair's color looked like wheat. Loki cut off Sif's hair as a prank. When Thor found out he made Loki have golden hair made for her by the Dwarves.
It is believed that Sif was a goddess of the home, of field and of the crop. It is also said that she had some control of destiny. 
Thrud is the only daughter of Thor and Sif. Ull is her son with another man. Thor also has two sons with a giantess. In two different poems in Poetic Edda, Sif is said to have a mysterious lover, but no one knows who he is.
A volcano on the planet Venus is named after Sif. Sif is also a character in the comic book The Mighty Thor from Marvel Comics.

</doc>
<doc id="41651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41651" title="Political correctness">
Political correctness

Political correctness (or PC for short) means using words or behavior which will not offend any group of people. Most people think it is important for everyone to be treated equally, fairly and with dignity. Some words have been used for a long time that are unkind to some people. Sometimes these words have now been replaced by other words that are not offensive. Such words are described as politically correct.
The term is often used in a mocking sense when attempts at avoiding offense are seen to go too far.
This term has been used since the early 1970s. It started being used in the modern negative sense in the late 80s in America.
Politically correct words or terms are used to show differences between people or groups in a non-offensive way. This difference may be because of race, gender, beliefs, religion, sexual orientation, or because they have a mental or physical disability, or any difference from what is considered the norm.
Throughout the 20th century women fought to have the same rights as men. In PC language this is seen in changes to job titles such as "lineman", "postman", and "chairman" which now commonly go by the gender-neutral titles "lineworker", "letter carrier" and "chairperson" or "chair" as well as with terms having broader application, such as "humankind" replacing "mankind".
People who are attracted to the same gender are usually referred to as 'homosexual'. Likewise, people who are attracted to people of both genders are usually referred to as "bisexual". However, both of these terms are seen as being perfectly fine by the more politically liberal oriented people.
People who are mentally disabled are now rarely described as "mentally retarded" (sometimes called "M.R.") but may be said to have "special needs". M.R. has been changed to I.D.; Intellectual Disabilities.
People who are blind or deaf may be referred to as "vision impaired" and "hearing impaired". People who cannot speak are never "dumb" but "mute" or "without speech".
The overall terms 'handicapped' and 'disabled' are no longer considered appropriate (there is no distinction between physical or mental, acquired or inborn.) The people first/pc term is 'challenged'. This term better reflects the fact they are different, rather than less.
Some of the new politically correct words are often criticized for being rather ridiculous. Some examples of these are the terms ending in challenged. For example, someone who is very short might be described as "vertically challenged". People also say that things that are obviously bad are called by something else which hides the fact that they are bad. For example, young people who are in trouble with the law, instead of being called "juvenile delinquents" became "children at risk". Some PC terms may be ambiguous i.e. have two possible meanings. "hearing impaired" can also refer to someone who has partial hearing (hard of hearing) and "vision impaired" can also refer to someone who has partial vision.

</doc>
<doc id="41652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41652" title="Mjolnir">
Mjolnir

In Norse mythology, Mjolnir is the war hammer of Thor, the god of lightning, thunder, wind, rain, and oak trees. Mjolnir is the most feared weapon of the Norse gods. It was believed to be able to knock down giants and entire mountains with only one hit. 
There are different stories about where the war hammer came from. One theory is that Odin had the weapon made in the heart of a supernova when Thor was born. Other stories say that it fell to Earth like a meteorite. Because of this, many Norse followers believed that lightning strikes were a sign of Mjolnir on Earth.
Mjolnir was the symbol of regeneration. It was not just about destruction. 
When thrown, Thor's Hammer would return to his hand after hitting its target. It is said that Mjolnir was used by Thor to slay Jörmungandr during Ragnarök.
""...He (Thor) would be able to strike as firmly as he wanted, whatever his aim, and the hammer would never fail, and if he threw it at something, it would never miss and never fly so far from his hand that it would not find its way back, and when he wanted, it would be so small that it could be carried inside his tunic.""

</doc>
<doc id="41657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41657" title="Orphan">
Orphan

An orphan is a child that has no parents . Their parents are either dead or didn't want them . Orphans end up in a house called and orphanage, this is where children with no parents live . Many children that live in an orphanage get fostered or adopted by a person or a couple.
Sometimes parents get sick and die while their child or children are still young, and if no close relatives take care of them, if they cannot or will not do so, they are normally raised in an orphanage. When several children, brothers or sisters are left orphaned they are normally split up; one child going to one family or one child going to a foster family while another may stay in the orphanage.
Sometimes parents may not have jobs or money and abandon their children because they cannot afford to bring them up. The parents may feel that if someone else brings them up they may have a better future in the long run.
In many poor countries orphans are often seen wondering about begging for money and food; many may not be going to school. Not much organised help exists for them in poor countries.
But in richer countries many organisations and institutions help the orphans and work to help parents when they are sick or very poor so they do not abandon their children. Organisations such as churches and community services assist them.
Many characters of books and movies have been orphans, such as Oliver Twist, David Copperfield, Annie, Batman, and Harry Potter.

</doc>
<doc id="41666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41666" title="Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District">
Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District

Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District () is an opera by the Russian composer Dmitri Shostakovich. It is one of the most important Russian operas of the 20th century. The words for the opera (the “libretto”) were written by Alexander Preis who based them on a story by the Russian writer Nikolai Leskov. The opera has nothing to do with Shakespeare’s play Macbeth except for the fact that it is about a woman like Lady Macbeth who is tempted to commit a murder.
"Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District" was the second opera that Shostakovich wrote. It was first performed on 22 January 1934 at the Leningrad Maly Theatre. It was very successful and lots of people came to hear it.
However, Shostakovich lived in difficult times. The dictator Josef Stalin was making life very difficult for creative people. He thought that music and all the other arts should praise and glorify their country (the Soviet Union). He did not allow people to express their own personal feelings. Anything that he did not like was called “formalist”. If Stalin did not like someone that person would not be allowed to work. They might even get sent to prison in Siberia where they were treated very badly. Many of them died.
Stalin came to hear a performance of "Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District". However, he did not like it, and he left during the performance. A few days later an article was written in the newspaper "Pravda" about the opera. The article heading was: “Chaos instead of music”. It said that the opera was full of horrible music and noisy chords. The opera was not allowed to be performed again in the Soviet Union for almost thirty years.
Shostakovich had to be very careful what he said otherwise he could have been in big trouble. He never spoke in public about music and culture. In 1937 he wrote his Symphony no 5. The music in this symphony was easier to understand than the music he had been writing before which had a lot of atonal music. Shostakovich said that this new symphony of his was “a Soviet artist’s reply to just criticism”. He had to agree to say this so that he would be allowed to carry on composing. Later, in 1962, he made some changes to the opera and called it "Katerina Ismailova". Since his death in 1975 it is usually the original version which is performed.
The opera tells the story of a lonely woman in 19th century Russia, who falls in love with one of her husband's servants and is driven to murder. Some of the music is influenced by Expressionism and verismo. After being condemned by Stalin it was banned in the Soviet Union for almost thirty years.
Katerina is lonely. She is married to a merchant, Zinovy, but they have no children. Her father-in-law Boris is horrible to her and blames her for not having any children. When Zinovy goes away on business Boris forces her to swear to be faithful (not to make love to any other man while her husband is away). However, one of the servants, Sergei, becomes her lover. When Boris finds out he is furious and whips Sergei and locks him up. Katerina poisons Boris with mushrooms. When he dies she gets the key from his pocket and frees Sergei.
Katerina and Sergei go to bed together, but Katerina suffers from the ghost of Boris. When Zinovy comes back Sergei hides, but Zinovy guesses what has happened. Katerina and Sergei kill Zinovy and hide his body in the cellar.
Katerina and Sergei get married. A peasant finds Zinovy's body in the cellar and goes to fetch the police. The police arrive, Katerina and Sergei try to escape but are caught and sent to prison in Siberia. On the way there Sergei makes love to another girl Sonyetka. When Katerina finds out she pushes Sonyetka into a river to her death and finally jumps in herself.
It is hard to know why Stalin decided he did not like the opera. It may have been because the police are made to look silly. It may have been because it showed people being sent to Siberia. Maybe it was because Katerina sings a lot of beautiful music, while the other characters have music which often made them look stupid and grotesque. He may have thought that Shostakovich was being critical of the leaders of the Soviet Union.

</doc>
<doc id="41674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41674" title="Adoption">
Adoption

Adoption is the act of adopting; being adopted. Adopt is to take into one's family (a child of other parents), especially by a formal legal act. It can also mean the legal act of assuming parenthood of a child who is not one's own.
In the West, there are some doubts about the strength of family love for an adopted child. Some research by the Evan Donaldson Institute shows more proof of this. Almost one-third of the people questioned believed adopted children were less controlled, more ill, and would easily be addicted to drug and alcohol. Also, 40 – 50 percent thought adoptees would probably have behavior problems at school. But adoptive parents were described by almost 90 percent as “lucky, advantaged, and unselfish”.

</doc>
<doc id="41677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41677" title="Border dispute">
Border dispute

A border dispute is when two governments or more do not agree where border is between two their lands. An example is Israel and Palestine. Another example is Pakistan and India over the territory of Kashmir. An historical example is the Honey War between Iowa and Missouri.
Wars are sometimes fought over border disputes.

</doc>
<doc id="41695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41695" title="Ambiguity">
Ambiguity

Ambiguity means that what a thing is, is not clear. Literally, the word refers to a choice between two different things. In the proper sense it should mean “two different meanings” because “ambi” comes from the Greek word for “two”.
We see things happen, and then we decide what they mean. If we cannot decide what is going on, the event is ambiguous. This is an extension of the original use of the word.
Words or sentences that are ambiguous can lead to misunderstandings (people get the wrong meaning). This can sometimes be serious, but it can also be funny. Jokes often rely on ambiguity.
The sentence “The peasants are revolting” is ambiguous because it could mean:
The British comedian Ronnie Barker said that he loved the English language because there are so many jokes you can make using ambiguity. He gave this example:
A mother says to her little boy: “Johnny, go over the road and see how old Mrs Jones is”. The boy comes back and says to his mother: “Mrs Jones says it is none of my business”.
The mother meant “old” in a friendly way (“dear old Mrs Jones”), but the sentence could also mean: find out Mrs Jones’s age. This is obviously how Johnny understood his mother's instruction.
The opposite of ambiguous is unambiguous (meaning that something is perfectly clear and can only have one meaning).

</doc>
<doc id="41699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41699" title="Qantas">
Qantas

Qantas is the flag carrier airline of Australia, with its headquarters close to Kingsford Smith Airport in Sydney. It is the second oldest continuously operating airline in the world. Qantas is commonly known as the "Flying Kangaroo" because of its logo, which is identified as a white kangaroo on a red right-angle triangle.
Qantas began in Winton, Queensland on 16 November 1920 as "Queensland and Northern Territorial Aerial Service Limited". It flew air mail services for the Australian government. In 1934, QANTAS Limited and Britain's Imperial Airways formed a new company, Qantas Empire Airways Limited. 
Qantas Empire Airways started services between Brisbane and Singapore using de Havilland DH-86 Commonwealth aeroplanes.
In June 1959, Qantas' first jet airliner was delivered, which was a Boeing 707-138.
Qantas has 18 domestic destinations (destinations within Australia) and 23 international destinations in 15 countries.
Domestic Destinations
International Destinations
The table below shows how many different types of aircraft Qantas have operating and on order as of February 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="41700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41700" title="Heavy metal music">
Heavy metal music

Heavy metal is a loud, aggressive style of rock music. The bands who play heavy-metal music usually have one or two guitars, a bass guitar and drums. In some bands, electronic keyboards, organs, or other instruments are used. Heavy metal songs are loud and powerful-sounding, and have strong rhythms that are repeated. There are many different types of heavy metal, some of which are described below.
Heavy metal bands sometimes dress in jeans, leather jackets, and leather boots, and have long hair. Heavy metal bands sometimes behave in a dramatic way when they play their instruments or sing. However, many heavy metal bands do not like to do this.
In the very late 1960s and 1970s, rock and roll turned into a harder, louder form of music called rock. In the 1970s, rock music bands played huge, loud concerts in outdoor stadiums. In the early 1970s, many rock bands played psychedelic rock, a type of rock music with lyrics and sounds that were intended to give the listener some idea of what it felt like to be on so-called "mind-expanding" (and usually illegal) drugs, and which some believe even enhanced the experience of being on the drugs themselves. Many bands from Britain played blues music mixed with rock music, such as The Animals, The Kinks, The Who, Jimi Hendrix, the Jeff Beck Group.
In the late 1960s, a harder form of rock music called "heavy metal" was invented. The first use of the term was in a 1968 song by Steppenwolf, "Born to be Wild", and other early heavy metal bands appeared in the same year, such as Blue Cheer. Bands from Britain such as Cream and Led Zeppelin played loud, heavy rock music based on blues music. Heavy metal music was mostly based on the sounds of the electric guitar. The electric guitar in heavy metal is always amplified through powerful amplifiers so that it has a loud, distorted, angry sound. Other bands such Deep Purple, Black Sabbath, Judas Priest, Eric Burdon and Alice Cooper played even louder, harder forms of heavy metal rock music.
Next, the "New Wave of British Heavy Metal" came along. This style of heavy metal includes bands such as Iron Maiden and Motörhead playing faster and with more anger in the music.
Heavy metal bands from the United States made heavy metal music popular in the late 1970s. Bands such as Kiss, Aerosmith and Van Halen put on large stadium concerts and attracted many fans.
In the 1980s the real Heavy Metal bands were created. Bands such as Mötley Crüe, W.A.S.P. and Ratt became popular. Heavy Metal rock bands had long hair and the men wore make up (lipstick and eyeshadow) and tight leather pants and boots. Many metal songs were about love, sex, partying, having a good time, illegal drug use, and drinking alcohol. Rarely,but sometimes, metal songs were also politically and socially critical. In the late 1980s, groups such as Poison and Warrant were very successful.
Another type of heavy metal in the 1980s was called "thrash metal" or "thrash." Thrash metal bands played a faster, more aggressive type of heavy metal rock. Thrash metal bands such as Metallica, Megadeth, Anthrax and Slayer had many fans.
In the 1990s, a new form of heavy metal developed, called alternative metal. Alternative metal combined thrash metal and grunge rock with hip-hop music and industrial music.
Also in the 1990's was nu metal, a shortening of "new metal". Nu metal mixed rap and hip hop style singing with metal music. Nu metal bands also often include DJ decks, synthesizers and other electronic instruments. Nu metal was very successful and made a lot of money, especially bands such as Linkin Park, Limp Bizkit and Slipknot as well as Disturbed.
Two other styles of heavy metal music, "death metal" and "black metal" are very angry, fast music. A person who does not like heavy metal at all will have a much harder time listening to death metal or black metal because it is much faster, louder, and more aggressive than other types of music. The singers usually do not sing, but instead they growl or roar to make the songs more intense. This makes it harder to hear the lyrics (words) and most people are not used to singers who use their voice in this way. The lyrics often tell stories from the view of people who are suffering and dying, or people who are hurting others. The guitars are usually distorted. The drums also use very fast beats with double bass pedals (AKA two kick pedals, double peds, etc.)
Other important styles of metal are: power metal, a style whose music often is about fiction and epics like "The Lord of the Rings", and gothic metal, which has melancholy songs about abstract subjects like pain, life, death, faith and religion.

</doc>
<doc id="41702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41702" title="Gesualdo">
Gesualdo

Gesualdo is an Italian commune of the region of the Campania, province of Avellino, with about 3.800 inhabitants. 
It shares border with Sturno, Villamaina, Frigento, Fontanarosa, Grottaminarda.
Carlo Gesualdo, the Renaissance composer and murderer lived in a castle in Gesualdo.

</doc>
<doc id="41709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41709" title="AFL">
AFL

AFL is a three-letter acronym that may mean one of the following: 

</doc>
<doc id="41714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41714" title="Aphra Behn">
Aphra Behn

Aphra Behn (10 July 1640 – 16 April 1689) was an English playwright. Aphra Behn is buried in Westminster Abbey. No one knows why she died.

</doc>
<doc id="41717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41717" title="Ben Jonson">
Ben Jonson

Ben Jonson (11 June 1572 – 6 August 1637) was a major poet and playwright in English Renaissance drama. Many critics consider Jonson to be among the best playwrights of his time, when William Shakespeare also lived. He is perhaps best known for two comedies, his plays "Volpone" and "The Alchemist". 
Jonson was educated at Westminster School. He is buried in Westminster Abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="41718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41718" title="Robert Browning">
Robert Browning

Robert Browning (7 May 1812 - 12 December 1889) was an English poet and playwright. He was born in Camberwell, London. He was married to the poet Elizabeth Barrett Browning. The both moved to Italy and lived in Florence. He had one son. Browning died in Venice, Italy. He was buried in Poet's Corner of Westminster Abbey.
He wrote a poem called The Laboratory which was about a woman using poison to kill her lover's girlfriend.
Browning's longest work was the poem "The Ring and the Book". It consists of more than twenty thousand lines. It is based on a true story. It tells about a real crime committed in Italy at the end of 17th century. Its main hero is Pompilia Comparini, a young woman stabbed to death by her husband, count Guido Franceschini.
Poet's best work is probably the book "Men and Woman". It was published in 1855. It is a collection of monologues.
Browning's last book is "Asolando" that was published in 1889.
Gilbert Keith Chesterton wrote a book about Robert Browning.

</doc>
<doc id="41720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41720" title="The Unknown Warrior">
The Unknown Warrior

The Unknown Warrior is a tomb of an unknown British soldier who was killed on the battlefield during World War I. 
The unknown warrior was buried in Westminster Abbey on November 11, 1920. The tomb is covered by a slab of black Belgian marble and is the only tomb in Westminster Abbey that people may not walk on.
It has an inscription on it that is written by Herbert Ryle, Dean of Westminster.
The unknown warrior was awarded the United States Medal of Honor on October 17, 1921. This hangs on a pillar near his burial. The handles of the unknown warrior's tomb were lost, then found by a man in East London whilst digging up weeds.

</doc>
<doc id="41721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41721" title="Joseph Addison">
Joseph Addison

Joseph Addison (May 1, 1672 – June 17, 1719) was a famous author and essayist who is known as "The Noblest Purifier of English Literature". Addison is buried in Westminster Abbey in the north aisle of the Henry VII Chapel.

</doc>
<doc id="41732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41732" title="Ipiaú">
Ipiaú

Ipiaú is a city in Bahia, Brazil. It is at around .
The city is in the meeting point of the "Contas River" and the "Água-Branca River" (White-water River). 
Ipiaú is bordered by Ibirataia and Jequié to the north, Aiquara and Jitaúna to the west, Ibirataia and Barra do Rocha to the east and Itagibá to the south.
The city is a important producer and exporter of cacao in Brazil.
Is the birthplace of many noted Brazilian writers and musicians such as Euclides Neto and Luiz Caldas.

</doc>
<doc id="41741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41741" title="German Empire">
German Empire

The German Empire ("Deutsches Reich" or "Deutsches Kaiserreich" in the German language) is the name for a group of German countries from January 18, 1871 to November 9, 1918. This is from the Unification of Germany when Wilhelm I of Prussia was made German Kaiser to when the third Emperor Wilhelm II was removed from power at the end of the First World War. It was once called the "Second Reich".
The name of Germany was "Deutsches Reich" until 1945. "Reich" can mean many things, empire, kingdom, state, "richness" or "wealth". Most members of the Empire were previously members of the North German Confederation. 
At different times, there were three groups of smaller countries, each group was later called a "Reich" by some Germans. The first was the Holy Roman Empire. The second was the German Empire. The third was the Third Reich.
The words "Second Reich" were used for the German Empire by Arthur Moeller van den Bruck, a nationalist writer in the 1920s. He was trying to make a link with the earlier Holy Roman Empire which had once been very strong. Germany had lost the war and was suffering big problems and he wanted to start a "Third Reich" to unite the country. These words were later used by the Nazis to make themselves appear stronger.

</doc>
<doc id="41744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41744" title="Anthony Powell">
Anthony Powell

Anthony Dymoke Powell CH, CBE (December 21, 1905 – March 28, 2000) was a British novelist. He is best known for his "A Dance to the Music of Time" series of books published between 1951 and 1975. 
Powell was born in Westminster, England, to Philip Powell and Maud (née Wells-Dymoke). His father was an officer in the Welsh Regiment. His mother came from a wealthy family in Lincolnshire. Powell's early childhood was spent in a flat in Kensington. It overlooked the Gardens where he often played. In 1913, the family moved to Aldershot and into Stonehurst. Stonehurst was a large bungalow on top of a hill.
On the start of World War I in August 1914, his father went to France and took part in the early fighting. Powell moved with his mother to London. He went to a private school for a short time. Powell was later sent to a boarding school in Kent. In early 1919 Powell passed the Common Entrance Examination for Eton where he started that autumn. Powell went to Balliol College at the University of Oxford to study history in the autumn of 1923. During his third year Powell lived out of college, sharing a place with Henry Yorke. Powell travelled on the Continent during his holidays.
Powell came to work in London in the autumn of 1926. He got a job as an apprentice at the publishers, Duckworth and Company in Covent Garden.
Powells first novel, "Afternoon Men", was published in 1931. A second novel, "Venusberg", followed in 1932. Powell’s third novel, "From a View to a Death", was published in 1934. All three of Powell’s novels were liked in the London literary world. His next work was a part of a collection of works in which various authors wrote about their schooldays. Powell’s memories of Eton appeared under the title of "The Wat’ry Glade".
In the autumn of 1936, he left Duckworth’s and took a job as a script writer at the Warner Brothers Studio in Teddington. The job paid well, but it involved long hours. With a team of others, he worked to create a cheap movie for the Quota. The Quota was created by the Government to protect the British movie industry. It required movie theaters to show British-made movies as well as the more popular foreign movies they normally showed. Warner Brothers, an American movie studio, set up studios in Teddington to take advantage of this. After six months of work with no movie created, Powell’s contract ended and was not renewed.
Powell and his wife moved back to Regent's Park. Powell heard about a job in the movie industry, this time in Hollywood. The Powells went to Hollywood to try to get the job but he did not get it. They returned to London in August 1937. Powell began work on his fifth novel, "What’s Become of Waring". He finished it in late 1938 or early the following year. The book sold fewer than a thousand copies. 
Powell was told to report for duty on December 11. He was a part of the 1/5th Battalion of the Welsh Regiment at Haverfordwest in Pembrokeshire. Once war came, the long hours stopped any thought of writing a lot. Powell believed that this could help him. War service gave him a lot of material for later use. Parts of "A Dance to the Music of Time" are about the war years. These parts are "The Valley of Bones", "The Soldier's Art", and "The Military Philosophers". Powell’s military service gave him the basic ideas for these three novels.
Powell was 39. His first task was to work on "John Aubrey and His Friends". It was completed in May 1946. In 1949 The Cressett Press hired Powell to write a book that they brought out under the title "Brief Lives and Other Selected Writings" by John Aubrey.
Anthony Powell would go on to international fame. He was made Companion of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1956. In 1973 he turned down the offer of knighthood. He was made Companion of Honour (CH) in 1988. He published two more novels, "O, How The Wheel Becomes It!" (1983) and "The Fisher King" (1986). His "Writer's Notebook" was published after his death in 2001.
Anthony Powell died at his home, The Chantry, near Frome, Somerset, aged 94, on 28 March 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="41747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41747" title="Journalist">
Journalist

A journalist is a person who works in journalism to report the news. They may work on their own ("freelance") or for a newspaper, a radio or television programme. There are different kinds of journalists.
A reporter is a type of journalist who researches, writes, and reports information. Newspaper reporters write news articles and stories for newspapers. They write these articles and stories by interviewing people, asking questions, and doing research.
Newspaper reporters must tell the truth when they write newspaper articles. Telling the truth is a very important part of all journalism jobs, including newspaper reporting, television news reporting, and radio news reporting. If people who work in journalism do not tell the truth in their articles or stories, they can be punished such as being suspended (do not work for a short time) or fired (losing their jobs).
However, frequently news does show bias.
Journalists sometimes expose themselves to danger, especially when reporting in areas of armed conflict or in places that do not respect the freedom of the press. Organizations such as Reporters Without Borders publish reports on press freedom and advocate for press freedom. The Committee to Protect Journalists has reported that as of 1 December 2010, 145 journalists were imprisoned around the world for reporting the news. Current numbers are even higher. The ten countries with the most journalists currently imprisoned are Turkey (95), China (34), Iran (34), Eritrea (17), Burma (13), Uzbekistan (six), Vietnam (five), Cuba (four), Ethiopia (four), and Sudan (three).
There are many different types of jobs in journalism.

</doc>
<doc id="41750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41750" title="Centennial High School">
Centennial High School

Centennial High School is a high school is in Las Vegas, Nevada and is one of many high schools in the Clark County District. Centennial is in the Northwest Region in the Centennial Hills Community. In 2006 - 2007 there were more than 3000 students.
The mascot is the Bulldogs.
Centennial High School is home to the four-time Nevada Girl's Basketball Champions 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="41751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41751" title="Nellis Air Force Base">
Nellis Air Force Base

Nellis Air Force Base (Nellis AFB) is a United States Air Force military base. It is located in the north part of Las Vegas, Nevada. It is home to the Thunderbirds. The base also trains fighter aircraft for the US Air Force. The base is named for William Harrell Nellis, a Las Vegas resident and P-47 pilot who died in action during the Battle of the Bulge in World War II. Nellis AFB is home to the F-15, F-16, and the F-22 Raptors.
The main base covers close to 11,300 acres (46 km²). Much of the base is undeveloped. The rest of the area is either paved or has buildings. The Indian Springs Air Force Auxiliary Airstrip was a part of Nellis. It used to be known as "Area 3". On June 20, 2005 the field was renamed to Creech Air Force Base.
The base has three main areas.

</doc>
<doc id="41755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41755" title="Women's basketball">
Women's basketball

Women's basketball is a type of basketball for women. The rules are the same as men's basketball, but the ball is smaller. It is mostly popular in women's colleges.
Modern rules for women's basketball are much the same as those for men's basketball, with a few changes.
The correct size for the ball in WNBA (Women's National Basketball Association) rules is a minimum of 28.5 inches (72.4 cm) in circumference. This is 1.00 inch (2.54 cm) smaller than the NBA ball. From 2004, this size is used for all professional women's competitions around the world.
The three-point line (a line from which a ball thrown into the basket is worth three points) is 20 feet and 6.25 inches (6.25 m) from the middle of the basket in WNBA competition. Also, there is no block/charge arc under the basket.
The WNBA shot clock is 24 seconds. Women's NCAA college basketball uses a 30 second shot clock. Men's basketball uses a 34 second shot clock.
Basketball is normally played in two 20 minute halves. WNBA games are played in four 10 minute quarters.
Women's basketball is very popular in colleges in North America. It is sponsored by athletics associations (groups that help organise sports). The most important competition is organised by a group called the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association), and the winner is called the 'national champion'.
The 2007-08 national champion was the University of Tennessee Lady Volunteers.
The Women's Professional Basketball League (WBL) was a professional women's basketball league in the United States. The league played three seasons from the fall of 1978 to the spring of 1981. The league is said to be the first American professional women's basketball league.
The Women's Basketball Association (WBA) was a professional women's basketball league in the United States. The league played three seasons from the summer of 1993 to the summer of 1995. The league is said to be the first American professional women's basketball league to be played in Summer.
The American Basketball League was started in 1996 because the Olympics made people more interested in basketball. The league played two full seasons (1996-97 and 1997-98) and started a third (1998-99) before it finished in 1998.
The WNBA is a group who organise professional basketball games for women. It is like the NBA (National Basketball Association), but for women. It was started in 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="41757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41757" title="Cebu Province">
Cebu Province

Cebu is the oldest city in the Philippines. It is often called the "Queen City of the South." Cebu is a main center of Christianity in the Philippines. The city has a lot of interesting history.
Cebu was a fishing village and busy trading port in 1521. The center of the city has become modern and is well developed. Cebu has nine cities: Cebu, Bogo, Carcar, Danao, Lapu-Lapu, Mandaue, Naga, Talisay, and Toledo. There are also 44 smaller towns. Cebu has recently become the favorite tourist spot of the country.

</doc>
<doc id="41758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41758" title="Siberian Husky">
Siberian Husky

The Siberian Husky is a medium-sized working dog. It is quick and graceful. They have a compact and furry body, pointed ears, and a bushy tail. The husky is a sled dog. It is used for carrying a light load over great distances. Huskies show a balance of power, speed and endurance. Male huskies are usually thicker in appearance than female huskies. 
The personality of the Siberian Husky is friendly and gentle. They are also alert and outgoing. They do not act possessive like a guard dog. They are curious, but they are not usually aggressive with other dogs. A husky's intelligence, and friendly behavior make them a favorable companion.
They usually have long fur.
Siberians gained in popularity with the story of the "Great Race of Mercy," the 1925 serum run to Nome. This made dogs Balto and Togo famous. Several purebred Siberian Huskies played the part of the "half-wolf" companion in the television series "Due South". 

</doc>
<doc id="41771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41771" title="Paradise">
Paradise

Paradise (or often called heaven) is an idea in religion. It is a place where everything is good.

</doc>
<doc id="41775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41775" title="Classification">
Classification

Classification could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="41778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41778" title="Heaven's Gate">
Heaven's Gate

Heaven's Gate was the name of a UFO group led by Marshall Applewhite and Bonnie Nettles, until their deaths.
The group ended with the appearance of Comet Hale-Bopp, in the United States in the year 1997. Applewhite convinced 38 followers to kill themselves so that their souls could ride on a spaceship they believed was hiding behind the comet. Beliefs such as this led some people to call this a type of "UFO Religion". This belief was made up of UFO, New Age and Christian ideas.
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="41779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41779" title="Colt">
Colt

Colt may mean many things, like:

</doc>
<doc id="41788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41788" title="Positive number">
Positive number

A positive number is a number that is bigger than zero. 
A positive number can be written with a "+" symbol in front of it, or just as a number.
Positive numbers are written to the right of zero on a number line:

</doc>
<doc id="41790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41790" title="Bernkastel-Kues">
Bernkastel-Kues

Bernkastel-Kues () is a city in Germany. It is on the Moselle River.

</doc>
<doc id="41791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41791" title="Thionville">
Thionville

Thionville is a city in France. It is situated at the Moselle River.

</doc>
<doc id="41792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41792" title="Metz">
Metz

Metz is a city in France, the prefecture of the Lorraine region and the Moselle department. 
There was once a city in Roman times, called "Divodurum". It was the capital of a Celtic tribe called "Mediomatrici". They were called the "Mettis" for short, which is where the name "Metz" comes from. The Romans controlled this city for a long time as an important center in Gallia, but it was captured by Attila the Hun in 451. It was shortly after taken over by the Franks. 
Metz remained a very important city, and as the borders changed over the years, it became the capital of Austrasia (from 561 to 751) and of Lotharingia (from 843 to 925), before becoming part of the Holy Roman Empire (from 925). The city was handed to the King of France in 1552. In 1633, it became the capital of a French province called the "Three Bishoprics". The Prussians captured the town in 1870 and Metz once again became part of Germany, until 1918 when it was won back by France. The Germans captured it once more in1940 but France regained it in 1944.
In this city, there are a lot of monuments like :<br>
Metz has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). 
Metz is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="41794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41794" title="Cochem">
Cochem

Cochem is a city in Germany. It is on the Moselle River.

</doc>
<doc id="41795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41795" title="Saar River">
Saar River

The Saar () is a river in northeastern France (Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine) and western Germany (Saarland, Rhineland-Palatinate). It is a right tributary of the Moselle River. It rises in the Vosges Mountains in Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine and flows northwards into the Moselle near Trier.
The first written mention of the Saar, in Latin language as "Saravus", is found in the poem "Mosella" by the Roman poet Decimus Magnus Ausonius.
With a length of , it is the largest tributary of the Moselle river. Its drainage basin has an area of approximately .
The Saar river is born at the foot of Mont Donon, the highest peak of the northern Vosges Mountains. It flows first for about through the French region of Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine. The Saar marks the border between France and Germany for about from its confluence with the Blies, between the towns of Sarreguemines and Saarbrücken and goes into German territory.
Then the river flows about through the Saarland, and about through the Rhineland-Palatinate and, finally, flows into the Moselle at Konz between Trier and the Luxembourg border.
The "Sarre Rouge" (Red Saar) and "Sarre Blanche" (White Saar) are considered as the two source rivers of the Saar.
The Red and the White Saar have their sources on Donon, less than distance apart. The source of the White Saar is near the town of Grandfontaine (Bas-Rhin department), and the source of the Red Saar is near the town of Abreschviller, (Moselle department). The confluence of the two rivers is near Hermelange (), south of Sarrebourg.
The Saar river, and its two source rivers, flow first through the Moselle department, in the Lorraine region; then, for a short distance, flow through the Bas-Rhin department, in the Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine region. From Sarrealbe to Sarreguemines, the Saar flows along the border with Germany. At Sarreguemines, the Blies river, the largest tributary of the Saar, flows into the Saar and its discharge rises from 20.9 m³/s to 41.5 m³/s.
From Sarreguemines, the Saar is (it is deep, wide and slow enough for a ship to pass). Then the Saar gets into German territory forming a narrow valley through the western Rhenish Massif. At its beginning in this region, it forms the famous Saar loop () at Mettlach.
After 246 km (129 km in France, and 117 km in Germany) the Saar flows into the Moselle river at Konz (Rhineland-Palatinate) between Trier and the Luxembourg border.
Grapes, to produce wine, are grown along the lower Saar, mainly between Serrig and Konz.
Some of the important tributaries of the Saar are:
Some towns and cities found along the river are:

</doc>
<doc id="41796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41796" title="Konz">
Konz

Konz is a city in Germany. It is on the Moselle River.

</doc>
<doc id="41797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41797" title="Saar">
Saar

Saar has several meanings:
SAAR may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="41801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41801" title="Max">
Max

Max might refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="41808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41808" title="Simple living">
Simple living

Simple living means to choose a lifestyle where you own fewer things and focus on what you need instead of what you want. People choose this lifestyle for many different reasons, often based on their views on health, economy, or philosophy, or because they want to protect the environment. Some people do it simply because it suits them better.
Some famous people who chose the simple living lifestyle are Francis of Assisi, Leo Tolstoy, Rabindranath Tagore, Albert Schweitzer, Mohandas Gandhi, and Henry David Thoreau. The Amish live simply by using only things that are described in the Bible.

</doc>
<doc id="41809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41809" title="Meteor burst communication">
Meteor burst communication

Meteor burst communication uses radio waves which bounce off the ionized trails made by meteors as they enter the earth’s atmosphere. It is also called Meteor scatter communication.
Meteors are lumps of rock which are floating about in space. There are always meteors which are entering the earth’s atmosphere. They normally burn up in the atmosphere. A few very large ones that hit the earth are called 'meteorites'. Most meteors are only tiny specks of dust. As they enter the atmosphere the heat made by air friction rips off electrons. This produces an ionized trail. This trail can reflect radio waves in the same way that a wire would.
The meteors that are used for meteor burst communication are between one thousandth and one hundredth of a gram. Meteors which are smaller than this are too weak to be used. Larger ones are not frequent enough.
The ionized trail can last for several seconds. During this time messages can be sent between two radio communication stations. The messages will be transmitted very fast: about 200 times as fast as with ordinary shortwave radio communication. A teletypewriter may type several lines of text during a meteor burst. The two stations that want to communicate will have to be ready all the time as they never know when the next burst of communication will come. They may have to use several meteor bursts before the whole message is received. The transmitters are often put on buoys in the sea.
Meteor burst communication was first widely used in the 1950s. It was particularly useful for military communications, because a receiver could not tell exactly which direction the message had come from. This was because the message was reflected on the way, so it did not travel in a straight line (i.e. in a simple great circle round the earth’s curve).
The use of communications satellites in the late 20th century has made meteor burst communication rare.

</doc>
<doc id="41811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41811" title="Hole">
Hole

A hole is an empty space in a solid object, which can be flat.
It can also mean other things:

</doc>
<doc id="41813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41813" title="Spyware">
Spyware

Spyware is a category of software for computers. Spyware is software that collects some data, usually without the computer users' knowledge. Very often, this data is then sent over the internet to a third party, which can use it for something. Very often, this is used for marketing. But spyware can also be used to get data from computers that they should not know. It can be used as a keylogger which can see what you are typing into the Internet. Keyloggers can steal important information like passwords that you type. 
The best protection is to get a program that protects against spyware. But be careful, many websites that claim to have them are actually spyware, not something to protect against it. This method of installing spyware is called a Trojan horse which is disguised as something useful but when you open it, it can see what keys you press and it can log into your accounts. This makes it easy for the trojan to collect your passwords and important data. Spyware tracks your computer and uses some of the things on it. This includes your files, your downloads, and usernames/passwords for websites and programs
There are spyware applications that are designed to enable users to spy on themselves rather than others. This is called myware. The term myware has mainly been applied to software applications in three areas: social networking, marketing and time tracking.

</doc>
<doc id="41814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41814" title="Vector space">
Vector space

A vector space is a concept from mathematics. A vector space is a collection of mathematical objects called vectors. Two operations are defined: addition of two vectors and multiplication of a vector with a scalar (multiplication results in scaling). More formally, a vector space is a special combination of a group and a field. The elements of the group are called vectors and the elements of the field are called scalars.
These "vectors" do not have to be vectors in the simplest sense. For example, they could be functions, matrices or simply numbers. So long as they obey the axioms of a vector space, we can think of them as vectors and the theorems of linear algebra will apply to them.
Often, for example in Euclidean space, a vector can be represented graphically with an arrow that has a tail and a head. We normally then think of addition as the tail of one vector being placed at the same point as the head of the other vector. The sum vector is the one whose tail is the tail of the first vector and whose head is the head of the second. Multiplication means that one vector is made bigger or smaller.
There are some combinations of vectors that are special. A minimum set of vectors that, through some combination of addition and multiplication, can reach any point in the vector space is called a basis of that vector space. It is true that every vector space has a basis. It is also true that all bases of any one vector space have the same number of vectors in them. This is called the dimension theorem. We can then define the dimension of a vector space to be the size of its basis.

</doc>
<doc id="41815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815" title="Basis (linear algebra)">
Basis (linear algebra)

In linear algebra, a basis is a set of vectors in a given vector space with certain properties:
The Dimension of a given vector space is the number of elements of the basis.
If formula_1 is the vector space then :
Bformula_2{formula_3} is a basis of formula_1.
It's easy to see that for any element of formula_1 it can be represented as a combination of the above basis.
Let formula_6 be any element of formula_1, lets say formula_8
Since formula_9 and formula_10 are elements of formula_11 then they can be written as formula_12 and so on.
Then the combination formula_13 equals the element formula_6
This shows that the set B is a basis of formula_1

</doc>
<doc id="41817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41817" title="Prisoner of war">
Prisoner of war

A prisoner of war (short form: POW) is a fighter who has been captured by the forces of the enemy, during an armed conflict. In past centuries, prisoners had no rights. They were usually killed or forced to be slaves. Nowadays prisoners of war have rights that are stated in the Geneva Conventions and other laws of war. 
The Third Geneva Convention gives prisoners of war many different rights. Here are some examples:
If they are very sick or hurt, prisoners of war have the right to be let go. After a war ends, all POWs must be let go quickly.
Prisoners of war also have the right NOT to:
Not all people who are caught while fighting wars are "prisoners of war." The Third Geneva Convention has a strict definition of what a prisoner of war is. For example, it says that to be "prisoners of war," soldiers MUST:
According to the Geneva Conventions, if soldiers do not meet these requirements, they are not "prisoners of war." They are "unlawful combatants" (which means "people who fight in ways that are against the law). This means they do NOT have the rights that are listed in the Geneva Conventions.
This caused controversy in the early 21st century. For example, in June 2002, the United States was fighting the War in Afghanistan. The Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, announced that the people the U.S. had captured were "unlawful combatants [who] do not have any rights under the Geneva Convention[s]." The U.S. said these people were unlawful combatants, not prisoners of war, because:
The U.S. brought some of these people to a prison in Guantánamo Bay. Because they were enemy combatants, the inmates at Guantánamo did not get the rights that the Geneva Conventions give to prisoners of war.
When a country, or a group of people, does not give prisoners of war their rights, they are committing a war crime. However, punishing those war crimes has not always been easy.
The Geneva Convention lists the rights that prisoners of war have. However, there is nothing in the Geneva Convention that says how people should be punished when they do not give prisoners of war these rights.
In the past, when a country broke the Geneva Convention by not giving prisoners of war their rights, many different things might happen. For example, after World War II ended, the countries that won the war set up military tribunals called the Nuremberg Trials and the Tokyo Trials. At these trials, military leaders from Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan were tried for crimes against prisoners of war (and many other things). Many of them were convicted and sentenced to death or to life in prison.
However, at other times, crimes against prisoners of war might be tried in the same country where the crimes happened. This might happen before or after the war ended. Sometimes crimes against prisoners of war were not punished at all.
In 2002, the International Criminal Court (ICC) was created to look into war crimes around the world, and punish people for them, if possible.
The ICC has a long list of crimes that are defined as war crimes. Some war crimes against prisoners of war are:
If a country, or a group of people, commit a war crime against prisoners of war, the ICC can put them on trial and punish them if they are found guilty.

</doc>
<doc id="41818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41818" title="Jackson's Chameleon">
Jackson's Chameleon

Jackson's Chameleons are a species of chameleon found in the forests of Kenya and Tanzania. They have been introduced to the United States with large populations being found in Hawaii. They live and breed naturally there now. 
Males are easily recognized, they have two horns above their eyes and one horn on their nose. If males are kept together in a cage, they get stressed, and eventually die. But they have been know to live together, it all depends on the chams themselves.
Females do not have horns, or if they do they are very small. Their biggest size is 15 inches. This species gives birth to live young with a gestation period of about 5-10 months.

</doc>
<doc id="41819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41819" title="Resuscitation">
Resuscitation

Resuscitation is a thing to do in a medical emergency. It is first aid which is given to a person who is unconscious, and where breathing or pulse can not be detected. It is done to make oxygen continues to reach the heart and the brain. That way, a doctor may be able to restart the heart, possibly without damaging the brain.
The most common cause for a stopping heart is a heart attack.
The person helping must:

</doc>
<doc id="41822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41822" title="Aubergine">
Aubergine

The aubergine (also called eggplant) is a plant. Its fruit is eaten as a vegetable. The plant is in the nightshade family of plants. It is related to the potato and tomato. Originally it comes from India and Sri Lanka. 

</doc>
<doc id="41829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41829" title="Coral Sea Islands">
Coral Sea Islands

The Coral Sea Islands (or Coral Sea Islands Territory) is a group of islands on the Great Barrier Reef, in the country of Australia. Some islands have automatic weather stations or lighthouses on them. Willis Island is the only island where people live; four people there run a weather station. They are in the Coral Sea, northeast of Queensland.

</doc>
<doc id="41837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41837" title="Pernambuco">
Pernambuco

Pernambuco is a state of Brazil. The capital city of the state is Recife. About 8 million people live in Pernambuco with 1.5 million of those living in Recife. The economy is largely based on agriculture, its main exports are sugar cane and manioc. It has a mainly tropical climate.

</doc>
<doc id="41838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41838" title="Manioc">
Manioc

Manioc (or Cassava, or Yuca, especially in Latin America) is a shrub. It belongs to the Spurge family of plants and it grows in tropical climates. It is cultivated for its edible root. The manioc must be cooked properly to detoxify it before it is eaten and can be used in dumplings, soups, stews and gravies.

</doc>
<doc id="41843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41843" title="Life cycle">
Life cycle

Life cycle means the stages a living thing goes through during its life.
In some cases the process is slow, and the changes are gradual. Humans have various steps during their lives, such as zygote, embryo, child and adult. The change from child to adult is slow and continuous. In many societies it is marked by ceremonies at puberty.
In most insects the transition is sharp and well-defined: egg > larva > pupa > imago (adult).
In some animals, the parent generation looks different from the child. The most common case is that there are two different forms. One form will have sexual reproduction, the others might not reproduce, or might reproduce asexually.
Parasites are organisms that benefit from harming other organisms. The organism they profit from is usually called host. Many parasites have complex life cycles, where they need different hosts for different stages of their development. As an example, the cycle egg > snail host > mammal host is common for parasites of herbivorous mammals. Malaria is caused by single-celled parasites. These parasites go through two stages in their development. One stage is in the blood of mosquitoes, the other in the blood of humans.
Examples of this can also be found in the Cnidaria. These animals live in the sea or in freshwater and the structure of most is relatively simple. Some live as single animals, others form colonies. In a colony, many animals live together. Often, each animal in a colony is specialized, and needs the other animals of the colony to survive. 
A well-known example where different generations have different forms is the jellyfish. It has two: 
In a complete cycle, the offspring of a medusa will develop into a polyp, and the offspring of a polyp will be a medusa. 
Sometimes the cycle is modified or incomplete. Anthozoa is a group of the Cnidaria which contains sea anemones and corals. In the anthozoa, there is only a polyp stage, and no medusa stage. 
The box jellyfish form another small group in the Cnidaria. In the box jellyfish, the polyp transforms into the medusa. In some cases, only part of the polyp transforms, the part that is left regenerates to form a new polyp. People have also talked about the box jellyfish because many of them produce poison that is very effective, and that can be dangerous to humans. 
In the stalked jellyfish, there is only one form, which has been interpreted as a sessile medusa. 

</doc>
<doc id="41845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41845" title="Yucca">
Yucca

Yucca is a family of shrubs and trees, related to the agaves. There are between 40 and 50 different kinds of Yucca. All come from the hot and dry places in North and Central America, as well as the Caribbean. 
They have a very special way of pollination. There is an animal, the Yucca moth, which does the pollination. It also lays its eggs in the plant. The larvae will eat some of the seeds, but not all of them.
In many parts of the world, yuccas are grown as ornamental flowers. 

</doc>
<doc id="41847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41847" title="Herb">
Herb

Herbs are plants that are grown either as a food (usually as a condiment), or because they have some use in treating diseases (or making them better), or for spiritual reasons (for example, their smell). Some herbs may act as an aphrodisiac.
The word herb comes from the Latin word "herba", meaning grass, green stalks, or blades. Botanists use the word to mean any plant with soft, succulent tissues. But many people use the word to mean only herbs with some economic value.
Herbs are small plants that have a fleshy or juicy stem when they are young. The stems of some herbs develop hard, woody tissue when they grow old.
Most herbs are perennials. This means that the tops of the plants die each growing season, but the roots remain alive and produce new plants year after year.
Some herbs are annuals. They live for only one growing season and must be raised from seed each year.
The leaves, stems, or seeds of herbs can be used fresh, or they can be dried for later use. Dried herbs can be pounded to a fine powder, placed in airtight containers, and then stored.
Some herbs are used in cooking to flavor foods. Others give scents to perfumes. Still others are used for medicines. Some herbs, such as balm and sage, are valued for their leaves. Saffron is picked for its buds and flowers. Fennel seeds are valuable in relishes and seasoning. Vanilla fruit pods yield vanilla flavoring. Ginseng is valued for its aromatic roots.
People often grow herbs in their gardens. Some people grow herb gardens for the patterned beds that they can create with these plants. Many other gardeners grow herbs for the flavor that the fresh or dried plants add to food.
Herb seeds and seedlings are inexpensive, and the plants grow easily. People who do not have enough outdoor space for herb beds can grow most kinds of herbs in containers.
Many kinds of herbs can also be grown indoors. The plants grow well with little care. Gardeners plant herbs in good soil that has been well-cultivated. They choose a sunny spot near a window.

</doc>
<doc id="41856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41856" title="Podcasting">
Podcasting

Podcasting is a way to share information as digital audio files. People often subscribe, download, and share podcasts using a computer and listen to them on an MP3 player.
Many podcasts are similar to broadcast radio news or discussion programs. Some use other formats such as a continuing story, comedy show, lecture, or audiobook.
Podcasts can be found for almost anything. Radio shows, do it yourself projects, special interest groups, religious sermons, comedy sketches, cartoons, and just about anything else can be found. Once a podcast is found, it can be subscribed to like a magazine or newspaper and then downloaded. Once it is downloaded, it can be stored on an MP3 player to be listened to.
Podcasting has become so popular that many people who write for magazines or report news on television have also been putting out their own podcasts.

</doc>
<doc id="41865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41865" title="Alexander Fleming">
Alexander Fleming

Sir Alexander Fleming (6 August 1881 - 11 March 1955) was a Scottish biologist and pharmacologist. His father Hugh, died at 59 when Alexander was only seven. He is best known for discovering the antibiotic substance penicillin in 1928. He shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1945 for this discovery with Howard Walter Florey and Ernst Boris Chain. His accidental finding of penicillin in the year 1928 marked the start of today's antibiotics.
Fleming died of a heart attack in London.

</doc>
<doc id="41869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41869" title="Litter box">
Litter box

A litter box (sometimes called a sand box, a litter tray or a litter pan) is a place for cats and some other pets to use as a toilet. Litter boxes usually need to be cleaned regularly. Cats, for example, wish to have their box cleaned every two to three days. Some cats create litterboxes in places like playgrounds and sandpits. Litterboxes usually produce unpleasant smells, which can be avoided by special litter.

</doc>
<doc id="41870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41870" title="Playground">
Playground

A playground is an area used by children to play in. They usually have equipment such as slides, swings and seesaws for children to play on. They are usually outside, but sometimes they are in a building.
The equipment may be made of metal, wood or plastic. The ground beneath the equipment will not be hard in case a child falls. It may be a rubber floor, or there may be woodchips or sand. 

</doc>
<doc id="41871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41871" title="Woodstock Festival">
Woodstock Festival

The Woodstock Music and Art Festival was a rock music festival at Max Yasgur's 600 acre (2.4 km²) dairy farm in the town of Bethel, New York from 15–18 August 1969. It might be the most famous rock concert and festival ever held. For many, it showed the counterculture of the 1960s and the "hippie era". 
Many of the most famous musicians at the time showed up during the rainy weekend, as can be seen in a 1970 movie, "Woodstock". Joni Mitchell's song "Woodstock", about the event, also became a major hit song for Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. In recent years, a number of attempts were made to recreate it, but the original Woodstock festival of 1969 has proven to be legendary.
The festival was called "Woodstock", because the investment group that backed the concert was called "Woodstock Ventures." It was originally planned for Saugerties, and then the Town of Wallkill, in Orange County (not to be confused with the Hamlet of Wallkill, in Ulster county). People in the Town of Wallkill, meaning those on the Town Board, quickly passed a law that required a permit to hold any gathering for over 5,000 people. A permit was applied for, but it was denied because the portable toilets proposed were considered to be inadequate. A Sullivan County farmer named Max Yasgur heard about the festival and the problems and offered his farm in the Town of Bethel. He was paid $10,000 for the three days.
Although all the municipalities were told there would be no more than 50,000, the organizers thought they would get as many as 150,000, and by best counts, there were more than three times that number over the three days. Most did not pay to get in, and the festival lost money as a result. The roads to the concert were jammed with traffic. People left their cars and walked for miles to get to the concert area. The weekend was rainy and overcrowded, and fans shared food, alcoholic drinks, and drugs. Some people who lived there, including those at nearby Camp Ma-Ho-Ge, gave blankets and food to some concert-goers.
After two days of rain, there was deep mud in many places. There was almost no water for washing, and not enough toilets. Many of the concert-goers had brought small tents to sleep in; some of these turned into piles of cloth and mud. Even though this may not have been the most comfortable place, the crowd kept up kindness and good cheer among themselves. As the half-million people in the audience became aware of this, a warm feeling of friendship spread to everyone.
Some of the music stars of Woodstock were The Who and Jimi Hendrix. Because of arguments about getting paid, The Who did not play on the stage until about 4:00 in the morning. One part of The Who's show was the song "See Me, Feel Me", when the sun rose just as lead singer Roger Daltrey started to sing the chorus. When The Who was still playing, Abbie Hoffman jumped on the stage stopping the show, and tried to stir up the crowd with yippie slogans, but he was knocked off the stage by the guitar of the band's leader, Pete Townshend, to the delight of the audience. At the end of The Who's set, Townshend slammed his guitar into the stage and threw it into the crowd. This helped set up The Who as super-stars, and caused their album "Tommy" to sell multi-platinum.
Jimi Hendrix had a big show with the songs he played, including a new version of "The Star Spangled Banner". The song caused some disagreements, because the Vietnam War was going on, and the sounds that Hendrix made with his guitar were like the sounds of the violence of the war. Fans remember these two acts as some of the greatest in rock history, although both The Who and Hendrix thought of their performances as not the best.
Woodstock was put on by Michael Lang, Artie Kornfeld, John Roberts and Joel Rosenman. Roberts was the financer, backed by a trust fund; his friend Rosenman, a graduate of Yale Law, was an amateur guitarist. Their friends were Kornfeld, vice-president at Capitol Records, and Michael Lang. Lang was a light-hearted hippie who had owned a head shop, and hoped to build a studio in the Woodstock area to serve singers such as Bob Dylan and Janis Joplin, who had homes nearby. When Lang and Kornfeld told the idea to Rosenman and Roberts, Rosenman got the idea of a rock concert with the same musicians. They picked the slogan "Three Days of Peace and Music". They hired artist Arnold Skolnick to design the artwork for the poster with the bird. It wasn't until years later, after the release of the 3-LP album and the documentary-like movie that the original investors began to recoup their investment.
In 1997, the concert place and 1,400 surrounding acres were bought by Alan Gerry, and have become the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts. It opened on July 1, 2006 with the New York Philharmonic playing. On August 13, 2006, Crosby Stills Nash & Young amazed 16,000 fans at the new Center -- exactly 37 years after they played at Woodstock.

</doc>
<doc id="41873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41873" title="Phishing">
Phishing

Phishing is a way that criminals get sensitive information (like usernames or passwords). It is a method of social engineering. Very often, phishing is done by electronic mail. This mail appears to come from a bank or other service provider. It usually says that because of some change in the system, the users need to re-enter their usernames/passwords to confirm them. The emails usually have a link to a page that looks almost like that of the real bank. 
Phishing allows criminals to get access to bank accounts, or other accounts like shopping, auction or gaming accounts. It can also be used for identity theft.
Phishing grew by 42% in January of 2005: 8,829 E-mails with phishing were sent in December of 2004 but that grew to 12,845 by end of January 2005.
The number of web pages with phishing grew from 1,740 to 2,560 in the same period.
Some people who do this started using pictures of text to make it harder for anti-phishing filters to see it. This sometimes works because the filters look for words often used in phishing emails/messages. However, people have invented better filters that can still read the text using OCR (optical character recognition).
Some anti-phishing filters even use IWR (intelligent word recognition), which can even read cursive, hand-written, upside-down, distorted (for example, wavy or stretched) text, as well as writing on colored backgrounds.

</doc>
<doc id="41874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41874" title="Edward Heath">
Edward Heath

Sir Edward Richard George Heath, KG, MBE, PC (9 July 1916 – 17 July 2005), usually called Ted Heath, was a British Conservative politician. He was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1970 until 1974. Heath was also the leader of the Conservative Party from 1965 until 1975.
Heath was educated at Balliol College, Oxford. 
In 1937, as a student when he was travelling in Nuremberg, Heath met three of Adolf Hitler's top Nazi leaders Hermann Goering, Joseph Goebbels and Heinrich Himmler. He described Himmler as the most evil man he had ever met. Heath also travelled to Barcelona in Spain in 1938 at the time of the Spanish Civil War. In 1939, Heath went again to Germany, and returned to Britain before the outbreak of World War II.
Heath was a lifelong bachelor. He never married. His sexual orientation was a matter of dispute during his lifetime, and since. There were rumours that he was gay. Heath never spoke about his sexuality. 
He was also a classical organist and conductor and a sailor. 
In August 2015, ten years after his death, it was claimed that five police forces were investigating Heath about allegations of child sexual abuse. Writing in "The Independent", Heath's biographer John Campbell said: "If he had any inclinations that way he would have repressed them; he was too self-controlled and self-contained to do anything that would have risked his career".
Edward Heath was from a working class family, the son of a carpenter and a maid. He was the first of two important post-World War II prime ministers to come from the lower ranks of society (the other being Margaret Thatcher). Heath went to a grammar school in Ramsgate, and won a scholarship to Balliol College, Oxford. Heath was a talented musician, and won the college's organ scholarship in his first term. This enabled him to stay at the university for a fourth year. He eventually graduated with in philosophy, politics and economics (PPE) in 1939.
Heath served in the army in WWII, starting as a second lieutenant in the Royal Artillery. In 1944 he took part in the Normandy Landings. Heath was eventually demobilised (left the army) as a lieutenant-colonel in 1947.
After a spell in the Civil Service, Heath won a seat as Member of Parliament (MP) for Bexley in the February 1950 general election.
Heath's early appointments were as a whip in the Conservative Party in the House of Commons. He rose to be Chief Whip and Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury from 1955 to 1959. Harold Macmillan appointed him Minister of Labour, a Cabinet post, in 1959.
In 1960 Macmillan gave Heath responsibility for negotiating the UK's first attempt to join the European Economic Community (as the European Union was then called). After extensive negotiations, the British entry was vetoed by the French President, Charles de Gaulle.
From 1965 to 1970 Heath was Leader of the Opposition when the Labour Party were in power. Then he was elected Prime Minister in the General Election of 1970.
During his premiership the UK government passed through parliament some quite radical changes. 
Since Anglo-Saxon times, the currency of England (and so later the UK) was based on the pound sterling, at a rate of 240 pence to £1. On 15 February 1971, known as Decimal Day, the United Kingdom and Ireland decimalised their currencies. 
This change had many consequences, but it was eventually accepted by most people. It was an expensive change. Not only was the whole of the currency in circulation changed, but many mechanical gadgets also had to be changed. Every cash register in the country, every commercial machine which took coins, every public notices of monetary charges, and so on.
The other change, which happened at roughly the same time, was metrication of the old imperial system of weights and measures. This idea dated to before Heath, and was continued after him by the next Labour government. It was never fully completed. Speed limits are still in miles per hour, and measurements of length are still in traditional yards, feet and inches, with metric as an alternative. Once again, the changes were hugely expensive. It meant an almost complete retooling in the machine tool industry.
It was mainly done because joining the European Economic Community (EEC) in 1973 obliged the United Kingdom to take into its law all EEC directives. These included the use of a prescribed SI-based set of units for many purposes within five years. However, metric measures are not much used in everyday life in the UK.
Heath took the United Kingdom into Europe with the European Communities Act 1972 in October. 
Once de Gaulle had left office, Heath was determined to get the UK into the (then) European Economic Community. The EEC economy had also slowed down and British membership was seen as a way to revitalise it. After a 12-hour talk between Heath and French President Georges Pompidou Britain's third application succeeded.
Heath failed to control the power of the unions. Two miners' strikes damaged the economy. The 1974 strike caused much of the country's industry to work a three-day week to conserve energy. That was enough for the electorate to put the government out of office. The loss of the 1974 general election ended Heath's career at the top. The Conservative Party replaced him with Margaret Thatcher.
Heath never married. He had been expected to marry childhood friend Kay Raven, who reportedly tired of waiting and married an RAF officer whom she met on holiday in 1950. In a four-sentence paragraph of his memoirs, Heath claimed that he had been too busy establishing a career after the war and had "perhaps ... taken too much for granted". In a 1998 TV interview with Michael Cockerell, Heath admitted that he had kept her photograph in his flat for many years afterwards.
His interest in music kept him on friendly terms with a number of female musicians including Moura Lympany. Lympany had thought Heath would marry her, but when asked about the most intimate thing he had done, replied, "He put his arm around my shoulder." Bernard Levin wrote at the time in "The Observer", forgetting two other prime minsters who were bachelors with no known romantic interests, that the UK had to wait until the emergence of the permissive society for a prime minister who was a virgin. In later life, according to his official biographer Philip Ziegler, Heath was "apt to relapse into morose silence or completely ignore the woman next to him and talk across her to the nearest man".
John Campbell, who published a biography of Heath in 1993, devoted four pages to a discussion of the evidence concerning Heath's sexuality. Whilst acknowledging that Heath was often assumed by the public to be gay, not least because it is "nowadays ... whispered of any bachelor" he found "no positive evidence" that this was so "except for the faintest unsubstantiated rumour". Campbell concluded that the most significant aspect of Heath's sexuality was his complete repression of it.

</doc>
<doc id="41878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41878" title="One Magic Christmas">
One Magic Christmas

One Magic Christmas is a 1985 Christmas movie released by Walt Disney Pictures, starring Harry Dean Stanton and Mary Steenburgen. The other cast is Gany Basaraba, Elisabeth Harnois, Arthur Hill, Wayne Robson, Elias Koteas, Michelle Meyrink, Sarah Polley.
The genre of this movie is family, drama, fantasy movie. The director is Phillip Borsos.

</doc>
<doc id="41883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41883" title="Kidney failure">
Kidney failure

Kidney failure (also called renal failure) is a term used to describe when a person's kidneys stop working properly, or fail. Kidney failure can be divided into two categories: chronic renal failure, and acute renal failure.
Chronic renal failure develops slowly, and there are not many noticeable symptoms at first. 
Chronic renal failure can be a sign of other diseases, like IgA nephritis, glomerulonephritis, chronic pyelonephritis, and urinary retention. 
Chronic renal failure will eventually develop into end-stage renal failure if it is left untreated. End-stage renal failure can only be treated with dialysis or a kidney transplant.
Acute renal failure develops in a short time, and symptoms are more noticeable. Symptoms include:
The cause of acute renal failure needs to be found quickly. Dialysis is often needed to prevent permanent damage to the body while the cause is being found.
It is possible to have acute renal failure on top of chronic renal failure. This is called "acute-on-chronic renal failure."

</doc>
<doc id="41888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41888" title="Foxtrot (disambiguation)">
Foxtrot (disambiguation)

Foxtrot has several meanings.

</doc>
<doc id="41892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41892" title="Raoult's law">
Raoult's law

Simply put, Raoult's law states that the vapour pressure, of a binary solution, containing a non-volatile solute, is directly related to the mole fraction of solvent (i.e. volatile) in the solution.
Also, it states that the vapour pressure of each component in a binary solution containing volatile components is directly related to its respective mole fraction in the solution.
Relative going-down of vapour pressure is equal to mole fraction of non volatile and non-electrolytic solute. This is known as Raoult's law.
P-P(INITIAL)/P(INITIAL)=n(SOLUTE)/n(SOLVENT)

</doc>
<doc id="41900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41900" title="Overdose">
Overdose

An Overdose is when someone takes too much of a certain drug. This may be done voluntarily (as an attempt of suicide) or involuntarily. The drug may be a drug taken to treat some medical condition, or it may be a drug taken for recreation. Overdoses are considered to be poisoning, usually. They may lead to death, depending on the drug used.
If someone is thought to have had an overdose it is important to get them to a doctor, or hospital. It can be very hard to see what kind of drug was taken. Therefore, it can be hard for the doctor to find an antidote to give. For this reason, a packet (even if it is empty) of the drug should be taken. 

</doc>
<doc id="41901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41901" title="Kargil War">
Kargil War

Kargil War also called as the Kargil conflict, was an armed conflict between Indian and Pakistani forces that took place between May and July 1999 in the Kargil district of Kashmir and along the Line of Control. In India, the conflict is also referred to as Operation Vijay (, lit. "Victory") which was the name of the Indian operation to clear the Kargil sector. The cause of the war was the infiltration of Pakistani soldiers and Pakistan backed militants into areas on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC) to occupy military posts vacated in the winter. India responded by launching a major military and diplomatic offensive to drive out the Pakistani infiltrators. Reportedly, the Pakistan infiltration in the Kargil sector was reported by the local shepherds. The Indian Army launched a number of patrols to the area to estimate the extent of the infiltration. Initially, Pakistan blamed the fighting entirely on independent Kashmiri militants, but documents left behind by casualties and later statements by Pakistan's Prime Minister and Chief of Army Staff revealed involvement of Pakistani paramilitary forces, led by General Ashraf Rashid. The Indian Army, later on supported by the Indian Air Force, recaptured majority of the positions on the Indian side of the LOC within two months of the conflict that were trespass by the infiltrators, according to official count, an estimated 75%–80% of the intruded area and nearly all high ground was back under Indian control. Fearing large-scale increase in seriousness in the military conflict, the international community, led by the United States, increased diplomatic pressure on Pakistan to withdraw forces from remaining Indian territory. 
Faced with the possibility of international separation, the already fragile Pakistani economy was weakened further. The morale of Pakistani forces after the withdrawal declined as many units of the Northern Light Infantry suffered heavy casualties. The Pakistani government refused to accept the dead bodies of many officers, which provoked anger and protests in the Northern Areas. Pakistan initially did not admitted many of its casualties, but Nawaz Sharif later said that over 4,000 Pakistani troops were killed in the operation and that Pakistan had lost the conflict. The Indian casualties during the conflict stood at 527 soldiers killed, and 1,363 wounded.
The conflict officially came to an end on July 26, with India regaining its earlier hold on Kargil. 26 July, since then, is celebrated in India every year as Vijay Diwas, or Victory Day. India registered decisive military and diplomatic victory in the war.
The Kargil war is one of the most recent examples of high-altitude warfare in mountainous terrain.

</doc>
<doc id="41902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41902" title="Estate">
Estate

Estate could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="41904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41904" title="Shock (circulatory)">
Shock (circulatory)

A person is in shock when blood is not sufficient to bring oxygen to the brain. The shock is progressive and can be deadly if it is not quickly made well.
The normal first aid action is the "Trendelenburg position", the person is lying face upward, with his legs lifted. The blood is forced to flow to the brain.

</doc>
<doc id="41913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41913" title="David Lloyd George">
David Lloyd George

David Lloyd George, 1st Earl Lloyd-George of Dwyfor OM, PC (17 January 1863 – 26 March 1945) was the British Prime Minister during the last half of World War I. He was Prime Minister for six years, between 1916 and 1922.
Lloyd George was born in Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester, Lancashire, England to Welsh parents. His father, who died before Lloyd George was two-years old, was a teacher and a farmer. When he was young, he lived with his mother and his brother. When he was 21, Lloyd George became a lawyer and opened an office in the back of his brother's house.
Lloyd George's law practice was a success. Shortly after opening it, Lloyd George became interested in politics. He began working with the Liberal Party. He was elected as a Member of Parliament (MP) on 13 April 1890. Lloyd George would serve as an MP until 1945. In the House of Commons, Lloyd George worked to promote Welsh issues, fought against the Second Boer War and campaigned for education reform.
In 1905, Lloyd George was selected to become a cabinet minister. He served as President of the Board of Trade (1905–1908) and Chancellor of the Exchequer (1908–1915). After World War I started, he held the positions of Minister of Munitions (1915) and War Secretary (1916).
By the end of 1916, the war was going badly for Great Britain. Lloyd George gathered together a coalition (a type of political team) of Liberal and Conservative MPs to form a new government. On 5 December 1916, Prime Minister H. H. Asquith resigned, and Lloyd George took his place. Lloyd George's government introduced conscription (forcing men to join the armed forces) and rationing (placing limits on the amount of food someone can buy) by the end of the war.
After the war, Lloyd George represented Britain at the Versailles Peace Conference and helped create the Irish Free State. By 1922, Lloyd George's coalition was breaking apart. In October 1922, the Conservative Party led by Andrew Bonar Law won the election. Lloyd George remained an MP, however, until 1945.
In 1945, he was given the titles Earl Lloyd George of Dwyfor and Viscount Gwynedd. He was to take a seat in the House of Lords, but he died before he could do so.

</doc>
<doc id="41927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41927" title="Big Ben">
Big Ben

Big Ben is the nickname of a bell that rings in the clock tower at the northern end of the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, London, England. Officially, the tower itself is called Elizabeth Tower. It was previously called Clock Tower, but was renamed in September 2012 as a tribute to the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II. However, most people, including those that live in London, call the tower "Big Ben", because it is very large. It weighs 13 tons.
Big Ben is the biggest four-faced, chiming clock in the world.The tower has become one of the most prominent symbols of the United Kingdom and is often in the establishing shot of films set in London.
Big Ben is one of London's best-known landmarks. Some believe it got its name from Sir Benjamin Hall. It is the world's largest four-faced chiming clock. The clock alone weighs about 5 tons (5.08 tonnes). The figures on the clock face are about 2 feet (6145 mm) long and the minute spaces are 1 foot (305 mm) long. It took 13 years to build and it was completed in 1859. The tower is roughly 16 stories high.

</doc>
<doc id="41931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41931" title="Strontium">
Strontium

Strontium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Sr. It has the atomic number 38. It is a metal. The colour of the metal is silver-white or yellow-silver. The metal is soft. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the alkaline earth metals. Strontium has a high chemical reactivity. The metal turns yellow when exposed to air. 
It is found naturally in the minerals celestite and strontianite. The Sr isotope is present in radioactive fallout and has a half-life of 28.90 years.
Strontium forms salts which make a red flame when they burn. They are used in flares for signalling the position of survivors or shipwrecks and to make the red colour in fireworks.

</doc>
<doc id="41932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41932" title="Alkaline earth metal">
Alkaline earth metal

The alkaline earth metals are the second group of metals on the periodic table. They are related to the Alkali metals, but they do not react as much because they need more energy to remove their two electrons, So they do not have to be stored in petrol. As ions they have a charge of +2a. The alkaline earth metals are mostly silver colored, soft metals, which react readily with "halogens" and water to form salts, though not as rapidly as some of the alkali metals, to form" alkaline hydroxides". many "prokatates and hantates" can be found in the crust of these metals.
The alkaline earth metals are: beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, and radium. Radium is very radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="41934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41934" title="Dag Hammarskjöld">
Dag Hammarskjöld

Dag Hammarskjold (Swedish: Dag Hjalmar Agne Carl Hammarskjöld) (29 July 1905 – 18 September 1961) was a Swedish diplomat and the second Secretary-General of the United Nations. He served as Secretary-General from April 1953 until his death in a plane crash in what is now Zambia, on 18 September 1961. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize after his death in 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="41935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41935" title="My Belarusy">
My Belarusy

My Belarusy is the official national anthem of Belarus. The words of the anthem were created by two men, Uladzimir Karyzny and Maxim Klimkovich. The music for the anthem was created by Nyestar Sakalowski. A few of the words and the music for the anthem were used before when Belarus was joined with the Soviet Union. When Belarus became their own country in 1991, the music of the anthem was kept but the lyrics were never sung anymore. This changed in 2002 when the leader of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko, made an official rule saying that the words by Karyzny and Klimkovich will be used when singing with the music. The words to the anthem are sung in the national language of Belarusian. The title of the anthem put to the English language is "We, the Belarusians."
The anthem is played for many events, including the announcing and closing of television programming, events where sports are played, the new leadership given permission to run the country and during national celebrations.

</doc>
<doc id="41942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41942" title="Yorkshire pudding">
Yorkshire pudding

Yorkshire pudding is a British food. It is usually served with roast meat and vegetables.

</doc>
<doc id="41947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41947" title="Extraterrestrial life">
Extraterrestrial life

Extraterrestrial life is life that is not from the planet Earth. It is alien life. It is reasonable that planets rather like ours exist, and that life might evolve there also. So far none has been found, though it is possible that life once existed on Mars.
Searches have been made for signals from extraterrestrial life-forms. No signals have been received.
It is not a new idea. Quite a few philosophers have speculated on the existence of other planets like ours, with the idea that what happened here could also happen there. One thing we do know is that many other star systems do have exoplanets.

</doc>
<doc id="41951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41951" title="Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry">
Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry

Christian Apologetics Research Ministry (CARM) is a religious organization that was created in 1995 by Matt Slick. It is an internet apologetics ministry. It writes things against what he considers cults. On the CARM website there is a chat room and internet forum. This lets people to talk to other people about things related to CARM and its teachings. On the CARM website there is a theology and apologetics school that is online. There is a cost to join the school. Matt Slick also has the website The Calvinist Corner.

</doc>
<doc id="41981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41981" title="American University of Beirut">
American University of Beirut

The American University of Beirut (AUB; ) is the first American university to be built in Beirut, Lebanon. Its old name was the Syrian Protestant College, and it was built in the year 1866. The name was changed to American University of Beirut on November 18, 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="41983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41983" title="Caliph">
Caliph

In Arabic, caliph means "a successor to the prophet". This is what leaders of the Islamic faith came to be called. Their rule is called a caliphate.
Some of the early leaders of the Muslim community following Muhammad's (570–632) death called themselves ""Khalifat Allah"", meaning "representative of God". But the other title of ""Khalifat rasul Allah"", meaning the successor to the prophet of God, became the common title. Some academics write the term as "Khalīf".
Caliphs were often also called "Amīr al-Mu'minīn" (), "leader of the Muslims". This title has since been shortened to "emir". It is also found as a personal name in some countries.
After the first four caliphs (Abu Bakr, Umar ibn al-Khattab, Uthman ibn Affan, and Ali ibn Abi Talib), the title was used by the Umayyads, the Abbasids, and the Ottomans, as well as by other dynasties in Southern Pakistan, Spain, Northern Africa, and Egypt. Most historical Muslim rulers simply titled themselves sultans or emirs, and the caliph himself often had very little real authority. The title was not used after the Republic of Turkey abolished the Ottoman caliphate in 1924.

</doc>
<doc id="42001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42001" title="Bensheim">
Bensheim

Bensheim is a city in Hesse, Germany. It is at the edge of the Odenwald and near to the river Rhine. It had 39,642 inhabitants in 2005 and is the biggest city of the Bergstraße district.
Economically it is in an area where wine grapes are grown. Many small businesses in the areas such as electronics, software development or services can be found.
The city has also factories/offices of Sirona former known as Siemens, Tyco International, Akzo Nobel, Suzuki and SAP SI.
The ”Fürstenlager” near Bensheim-Auerbach are simple buildings built like a village around the Good Well in the middle of a landscaped park. Its owners sought the peace of a rural idyll far removed from the court.
To the West, Bensheim borders Lorsch and Einhausen; to the North Zwingenberg; to the East Lautertal; and to the South Heppenheim.
It is also known for its good traffic connections to other nearby cities. In the North Darmstadt and Frankfurt am Main; in the East Worms; and in the South Heidelberg, Mannheim and Ludwigshafen are all within an hour's drive.

</doc>
<doc id="42034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42034" title="False prophet">
False prophet

A false prophet is a person who claims to be a true prophet but really is not. A false prophet is also someone who uses prophecy to do evil.
The term is also used outside religion to describe someone who fervently promotes a theory which the speaker thinks is false.
In Christianity, false prophets are thought of as being inspired by Satan, or the Devil. False prophets are the opposite of prophets. False prophets try to deceive people and bring them away from god. They use false information to lead people away from god. There are many false prophets in the Bible.

</doc>
<doc id="42036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42036" title="Paul Dirac">
Paul Dirac

Paul Adrien Maurice Dirac, OM (August 8, 1902 in Bristol – October 20, 1984 in Tallahassee) was an English physicist.
Dirac's father came from the French-speaking part of Switzerland.
Dirac worked out a formulation of quantum mechanics, which includes Erwin Schrödinger's wave mechanics and Werner Heisenberg's matrix mechanics in 1926. In 1928 he found the Dirac equation and he found out that spin in quantum mechanics is an effect of relativity. The Dirac equation allowed Dirac to predict the existence of antimatter, which is the opposite of matter.
In 1933 he won the Nobel Prize in Physics.
Dirac was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics chair at Cambridge University from 1932 until his retirement in 1969. He was Professor of Physics at Florida State University from 1972 until his death in 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="42038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42038" title="Emperor of Japan">
Emperor of Japan

The is a symbol of the Japanese nation and the unity of its people.
The emperor is the head of the Imperial House of Japan. He is a ceremonial figurehead.
In the Japanese constitutional monarchy, the emperor does not have any political power. In world politics, he is the only current emperor.
The current emperor is His Imperial Majesty the Emperor Akihito. He has been on the Chrysanthemum Throne since his father Emperor Shōwa (Hirohito) died in 1989.
The amount of power belonging to the emperor of Japan has changed a lot throughout Japanese history. The Emperor of Japan has sometimes been a cleric with mostly symbolic powers and sometimes an actual ruler. Some believe that the emperor is descended from gods. Until 1945, the Japanese monarchs were always the leaders of the military.
Since the mid-1800s, the Imperial Palace has been located on the former site of Edo Castle （江戸城）in the heart of Tokyo. Earlier emperors lived in Kyoto for nearly eleven centuries.
The earliest monarch listed as an emperor who is believed by historians to have existed in history was Emperor Ojin.
The imperial dynasty that rules Japan today began as a local kingship in Central Japan in the 500s. It slowly increased its power over its neighbors. This led to a more centralized state made up of almost all of the central areas of what is now Japan. The remote areas were outside its borders.
The emperor's role is defined in Chapter I of the 1947 Constitution of Japan. 
The emperor of Japan has no reserve powers.
While the emperor does serve as head of state, many people question if the emperor is a true monarch in a political sense. Efforts in the 1950s by conservative powers to change the constitution to actually name the emperor as head of state were rejected. Regardless, the emperor does do all the diplomatic functions of a head of state and is recognized as one by foreign powers.
Succession is now controlled by laws passed by the Japanese Diet. The current law does not let females take the throne. A change to this law was considered until Princess Kiko gave birth to a son.
Until the birth of a son to Prince Akishino on September 6, 2006, there was a potential succession problem. No male child had been born into the imperial family since Prince Akishino in 1965. Following the birth of Princess Aiko, some felt they needed to change the current Imperial Household Law to allow women to succeed to the throne. In January 2005 Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi created a group of judges, university professors, and civil servants to study the problem.
On October 25, 2005 they recommended changing the law to allow females of the male line of imperial descent to ascend the Japanese throne. On January 20, 2006, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi made an announcement that they would change the law to allow women to ascend the throne. However, after finding out that Princess Kiko was pregnant with her third child, Koizumi decided to wait. Her son, Prince Hisahito, is the third in line to the throne under the current law of succession.
Naming the emperors of Japan is difficult because of differences between Japan and the Western world. The Japanese use "{name} tennō" (for the past emperors) or "Kinjō Heika" (今上陛下） for the current one). Problems occur because emperors are named "{name} tennō" after their death.
Some Japanese once thought it was rude to call a person of noble rank by their given names. This belief is not commonly followed today, but still used for the imperial family. The current emperor on the throne is almost always referred to simply as "Tennō Heika" (天皇陛下, lit. "His Majesty the Emperor") or formally as Kinjō Heika (今上陛下).
In English, the recent emperors are called by their personal names.
For example, the previous emperor is usually called Hirohito in English, but after his death he was renamed "Shōwa Tennō" and is now only called by this name in Japanese. However, when he was in power, he was never called Hirohito or "Shōwa Tennō" in Japanese. Rather, he was simply called "Tennō Heika" (meaning "His Majesty the Emperor").

</doc>
<doc id="42041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42041" title="Pipe (smoke)">
Pipe (smoke)

A pipe is a tool that people use to smoke tobacco and other drugs. Pipe smokers do not usually breathe in the smoke. They let it go into their mouths and then exhale it. Pipe smoking is not a healthy alternative to cigarette smoking.
Tobacco pipes are used to smoke tobacco. In some Middle Eastern countries, people smoke tobacco with water pipes, which cool the smoke in water. Different types of pipes are also used to smoke marijuana, hashish, and crack cocaine. Some people who smoke marijuana or hashish use a special water pipe called a bong.
Native American tobacco pipes had two parts: a stone bowl and a wooden stem. Japanese "kiseru" pipes have a metal bowl and mouth piece with a wooden stem. Arabian "midwakh" pipes may be made from different materials. European tobacco pipes have been made from clay, tree root wood, meerschaum stone or even maize cobs.
Pipes to smoke opium may have clay or metal bowls with a wooden stem. Pipes for marijuana or hashish may be metal, wood or glass. Pipes to smoke other drugs may also be made of glass.
Pipes were first used by Native Americans in religious ceremonies. When the English came to North America, they tried pipe smoking and liked it. They sent tobacco back to England. 

</doc>
<doc id="42042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42042" title="Thomas Tallis">
Thomas Tallis

Thomas Tallis (born c.1505; died Greenwich November 23 1585) was the almost important English composer of his generation.
We know very little about Tallis’s youth. He may have started his career as organist at Dover and then Waltham Abbey. After the Dissolution of the monasteries he had a job at Canterbury Cathedral for a short time. He was soon made a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal. He had a job in the royal household until his death. He worked for four monarchs: Henry VIII, Edward VI, Mary Tudor and Elizabeth I.
Tallis was an organist and composer. He had to write music for the royal chapels. He was given the lease of a big house in Kent and a salary of £91 12s a year (12s is 60p in modern money). That was a very good salary in those days. In 1575, Queen Elizabeth I gave Tallis and William Byrd a licence which meant they were the only people allowed to print and publish music in England (music printing was a very new invention at the time). Tallis owned a house in Greenwich where he died in 1585.
In the early 16th century church music was often very polyphonic. Voices imitated one another and sang different things at the same time. Tallis wrote church music which was much simpler. In a lot of his music the choir sing homophonic music instead of using the older polyphony. For a short time, during the reign of the Catholic Mary Tudor, polyphonic music was in fashion again. This was the time when Tallis wrote an antiphon “Gaude gloriosa Dei mater” and a mass musical setting|mass “Puer natus est nobis”. These two works are once more very complicated polyphonic works. After that his works become simpler once more, but he was always keen to try out new ideas from the continent of Europe. He wrote some very fine anthems. Many of his works are settings of Latin words, but he also made settings of English texts.
One of his works is called "Spem in Alium". The choir divide into forty parts i.e. the choir need at least 40 people to sing it, and each person sings a different line. It is possible that he wrote it for Queen Elizabeth I’s 40th birthday in 1573, but we cannot be sure.
His "Diliges Dominum" is a collection of contrapuntal exercises which includes a very famous canon often simply called “Tallis’s canon”.

</doc>
<doc id="42047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42047" title="Homophony">
Homophony

Homophony means music in which the voices or instruments sing or play chords (chords are when two or more notes are played together.) In homophonic music all the choir (sopranos, altos, tenors and basses) are singing the same words at the same time. There is a tune on top and the lower parts are the accompaniment. This is what happens in hymn singing. The opposite is polyphony. Polyphonic writing is more complicated: the choir sing different melodic lines at the same time (see counterpoint). The terms "homophony" (literally: "one sound") and "polyphony" (literally: "many sounds") are mostly used for choir music.
In homophonic music it is easy to hear the words that are being sung. In polyphonic music it is much harder for the listener to understand the words. Composers often used polyphony when writing music for the mass because everyone knew the words anyway. Homophonic music became more important when composers started to write operas and madrigals where a story is being told and the words must be heard clearly. 

</doc>
<doc id="42050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42050" title="Technetium">
Technetium

Technetium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Tc. It has the atomic number 43. The color of technetium is silvery-grey. It is radioactive. It is a crystaline metal. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. The chemistry of technetium is somewhere between rhenium and manganese.
The isotope Tc is used in nuclear medicine. It is used for many diagnostic tests. It has a short half-life. Tc is used as a source of beta particles without emitting gamma rays. The ion that has oxygen and technetium bonded together (TcO) is named the pertechnetate ion. The pertechnetate ion could be used as to prevent anodic corrosion in steel.
Before the element was found, many of the properties of element 43 were predicted by Dmitri Mendeleev. Mendeleev saw a gap in his periodic table. He named the element in the gap ekamanganese. In 1937 the technetium isotope Tc was the first element to be artificially produced. This gave the element its name. In Greek τεχνητος means "artificial". Most technetium made on Earth is a by-product of fission of uranium-235 in nuclear reactors. It is extracted from nuclear fuel rods. On earth, technetium occurs naturally only in uranium ores as a product of spontaneous fission. The amount of technitium in the ore is very small but has been measured. No isotope of technetium has a half-life longer than 4.2 million years (Tc). This means that its detection in red giants in 1952 helped support the theory that stars can produce heavier elements. it is the first man made element in periodic table

</doc>
<doc id="42054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42054" title="Monastery">
Monastery

Monasteries are places where monks live. Although the word "monastery" is sometimes used for a place where nuns live, nuns usually live in a convent or nunnery. The word abbey (from the Syriac word ': "father") is also used for a Christian monastery or convent. The monk in charge of an abbey is called an abbot; the nun in charge of an abbey is an abbess.
Several religions have a system of monasteries. Christian monasteries have a chapel for the monks to worship. Monks are not allowed to marry (celibacy). They are also not allowed to own anything. Everything they use, including their clothes, belongs to the monastery. During the Middle Ages after the Roman Empire was defeated, monasteries were some of the few places where knowledge still existed.
Some monasteries were built in places far away from where other people lived. The monks who live there live very isolated lives, growing their own food and looking after one another. Other monasteries were in or near towns. Monks do a lot of work in the community, including as teaching, medical care or telling people about God. Few monks live isolated lives nowadays.

</doc>
<doc id="42057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42057" title="Windows Neptune">
Windows Neptune

Windows Neptune is a version of Microsoft Windows that was being made during 1999 and January 2000. Windows 2000 was released as an operating system for businesses and people that know how to use computers well. Windows Neptune was going to be a version of Windows 2000 that was easier for home users to use. Nobody knows if Microsoft was ever going to release Windows Neptune. After Microsoft stopped developing it, some of its features were merged with Windows 2000's and a new project, "Whistler", was formed. "Whistler" was later released as Windows XP.
Only one known confirmed version of Windows Neptune exists. which is Windows Neptune Build 5111. Windows Neptune Build 5111 exists on the Internet, and is a confirmed built. It used to be hard to find, but now it can easily be found.

</doc>
<doc id="42067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42067" title="Alexander Lukashenko">
Alexander Lukashenko

Alexander Lukashenko is the President of the country of Belarus. He has been the leader since 1994. He was the first leader of the country to be chosen by Belarus citizens. Before becoming the leader, he belonged to the law making section of the government. He was also in the military of the Soviet Union and ran a factory that made things to help farming.

</doc>
<doc id="42069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42069" title="Shelf">
Shelf

A shelf is a piece of furniture that is used for storing items.
It could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="42070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42070" title="Throat">
Throat

The throat is a part of the body. The throat is connected to the mouth at the top and to the stomach at the bottom. The throat is where food travels after being eaten and chewed by the teeth. Fluid drinks, such as water, also travel through the throat to the stomach and on to the rest of the body.

</doc>
<doc id="42071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42071" title="Safe">
Safe

The word safe has more than one meaning. 

</doc>
<doc id="42072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42072" title="Jelly">
Jelly

Gelatin or Jelly is a dessert item. Gelatin can come in different taste choices, or flavors, depending on what fruit or artificial flavor. Jelly is a cold and solid food that is normally made from hot water and powder.
Depending on where you live, gelatin may be called different things. In the United States and Canada, jelly is often called 'Jell-O'. Jell-O is a brand of gelatin that has become a generic, or typical, name for a lot of gelatin. Like the United States, in Canada "Jell-O" is a normal name for gelatin. In Commonwealth Nations like the United Kingdom and New Zealand, almost all gelatin is called jelly. Also, it is spelled gelatine.
Sometimes, alcohol is added to jelly. You can make jello shots with almost any type of alcohol. Jello shots can be served in small glasses and can be any color depending on the other ingredients put into the Jell-O shot. The jello shot is also known as the poison rainbow.

</doc>
<doc id="42078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42078" title="Biogeography">
Biogeography

Biogeography is the study of how species are distributed. It aims to show where organisms live, and why they are (or are not) found in a certain geographical area.
The basic issue is that animals and plants are adapted to the places they live in, but similar places often have quite different animals and plants. One might expect to find, for example, that the animals in a tropical rain forest would be almost the same in Amazonia, equatorial Africa and Southeast Asia. But that is not the case.
There must be reasons for this situation. Those reasons are the subject of research in biogeography. At first, from about 1800–1855, natural historians made lists of species in various regions of the world. These lists were published as tables in their books. A revolution started with Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, who published the idea of evolution by natural selection. They had travelled in tropical countries, and wrote about the life in those countries. They said that evolution was the key to understanding geographical distribution.
New species usually come about by an earlier species splitting in two: speciation. This takes place at a certain time and place. From that place, the new species may travel. It will be blocked by geographical features (seas, mountains...) and by climate. Thus, a species may never get to other places where it might be a great success. That, in general, is the reason why lands with similar climate often have quite different animals and plants. Classic examples are Australian marsupials and the Great American Interchange.
Of course, different types of animals and plants have different mobility. It is easier for birds and insects to travel by flight and, in the sea, fish can easily travel. All the same, there are limits. Fish on either side of the Americas are usually different species; and fresh-water fish do not disperse much. So it comes about that:
The scientific theory of biogeography grows out of the work of Alexander von Humboldt (1769–1859), Hewett Cottrell Watson (1804–1881), Alphonse de Candolle (1806–1893), Alfred Russel Wallace (1823–1913), Philip Lutley Sclater (1829–1913), and other biologists and explorers. 
Wallace studied the distribution of flora and fauna in the Amazon Basin and the Malay Archipelago in the mid-19th century. Wallace and Sclater saw biogeography as a source of support for the theory of evolution. Key findings, such as the sharp difference in fauna either side of the Wallace Line, can only be understood in this light. Otherwise, the field of biogeography would be a purely descriptive one.
Both Darwin (Galapagos Islands) and Wallace gave a great deal of attention to oceanic islands as offering examples of evolution, especially speciation. This interest was revived by "The theory of island biogeography" by Robert MacArthur and E.O. Wilson in 1967. They showed that the species richness of an area could be predicted if one knew the habitat area, immigration rate and extinction rate. 
Also, it was realised that habitat fragments are rather like islands. They can be investigated by the same methods. This spurred the development of conservation biology.
Genome analysis allows scientists to test theories about the origin and dispersal of populations, such as island species. It allows biologists to test theories about where the species come from.

</doc>
<doc id="42079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42079" title="Biophysics">
Biophysics

Biophysics is a science where the laws of physics are used to study biology, the science on life and living things. Unlike biochemistry and molecular biology, sciences where macromolecules or "large" groups of molecules are studied, biophysicists study single or small groups of molecules. 

</doc>
<doc id="42080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42080" title="Macromolecule">
Macromolecule

A macromolecule is a molecule with a large number of atoms. The word is usually used only when describing polymers, molecules which are made up of smaller molecules called monomers. All organic monomers are based on carbon, usually with hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen. There are inorganic macromolecules based on other monomers.
Examples: 

</doc>
<doc id="42081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081" title="Dendrology">
Dendrology

Dendrology is the science of trees and other woody plants such as shrubs or lianas. The word "dendrology" comes from Greek words δένδρον meaning "tree" and λόγος meaning "study".

</doc>
<doc id="42082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42082" title="Entomology">
Entomology

Entomology is the science of insects. People who study insects are called entomologists. Insects have been studied since prehistoric times, but it was not until as early as the 16th century that insects were scientifically studied.
Some entomologists study how insects are related to each other. Others study how insects live and reproduce because we do not know very much about some kinds of insects. Other entomologists study ways to keep insects away from crops that people use for food. There are billions of unknown species throughout the world and taxonomists categorize the newly found.
Entomologists meet to talk about their study of insects and to share ideas, just as all scientists do.

</doc>
<doc id="42084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42084" title="Ethology">
Ethology

Ethology is the scientific study of animal behaviour (U.S. "behavior"), and a sub-topic of zoology. Ethology overlaps, to some extent, with psychology. Psychology is a social science which studies human behaviour, but many psychologists have done experiments on learning in animals. Ethology studies animal behaviour, but many ethologists have been interested in human behaviour.
An American specialist on ants, William Morton Wheeler, first used the term 'ethology' in English in 1902. 
The study of animal behaviour, which had been going on in an anecdotal way since Aristotle, had its roots in natural history. It became more scientific during the 19th century. The French zoologist Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire was the founder of ethology in Europe, and his son Isidore produced a three-volume encyclopaedia "Histoire Naturelle Générale". In the third volume he talked about animal behaviour in almost modern terms. The entomologist J.-H Fabre (1823–1915) was a remarkable observer of natural life. His popular writing on natural history kept ethology alive in Europe. 
Douglas Spalding (1841–1877) was a British biologist who was the first to notice the effect called imprinting. Instinct and imprinting were the first scientific concepts in ethology.
He was able to prove that the behaviour of chicks after hatching from the egg happened even when they had no experience, practice or even information from the senses. Therefore the capacity was inherited. 
Studies by Charles Otis Whitman, Oskar Heinroth and Julian Huxley set the tone in the 20th century. This work was mostly on bird behaviour, especially mating behaviour. The behaviour of birds played a big part in early ethology, but there was a start to studying our nearest relatives. Wolfgang Köhler's "Mentality of Apes" was a landmark in the study of primates.
The next generation began during the 1930s with the work of Austrian biologists Konrad Lorenz and Karl von Frisch, and the Dutch biologist Niko Tinbergen. The three men were joint winners of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 1973.
Lorenz is famous for his 'longitudinal' studies: he lived with the animals he researched, and made observations throughout their lives. Then he wrote about what he had discovered in long, very readable papers. He researched instinctual behaviour, which he called 'fixed action patterns' (FAPs). Lorenz popularized FAPs as instinctive responses that would occur reliably in the presence of specific stimuli (called sign stimuli or releasing stimuli). von Frisch worked on communication in honey bees: the famous 'bee dances'. Tinbergen experimented with the stimuli which trigger fixed action patterns. He found out that artificial super-stimuli could often work better than the natural stimuli.
Ethology is a combination of laboratory and field science, with a strong relation to certain other disciplines — e.g., neuroanatomy, ecology, evolution. Ethologists are typically interested in a behavioural process rather than in a particular animal group and often study one type of behaviour (e.g. aggression) in a number of unrelated animals.
In the 1960s Nico Tinbergen set out a framework for research on behaviour. It involved four questions and their answers.
The only scientific explanation for an animal’s behaviour is that it is well adapted for survival and reproduction in its environment. A trait is the result of its past contribution to survival. In practice, this is simple. For instance, birds fly south in the winter to find food and warmth, and mammalian mothers nurture their young, thereby having more surviving offspring.
Phylogeny explains why some adaptation is less than perfect. From where it is, there are always some possibilities which a particular species can never get to. This is because all stages in evolution must be viable, else extinction occurs.
Another reason is that not all traits of a species can be maximised at the same time. Increase in armour, for example, is bound to slow down movement. Teeth which are best for vegetation are much less good for meat. The final result is a set of traits, most of which are sub-optimal.
Earlier phylogenetic stages and (pre-) conditions which persist often determine the form of more modern characteristics. For instance, the vertebrate eye (including the human eye) has a blind spot, whereas octopus eyes do not. Once the vertebrate eye had evolved, the only way it could improve was to minimise the effect of the blind spot. We don't notice it ordinarily, because with binocular vision what one eye misses, the other fills in.
All instances of behaviour require an explanation at each of these four levels. For example, the function of eating is to acquire nutrients (which ultimately aids survival and reproduction), but the immediate cause of eating is hunger (causation). Hunger and eating are evolutionarily ancient and are found in many species (evolutionary history), and develop early within an organism's lifespan (development). It is easy to confuse such questions – for example to argue that people eat because they're hungry and not to acquire nutrients – without realizing that the reason people experience hunger (causation) is because it causes them to acquire nutrients (function).

</doc>
<doc id="42086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42086" title="Henry III of England">
Henry III of England

Henry III (1 October 1207–16 November 1272) became King of England in 1216 when he was less than ten years old. He continued to be king for 56 years until he died in 1272. He was married to Eleanor of Provence. He is creditied for re-developing certain aspects of Westminister Abbey and his interest in architecture and decoration. He improved the Tower of London's defences and kept lions, an elephant and a polar bear in the tower. Discovered after his death, his tomb reveals Henry III was about 5’ 6” tall and had a drooping left eyelid. Henry was an unpopular monarch. 

</doc>
<doc id="42089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42089" title="Edward I of England">
Edward I of England

Edward I (17 June 1239–7 July 1307), also "Longshanks" (meaning 'long legs') and the "Hammer of the Scots", was a Plantagenet King of England. He became king on 21 November 1272, until his death in 1307. His mother was Queen Eleanor of Provence and his father was King Henry III of England. As a younger man, Edward fought against Simon de Montfort in defence of his father's crown. He went on a Crusade, and his father died as Edward was on his way back. As a ruler, he improved the laws and made Parliament regular, and more important. He conquered Wales, and subdued the Welsh by brutal policies. He was determined to control Scotland through puppet kings and just managed to do it during his lifetime. He expelled the Jewish people from England.
Edward was born at Westminster in June 1239, and was named after an earlier king, Edward the Confessor. He had a good education. His mother, a French princess, loved the arts, and his father, the king, was interested in history. Edward was taught in Latin and French.
In 1254, English fears of a Castilian invasion of the English province of Gascony induced Edward's father to arrange a marriage between his fourteen-year-old son and Eleanor, the half-sister of King Alfonso X of Castile. 
Eleanor and Edward were married on 1 November 1254 in Castile. As part of the marriage agreement, the young prince got grants of land worth 15,000 marks a year. Though the endowments King Henry made were sizable, they offered Edward little independence. He had received Gascony as early as 1249, but Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester, as royal lieutenant, drew the income. In practice, Edward derived neither authority nor revenue from this province. The grant he received in 1254 included most of Ireland, and much land in Wales and England, including the earldom of Chester, but the king kept control over the land, particularly in Ireland, so Edward's power was limited there as well, and the king got most of the income from those lands. 
The years 1264–1267 saw the conflict known as the Second Barons' War, in which baronial forces led by Simon de Montfort fought against those who remained loyal to the king. The first scene of battle was the city of Gloucester, which Edward managed to retake from the enemy. When Robert de Ferrers, Earl of Derby, came to the assistance of the rebels, Edward negotiated a truce with the earl, the terms of which he later broke. Edward then captured Northampton from de Montfort's son, also Simon. The baronial and royalist forces finally met at the Battle of Lewes, on 14 May 1264. Edward, commanding the right wing, performed well, and soon defeated the London contingent of de Montfort's forces. Unwisely, however, he followed the scattered enemy in pursuit, and on his return found the rest of the royal army defeated. By the agreement known as the Mise of Lewes, Edward and his cousin Henry of Almain were given up as prisoners to de Montfort.
Edward remained in captivity until March, and even after his release he was kept under strict surveillance. Meanwhile, de Montfort used his victory to set up a "de facto" government. He even summoned the Parliament of 1265, known as de Montfort's Parliament.
Then, on 28 May 1265, Edward managed to escape his custodians and joined up with the Earl of Gloucester, who had recently defected to the king's side. Montfort's support was now dwindling, and Edward retook Worcester and Gloucester with relatively little effort. Meanwhile, Montfort had made an alliance with Llywelyn and started moving east to join forces with his son Simon.
Edward managed to make a surprise attack at Kenilworth Castle, before moving on to cut off the earl of Leicester.
The two forces then met at the second great encounter of the Barons' War the Battle of Evesham, on 4 August 1265. Montfort stood little chance against the superior royal forces, and after his defeat he was killed and mutilated on the field.
The war did not end with Montfort's death, and Edward continued campaigning. At Christmas, he came to terms with the younger Simon de Montfort and his associates at the Isle of Axholme in Lincolnshire. In March he led a successful assault on the Cinque Ports. A contingent of rebels held out in the virtually impregnable Kenilworth Castle and did not surrender until the drafting of the conciliatory Dictum of Kenilworth. In April it seemed as if Gloucester would take up the cause of the reform movement, and civil war would resume, but after a renegotiation of the terms of the Dictum of Kenilworth, the parties came an agreement. Edward, however, was little involved in the settlement negotiations following the wars; at this point his main focus was on planning his upcoming crusade.
Edward took the crusader's cross in an elaborate ceremony on 24 June 1268, with his brother Edmund and cousin Henry of Almain. Among others who committed themselves to the Ninth Crusade were some of Edward's former adversaries. There was great difficulty raising funds for the expedition.
Originally, the Crusaders intended to relieve the beleaguered Christian stronghold of Acre, but before they could do this, several disasters happened to the French. The French forces were struck by an epidemic which, on 25 August, took the life of King Louis himself. By the time Edward arrived at Tunis, Charles had already signed a treaty with the emir, and there was little else to do but return to Sicily. The crusade was postponed until next spring, but a devastating storm off the coast of Sicily dissuaded Charles of Anjou and Louis's successor Philip III from any further campaigning. 
Edward decided to continue alone, and on 9 May 1271 he finally landed at Acre. By then, the situation in the Holy Land was a precarious one. Jerusalem had fallen in 1244, and Acre was now the centre of the Christian area. The Muslim states were on the offensive under the Mamluk leadership of Baibars, and were now threatening Acre itself. An embassy to the Mongols helped bring about an attack on Aleppo in the north, which helped to distract Baibar's forces. 
In November, Edward led a raid on Qaqun, which could have served as a bridgehead to Jerusalem, but both the Mongol invasion and the attack on Qaqun failed. Things now seemed increasingly desperate. Finally, an attack by a Muslim assassin in June forced him to abandon any further campaigning. Although he managed to kill the assassin, he was struck in the arm by a dagger feared to be poisoned, and became severely weakened over the following months.
It was not until 24 September that Edward left Acre. Arriving in Sicily, he was met with the news that his father had died on 16 November. Edward was deeply saddened by this news, but rather than hurrying home at once, he made a leisurely journey northwards. The political situation in England was stable after the mid-century upheavals, and Edward was proclaimed king at his father's death, rather than at his own coronation, as had until then been customary. In Edward's absence, the country was governed by a royal council, led by Robert Burnell. The new king embarked on an overland journey through Italy and France, where among other things he visited the pope in Rome and suppressed a rebellion in Gascony. Only on 2 August 1274 did he return to England, and was crowned on 19 August.
Edward's reign had two main phases. The first phase was administration of a now peaceful country. The second phase was warfare against Wales and Scotland.
His first concern was to restore order and re-establish royal authority after the disastrous reign of his father. To do this, he changed the administrators. He appointed Robert Burnell as chancellor, who held the post until his death in 1292. Edward then replaced most local officials, such as the sheriffs. This was done to prepare for an inquiry which would hear complaints about abuse of power by royal officers. Laws were made to define rights about ownership of land, recovery of debts, trade and local peacekeeping. 
Edward reformed English Parliament and made it a source for generating revenue. Edward held Parliament regularly in his reign. In 1295 a significant change occurred. For this Parliament, in addition to the lords, two knights from each county and two representatives from each borough were summoned. Before, the commons had been expected simply to assent (say 'yes') to decisions already made by the rulers. Now they would meet with the full authority ("plena potestas") of their communities, to give assent to decisions made in Parliament. The king now had full backing for collecting 'lay subsidies' from the entire population. Lay subsidies were taxes collected at a certain fraction of the moveable property of all laymen. Historians have called this the "Model Parliament".
Llywelyn ap Gruffudd was the main Welsh leader. He refused to do homage to Edward, and married Eleanor, the daughter of Simon de Montfort. In November 1276, war was declared. Initial operations were launched under the captaincy of Mortimer, Edmund Crouchback (Edward's brother) and the Earl of Warwick. Support for Llywelyn was weak among his own countrymen. 
In July 1277 Edward invaded with a force of 15,500 of whom 9,000 were Welshmen. The campaign never came to a major battle, and Llywelyn soon realised he had no choice but to surrender. By the Treaty of Aberconwy in November 1277, he was left only with the land of Gwynedd, though he was allowed to retain the title of Prince of Wales.
When war broke out again in 1282, it was entirely different. For the Welsh, this war was over national identity. It had wide support, especially after attempts to impose English law on Welsh subjects. For Edward, it became a war of conquest. The war started with a rebellion by Dafydd (Llywelyn's younger brother), who was discontented with the reward he had received from Edward in 1277. Llywelyn and other Welsh chieftains soon joined in, and initially the Welsh experienced military success. The Welsh advances ended on 11 December, however, when Llywelyn was lured into a trap and killed at the Battle of Orewin Bridge. The conquest was complete with the capture in June 1283 of Dafydd, who was taken to Shrewsbury and executed as a traitor next autumn.
Further rebellions occurred in 1287–8 and in 1294. In both cases the rebellions were put down. By the 1284 Statute of Rhuddlan, Wales was incorporated into England and was given an administrative system like the English, with counties policed by sheriffs. 
English law was introduced in criminal cases, though the Welsh were allowed to maintain their own laws in some cases of property disputes. After 1277, and increasingly after 1283, Edward embarked on a full-scale project of English settlement of Wales. He created new towns like Flint, Aberystwyth, and Rhuddlan. 
Edward started a big program of building castles, to keep the Welsh under control. His castles started the widespread use of arrowslits in castle walls across Europe, drawing on Eastern influences. Also a product of the Crusades was the introduction of the concentric castle, and four of the eight castles Edward founded in Wales followed this design. 
In 1284, King Edward's son Edward the later Edward II was born at Caernarfon Castle. In 1301 at Lincoln, the young Edward became the first English prince to be invested with the title of Prince of Wales.
Scotland and England were at peace in the 1280s. Alexander III of Scotland and Edward had an understanding whereby Alexander held land in England. This gave him the excuse to acknowledge Edward as his lord, and left ambiguous whether or not this applied to Scotland as well.
The heir to the throne was his granddaughter Margaret. Unfortunately, Alexander died in 1286, followed by young Margaret in 1290. This left Scotland without a king, which started all the problems.
There were fourteen claimants; John Balliol and Robert de Brus (the grandfather of the famous Robert the Bruce) had the best cases. The competitors agreed to hand over the realm to Edward until a decision was made. John Balliol was chosen in 1292.
Edward continued to push his claim as overlord of Scotland. He interferred in some of the legal affairs of Scotland, and insisted the Scots provided military service in his army. This caused the Scots to make an alliance with France. They then attacked Carlisle. 
Edward responded by invading Scotland in 1296 and taking the town of Berwick in a particularly bloody attack. At the Battle of Dunbar, Scottish resistance was effectively crushed. Edward confiscated the Stone of Destiny – the Scottish coronation stone– and brought it to Westminster, deposed Balliol and placed him in the Tower of London, and installed Englishmen to govern the country. The campaign had been a very successful, but the English triumph would only be temporary.
Although the Scottish conflict seemed settled in 1296, it was started again by William Wallace, who came from one of the notable families. Wallace was a warlord rather than a politician, and soon started a rebellion. He defeated a large English force at Stirling Bridge in 1297 while Edward was in Flanders. In 1298 Edward defeated Wallace at the Battle of Falkirk. After that the Scots avoided open battle in favour of raiding England with small groups.
Edward's next move was political: in 1303 a peace agreement was made between England and France, breaking up the Franco-Scottish alliance. Robert de Brus and most of the other nobles pledged allegiance to Edward. Wallace was betrayed and handed to the English. He was publicly executed. 
The situation changed again, in 1306, when de Brus murdered his rival John Comyn and had himself crowned King of Scotland by Isobel, sister of the Earl of Buchan. Edward, in ill health, sent armies north under other commanders. Brus was beaten at the Battle of Methven in June 1306. Edward followed this with brutal suppression of the allies of the Brus. This in turn fuelled more rebellion. This conflict was still in progress when Edward died in 1307.
Eleanor of Castile died on 28 November 1290. Unusual for such marriages, the couple loved each other. Edward was deeply affected by her death. He erected twelve Eleanor crosses, one at each place where her funeral cortège (procession) stopped for the night. As part of the peace accord between England and France in 1294, it was agreed that Edward should marry the French princess Margaret. The marriage took place in 1299.
Edward and Eleanor had at least fourteen children, perhaps as many as sixteen. Of these, five daughters survived into adulthood, but only one boy outlived Edward– the future King Edward II.
Edward was concerned with his son's failure to live up to expectations, and at one point exiled the prince's favourite Piers Gaveston. Edward may have known his son was bisexual but he did not throw Gaveston from the castle battlements as shown in "Braveheart".

</doc>
<doc id="42098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42098" title="Cell nucleus">
Cell nucleus

A cell nucleus (plural: cell nuclei) is the part of the cell which contains the genetic code, the DNA. The nucleus is small and round, and it works as the cell's control center. It contains chromosomes which house the DNA. The human body contains billions of cells, most of which have a nucleus. All eukaryote organisms have nuclei in their cells, even the many eukaryotes that are single-celled. Bacteria and Archaea, which are prokaryotes, are single-celled organisms of quite a different type and do not have nuclei. Cell nuclei were first found by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in the 17th century.
Inside the nucleus there are no membrane-bound sub-compartments. Its contents are not uniform, and a number of "sub-nuclear bodies" exist, made up of unique proteins, RNA molecules, and particular parts of the chromosomes. The best-known of these is the nucleolus, which is mainly involved in the assembly of ribosomes. After being produced in the nucleolus, ribosomes are exported to the cytoplasm where they translate mRNA into proteins.
When a cell is dividing or preparing to divide, the chromosomes become visible with a light microscope. At other times when the chromosomes are not visible, the nucleolus will be visible.
Large molecules cannot get through the double-layer nuclear membrane: it is impermeable to them. However, nuclear pores exist. They control the movement of molecules across the membrane. The pores cross both nuclear membranes, providing a channel. The larger molecules are actively transported by carrier proteins, and there is free movement of small molecules and ions. Movement of large molecules such as proteins and RNA through the pores is required for both gene expression and the maintenance of chromosomes. 
Within the nucleus is a structure called a nucleolus. It is made at a nucleolus organizer region (NOR), which is a chromosomal region around which the nucleolus forms. Inside the nucleolus ribosomes are made. These are exported through the nuclear pore complexes to the cytoplasm, where they are work to build proteins and sometimes become attached to the endoplasmic reticulum if they are making membrane proteins.

</doc>
<doc id="42112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42112" title="Scotland Yard">
Scotland Yard

Scotland Yard is the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police in London. This police force is responsible for the security in Greater London.
New Scotland Yard is in a 20-story office block on Broadway and Victoria Street in Westminster, about 450 metres away from the Houses of Parliament. The famous rotating sign, which is seen on television and in films, is outside the main doors on Broadway.
Founded on 29 September 1829, on a street off Whitehall, Scotland Yard was called "New Scotland Yard" when moved, in November 1890, to the Victoria Embankment, beside the Ministry of Defence. In 1967, New Scotland Yard moved to the present 20-story building at 10 Broadway.
Scotland Yard got its name by its previous location which was on Great Scotland Yard. As the Metropolitan police grew more famous, people started referring to the house as Scotland Yard.

</doc>
<doc id="42120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42120" title="Antimony">
Antimony

Antimony is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Sb. The symbol Sb is from the Latin name of 'stibium' for the element. It has the atomic number 51. Its atomic mass is 121.8. It is a blue-gray element that is somewhat toxic.
Antimony has four allotropes. The common allotrope of antimony is a blue-white metalloid. It looks black when powdered. It is brittle, soft, and shiny. Yellow and black antimony are unstable nonmetals. Yellow antimony is only found at very cold temperatures. It is made by oxidation of stibine. It turns into black antimony when light is shined on it or when it is warmer. Black antimony is normally made by heating metallic antimony until it boils and then cooling the vapors very quickly. It can ignite spontaneously (without any ignition source like a spark or a flame). It also corrodes easily. There is another explosive form of antimony that is made by electrolysis of antimony trichloride. This antimony explodes when changing into the metallic form. There is no chemical reaction; the atoms in the antimony crystal are rearranging themselves. When antimony is talked about it normally means the blue-white metalloid form, since it is most common.
Antimony is found as two stable (not radioactive) isotopes naturally. Sb- 123 and Sb-121
Antimony is a rather unreactive element. It does not dissolve in acids easily. It can dissolve in oxidizing acids like nitric or sulfuric acid. It does not corrode easily in air, although the black allotrope can corrode. Antimony burns in air to make antimony trioxide. In excess air, it burns to antimony tetroxide.
Antimony forms chemical compounds in three oxidation states: -3, +3, and +5. -3 compounds are called antimonides. They are made by reacting antimony with other metals. They react with acids to make the toxic and unstable gas stibine. +3 compounds are the most common. They are weak oxidizing agents. They are somewhat covalent, having low melting points. Antimony trichloride is a colorless and soft solid that has a strong odor. Antimony trioxide is a white solid that dissolves a little in water. The other antimony(III) halides all react with water except for antimony trifluoride. +5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents. Antimony pentafluoride is highly reactive, as well as antimony pentoxide.
-3 compounds are reducing agents. The antimonides have properties between alloys and salts.
+3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents. They are covalent. Most of them are colorless or light yellow solids. They are the most common antimony compounds.
Antimony tetroxide has antimony in both its +3 and +5 oxidation state.
+5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents. They are rare.
Antimony sulfide was known for a long time. Some things plated with antimony and made out of antimony were found in Egypt and Chaldea. The first time antimony was mentioned in Europe was in the 1540. The first native antimony was found in Sweden in 1783. Antimony sulfide and antimony were confused sometimes in antiquity. There is a question over what "stibium", the original name of antimony, meant.
Antimony is not common. It is found about as often as thallium. It is quite easy to get, though and is in many minerals. Antimony is sometimes found as an element, but normally it is found as stibnite, an antimony sulfide mineral. Stibnite is the main ore of antimony. China is the biggest maker of antimony; it makes 84% of all antimony. Other countries that make antimony are South Africa, Bolivia, and Tajikistan. Antimony is not used in the human body.
Antimony is made from stibnite by heating it with air. This makes antimony trioxide. Since it gets so hot, the antimony trioxide is evaporated. Other metal oxides in the stibnite ore do not evaporate. The antimony trioxide gas is condensed in a container. The antimony trioxide is then heated with carbon to make carbon dioxide and antimony. Another way to make antimony is to heat stibnite with scrap iron. This makes iron(II) sulfide and antimony. The antimony is separated and used.
About half of all antimony is used to make antimony trioxide for flame proofing.
It makes an alloy with lead. This alloy, 5% antimony and 95% lead, is harder than pure lead. It is used in lead acid batteries, as well as some other things. It is used as an alloy with lead in the pipes of pipe organs. Pewter has antimony in it. Some lead-free solder has antimony in it. It is used as an alloy with lead in ammunition for small arms and in covering of cables as well. It is also used in some alloys that have very little friction like Babbitt metal.
Another use is in a catalyst for making some plastics. Antimony(III) oxide is added to some glass to remove bubbles for things like television screens. Antimony is used as a dopant in electronics. Some antimony compounds were used as medicines to kill protozoans. The antimony pill was a chunk of antimony that was supposed to heal diseases. It is used in medicines for pets. Antimony sulfide is used in matches.
Antimony is toxic. Its toxicity is similar to arsenic, although it is less toxic than arsenic. Breathing in antimony dust can be very dangerous. Antimony reacts with strong oxidizing agents. Small amounts of antimony come out of plastic bottles where antimony was used as a catalyst. Some people were concerned that too much antimony was coming out.

</doc>
<doc id="42121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121" title="Buckingham Palace">
Buckingham Palace

Buckingham Palace is the official London residence and principal workplace of the British monarch. It is in the centre of London, in the City of Westminster. The palace is a setting for state occasions and royal hospitality. It has been a focus for the British people at times of national rejoicing and crisis. 
It was built in 1703 by John Sheffield, 1st Duke of Buckingham and Normandy, as a town house (a residence in London). It was bought by the British royal family in 1761. It became the official London home of the family in 1837. It is owned by the State.
Buckingham Palace has 775 rooms. It is one of few working palaces in the world. Leading up to it is a ceremonial road, The Mall.

</doc>
<doc id="42131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42131" title="Amherst, Massachusetts">
Amherst, Massachusetts

Amherst is a town in the American state of Massachusetts. It is in Hampshire County. There are three colleges in Amherst. It is named after Sir Jeffrey Amherst. It has a population of about 30,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="42147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42147" title="Conservative">
Conservative

Conservativemight mean:

</doc>
<doc id="42155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42155" title="2008 Summer Olympics">
2008 Summer Olympics

The 2008 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXIX Olympiad, were celebrated in Beijing, People's Republic of China from August 8 to August 24. The opening ceremony began at 08:08:08 pm CST (12:08:08 UTC) at the Beijing National Stadium in Beijing, People's Republic of China. During the games, 10,500 athletes competed in 302 events in 28 sports. This is one event more than what was on the schedule of the 2004 games.
The Olympic games were awarded to Beijing after a vote of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) on July 13 2001. The official logo of the games, titled "Dancing Beijing," features a stylised calligraphic character "jīng" (京, meaning "capital"), meaning the host city. The mascots of Beijing 2008 are the five Fuwa, each representing both a colour of the Olympic rings and a symbol of Chinese culture. The Olympic slogan, "One World, One Dream", calls upon the world to unite in the Olympic spirit. Several new NOCs have also been recognised by the IOC.
The Chinese government used the games to promote China as an important and powerful country, and spent a lot of money on building new facilities and transportation systems for the games. The events were held in 37 places, including 12 newly-built buildings. In 2007, former IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch said that he thinks that the Beijing games will be "the best in Olympic history". Although there was been some controversy about having the games in China, the IOC's former president Jacques Rogge said that the IOC has "absolutely no regrets" in choosing Beijing to host the 2008 games.
At the end of the Olympics, China won the total gold medal count, while the United States led the grand total medal count.
Here is the top of the medal table at the end of the games.
Medal numbers shown in bold are the highest in their section. China, the host nation is highlighted in lavender.

</doc>
<doc id="42167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42167" title="Pierre de Fermat">
Pierre de Fermat

Pierre de Fermat (17 August 1601 – 12 January 1665) was a French lawyer at the "Parlement" of Toulouse, southern France, and a mathematician. Many people see him as the father of modern calculus.
His method of finding the biggest and smallest ordinates of curved lines also makes him a contributor to differential calculus, which was not known at that time. His studies in the theory of numbers give him the rank of the founder of the modern theory. He also made notable contributions to analytic geometry and probability.
He is also famous for making a simple mathematical statement (known as Fermat's Last Theorem) that he said he could prove, but he never wrote down his proof. Mathematicians tried to prove it for hundreds of years before finally managing it. Fermat probably did not really have a proof for this theorem, and only thought he did.

</doc>
<doc id="42170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42170" title="Gottfried Leibniz">
Gottfried Leibniz

Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (also "Leibnitz" or "von Leibniz") 1 July 1 (21 June OS) 1646 – 14 November 1716) was a German intellectual who wrote mostly in French and Latin.
He played an important role in both philosophy and mathematics. He invented calculus independently of Newton, and his notation is the one in general use since then. He also invented the binary system, foundation of modern computers. 
He was taught law and philosophy. He served as secretary to two major German noble houses: one became the British royal family while he served it. Leibniz played a major role in the European politics and diplomacy of his day. 
In philosophy, he is most remembered for optimism. He thought our universe is the best possible one God could have made. He was one of the great 17th century rationalists. René Descartes and Baruch Spinoza are the other two. His philosophy also both looks back to the Scholastic tradition and anticipates modern logic and analysis.
Leibniz also made contributions to physics and technology, and anticipated ideas which surfaced much later in biology, medicine, geology, probability theory, psychology, and information science. He wrote on politics, law, ethics, theology, history, and philology. Sometimes he even wrote in verse. His contributions are scattered in journals and in tens of thousands of letters and unpublished manuscripts. There is no complete edition of Leibniz's writings, and a complete account of his accomplishments is not yet possible.

</doc>
<doc id="42171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42171" title="Optimism">
Optimism

Optimism is a philosophy and a way of life. Optimists believe that the world is generally a positive place to be in. In the view of an optimist, people and things are good. Many liberal optimists do not believe in original sin. 
Optimism basically looks on the positive side, believing things will work out in the end. 
The opposing theory is called pessimism. Gottfried Leibnitz was a famous optimist. Arthur Schopenhauer is often considered to be a famous pessimist.
Optimism is associated with the idea of a glass looking "half full", instead of looking "Half empty".

</doc>
<doc id="42172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42172" title="Pessimism">
Pessimism

Pessimism is an attitude of mind and a way to look at life. Pessimists believe that generally things are bad, and the world people live in is the worst possible world.
Someone who uses the philosophy is called a pessimist, they are the opposite of an optimist.
An example of pessimism is seeing that a glass of water is "half empty", not "half full".

</doc>
<doc id="42187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42187" title="The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints">
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is the largest group in the Mormon movement. It was started in 1830 in New York by Joseph Smith. They believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet who restored the church Jesus Christ set up on earth when he was alive. They teach that they are the only church that has the full gospel. They also believe that the Father, Son and Holy Spirit are three separate individuals, but all have the same purpose. LDS scriptures include the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. Members of the church, who are often called Mormons, are known for being active in missionary work. They also believe in the importance of families.
The center of the Church is in Salt Lake City, Utah, but there are more than 15 million members living all over the world. About six million of them live in the United States. Four and a half million of them live in the Western United States and 1.8 million live in Utah. It is the second-fastest growing church in the United States. It is the fourth largest in the United States. The leader of the Church is called the President of the Church, and Mormons respect him as a prophet. Right now, the President of the Mormon church is Thomas S. Monson. Mormons believe that God guides the prophet, just like Catholics believe God guides the Pope.
L.D.S. members or Mormons believe in the Holy Scriptures including the Bible and Book of Mormon- another Testament of Jesus Christ. They also believe that it is important for families to spend a lot of time together, and that after they die, they can live together forever. Mormons do not drink alcohol, coffee, or tea; smoke tobacco; or use other drugs. They meet once a week on Sunday for church, where they have the sacrament and listen to short talks or sermons. They also have Sunday School to learn more about their religion. The Church also has activities during the week. Mormons also have buildings called temples. These are the most holy buildings in their religion. After a temple has been dedicated, only Mormons that are living lives in accordance with the teachings of the church can go in the temple.
Mormons believe in helping poor and needy people all around the world. Because of this, Mormons have given $1.2 billion, since 1985, in cash and assistance to other people. They also believe it is important to learn their family history, often called genealogy. They also help others to learn their family histories, and give access to all their family history records for free, through the internet, on the website Familysearch.org.
In 1842, Joseph Smith wrote 13 paragraphs describing what the Church and its members believe. These are those 13 beliefs:
The ARTICLES OF FAITH
There are several divisions of the Church. The biggest ones are areas. An area might be a whole country, or part of a continent. Another division is a temple district. A temple district contains all the congregations served by one temple. This often means a whole state, region, or large city. Still another division is the mission, which is an area to which missionaries are assigned; almost all of the world is part of a mission, whether or not missionaries live or seek converts there.
Another division of the church is the stake. Stakes contain all the Mormons in a geographic area (for example, the stake in Whittier, California serves all the Mormons in Whittier, Pico Rivera and La Mirada). A stake often contains several thousand Mormons. Stakes are divided into wards.
In areas where the church is less established and there are not enough members to form a stake, a district is formed. Districts serve much the same role as stakes. In turn, districts are divided into branches. If the church membership grows large enough, a district will be changed into a stake and the branches into wards.
Each congregation is one ward (or branch). A ward might contain only people who speak a language other than the local language of its area. Examples include areas next to large U.S. military bases in foreign countries, where English-language wards may be organized, and major U.S. cities with many immigrants, where wards using Spanish, dialects of Chinese, or other languages are often formed. In some places, there are special wards for deaf people, where the services are held in the local sign language (such as American Sign Language in English-speaking North America). The church also has "singles wards", in which the congregation is made up only of single adults. In turn, there are two types of singles wards—Young Single Adult (YSA), for ages 18 to 30, and Single Adult (SA), for those over 30.
The church was founded by Joseph Smith in 1830 in upstate New York. It was probably due to the Book of Mormon, which Smith had translated from gold plates that were buried in a nearby hill. Smith's followers first went to Kirtland, Ohio in 1831. The first Mormon temple was built in Kirtland, and by the mid-1830s, there were over 17,000 Mormons. In 1838, the Mormons settled in Independence and Far West, Missouri. Near here, Smith wanted to build a utopian (ideal) community. The Mormons were driven out because people in Missouri did not trust Mormons. This was called the Mormon War. The Mormons then moved to Nauvoo, Illinois. There, Smith started to practice polygamy and tried to start a "theodemocracy," which combined Mormon rule with American democracy. In 1844, an attempt by Smith to shut down the Nauvoo newspaper led to Smith being accused of treason, followed by him being killed by a mob.
After Smith's death, there was a controversy over who should replace Smith. Brigham Young led most of the Mormons to Utah in 1847. When Utah became a territory in 1850, it was somewhat of a theocracy. Later in the 1850s, there was conflict between the Mormons and the U.S. government over control of the territory. This was called the Utah War. The Mountain Meadows massacre was part of the Utah War. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Mormons settled the Mormon Corridor in Utah and surrounding states in the Western United States. Some of the places they settled were Mesa, Arizona; San Bernardino, California; Las Vegas, Nevada; and Cardston, Alberta. By 1890, the Mormon church had built temples in three Utah cities.
Brigham Young died in 1877. Around that time, the U.S. government made polygamy against the law. Polygamy had been practiced by Young and the Mormon church since the 1840s. Laws by the U.S. government led to many Mormon leaders going into hiding, and many polygamists being sent to jail. In 1890, the church stopped polygamy. This is thought to be the beginning of the modern era of the Mormon church.
In the early 20th century, the Mormon Church grew, and opened its first temples outside of Utah. Soon into the 20th century, tithing (giving money to the Church) was made a part of being a good Mormon. In 1995, Gordon Hinckley became President. He got the church to build many temples in the United States and elsewhere around the world. The current President, Thomas Monson, took office when Hinckley died in 2008.
Young people are encouraged to go on missions when they get old enough. Men may go from two years after they are 18 years old (as long as they have graduated from high school), and women may go for 18 months after they are 19 years old. Before an August 2012 change in church policy, men had to be 19 in most countries, and women throughout the world 21, before they could go on missions. More men go on missions than women do. These missionaries go to a "Missionary Training Center" for a few months where they learn how to be good missionaries, and then live in another place for their mission. The Church tells them where they need to go. Then they work with one other missionary who is the same gender as they are (called a "companion"), and change companions often so they are not always with the same person. Missionaries will go to people who live near them and teach them about the Church, and baptize people who want to join the Church. They also help people around them, even if these people are not in the Church. Often they help by building houses for people who need them.
Older people sometimes go on missions after their children grow up. They get to go with their spouse. There are many different kinds of missions for "senior missionaries". Some of them are only a few months, and some of them are a few years. These missions can be "service missions", which means that they go to help people who live in the area. Sometimes the senior missionary is a "mission president". This means that they lead and help young missionaries in the place where they go to live.
The LDS church has been heavily criticized since its creation. Some of the criticisms are listed below.

</doc>
<doc id="42188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42188" title="Fenrir">
Fenrir

In Norse mythology, Fenrir or Fenrisulfr is a giant wolf. It is the son of Loki and the giantess Angrboða. Fenrir was tied up by the gods, but was destined to grow too big for his bonds and eats Odin during Ragnarök. After killing Odin, he is killed by Odin's son, Viðarr. Fenrir has two sons, Hati ('hate') and Skoll. He has a brother, Jörmungandr (the Midgard serpent), and a sister, Hel. 
Odin found out about a prophecy that the children of Loki and Angrboða would cause trouble for the gods. He had Fenrir brought to him along with its brother Jörmungandr and its sister Hel. 
After throwing Jörmungandr into the sea and sending Hel into the land of the dead, Odin had the wolf raised among the Æsir. Only the god Týr was brave enough to feed the growing monster. The wolf got stronger and stronger. The gods were scared that he would eventually destroy them. They tried to chain it up. He agreed to be chained two times. Both times he easily broke the chains. 
Odin had the dwarfs make the chain Gleipnir ("deceiver" or "entangler"). It looked like a silken ribbon but was made of six magical ingredients: the sound of a cat's step, the beard of a woman, the roots of a mountain, bear's sensibility, fish's breath, and bird's spittle.
The gods challenged Fenrir to break this chain as well. The wolf saw how thin and well made Gleipnir was and thought it was a trick. He agreed to try and break the chain, but only if one of the gods would put his hand in the wolf's mouth. He believed this would force them to free him if he could not break the chain. Only Týr was willing to put his hand in the wolf's mouth. Fenrir tried to break the chain. The more he tried, the tighter the chain held him. When the gods would not free him, the wolf bit off Týr's hand at the wrist. 
It is said that at Ragnarök, the wolf will break free. He will join forces with the enemies of the gods and will then eat Odin. After that Viðarr, Odin's son, will slay the wolf to avenge his father's death.

</doc>
<doc id="42191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42191" title="Russell Crowe">
Russell Crowe

Russell Ira Crowe (born 7 April 1964) is a New Zealand-Australian actor. He is most well known for the movie Gladiator. This movie gave him his fame in America. He won the Academy award (Oscar) for Best actor in 2001, for acting in Gladiator. He also starred as Jor-El in the 2013 movie "Man of Steel".
Crowe had attended Auckland Grammar School before moving to Australia.
He is married to Danielle Spencer. She is an Australian singer, songwriter and actress. They have two sons, Charles Spencer Crowe (born 2003) and Tennyson Spencer Crowe (born 2006). 

</doc>
<doc id="42196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42196" title="Renin">
Renin

Renin is an enzyme that is made by the kidneys. It is released into the circulatory system to raise blood pressure. This causes more blood to be sent to the kidneys.

</doc>
<doc id="42214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42214" title="Knight">
Knight

A knight was a professional heavy cavalry soldier in the Middle Ages. They were the top soldiers to the kingdom, and protected it at all costs. Knights worked for lords, who in exchange would give them land if the knight would fight for them. Knights thought honour was very important, and they had a code of honour called chivalry. They always had a coat of arms, also called a crest. 
Knights of the Commonwealth Realms today are named by the Sovereign One of the British orders of knighthood is known as the Order of the British Empire. These knights today are called 'Sir' and then their first name. Many members of nobility are descended from knights. For example: Wijerd Jelckama descended from a knight who died at the siege of Antioch (1199).
Knights were first used in the 4th century in the late Roman armies. The era of the knights ended in the 16th century as national armies replaced feudal armies. Many knights were recruited as officers in the new armies. Today's officer corps in all Western armies are direct descendants of knights. 

</doc>
<doc id="42219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42219" title="Kuiper belt">
Kuiper belt

The Kuiper belt is an area of the Solar System beyond the orbit of Neptune (at 30 Astronomical units) to 50 AU from the Sun. 
The objects within the Kuiper Belt together with the members of the "scattered disk" beyond, are together called trans-Neptunian.
The asteroids in the Kuiper belt are much bigger than the asteroids in the asteroid belt. At least some Kuiper belt objects are icebound.
After the Kuiper belt was discovered in 1992, the number of known Kuiper belt objects (KBOs) has added to over a thousand, and more than 70,000 KBOs over 100 km (62 mi) in diameter.

</doc>
<doc id="42227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42227" title="Mole">
Mole

Moles are animals found in North America, Europe and Asia. They eat insects, larvae or tiny worms. Moles have velvety, soft fur. They have powerful front paws so they can dig. A mole has an extra thumb.
The family includes the shrew moles and desmans. There are 
three subfamilies, 17 genera and 46 species in total in this very common group of mammals.

</doc>
<doc id="42245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42245" title="Terence Tao">
Terence Tao

Professor Terence Chi Shen Tao is a Chinese-Australian mathematician who currently resides in the United States. In 2006, Tao won the Fields Medal for his work in number theory. Tao shared the award with three other mathematicians. He also won the FRS in 2007. He is known for his studies in harmonic analysis, partial differential equations, combinatorics, analytic number theory and representation theory. Tao teaches math at UCLA.
Tao was born on 17 July 1975 in Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. His parents are Han. Tao is the youngest person to be in the International Mathematical Olympiad.
Ever since he was a young child he had shown great skills in mathematics and logic.
His father claimed that at the age of 2, during a family gathering, the infant Tao taught a 5-year-old child mathematics and English. According to Smithsonian Online Magazine, Tao taught himself arithmetic by the age of two. When asked by his father how he knew numbers and letters, he said he learned them from "Sesame Street". Aside from English, Tao speaks fluent Cantonese, but does not write Chinese. He was promoted to a full professor at age 24. He currently lives with his wife and son in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="42255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42255" title="Fritz Lang">
Fritz Lang

Fritz Lang (5 December 1890 – 2 August 1976) was a Austrian director, screenwriter, and movie producer. His movies include "Metropolis" and "M". He is one of the most famous German expressionist filmmakers.
Lang was born in Vienna. He died in Beverly Hills, California.

</doc>
<doc id="42257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42257" title="Scattered disc">
Scattered disc

The scattered disc (or scattered disk) is a distant part of the solar system. The area has small icy minor planets known as scattered disc objects (SDOs). The part of the scattered disc closest to the sun is in an area of space called the Kuiper belt. The Oort cloud lies beyond the scattered disc. The first SDO was found in 1995 by Spacewatch.
The scattered disk is still not understood well. Astronomers believe that it was created when objects in the Kuiper belt were "scattered" by the gravity of the outer planets, mainly Neptune. Unlike most objects in the Solar System which move in a round and flat path, scattered disc objects go every which way. Different SDOs have different orbital eccentricity and orbital inclination. 

</doc>
<doc id="42265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42265" title="Flatworm">
Flatworm

Flatworms (Platyhelminthes, Greek "platy"': flat; "helminth": worm) are a phylum of invertebrates. They are relatively simple animals. They have soft bodies. 
With about 25,000 known species, they are the largest phylum of animals without a body cavity. Flatworms can be found in marine, freshwater, and even damp terrestrial environments. 
A troublesome terrestrial example is the New Zealand flatworm, "Arthurdendyus triangulatus". It is an invasive species which colonized large areas of Ireland and Scotland. It was brought there by accident in the 1960s. Since then, it has destroyed most of the indigenous earthworms.
Most free-living flatworms found in Britain are very small ranging from 5mm to less than 1 cm. They are usually black and can easily be mistaken for debris. These are mostly found in freshwater rivers or streams and are of the Turbellaria class.
Most flatworms (over 50%) are parasitic on other animals. There are four classes: 
and 
Flatworms are one of the invertebrate groups which are studied in school biology. The main reason for this is that they may infect humans, pets and farmyard animals, and this was a problem. Some do enormous harm to humans and their livestock. Schistosomiasis, caused by one genus of trematodes, is the second most devastating of all human diseases caused by parasites, surpassed only by malaria. Effective treatments are now available for these infections. Also, in first-world countries, regulations on domestic cattle prevent infected meat from reaching the human hosts.

</doc>
<doc id="42269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42269" title="Trematode">
Trematode

The Trematodes are a class of flatworms in the phylum Platyhelminthes. They are called flukes, and are internal parasites of molluscs and vertebrates. Most trematodes have a complex life cycle with at least two hosts. The primary host, where the flukes sexually reproduce, is a vertebrate. The intermediate host, which is the agent of dispersal, is usually a snail.
The trematodes or flukes are estimated to include 18,000 to 24,000 species

</doc>
<doc id="42270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42270" title="Fluke">
Fluke

Fluke can refer to different things:

</doc>
<doc id="42271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42271" title="Period instruments">
Period instruments

Period instruments are musical instruments which have been made in the same way that they were hundreds of years ago so that old music will sound like it used to when it was first composed.
Musical instruments have changed a lot during the last few centuries. Composers like Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) wrote music for instruments which sounded different from the way they do today. Although most of the orchestral instruments we use nowadays were already in use in Bach’s day, instrument makers have made changes to them. These changes often gave the instruments a bigger sound so that they could be heard well in big concert halls. Orchestras also have increased in size.
During the 20th century musicians started to realize that the way we play the music of Bach and other composers from the past was making the music sound rather different from the way it would first have been heard. People became interested in hearing what the music would have sounded like back in the 17th and early 18th centuries (the Baroque period). Very few of the old instruments still existed and those that had survived had been “modernized”. So instrument makers started to make instruments in the old ways. Some musicians and orchestras started to play these instruments. The instruments are often called “period instruments” (or "authentic instruments" or "historical instruments") because they are made so that they are like instruments of older periods of history.
Today's instruments of the string family (violin, viola, cello and double bass) may look almost the same as the old ones, but there are differences: the old fingerboards were shorter and the strings used to be made of gut, not metal. The bows were shaped differently, and the technique of playing was also different.
Woodwind instruments have changed a lot since the old times. Flutes, oboes and bassoons hardly had any keys (the metal keys which help to cover the holes). The keys were added in the 18th century and it made it much easier to play difficult music with lots of sharps and flats. Clarinets were not invented until the late 18th century, but even they have developed a lot since Mozart’s time (1756-1791).
Brass instruments like the trumpet and French horn now have valves which make it easier to play in different keys. The trombone is the only instrument which has not changed. The tuba was invented in the early 19th century.
Percussion instruments include the timpani which have changed a lot. In Baroque times they had calf-skin heads but now the heads are made of plastic. This makes a very different sound.
Baroque keyboard instruments included the harpsichord and clavichord. The piano was invented during the 18th century. It still sounded very different when Mozart wrote for it. The frame was made of wood, not of cast iron, and the hammers had leather heads instead of felt. A modern piano sounds quite different.
The interest in period instruments started in the mid 20th century. People like Wanda Landowska played Baroque keyboard music on the harpsichord instead of the piano. Conductors like Nicholas Harnoncourt have trained small orchestras to play on period instruments using techniques which were used in Baroque times. Gradually musicians also started using period instruments for music from the Classical music period (the time of Mozart and Beethoven). Even in the mid 18th century the modern orchestra had not yet evolved. In recent years conductors like John Elliot Gardiner have performed music by Hector Berlioz on period instruments. There are now many small instrumental groups and orchestras who regularly perform on period instruments e.g. The English Concert and the English Baroque Soloists.
Does old music sound better on period instruments? Musicians do not all agree about this question and they still argue a lot about the way that some of the music should be played. However, it is important to listen to the way that period instruments are played. Musicians such as the violinist Andrew Manze have done a lot of research in old books and old music and have done a lot to make people rethink the way in which music from former centuries should be performed.

</doc>
<doc id="42272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42272" title="Monogenea">
Monogenea

Monogenea are a type of flatworm. They are parasites which means that they always need another creature to live on. They live on the outside of their host. Some parasites, like tapeworms, live on the inside of a larger creature. 
Monogenea are especially common on the skin, fins and gills of fish. Less commonly, they can be found in the urinary bladder and rectum of cold-blooded vertebrates. No types of Monogenea infect birds, but one ("Oculotrema hippopotami") infects mammals. It is a parasite in the eye of a hippopotamus. 
Monogenea are usually hermaphrodites. This means that they have both sexes. First they are males, and only later do they become females as well. They have direct life-cycles with no asexual reproduction (unlike the Digenea). In those types of Monogenea that lay eggs, the young ones grow to a larval stage called an "oncomiracidium". It is at the "larva" stage that they are able to travel from one host creature to another. When they are adults, Monogenea eat the blood, mucus, and epithelial cells of their host creature.

</doc>
<doc id="42273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42273" title="Turbellaria">
Turbellaria

Turbellaria are a class of free-living flatworms. They are not parasites. Most of them are carnivores. They actively search for food. Most of them are small, less than 60 cm in size. Almost all of them are aquatic. Some also live on land, in damp places. Its classifications are:
Domain: Eukarya

</doc>
<doc id="42274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42274" title="Bifröst">
Bifröst

In Norse mythology, Bifröst is the bridge between the land of mortals, Midgard, and the land of the gods, Asgard. The gods cross it every day to meet and decide things at Urdarbrunn (Well of Urd) under the tree Yggdrasill. The bridge is a rainbow. It was built by the Æsir and is guarded by the god Heimdall.
Only the thunder god Thor was not allowed to use the rainbow, because he may break it. The bridge will be destroyed at the end of the world, Ragnarök, when the army of giants and the dead run on it to attack Asgard.
Alternative names: Bilröst, Ásbrú, Bifrost.

</doc>
<doc id="42275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42275" title="Mendoza Province">
Mendoza Province

Mendoza is a Province of Argentina. It is in the region called Cuyo. The province borders San Juan in the north, San Luis and La Pampa in the east, Neuquén in the south, and Chile to the west.
It is the major wine producer of Argentina and has the highest hill of The Americas, Aconcagua.
Mendoza has a population of 1,579,651 people (2001). Spanish is the main language but many people also speak English, Italian and Portuguese.

</doc>
<doc id="42287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42287" title="Dosimeter">
Dosimeter

A dosimeter is a tool that can measure different levels of hazardous environments. Common dosimeters are those used for sound (They measure how loud a certain noise is) and radiation (they measure how much radiation there is in an environment).

</doc>
<doc id="42288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42288" title="Geiger counter">
Geiger counter

A Geiger counter (sometimes called Geiger-Müller counter) is an instrument that measures ionizing radiation such as alpha particles, beta particles, or gamma rays. It is best known as a hand held radiation survey instrument, but it can also be used as a bench instrument or permanently installed.
The original operating principle was discovered in 1908 and since the subsequent development of the Geiger-Müller tube in 1928 the counter has been a very popular instrument due to its robust sensing detector and element and relatively low cost.
The radiation sensor is a Geiger-Muller tube which gives out an electronic signal when radiation is present. 
The readout is counts or radiation dose. The counts display is commonly "counts per second". Radiation dose rate is displayed in a unit such as the sievert. 
The readout can be analogue or digital, and modern instruments have communications with a computer or network.
There is usually an option to produce audible representing the radiation intensity. This allows the user to concentrate on manipulation of the instrument without looking at the display.
 
For alpha particles and low energy beta particles the "end window" type of GM tube is used as these particles have a limited range even in free air and are easily stopped by a solid material. 
Geiger counters can be used to detect gamma radiation, and for this the windowless tube is used. A special type of the Geiger tube is used to measure neutrons.
For hand-held units there are two fundamental physical configurations: the "integral" unit, with both detector and electronics in the same unit, and the "two-piece" design which has a separate detector probe and an electronics module connected by a short cable. 
There is a particular type of gamma instrument known as a "hot spot" detector which has the detector tube on the end of a long pole or flexible conduit. These are used to measure high radiation gamma locations whilst protecting the operator by means of distance shielding. 
In 1908 Hans Geiger, developed a technique for detecting alpha particles that would later be used in the Geiger-muller tube. This counter was only capable of detecting alpha particles but in 1928 Geiger and Walther Müller developed the sealed Geiger-Müller tube which could detect more types of ionizing radiation and it became a practical radiation sensor. Once this was available, Geiger counter instruments could be produced relatively cheaply. 

</doc>
<doc id="42298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42298" title="Wide Area Network">
Wide Area Network

A Wide Area Network, or WAN, is made up of several computer networks connected together, often over the Internet. In most cases, the networks in WANs all belong to the same company or school.
WANs are used to connect LANs and other types of networks together, so that users and computers in one location can communicate with users and computers in other locations. Many WANs are built for one particular organization and are private. Others, built by Internet service providers, provide connections from an organization's LAN to the Internet. WANs are often built using leased lines. At each end of the leased line, a router connects to the LAN on one side and a hub within the WAN on the other. Leased lines can be very expensive. Instead of using leased lines, WANs can also be built using less costly circuit switching or packet switching methods. Network protocols including TCP/IP deliver transport and addressing functions. Protocols including Packet over SONET/SDH, MPLS, ATM and Frame relay are often used by service providers to deliver the links that are used in WANs. X.25 was an important early WAN protocol, and is often considered to be the "grandfather" of Frame Relay as many of the underlying protocols and functions of X.25 are still in use today (with upgrades) by Frame Relay.
Academic research into wide area networks can be broken down into three areas: mathematical models, network emulation and network simulation.
Performance improvements are sometimes delivered via WAFS or WAN optimization.

</doc>
<doc id="42299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42299" title="Corporate network">
Corporate network

A corporate network is a group of computers, connected together in a building or in a particular area, which are all owned by the same company or institutions.

</doc>
<doc id="42300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42300" title="Disk">
Disk

A disc or disk generally refers to a round flat object, although the usage varies between different variants of English. Common types of disc include:

</doc>
<doc id="42307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42307" title="Noodle">
Noodle

Noodles are thin strips of pasta which are made from dough. The dough that is the base for the noodles can be made in different ways:
Noodles are usually cooked in boiling water. Some kinds of noodles are flied, after boiled, in a pan with being moved in order to be mixed well.

</doc>
<doc id="42308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42308" title="Gaia Online">
Gaia Online

Gaia Online is a website created around anime and chatting. In Gaia, users can work on an online economy, chat with other people with the same interests, and even play online games found around the site. Also, you have to be 13 and older to join.

</doc>
<doc id="42313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42313" title="Jotunheim">
Jotunheim

Jötunheimr (or Jotunheim) is the land of the giants in the Norse mythology. Two kinds of giants (or Jotuns) live in Jötunheimr, rock giants and frost giants. From here they can attack the humans in Midgard and the gods in Asgard. Jotunheim is ruled by King Thrym. 

</doc>
<doc id="42314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42314" title="Princess Leia">
Princess Leia

Princess Leia Organa, born Leia Amidala Skywalker, is a character from the "Star Wars" universe. Leia was played by Carrie Fisher in the original three "Star Wars" movies: "", "", and "". She is also a main character in many novels that are set in the "Star Wars" universe. 
Organa is the daughter of Padmé Amidala and Anakin Skywalker. She has a twin brother, Luke Skywalker. He mother died giving birth to her and her brother. The twins were taken at birth and given to different families to raise. Leia was raised by the family of Alderaan's Senator Bail Organa as his daughter. 
Leia was in a romantic relationship with Han Solo and both have a child Ben Solo. Kyle Ren becomes evil and becomes the main villain in "". 

</doc>
<doc id="42327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42327" title="Ayrton Senna">
Ayrton Senna

Ayrton Senna da Silva (March 21, 1960 – May 1, 1994), better known as Ayrton Senna, was a Brazilian Formula 1 driver who won the championship three times, in 1988, 1990 and in 1991. He died in an accident that took place on the Autodromo Enzo e Dino Ferrari, better known as Imola, in the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix. He is considered by many people to be the most skilled driver in the history of motor racing.
Senna was born in São Paulo, a city in Brazil. When he was four years old, he first got into a kart. When he was 13, he entered a karting competition for the first time. A fun fact is that he started his first kart race on pole position. The start places were written on pieces of paper and put in a driver's helmet, and he drew number one. Because he was a lot lighter than the other racers, he was much faster than all of them. He won the "South American Kart Championships" in 1977 and was runner-up in the World Championship, but he never won it.
In 1981 he raced in the British Formula Ford 1600 championship, and won it as well. He also changed his name to Senna, since da Silva is used a lot in Brazil. 
In 1982 Senna won two European championships; the European and the British Formula Ford 2000. After testing with Williams, McLaren, Brabham and Toleman, he got a place within the Toleman team for the 1984 Formula One season.
The Toleman team was a very small team compared to other famous teams like Williams, McLaren and Brabham. Even though, the team built a car good enough to let Senna impress with his talents. Ayrton Senna scored his first championship point on April 7, 1984 at the South African Grand Prix. Three races later, Senna impressed at the Monaco Grand Prix, where it was raining. Senna started on the 13th position, but right after the race started, he soon was gaining position after position on the track that is known for its small roads. On the 19th lap, he took second place from Niki Lauda and was making up a lot of time to the race leader, Alain Prost. It started to rain harder and the race was stopped on the 31st lap. Even though almost everyone agrees Senna should have won the race, Senna had a result to be proud of. In the rest of the season he would finish third place in two races, the Britisch and the Portuguese Grand Prix. He finished his first year in Formula One racing on a shared 9th position and 13 points, sharing his 9th position with Nigel Mansell.
Senna did not just race in Formula One that year. He also co-drove a Porsche 956 with Henri Pescarolo and Stefan Johansson in the 1000km Nürburgring race. He also raced in a race to celebrate the opening of the new Nürburgring. He won this race.
The following year, joined the Lotus team, and many thought he would be able to meet his potential. The other driver for Lotus was Elio De Angelis. Ayrton scored his first of 65 pole positions in his career during the Brazilian Grand Prix, but was not able to win the race. He retired with an electrical problem after 48 laps. He did not had to wait a long time for his first ever victory in Formula 1, however, because he won the next race, the Portuguese Grand Prix starting off from pole position again. He showed his true talent driving in such bad weather which even later champion Alain Prost could not race in (he spun into a wall). The rest of the season was not too good for Senna though. He scored a lot of points but often retired because of mechanical problems. He won the Belgian Grand Prix in another wet race and finished 4th at the end of the season, scoring 38 points total. He also took two first places, two second places, two third places and seven pole positions.
His second season with Lotus, in 1986, was better than his first. The Lotus Car was a lot more reliable. He finished second in the Brazilian Grand Prix, with only Nelson Piquet being faster than Ayrton. He even took the lead in the World Championship standings during the Spanish Grand Prix after managing to keep Nigel Mansell away from stealing the victory. The gap between both drivers was only 14 thousand of a second. He did not have a lot of time to enjoy his lead, however, because his Lotus did not have the reliability Ayrton needed to chase after the title.

</doc>
<doc id="42328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42328" title="Adriano Emperado">
Adriano Emperado

Adriano Emperado (June 16, 1926 - April 4, 2009) is a Filipino-Hawaiian martial artist. He is one of five martial artists who developed a system of self-defense called Kajukenbo.
As a young man in Honolulu, Hawaii, Emperado began his early training in the Filipino art of Escrima. That had a huge impact on his development of Kajukenbo. Emperado later became interested in Kenpo Karate. After years of training, he earned a fifth-degree black belt under the direction of William K.S Chow.
The first school of Kajukenbo was directed by Adriano Emperado and his brother, Joe Emperado. In 1959, Emperado began combining Wushu into Kajukenbo. Adriano Emperado's life has been about teaching the martial arts. "Black Belt Magazine" named him its Instructor of the Year 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="42338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42338" title="Paramaribo">
Paramaribo

Paramaribo (, nickname: Par′bo) is the capital city of Suriname. About 250.000 people live in the city. It is at the Suriname River about 15 km before the river flows into the Atlantic Ocean. 
Paramirbo used to be called in French "Bourg nommé des Juifs" because so many Jewish people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="42345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42345" title="Ancient Domains of Mystery">
Ancient Domains of Mystery

ADOM (Ancient Domains of Mystery) is a computer game. More specifically, it's a Roguelike.

</doc>
<doc id="42357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42357" title="Jagdterrier">
Jagdterrier

Jagdterriers are a breed of dogs. Their full name is Deutscher Jagdterrier. This translates to German terrier to mean a hunting dog. 

</doc>
<doc id="42360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42360" title="Erwin Schrödinger">
Erwin Schrödinger

Erwin Schrödinger (Erwin Rudolf Josef Alexander Schrödinger, 12 August 1887, Vienna-Erdberg 4 January 1961, Vienna) was an Austrian physicist and theoretical biologist. He was one of the founding fathers of quantum theory and won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1933.
Schrödinger went to the Academic Gymnasium from 1898 to 1906.
Afterwards he studied mathematics and physics in Vienna and wrote his habilitation up from 1910.
He was a soldier in World War I. Afterwards he got professorships in Zürich, Jena, Breslau and Stuttgart. In 1920 he married.
In 1927 he went to Berlin to fellow Max Planck.
After the take-over of power by the Nazis, Schrödinger left Germany and got a new professorship in Oxford.
In 1933 he was awarded the Nobel Prize.
Three years later he returned to Austria and became professor in Graz.
In 1938 he had to leave Austria, because the Nazis had taken over government.
He went to Dublin and became director of the School for Theoretical Physics.
In 1956 he returned to Vienna and got a professorship for Theoretical Physics.
He died of tuberculosis in 1961.
Schrödinger's most important work is the wave mechanics – a formulation of quantum mechanics, and especially the Schrödinger equation. He also worked on the field of biophysics. He invented the concept of negentropy and helped to develop molecular biology.

</doc>
<doc id="42364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42364" title="Dioxin">
Dioxin

Dioxins is the name for a group of chemical compounds. These are organic compounds. Polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), or simply dioxins, are a group of halogenated organic compounds which are significant because they act as environmental pollutants. They are very poisonous. Many dioxins cause cancer.
Today, Dioxins are no longer made. They can occur as a by-product of other processes, though. Examples where dioxins can result are the production of PVC or the bleaching of paper. In nature, they are produced in volcanoes and forest fires.
A chemical accident where a lot of dioxin was released was the Seveso disaster.

</doc>
<doc id="42371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42371" title="Arnold Sommerfeld">
Arnold Sommerfeld

Arnold Johannes Wilhelm Sommerfeld (* December 5th 1868 in Königsberg, East Prussia; † April 26th 1951 in Munich) was a German mathematician and theoretical physicist.
Sommerfeld was the son of a practical physician. After finishing school in 1886, he started studying mathematics at the University of Königsberg.
In 1891 he wrote his doctorate thesis about arbitrary functions in mathematical physics.
Afterwards he had to do his army serve.
Then he went to Göttingen. He became assistant at the institute for mineralogy, but was still interested in mathematical physics.
In 1894 he became assistant of Felix Klein. The year after he wrote his habilitation about the mathematical theory of optical diffraction and became docent for mathematics in Göttingen.
In 1897 Sommerfeld married.
In the same year he became ordinary professor for mathematics at the mining college of Clausthal. Three years later he got a professorship at the Technical University of Aachen.
In 1906 he became professor for theoretical physics in Munich, were he stood for his lifetime.
While he was professor in Munich, he travelled two times around the world - in 1922/23 he was guest professor in Wisconsin and travelled afterwards through India, China and Japan, in 1928/29 he made a journey through the USA as teacher on universities. 
In 1935 he went in pension, but he still worked until 1940.
There was big trouble about choosing the person who should follow him. Sommerfeld wanted to have Werner Heisenberg on his seat, but in the time of the Nazi regime the job could only go to a person who taught the so-called German Physics, which included a kind of mysticism. Sommerfeld tried to prevent that.
Sommerfeld died in 1951 in a traffic accident.

</doc>
<doc id="42373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42373" title="James Clerk Maxwell">
James Clerk Maxwell

James Clerk Maxwell (born 13 June 1831 in Edinburgh – died 5 November 1879) was a Scottish mathematician, physicist and discoverer of Maxwell's equations.
Maxwell grew up in a rich religious family. In 1845, when he was only 14, he wrote a paper describing a way of drawing mathematical curves with a piece of string. In 1847 he started studying mathematics at the University of Edinburgh. In 1850 Maxwell changed to Peterhouse and then Trinity College at the University of Cambridge. He won prizes from the university for his work and was given his degree in 1854. From 1855 to 1872 he did research on colour blindness.
In 1856 Maxwell was made a professor of 'Natural Philosophy' (which is what science was called then) at Marischal College, Aberdeen. He worked there until the two colleges in Aberdeen joined together in 1860 and he lost his job. 
He then became a professor at King's College London. In 1861, Maxwell was made a member of the Royal Society, a group of important scientists. In 1871, became the first Cavendish Professor of Physics at Cambridge.
He studied many things, but is known best for his mathematical work on electromagnetism and on the behaviour of gases.
Maxwell died in 1879 from cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="42379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42379" title="Roman Vishniac">
Roman Vishniac

Roman Vishniac ['vɪʃniæk] (; August 19 1897 – January 22 1990) was a Russian-American photographer and a biologist. He is well known for taking pictures of Jewish culture in Central and Eastern Europe before the Holocaust. Many of these pictures are in his book, "A Vanished World", published in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="42551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42551" title="Penicillin">
Penicillin

Penicillin is a common antibiotic, used to treat bacterial infections. It was one of the first to be discovered, and worked well against staphylococci and streptococci. Many strains of baceria are now resistant. Chemists keep changing part of its structure in the effort to keep it working against the bacteria.
Penicillin was discovered by Scottish scientist Sir Alexander Fleming in 1928, but it was not mass-produced until the 1940s. The antibiotic is naturally produced by fungi of the genus "Penicillium". There is now a whole group of antibiotics derived from "Penicillium": penicillin G, procaine penicillin, benzathine penicillin, and penicillin V.
Penicillin is sometimes used to treat syphilis, tonsillitis, meningitis, and pneumonia as well as other diseases. It was first used widely during World War II.
Penicillin was discovered when Fleming noticed a mould that was stopping bacteria from growing in a petri dish. Australian scientist Howard Walter Florey made the penicillin mould into a medicine. Together with another scientist Ernest Boris Chain, Fleming and Florey were given the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1945.
Some people are allergic to penicillin. Symptoms include nausea, diarrhea, or rash. Rarely, patients who are allergic to penicillin get a fever, vomit, or have serious skin irritation. Because it is such a popular antibiotic, penicillin is the most common cause of serious allergic reactions to a drug. They are now used regularly in hospitals.
Chemist John C. Sheehan at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) did the first chemical synthesis of penicillin in 1957.

</doc>
<doc id="42648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42648" title="Depleted uranium">
Depleted uranium

Depleted uranium is what is left over after uranium is enriched. Enriched uranium can be used in nuclear reactors or nuclear weapons. Depleted uranium is made up mostly of the isotope uranium-238. Uranium-238 is mildly radioactive. It is very dense, or heavy for its size. Because of this, depleted uranium is used in armor piercing bullets and heavy machine guns. Its high density allows weapons to put more energy into a fired bullet which causes more damage to its targets. Bullets made from it will burn when they hit something hard, and their smoke is dangerous to breathe. 
Depleted uranium has long been thought to be useless for producing nuclear energy, but a new kind of "traveling wave reactor" has been proposed to use it.

</doc>
<doc id="42654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42654" title="Commuting">
Commuting

A commuter is a person who travels from home to a workplace every day. For many commuters, home is a suburb and work is in the inner city; but the reverse is sometimes the case and is called a reverse commute. Commuters may use public transport, cars or bicycles.

</doc>
<doc id="42656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42656" title="Anne Redpath">
Anne Redpath

Anne Redpath (1895-1965) was a Scottish artist. She was born in Galashiels, Scotland.
She was the daughter of a tweed designer. Her father's work had an effect on her use of colour and texture in her paintings. "I do with a spot of red or yellow in a harmony of grey, what my father did in his tweed", she said.

</doc>
<doc id="42658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42658" title="CD-RW">
CD-RW

A CD-RW (which stands for Compact Disc ReWritable) is a Compact disc that can be recorded and erased multiple times. It can hold data or music. Most of the time it will hold data, since many CD players can not play CD-RWs. During its development, the format was known as CD-E, which stands for Compact Disc Erasable. The standard was introduced in 1997. It replaced the less successful CD-MO.
The disk used for this is an optical disc. Phase change technology is used to write to the disk. A laser beam is used to heat a certain point of the disk. Once this point is hot, the information stored there can be changed.
According to what the manufacturers of these disks say, it is possible to record and erase such a disk up to 1000 times. They behave very much like CD-Rs, otherwise. Entire sessions can be written. As long as there is space on the disc, new sessions can be appended. To be readable in an ordinary CD drive, all sessions must be closed though.
CD-RWs never gained the popularity of CD-Rs. This is because they are more expensive to make and to buy. Also, not all CD drives can read them. Reading and writing speeds are also lower than those of pre-made CDs and CD-Rs.
Also, like with the CD-R, it is impractical (and slow) to use these disks to quickly add or remove small files. Other formats, like Zip disk, Jaz disk, Magneto-optical disks, and USB flash drives are More used for quickly reading, writing, or erasing small (sets of) files. When a deletion needs to be made, the whole CD needs to be erased.
CD-RWs (like CD-Rs) are more used for backups. They are usually cheaper than tape-based solutions.
Depending on the method used to write, and the type of disk used, usable capacities range from about 500 to 700 megabytes.
Pretty much the same concepts are used for DVD-RWs, which have a much higher capacity.

</doc>
<doc id="42665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42665" title="Magneto-optical drive">
Magneto-optical drive

A Magneto-optical drive is a disk drive for computers. It can read and write data to magneto-optical disks. The technology was made at the end of the 1980s. Both 5.25" and 3.5" media exist. The disks look like CD-ROMs, but they are protected with a plastic cover. The MiniDisc is a Magneto-optical disk. The other disks look similar but have a bigger physical size. 
The operating system sees (and uses) the disk like a normal hard-drive. 3.5" disks can hold between 128 megabytes (MB) and 2.3 gigabytes (GB) of data. 5.25" disks hold between 650 MB and 16.7 GB. 
All disks have a physical write protection switch (like 3.5" floppy disks). They are pretty resistant to data change, can support temperatures up to about 100 °C, and do not care much about light. 
DVD-RAM disks are very similar in appearance, they are optical though.

</doc>
<doc id="42689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42689" title="U.S. Presidential line of succession">
U.S. Presidential line of succession

United States Presidential line of succession is the order in which government officials replace the United States President if the president leaves office before an elected successor is inaugurated. If the President dies, resigns, or is removed from office, the Vice President becomes President for the rest of the term. If the Vice President is unable to serve, the next person in the line of succession acts as President. As of 2016, only the Vice President has replaced the President.
The laws about succession were first created in 1792. The second in line, after the Vice President, was the leader of the Senate. The next in line was the Speaker of the House of Representatives. In 1868, during the impeachment trial of President Andrew Johnson, Benjamin Wade was the leader of the Senate. He almost became president, but Johnson was found not guilty by one vote. Johnson had been the Vice President for Abraham Lincoln. He became President after the assassination of Lincoln. Because of Lincoln's assassination, there was no Vice President at the time. The Chief Justice and other members of the Supreme Court were not a part of the line of succession.
In 1886, after the death of Vice President Thomas A. Hendricks, Congress passed a law that took out the leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives from the line of succession. The new person behind the Vice President in line was Secretary of State, followed by other Cabinet members.
The most recent law about the line of successions passed in 1967. Right below is the current line of succession for the United States:
<nowiki>*</nowiki>Sally Jewell was born in the UK, and thus is not eligible to hold the office of the President.

</doc>
<doc id="42690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42690" title="Oulu">
Oulu

Oulu () is a city in Northern Ostrobothnia, Finland. It is the biggest city in the Northern Finland. The population of Oulu was about 193,000 in January 2014. It is the sixth largest city in Finland.
Municipalities next to Oulu are Hailuoto, Ii, Kempele, Liminka, Lumijoki, Muhos, Pudasjärvi, Tyrnävä and Utajärvi.
There is a university in Oulu. The university is one of the largest in Finland, with over 15,000 students.
Many people work in technology firms making mobile phones, computers and software.
Oulu was established in 1605, so it is more than 400 years old. In the old days, Oulu was famous for selling tar all over the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="42692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42692" title="James Boswell">
James Boswell

James Boswell (October 29, 1740 - May 19, 1795) was a Scottish lawyer and author. He is best known for having written the Life of Johnson, a biography of his close friend Samuel Johnson, published in 1791. In the 1920s and 1930s, a large number of his personal papers and journals were discovered. They have since then been published by Yale University.

</doc>
<doc id="42694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42694" title="Gondola">
Gondola

A Gondola is a kind of boat. Gondolas are mainly used in Venice. Unlike other boats, a long oar is used to move the gondola.

</doc>
<doc id="42695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42695" title="MiniDisc">
MiniDisc

A MiniDisc (MD) is a small magneto-optical disk. It is used as a replacement for the Audio cassette. It was developed by Sony to store music. Later it was modified, so it can also store data. The music it stores is compressed in some way, like an MP3. Recent Hi-MD models have the option to not compress audio, and offer audio identical to CD-quality. 
MiniDisc recorders allow the user to modify the contents of (recordable) disks. That way, tracks can be split, combined or rearranged. Audio tracks can be input while a live recording is in progress, too, for example, while recording a live concert or interview via the microphone input on a MiniDisc recorder.

</doc>
<doc id="42709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42709" title="Lolita">
Lolita

Lolita is a novel by Vladimir Nabokov. The book was written in English. It was published in Paris in 1955. It was translated into Russian by Nabokov. The story is about the sexual relationship that develops in the United States between a middle-aged British professor and a 12 year old girl after he becomes her stepfather. It was a very controversial book. The novel was made into a movie by Stanley Kubrick in 1962, and remade in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="42714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42714" title="Angela Haynes">
Angela Haynes

Angela Haynes (born September 27, 1984 in Bellflower, California ) is a professional tennis player from the United States. Haynes's top WTA singles ranking is World No. 95 which she got in August, 2005. Angela was ranked World No. 157, race-singles World No. 120 and World No. 171 in doubles as of November 7, 2009.
Haynes' brother, Dontia Haynes, who used to be a San Diego State University tennis player ranked among the top 100 ranked collegiate tennis players in the United States, died on 23 September 2005.
Angela's clothes are made by Adidas. Her racquets are made by Babolat. Angela's current racquet is believed to be the Babolat Pure Storm. Angela likes to wear bandanas while playing.
Angela appears in "Top Spin 2" which is for the Xbox 360, Nintendo Game Boy, and Nintendo DS.

</doc>
<doc id="42716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42716" title="Vania King">
Vania King

Vania King (born February 3 1989) is an American tennis player. She was born in Monterrey Park, California. King was ranked the 50th best player in the world in 2006.
She won her first singles title against Tamarine Tanasugarn at Bangkok, Thailand. Vania won 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. King also won the doubles title at Bangkok with partner Jelena Kostanic. King got second place with her partner Alexa Glatch at the 2005 US Open Juniors. 

</doc>
<doc id="42718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42718" title="Bottle cap">
Bottle cap

Bottle caps are used to seal the opening of bottles. For glass bottles, these are usually small, specially adapted pieces of metal. With plastic bottles, plastic caps are used instead. 
The original bottle cap was called Crown cork. It is pressed onto the bottle, and can be removed, using a bottle opener.
In recent years bottle caps with screw on mounts are used that way, a bottle opener is no longer required.

</doc>
<doc id="42732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42732" title="Quality">
Quality

Quality is how good something is. If the quality of a product is high then that means that it is fit for its purpose. If the quality of a item is low that means that the product may break easily or not work properly. When people say something is a quality product that means that the product is of good quality. Usually higher-quality products cost more money, because the materials used to make them are better, or the way they were made was more effective. In other words, things that are low quality are cheap.
Quality is understood differently by different people, depending on what they consider quality to be. Generally, though, it is how well a product is suited to the purpose it was made for.

</doc>
<doc id="42733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42733" title="Gargoyle">
Gargoyle

A Gargoyle is a grotesque statue that is attached to a building. It is carved out of stone, usually granite. It is used to get water away from the building when it rains. Gargoyles are often made to look like animals or people. The collected water comes out of their mouths. Most gargoyles were made a long time ago. People used to believe that they scared away evil spirits. Many cathedrals have gargoyles.
New buildings use rain gutters instead of gargoyles to move water. There are not many gargoyles in America.
Gargoyles are often confused with grotesques. They are similar, but only gargoyles get rid of rainwater through their mouths what's in the mouths I don't know .

</doc>
<doc id="42735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42735" title="Oostende">
Oostende

Oostende (German / French: Ostende, English Ostend) is a city in the Belgian province of West Flanders.
In 2007, 69115 people lived there.
It is at 51° 13 North, 02° 54 East.

</doc>
<doc id="42739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42739" title="Windows 2.0">
Windows 2.0

Windows 2.x is in the family of Microsoft Windows picture-based systems that was better than Windows 1.0. Windows 2.x was said to look almost the same to the first Mac OS and more closely matched Microsoft's pre-release publicity for Windows 1.0.

</doc>
<doc id="42740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42740" title="List of UEFA European Football Champions">
List of UEFA European Football Champions

The UEFA European Football Championship champions
The number of times each country has won the European Championship including finals and semifinals results 

</doc>
<doc id="42741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42741" title="Abuja">
Abuja

Abuja is a city in Nigeria. It is the national capital of Nigeria. Around 2.5 million people live there. Abuja is in the middle of the country, in the center of the Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria. 
The capital of Nigeria used to be Lagos, but it was moved to Abuja in 1976. 
Abuja is a planned city, which means that architects designed it specifically to be Nigeria's capital city. Construction of the first parts of the city was finished in the late 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="42743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42743" title="Irony">
Irony

Irony is a term for a figure of speech. Irony is when something happens that is opposite from what is expected. It can often be funny, but it is also used in tragedies. There are many types of irony, including those listed below:

</doc>
<doc id="42744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42744" title="Assault rifle">
Assault rifle

An assault rifle is a rifle that has a magazine that can be removed, can be fired automatically, and fires bullets that do not have as much power as other rifles like hunting rifles or battle rifles, but have more power and penetration than pistol bullets fired by submachine guns.
The first assault rifles were used by Russia in World War I in small numbers, but the Germans were the first to use assault rifles in large numbers. 
Examples of an 'assault rifle' are the Russian AK-47, the American M16 rifle and the British L85.

</doc>
<doc id="42748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42748" title="Salvador Dalí">
Salvador Dalí

Salvador Dalí (11 May 1904 – 23 January 1989) was a Spanish painter who became famous for the unusual images he used in his paintings. He was born in Figueres, Catalonia, Spain. He was a key figure in surrealist art. 
His most famous work was "The Persistence of Memory" (1931), which is now in MoMA, the Museum of Modern Art in New York. It is a dream-like landscape with a soft, melted pocket-watch.
Dali died of heart failure in Figueras.

</doc>
<doc id="42754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42754" title="Anne Mowbray, 8th Countess of Norfolk">
Anne Mowbray, 8th Countess of Norfolk

Anne de Mowbray, "Baroness Mowbray" (10 December 1472 - 19 November 1481) was the daughter of John Mowbray, 4th Duke of Norfolk and Elizabeth Talbot. She was born in 1472 in Framlingham Castle, Suffolk, England. She also became Baroness Segrave.
When Anne's father died in 1476 Anne became very rich. She also became Countess of Norfolk. Anne was married to Richard of York on 15 January, 1478 in Westminster Abbey. Richard was the son of King Edward IV of England and Elizabeth Woodville. Richard's father had married him to Anne so that he could have control of her fortune. When he married Anne became known as the Duchess of York
Anne died when she was 8 years old at Greenwich, London, England in 1481. Her body was placed in a lead coffin in the Chapel of St Erasmus of Formiae in Westminster Abbey. However, when this chapel was knocked down around 1502 to make room for the Henry VII Lady Chapel, Anne's coffin became lost.
In December 1964, construction workers in Stepney, London, accidentally found Anne's coffin. It was opened and Anne's remains were looked at by scientists. Anne's body still had a shroud wrapped around her and there was still red hair on her skull. Her body was later reburied in Westminster Abbey.
From The Peerage.com

</doc>
<doc id="42755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42755" title="Framlingham Castle">
Framlingham Castle

Framlingham Castle is a castle inFramlingham, Suffolk, England. It was once the home of the Dukes of Norfolk, and was where Anne Mowbray, 8th Countess of Norfolk was born in 1472.

</doc>
<doc id="42759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42759" title="Warwick Castle">
Warwick Castle

Warwick Castle (pron. 'Worrick') is a large castle in Warwickshire, England. It is near the town of Warwick. The castle was once the family home of the Earls of Warwick. 
There are many rooms in the castle. Some of the rooms have mannequins in them that look like real people. These are dressed in . They are used to show how people might have lived in the castle hundreds of years ago. Warwick Castle has a dungeon. One part of the castle is said to be haunted. Actors play the part of the ghost and the servant who killed him in a dramatic "Spook Experience". Lights and sounds are used to add to the effect.
The castle has a very high wall walk. It can be explored, so that visitors can see from where the guards looked for enemies. A long, steep flight of steps leads up to the highest part of the castle where the flagpole is. 
There are many paintings in the castle. There are portraits of English Kings and Queens as well as of members of the family who owned the castle. It is possible to see the private chambers, or bedrooms, where the family and their most important guests slept.

</doc>
<doc id="42760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42760" title="Edinburgh Castle">
Edinburgh Castle

Edinburgh Castle is a castle in Edinburgh, Scotland. It is built on the volcanic Castle Rock in the centre of Edinburgh, and is easy to see from the main shopping streets. The castle has a military display every year, called a "tattoo", where soldiers show their skills at marching and competitions, and there are brass bands and bands of bagpipes. 

</doc>
<doc id="42765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42765" title="Alfred Kinsey">
Alfred Kinsey

Alfred Charles Kinsey (June 23, 1894 August 25, 1956) was an American biologist. He was born in Hoboken, New Jersey.
In the first part of his career he was an entomologist specializing in gall wasps of the family Cynipidae. Later, he became famous for the research he did on human sexuality. His research had a great influence on social and cultural values in many parts of the world. It also had an influence on the sexual revolution of the 1960s and 70s.
Kinsey and his co-workers wrote two books which became known as the Kinsey Reports. They were based on thousands of interviews with men (first report), and then women. The aim was to find out how widespread or differentiated human sexual practices were. He developed the Kinsey Scale to measure sexual orientation. On one end of the scale, at the value 0, the individual is entirely heterosexual. On the other end, at value 6, he or she has a purely homosexual orientation. Kinsey was bisexual.
Kinsey died of heart disease and pneumonia in Bloomington, Indiana.
A biopic of him, "Kinsey", was released in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="42769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42769" title="Kinsey Reports">
Kinsey Reports

The Kinsey Reports are two books, published in 1948 and 1953 by Alfred Kinsey and his co-workers. The books "Sexual Behaviour in the Human Male" and "Sexual Behaviour in the Human Female", were based on thousands of interviews by Kinsey and his team. 
The books were shocking when they came out, as they talked about subjects that were taboo. It also questioned widely-held beliefs about sexuality. They were controversial. 
Kinsey found the following, amongst other things:
People said that the selection of the sample (those asked) was not well done. One in four were prisoners, and 5% were male prostitutes. The institute, or location Kinsey did these tests, then did another such tests, without asking prisoners or prostitutes, and the findings were more or less the same. People also say that child abuse may have been involved when collecting the data.
The Kinsey scale attempts to describe a person's sexual history or episodes of their sexual activity at a given time. It uses a scale from 0 to 6. "0" means the person tested is exclusively heterosexual. A person scoring "6" is exclusively homosexual. In the "Kinsey Reports", an extra grade was used for asexuality. The scale was first published in "Sexual Behavior in the Human Male" (1948). It was also important in the complementary work "Sexual Behavior in the Human Female" (1953).
Kinsey introduced the scale:
The scale is as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="42772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42772" title="Ruthenium">
Ruthenium

Ruthenium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Ru. It has the atomic number 44. It is a rare metal. It is silver white. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. It is also part of the platinum group. Ruthenium is found in platinum ores.
Ruthenium is used as a catalyst in some platinum alloys.

</doc>
<doc id="42773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42773" title="Niobium">
Niobium

Niobium is a chemical element. It is sometimes named columbium. It has the chemical symbol Nb. It has the atomic number 41. It is a rare metal. Niobium is soft and grey. It is ductile. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. 
Niobium was discovered in a variety of a mineral named columbite (now called niobite). Niobite is an ore of niobium. Niobium is used in alloys. The most important alloys are used to make special steels and strong welded joints.

</doc>
<doc id="42777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42777" title="Explosion">
Explosion

An explosion is a fast increase in volume and increase in energy made available. It normally makes high temperatures and makes gases. 
An explosion starts pressure waves in the medium where it happens. Explosions are categorized as deflagrations if the pressure waves are subsonic and detonations if they are supersonic. When a detonation happens, the supersonic pressure waves are named shock waves.
Unintentional explosions can be caused when chemicals are mixed together, or when pressurized containers or flammable materials are heated or exposed to flames. To cause an explosion, pressure does not have to be present but is always a result of an explosion.
Several safety measures are used to prevent unintentional explosions. Many countries require that chemicals, fuels, and pressurized containers that may explode be labelled with warning labels. As well, many countries have regulations restricting the possession and use of potentially explosive materials so they will only go to appropriate industrial and research uses. Transportation regulations require potentially explosive chemicals, fuels, and pressurized containers to be transported safely.
Intentional explosions are caused when armies fire artillery or when military air forces drop bombs during a war. Intentional explosions are also used by civilians in activities such as mining, construction, and large-scale civil engineering projects such as building tunnels, roads, railways, and dams. Military engineers handle explosives and arrange intentional explosions during the wartime.
Making up an intentional explosion is called "demolition". They are used to break up old and obsolete buildings and bridges, and to break rock and stone for construction.

</doc>
<doc id="42781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42781" title="Rhodium">
Rhodium

Rhodium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Rh. It has the atomic number 45. It is a rare metal. It is silver white and hard. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. It is also part of the platinum group. Rhodium is found in platinum ores.
Rhodium is used as a catalyst in some platinum alloys. It is the most expensive precious metal.

</doc>
<doc id="42782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42782" title="Tellurium">
Tellurium

Tellurium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Te. It has the atomic number 52. It has 52 protons and 52 electrons. Its mass number is 127.6. It has 8 natural isotopes. 4 are stable and 4 are radioactive. One of the radioactive ones lasts longer than any other isotope. It has a half life of 2.2 x 10 years (2 years).
It is a brittle silver-white semimetal. When it is pure it has a metallic shine. It is ground easily. It can be made in an amorphous form. It is a semiconductor. It changes conductivity a little when light shines on it, similar to selenium. It is corrosive to many metals when molten.
Tellurium is an unreactive element. It can react with reactive metals to make tellurides. It can burn in air to make tellurium dioxide. It can be oxidized even more to tellurium trioxide. It does not corrode. The chemistry of tellurium is similar to some chemistry of selenium and sulfur, although its compounds are more reactive and the element is less reactive. It does not dissolve in most acids, although it dissolves in concentrated sulfuric acid to make a special red tellurium cation.
Tellurium makes chemical compounds in several oxidation states: -2, +2, +4, and +6. -2 compounds are normally found in tellurides. They are strong reducing agents. Tellurides are normally the main ore of tellurium. Most natural tellurides are not pure, so they are much less reactive. +2 compounds are found in some tellurium halides, like tellurium(II) chloride and tellurium(II) bromide. They are the rarest oxidation state. +4 compounds are found in tellurites and tellurous acid. They are weak oxidizing agents, that can be reduced to tellurium. Tellurites are made by reacting tellurium dioxide with a metal oxide. +6 compounds are found in tellurates and telluric acid. They are powerful oxidizing agents. Tellurates are made by reacting telluric acid with metal oxides.
Tellurium is a very rare mineral. There is 14 times more silver in the earth than there is tellurium. Tellurium is sometimes found as an element, but most of the times is found as tellurides. Gold tellurides (Calaverite) are found in the earth. They are valuable ores of both tellurium and gold. This gold ore was not recognized as gold during one gold rush and was used as a filler. It was then discovered that it was gold telluride, making another gold rush. Telluride cannot replace sulfide in elements like selenide does.
Tellurium can be taken from gold telluride by dissolving the gold telluride in concentrated sulfuric acid. The tellurium dissolves to make a red solution, while the gold sinks to the bottom.
A more common way of extracting tellurium from tellurides is to heat the tellurides. The tellurides are heated with sodium carbonate and air. This makes sodium tellurite. Selenites are normally found as an impurity. They are separated by reacting them with sulfuric acid. The selenites stay in solution. The tellurites turn into tellurium dioxide. Then the tellurium dioxide is reacted with sulfur dioxide dissolved in sulfuric acid to make tellurium metal. The tellurium can be melted and reformed to make bars of tellurium metal.
The main use of tellurium is in alloys. It is used in iron, copper, and lead alloys. It makes the metals more easily machinable (able to be shaped by a machine). It improves strength and durability of lead and makes it more resistant to corrosion by sulfuric acid.
Tellurium is also used in cadmium telluride solar cells. These are very efficient. It can be alloyed with both cadmium and mercury to make mercury cadmium telluride, an infrared sensitive semiconductor. It is used in some rewritable (able to be erased and written again) optical discs. Lead telluride is used in another type of infrared sensor.
It is also used to color ceramics. It is used to make BUG DICK fiberglass that is used in telecommunications (telephones, internet, etc.). It helps increase the refraction. It is also used in delay blasting caps. Rubber can be ha.
Tellurium is not really used in any living things. Some fungi, though, can use tellurium instead of selenium or sulfur. Most organisms can metabolize tellurium to make dimethyl telluride, which is a garlic-smelling chemical. If someone eats a tellurium compound, it gives them garlic breath.
Tellurium is very toxic.

</doc>
<doc id="42786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42786" title="Indium">
Indium

Indium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol In. It has the atomic number 49. It is a rare metal. It is a soft, malleable and poor metal. Indium looks like zinc. Pieces of indium can easily be joined together by pushing one piece into another. The chemistry of indium is quite like aluminium or gallium. Zinc ores are the main source of indium.
The main use of indium is in the chemical compound Indium tin oxide in liquid crystal displays. It is also used in very thin layers as a lubricant. In World War II it was used a lot to coat bearings in aircraft.

</doc>
<doc id="42787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42787" title="Francium">
Francium

Francium is a chemical element with the chemical symbol Fr and an atomic number of 87. It is a metal. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the alkali metals. Francium is very radioactive. It is in very small amounts in uranium and thorium ores. It has the lowest electronegativity and electron affinity of all the chemical elements.
Francium reacts violently with water, as do all of the elements in group 1 on the periodic table.
Francium is one of the hardest to find elements on the planet Earth. It is estimated that there are only about 15 grams or half an ounce in the Earth's crust at a single time.
Although chemists knew the element number 87 in the periodic table should exist, it was a long time before it was discovered. In the early 1900s, nearly all boxes on the periodic table had been filled. Chemists knew that one element had been found to fit into each box. Francium was discovered in 1939 by a French chemist called Marguerite Perey. She named it after her home country, France.

</doc>
<doc id="42791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42791" title="Rhenium">
Rhenium

Rhenium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Re. It has the atomic number 75. It is a rare metal. It is silver white. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. The chemistry of rhenium is similar to manganese. It was the last natural element to be discovered.
Rhenium made as a by-product of molybdenum refinement. 
Rhenium is used in some manganese alloys. Rhenium-molybdenum alloys are superconductors.

</doc>
<doc id="42793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42793" title="Thallium">
Thallium

Thallium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Tl. It has the atomic number 81. Its standard atomic weight is 204.4. It is found in Group 13 of the periodic table. Thallium is a gray metal that is very toxic.
Thallium is a soft, malleable, grayish post-transition metal. It can be cut with a knife at room temperature. It melts at a low temperature, 304°C. This is typical of a post-transition metal. Thallium has 25 isotopes and two stable (nonradioactive) ones. It is extremely toxic.
Thallium is a moderately reactive metal. It corrodes easily in air with a blue-gray color that is similar to lead. If it is kept in air for a long time, a large amount of thallium(I) oxide will build up. It corrodes in the presence of water to make the hydroxide. It burns with a greenish flame. It reacts with most acids.
Thallium makes chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +1 and +3. The +1 state is more common and less reactive. Its chemical compounds are very similar to potassium or silver compounds. It makes a hydroxide that in a strong base when dissolved in water. Most other transition metal and post-trnansition metal hydroxides do not dissolve in water. This reacts with carbon dioxide to make thallium(I) carbonate, which is also water-soluble and very heavy. It is the only heavy metal carbonate that can dissolve in water. Other compounds are similar to silver compounds. Thallium(I) bromide turns yellow when exposed to light, similar to silver(I) bromide. Thallium(I) sulfide is black, similar to silver(I) sulfide. The +3 state compounds are oxidizing agents. The black oxide, thallium(III) oxide and the hydroxide, thallium(III) hydroxide, are the only stable +3 compounds. They break down to oxygen and thallium(I) oxide when heated. Thallium and its compounds are rare because they are toxic and polluting.
+1 compounds are quite unreactive. It is the more common oxidation state. They are made when thallium dissolves in acids or corrodes in air.
+3 compounds are oxidizing agents. They are quite rare.
Thallium was found by spectroscopy in 1861 by a bright green line in its spectrum. The main use for thallium, rat poison, was banned in many countries in the 1970's. Thallium was used to poison people, similar to the more popular arsenic.
Thallium is found most in certain clays and granites. It cannot be gotten easily from these, though. Thallium is normally gotten from the waste after other ores like galena are processed. Hutchinsonite is another mineral that has thallium in it.
When lead and zinc are taken from their ores, many impurities are left behind. Sulfuric acid is used to dissolve the thallium from it as thallium(I) sulfate. Then the thallium(I) sulfate is electrolyzed to make thallium metal.
It is used in rat poisons and insecticides. The use of thallium as a poison has been reduced or banned in many countries because these countries think that thallium might cause cancers. It is also used in infrared detectors. It has been used in some murders. Like arsenic, the use of thallium in murders has given it the name "inheritance powder". Thallium compounds are used in glass for infrared light. Thallium was also used to kill skin infections, but it is too toxic to be used for that now. A superconductor that can work at higher temperatures than normal ones do uses thallium. A radioactive thallium isotope was used for nuclear scans. An alloy of thallium and mercury has a low freezing temperature and is a liquid. A very dense solution of a thallium compound was used to test minerals for specific gravity, but it is too toxic for use. 
Thallium is very toxic. It can be absorbed through skin. Many of its salts easily dissolve. Some are colorless, tasteless, and odorless, but are very toxic. Some think that it is a carcinogen. Thallium can be a pollutant if the thallium waste from metal processing is washed away.

</doc>
<doc id="42799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42799" title="Néstor Kirchner">
Néstor Kirchner

Néstor Kirchner (February 25, 1950 - October 27, 2010) was President of Argentina between 2003 and 2007. He was born in Santa Cruz Province, Patagonia, where he was governor. On May 4, 2010 he became the first Secretary General of UNASUR. He died in Calafate on October 27, 2010 from heart failure which was caused by an earlier case of a heart attack. He was elected President in 2003, preceded by Eduardo Duhalde. Kirchner's widow, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, is the current president of Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="42805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42805" title="The Cunning Little Vixen">
The Cunning Little Vixen

The Cunning Little Vixen (original title: "Příhody lišky bystroušky", literally translates to "The Adventures of Vixen Sharp-Ears") is an opera by the Czech composer Leoš Janáček. Janáček loved animals, and in this opera some of the characters are humans but some are animals. Some of the little animals, (like the grasshopper, frog and cricket) are usually sung by children.
Janáček got the idea of this opera from a cartoon strip called “Sharp-ears” (in Czech: "Bystrouška"). The cartoon was published in a popular daily newspaper Lidové noviny. It was about a vixen (a female fox) and her adventures in the forest. He thought that the story would make a good opera. He made a few changes to the story: he left out a some characters, changed the order of the story a little, and made the humans and the animals behave in a similar way. It was first performed in Brno on 6 November 1924.
When Janáček died in 1928 the last part of the opera was played at his funeral.
A forester is sleeping under a tree. Nearby a young vixen (here, vixen means baby fox) is playing. She nearly catches a frog, but the frog jumps away and lands on the forester’s nose. He wakes up and sees the little vixen playing. He catches the vixen and take her home with him. He gave her a name: “Sharp-ears”.
Sharp-ears is unhappy at the forester’s cottage. She is tied up with a rope in the yard. The hens keep teasing her and the dog is boring. One day she tells the hens that they are silly to stay in the farmyard being bossed about by the rooster. She tells them they ought to fly away to freedom. She pretends to die, then jumps up and starts to catch them. When the forester’s wife comes out Sharp-ears bites through the rope and disappears into the forest.
She finds a nice sett (badger's hole) where a badger lives. She wants to live there herself so she chases the badger out of his home. One winter’s night the forester is drinking in the inn. He teases the priest and the schoolmaster for not having found someone to love. They in turn tease the forester for having let the vixen go. The schoolmaster starts to go home. He is drunk. He sees the vixen who reminds him of his former lover, but he is too drunk to catch hold of her.
Sharp-ears meets a handsome young male fox called Goldskin. The two fall in love. When she realizes she is pregnant the fox and vixen get married. The woodpecker is the priest who marries them. The cubs (baby foxes) are born in the spring.
The forester is still searching the forest for Sharp-ears. One day he finds a dead hare. The poacher persuades the forester to make a trap, because he thinks that Sharp-ears will come back to eat the hare. The cubs arrive and play near the trap. Sharp-ears realizes the poacher is trying to catch her. She teases him cruelly and dares him to kill her. He shoots her with his rifle, then he is very sad.
Some time later the forester is sleeping under a tree. He wakes up when a frog lands on his hand. He sees a young vixen playing in front of him. He tells the young cub that she looks just like her mother. He reaches out for her but catches a frog instead. He lets it go. He realizes that life must go on.
Janáček made some changes to the story in the cartoon. This made it more suitable for an opera. He did not have all the characters that are in the cartoon, and he changed the order of the story to make it more dramatic. He compares the human beings with the animals. For example: we see vixen Sharp-ears falling in love and having a family. But the forester’s friends: the school master and the priest, have not been so lucky with their love-life. The priest looks like the badger, the woodpecker is like the priest. When the opera is performed the same singer sometimes sings both parts. The end of the opera is like the beginning. This shows that life carries on and one generation follows another.
The music matches the story beautifully. There are a lot of tunes with very exciting harmonies. Sometimes he uses modes and whole-tone scales. Janáček often makes his music sound like folk music of his country.

</doc>
<doc id="42806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42806" title="Guaraní alphabet">
Guaraní alphabet

The Guaraní alphabet is a system used to write the Guaraní language. The Guaraní language is used in Paraguay and some countries near it. The alphabet has 33 letters. These are:
"A", "E", "I", "O", "U", "Y" are vowels, just like English. Those letters with tildes on top make the same sound, except more nasal sounding. The apostrophe sounds like a glottal stop. The other letters are consonants.

</doc>
<doc id="42810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42810" title="Lake Victoria">
Lake Victoria

Lake Victoria or Victoria Nyanza (also known as Ukerewe and Nalubaale) is a lake in Africa. It is bordered and governed by the countries of Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya. The lake is in the western part of Africa's Great Rift Valley. 
Lake Victoria is 68,800 square kilometres (26,560 mi²) in size. It is Africa's largest lake, and the second largest fresh water lake in the world. It was named for Queen Victoria. 

</doc>
<doc id="42819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42819" title="Tonsillitis">
Tonsillitis

Tonsillitis is a disease. It is also known as pharyngitis, laryngitis and Tonsillar infection. Tonsillitis is caused by either a virus or bacteria. It is the inflammation and infection of the tonsils. The tonsils are in the back of the throat. The tonsils get inflamed and red. Other symptoms include headaches, fevers, back and neck aches, chills, bad breath, weak voice, fatigue, having trouble swallowing, and more. There are treatments for tonsillitis. One treatment is antibiotics. Medicines to relieve pain like Tylenol and Advil are also suggested. The tonsils may be removed surgically if it is medically necessary. This operation is called a "tonsillectomy". It is the most effective way to get rid of the infection. All kinds of tonsillitis are contagious. Tonsillitis is spread by human contact.

</doc>
<doc id="42821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42821" title="Encephalitis">
Encephalitis

Encephalitis is sudden inflammation (swelling) in the brain. It is usually caused by viruses, bacteria, or other pathogens. As the brain swells, it can get damaged when it gets crushed against the skull. Encephalitis can cause serious symptoms, like seizures and strokes, and can be fatal. In 2013, encephalitis killed about 77,000 people in the world.
Usually, adults with encephalitis have a fever that starts suddenly, a headache, confusion, and sometimes seizures. Younger children or infants may be irritable (easily upset), not want to eat, and have a fever. Usually, patients are either very tired or confused.
A stiff neck is a sign that the person has either meningitis (inflammation of the meninges, which cover the brain) or meningoencephalitis (swelling of both the meninges and the brain).
Viral encephalitis can happen when a virus infects the brain. The most common causes are the rabies virus, Human Papillomavirus (HPV), the polio virus, and the measles virus. Viral encephalitis can also be caused by a "latent" virus - a virus that hides from the body's immune system the brain's nerve cells. Two examples of viruses that cause latent infection are the varicella-zoster viruses, which can hide in the brain after causing chicken pox, and the herpes simplex virus.
About 100 different viruses can infect the brain. Other examples include West Nile virus, Chikungunya virus, and Japanese encephalitis virus.
Encephalitis can happen when a person gets a bacterial infection, like bacterial meningitis. It can also be a complication of an infectious disease that a person already has, like syphilis. This is called "secondary encephalitis." 
Examples of other bacteria which can cause encephalitis are "Staphylococcus aureus", which causes toxic shock syndrome; "Bordetella pertussis", which causes pertussis (whooping cough); and types of "Borellia" bacteria, which cause Lyme disease.
Some parasites can infect the brain, especially in people who have weak immune systems. Examples include "Toxoplasma gondii", which causes toxoplasmosis; two parasites from the species "Trypanosoma" "brucei", which cause African trypanosomiasis (African sleeping sickness); and "Plasmodium" parasites, which cause malaria.
Autoimmune diseases can cause encephalitis if the body's immune system attacks the brain, the spinal cord, and their nerves. Two examples are autoimmune encephalitis and acute disseminated encephalitis. 
Encephalitis can be diagnosed in a few different ways:
Some treatments for encephalitis depend on the cause:
Other treatments are "supportive" - they treat the symptoms of encephalitis. For example:
Vaccines have made encephalitis from some diseases much less common. These diseases include measles, mumps, rubella (German measles), polio, varicella (chicken pox), and pertussis (whooping cough). There are also vaccines for rabies, bacterial meningitis, Japanese encephalitis, Human Papillomavirus (HPV), and some other diseases that can cause encephalitis.
People can protect themselves from diseases that are spread by insects, like Lyme disease and malaria, by avoiding insect bites. For example, they can use bug spray; wear long sleeves and long pants; sleep under a mosquito net; and make sure they have good window and door screens.

</doc>
<doc id="42824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42824" title="Mitosis">
Mitosis

Mitosis is part of the cycle of cell division. The chromosomes of a cell are copied to make two identical sets of chromosomes, and the cell nucleus divides into two identical nuclei.
Before mitosis, the cell creates an identical set of its own genetic information – this is called DNA replication. The genetic information is in the DNA of the chromosomes. At the beginning of mitosis the chromosomes wind up into visible objects that can be seen with a light microscope. The chromosomes are now two chromatids joined at the centromere. Since the two chromatids are identical to each other, they are called "sister" chromatids.
Mitosis happens in all types of dividing cells in the human body except with sperm and ova. The sperm and ova are gametes or sex cells. The gametes are produced by a different division method called meiosis.
There are five phases of mitosis. Each phase is used to describe what kind of change the cell is going through. The phases are prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase and telophase. 
During prophase, chromosomes in the nucleus condense. Pairs of centrioles move to opposite sides of the nucleus. Spindle fibers begin to form a bridge between the ends of the cell. 
During prometaphase, the nuclear envelope around the chromosomes breaks down. Now there is no nucleus and the sister chromatids are free. A protein called a kinetochore forms at each centromere. Long thin proteins reach across from opposite poles of the cell and attach to each kinetochore.
During metaphase, the sister chromatids are aligned by the pushing and pulling of the attached kinetochore microtubules, similar to a game of "tug of war". Both sister chromatids stay attached to each other at the centromere. The chromosomes line up on the cell's equator, or center line, and are prepared for division. 
During anaphase, the sister chromatids split apart and move from the cell's equator (metaphase plate) to the poles of the cell. The kinetochore is attached to the centromere. The microtubules hold on to kinetochore and shorten in length. Another group of microtubules, the non-kinetochore microtubules, do the opposite. They become longer. The cell begins to stretch out as the opposite ends are pushed apart.
Telophase is the final stage in mitosis: the cell itself is ready to divide. One set of chromosomes is now at each pole of the cell. Each set is identical. The spindle fibers begin to disappear, and a nuclear membrane forms around each set of chromosomes. Also a nucleolus appears within each new nucleus and single stranded chromosomes uncoil into invisible strands of chromatin.
Cytokinesis, even though it is very important to cell division, is not considered a stage of mitosis. During cytokinesis, the cell physically splits. This occurs just after anaphase and during telophase. The cleavage furrow, which is the pinch caused by the ring of proteins, pinches off completely, closing off the cell. 
The cell now has reproduced itself successfully. After cytokinesis, the cell goes back into interphase, where the cycle is repeated. If cytokinesis were to occur to a cell that had not gone through mitosis, then the daughter cells would be different or not function properly. One would still have the nucleus and the other would lack a nucleus. Cytokinesis is different in both animals and plant cells. In plant cells, instead of splitting into two halves, it forms a cell plate.

</doc>
<doc id="42825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42825" title="Inflammation">
Inflammation

Inflammation is the first reaction of the immune system to an infection or irritation. First the organ involved gets red, then it will get hot, then it will swell, and then it will hurt. Finally it will stop working. The first four of these reactions have been known for a long time, since Antiquity. Finding them is attributed to Celsus. The last one was added by Rudolf Virchow in 1858.
Inflammation can also be present/responsible for skin disorders such as psoriasis/dandruff, joint pains, arthritis etc.

</doc>
<doc id="42827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42827" title="Car rental">
Car rental

A car rental agency or a rent-a-car (car hire in British English) is a company that rents automobiles for short periods of time (ranging from a few hours to a few weeks) for a fee. 
They can be found primarily located near airports or busy city areas. The internet is changing the car rental industry with companies that are now called online car rental companies. Travellers can pre-book their rental car online any where across the globe directly from the service providers like Hertz, Budget, Alamo, Sixt Rent a Car, Thrifty, Travelauto.com, Dollar, Enterprise Rent-A-Car and Europcar.
Car rental agencies primarily serve people who have a car that is temporarily out of reach or out of service, for example travellers who are out of town or owners of damaged or destroyed vehicles who are awaiting repair or insurance compensation. Because of the variety of sizes of their vehicles, car rental agencies may also serve the self-moving industry needs, by renting vans or trucks. Apart from this, people who travel to foreign country, for their transportation needs rent a car as it is cost efficient and comfortable.
Car rentals are subject to many conditions which vary from one brand to another. The vehicle must be returned in a good condition and must not exceed a maximum driven distance, otherwise extra fees may be incurred. Additionally, some companies set up a minimum age for the vehicle driver, which in some cases is as high as 25, even in countries where the minimum legal age to hold a driver's license is much lower. Recent conditions have utilised GPS technology to limit maximum speeds or driving to specific regions.

</doc>
<doc id="42828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42828" title="Mechanical engineering">
Mechanical engineering

Mechanical engineering is a branch of engineering that applies the principles of Mechanics and Materials science for analysis, design, manufacturing, and maintenance of mechanical systems. It involves the production and usage of heat and mechanical power for the design, production, and operation of machines and tools. They can vary from building a rocket ship all the way down to a modern car. It is one of the oldest and broadest engineering disciplines.

</doc>
<doc id="42829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42829" title="Paul Newman">
Paul Newman

Paul Newman (born January 26, 1925 - September 26, 2008) was an American actor. He was born in Shaker Heights, Ohio. His mother was a Slovak; his father was a Jew who had one parent from Hungary and the other from Poland. He was known especially for the 1969 movie "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid". He played Butch Cassidy in the movie. He was married to actress Joanne Woodward. He died of lung cancer in 2008.
Newman retired from acting in May 2007. He said "You start to lose your memory, you start to lose your confidence, you start to lose your invention. So I think that's pretty much a closed book for me." 
He came out of retirement to narrate the 2007 documentary movie "Dale", about the life of NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt. He also narrated the 2008 BBC documentary "Meerkats: The Movie". It was recorded at a studio near his home shortly before his death. "The Meerkats" was the last movie credit of Newman's long career.

</doc>
<doc id="42835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42835" title="IRA">
IRA

IRA may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="42836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42836" title="Piccadilly line">
Piccadilly line

The Piccadilly line is a line of the London Underground. It is coloured dark blue on the Tube map. It is the fifth busiest line on the Underground network judged by the number of passengers transported per year. It is mainly a deep-level line, running from the north to the west of London via Zone 1. However, there are a number of surface sections mostly in its westernmost parts. Out of the 53 stations served, 25 are underground. It is the second longest line on the system, after the Central Line.
Like most Underground lines, the Piccadilly line is operated by a single type of rolling stock. In this case it is the 1973 tube stock. The trains are painted in the standard London Underground livery of blue, white and red. Seventy-six trains out of a fleet of 88 are needed to run the line's peak service. One unit (166-566-366) was severely damaged by the terrorist attack of 7 July 2005. The stock was recently refurbished, and was due for replacement by 2014, but the order for new trains was cancelled in July 2010.
The line was previously worked by 1959 stock, 1956 stock, 1938 stock, standard tube stock and 1906 gate stock.
The line has two depots, at Northfields and Cockfosters. There are sidings at Oakwood, South Harrow, Arnos Grove, Rayners Lane, Down Street, Wood Green, Acton Town, Ruislip and Uxbridge.
The line is controlled from the control centre at Earl's Court, which it used to share with the District line. It is in need of resignalling, and this work is planned to be carried out by 2014.
The current off-peak service pattern is:
Often late evening services terminate at instead of Cockfosters.
Trains will also make an additional stop at during early mornings and late evenings but will not stop at the station during the main part of the day.
Other services operate at times, especially at the start and towards the end of the traffic day.
Easier Versions can be found http://www.tfl.gov.uk/assets/downloads/standard-tube-map.gif
"(In order from east to west.)"
The Piccadilly line was to be upgraded in 2014–15 and would have had new trains as well as new signalling. This would have increased the line's capacity by some 24%. Bids for the rolling-stock order were submitted in 2008. However, after the acquisition of Tube Lines by Transport for London in June 2010, this order was cancelled.

</doc>
<doc id="42848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42848" title="Olympiastadion Berlin">
Olympiastadion Berlin

The Berlin Olympiastadion is a sports stadium in Berlin, Germany. It was built for the 1936 Olympic Games.

</doc>
<doc id="42850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42850" title="Olympic Stadium (Athens)">
Olympic Stadium (Athens)

The Athens Olympic Stadium () is a sports stadium in Athens, Greece.

</doc>
<doc id="42851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42851" title="2000 Summer Olympics">
2000 Summer Olympics

The 2000 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXVII Olympiad, took place in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia from September 15 2000 until October 1 2000.
199 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) were in the Sydney Games. Four were in the Olympics for the first time. These were Timor-Leste, Eritrea, Micronesia and Palau.
Marion Jones, winner of three gold and two bronze medals for the United States, gave back her medals in October 2007. She said she took tetrahydrogestrinone (THG), a drug that could make her run faster, from September 2000 through July 2001.
On 2 August 2008, the International Olympic Committee took the gold medal from the U.S. men's 4x400-meter relay team. Antonio Pettigrew said he used a banned substance. Besides Pettigrew other athletes used performance-enhancing drugs. These are twins Alvin and Calvin Harrison, and Jerome Young.
On 28 April 2010, the IOC took China's bronze medal from Gymnastics. This was for using an underage gymnast.

</doc>
<doc id="42852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42852" title="2002 Winter Olympics">
2002 Winter Olympics

The 2002 Winter Olympics, officially known as the XIX Olympic Winter Games, were held in Salt Lake City, Utah, United States from February 8 2002 to February 24 2002. There were about 2,400 athletes from 77 nations. They were in 78 events. Utah was the fifth state in the United States to host the Olympic Games.
78 National Olympic Committees sent athletes to the Salt Lake City games. Cameroon, Hong Kong (China), Nepal, Tajikistan, and Thailand were in their first Winter Olympic games.

</doc>
<doc id="42853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42853" title="Stradivarius">
Stradivarius

A Stradivarius is a string instrument (such as a violin) built by the 17th century Italian luthier Stradivari family (especially by Antonio Stradivari) that was famous for making them. Stradivarii are known for their high quality sound and ability to last a long time without tuning. Most of these instruments survive to this day, though few have been stolen. They are some of the best and most expensive instruments, and even each string instrument created has a name. So many people have wanted Stradivarii, and some have sold for more than a million dollars. Famous violinists, such as Midori Goto or Joshua Bell have Stradivarii.

</doc>
<doc id="42854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42854" title="Gadolinium">
Gadolinium

Gadolinium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Gd. It has the atomic number 64. It is part of a group of chemical elements in the periodic table named the Lanthanides. It is a rare earth element. It is silvery white, malleable and ductile.
Its main uses are as chemical compounds in color televisions and nuclear magnetic resonance radio contrast agents. In color cathode ray tube televisions (the type first produced, not flat televisions) some of the pixels are dots gadolinium compounds. When the electrons from the cathode ray tube hit the pixels and transfer energy to the gadolinium compounds they give out light as energy. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging is used in medicine where it is named MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging). It is used to take picture of inside the body. How the pictures look is changed by the gadolinium compounds and how much water is around. It makes the images clearer because it makes the difference in the concentration of water in different parts of the body look more clear (more contrast) in the picture that is made.

</doc>
<doc id="42858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42858" title="Grand coalition">
Grand coalition

The "Grand coalition" refers to if the two biggest political parties in Germany (the SPD and the CDU) join forces together ("form a coalition").

</doc>
<doc id="42859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42859" title="Persephone">
Persephone

Persephone was a Greek goddess of grain and spring. Also sometimes referred to as Kore. A daughter of Zeus and Demeter. She was kidnapped by Hades and he makes her eat a pomegranate, a fruit of the underworld. According to some myths, if one were to eat the fruit of the Underworld, they would be forced to stay there. This myth explains why the seasons change. Supposedly, Demeter was so sad over the disappearance of her daughter that she ignored her duties to the world, during this time all plants died. When Demeter went to the Underworld to rescue her Persephone, Hades forced Persephone to eat the pomegranate. After she ate this fruit it was supposed to keep her in the underworld with Hades so she would be forced to marry him. In some versions she only ate 6 seeds from the pomegranate, so Hades only made her stay 6 months of the year. It is during the 6 months that Persephone is with Hades that Demeter weeps, causing all plant life to die (symbolizing Fall and Winter), and during the six months that she is with Demeter life is sustained (Spring and Summer). She does not have a throne on Olympus but her mother let her sit on her lap when Persephone was a child. The only reason Hades kidnapped her is because he saw her running in a field, and he thought she was beautiful. 

</doc>
<doc id="42860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42860" title="Bundestag">
Bundestag

The Bundestag is the legislature of Germany. It meets in Berlin, in the Reichstag building, which was specially rebuilt ready for the Bundestag to move from Bonn.
The Bundestag has at least 598 members. Every 4 years the German people vote.
A party gets seats when it gets at least 5% of the votes. Every voter has two votes, one for a person and one for a party. 299 members each represent a constituency, just as in the British House of Commons or the US House of Representatives. The other half are elected from a party list in each Land. The total number of seats a party gets depends on the number of the second "party votes" it gets.
But if a party wins more constituency seats than its share of the party votes, then it keeps those extra seats. These extra seats, or "extra mandates", are the reason the Bundestag sometimes has more than 598 members. If a party gets extra mandates, the other parties get some extra seats too to make sure every party gets exactly its share of party seats. This system of giving extra mandates was changed in 2013. Before 2013, if a party won extra mandates, then it got to put more members in the Bundestag, which gave the party more influence over the Bundestag than it won in the elections. 
The Bundestag president is named Norbert Lammert. He oversees the sessions of the body.

</doc>
<doc id="42861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42861" title="1. FC Nuremberg">
1. FC Nuremberg

The 1..F.C Nürnberg is a football club from Nuremberg, Germany. It was founded on May 4, 1900.
The manager is Martin Bader and the coach is René Weiler.
Goalkeepers:
Defences:
Midfielders:
Strikers:

</doc>
<doc id="42874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42874" title="History of the world">
History of the world

The history of the world is about the study of the cultural achievements of the entire human race. This includes the time from prehistory to the end of the 20th century and excludes natural history before the development of human beings.
Modern human beings, called "Homo sapiens" ('wise man') have lived since about 250,000 years ago. At this time there were other "species" of human that were a little different to "Homo sapiens". These include "Homo erectus" ('standing man') and "Homo neanderthalensis" ('man from Neanderthal'). The theory of human evolution is that humans slowly developed from other earlier species of human-like creatures. Biologists believe that "Homo sapiens" evolved in Africa and spread from there to all other parts of the world, replacing "Homo neanderthalensis" in Europe and the "Homo erectus" in Asia.
"Homo neanderthalensis", generally called Neanderthal Man, has this name because the cranium of a skull was found in the Neanderthal Valley in 1856: it was different from a modern skull. Skeletons had been found in other places since then. They had lived before modern humans, and had the knowledge to use tools and fire. When ancient stone tools are found, their style often shows whether they were made by "Homo sapiens" or whether they were made by a Neanderthal (see Palaeolithic). By the end of the Stone Age, it is believed that "Homo sapiens" were the only type of humans left.
 
Climate has a very big effect on the way that humans live. Climate is different from one part of the world to another. Some areas are hot all the year, and some are cold. Some areas are dry all the year and others are wet. Most areas have climates that are warm or hot in the summer and cool or cold in the winter. Most parts of the world get rain at some times of the year and not others. Some parts of the world have seaside climates and others have mountain climates. All these things affect the way that humans live in different parts of the world.
Climate has an effect on the types of food that can be found in different parts of the world. Everywhere that humans live, there is a staple food. This is the main food that most people eat, most of the time. A staple food is usually a grain or vegetable that is easy to grow. Staple foods found in different countries are wheat, maize, millet, rice, oats, rye, potatoes, yams, breadfruit and beans. Climate also affects the type of animals that are found or can be farmed in any area, which affects the types of meat that are available to eat. Climate also affects the buildings that people make, the clothes that they wear and the way that they travel.
The climate on earth has not stayed the same through human history. There are long periods of time where it is generally warmer, and there are those where it is generally colder. When it is generally colder, there is more ice on the poles of the planet. That is why such a period is called an ice age. There have been many ice ages in the history of the earth. Two have affected humans.
From 70,000 to around 10,000 years ago there was a big ice age which affected humans and the way that they lived. Between 1600 AD to around 1900 AD there was a period called the Little Ice Age when the climate was colder than usual.
The word "Prehistory" means "before history". It is used for the long period of time before writing was invented and humans began to write down information about their lives. This time is divided into two main ages: the Paleolithic Age (or Early Stone Age) and the Neolithic Age (or late Stone Age). The two ages do not have fixed dates. The dates are different, depending on the way that people lived in different places.
The end of prehistory varies from one place to another. It depends on the date when written documents of a civilization can be found. In Egypt the first written documents date from around 3200 BC. In Australia the first written records date from 1788 and in New Guinea from about 1900.
In the Paleolithic era, there were many different human species. According to current research, only the modern human "Homo sapiens" reached the Neolithic era.
The Paleolithic Era is by far the longest age of humanity's time, about 99% of human history. The Paleolithic Age dates from about 2.6 million years ago and ended around 10,000 BC. The age began when hominids (early humans) started to use stones as tools for bashing, cutting and scraping. The age ended when humans began to plant crops and have other types of agriculture. In some areas, such as Western Europe, the way that people lived was affected by the Ice age. In these places people moved towards agriculture quicker than in warmer places where there was always lots of food to gather. Their culture is sometimes called the Mesolithic Era (Middle Stone Age).
During the Paleolithic Era humans grouped together in small bands. They lived by gathering plants and hunting wild animals. This way of living is called a "hunter-gatherer society". The hunting was probably done mainly by the men, being larger and stronger, while the food gathering was done by the women. The food that was hunted would have included small burrowing animals like rabbits, as well as birds and herds of animals like deer and cattle. The food that was gathered would have included grain of different sorts in different areas. Grain is often found growing on grasslands where herds of grass-eating animals are found. Other gathered foods were root vegetables, green vegetables, beans, fruit, seeds, berries, nuts, eggs, insects and small reptiles.
Many Paleolithic bands were nomadic. They moved from place to place as the weather changed. They followed the herds of animals that they hunted from their winter feeding places to their summer feeding places. If there was drought or flood, or some other disaster, the herds and the people might move a long distance, looking for food. During the "Great Ice Age" a lot of the water on the Earth had turned to ice. The sea was much lower than it is now. It is believed that at this time people were able to walk from Siberia to Alaska. Although much of the area was covered with ice, there was a strip of land running down to the part of North America that is now the United States. Bands of "Homo sapiens" people travelled to that area from Asia. At that time there were rich grasslands with many large animals that are now extinct. It is believed that many groups of people travelled there over a long time and later spread to other parts of America, as the weather changed.
Paleolithic people used tools of stone. Sometimes a stone tool was just a rock that was useful for smashing a shell or an animal's skull, or for grinding grain on another rock. Other tools were made by deliberately breaking rocks to make a sharp edge. The next development in stone tool making was to chip all the edges of a rock so that it made a pointed shape, useful for a spearhead, or arrow tip. Some stone tools are carefully "flaked" at the edges to make them sharp, and symmetrically shaped. Paleolithic people also used tools of wood and bone. They probably also used leather and vegetable fibers but these have not lasted from that time. Paleolithic people also knew how to make fire which they used for warmth and cooking. 
 
The Neolithic era was marked by changes in society. During the Neolithic era, people started to settle down. They developed agriculture. They also domesticated animals, both of which took a very long time. Because of these two things, people did not have to migrate as much any more. Villages could grow to sizes much larger than before. Over thousands more years, humankind developed further intellectually, militarily and spiritually. Over time, villages fought and spread their control over a large area and developed into more advanced civilisations.
When humans started to grow crops and domesticate certain animals such as dogs, goats, sheep, and cattle; their society changed. Because people now grew crops and raised livestock, they started to settle and built permanent settlements. In most places, this happened between 10,000 and 12,000 years ago. Their diet also changed. People ate more cereals and vegetables. People also started to store foods so that they would have seed to plant rather than simply to eat. In some years there were surpluses that could be traded for other goods.
These changes occurred in several places of the world independently. They did not happen in the same order though. The earliest farming societies in the Near East did not use pottery. It is still unclear to what extent plants were grown in Britain, or if permanently settled communities existed at all. Early Japanese societies used pottery "before" developing agriculture.
In the "Paleolithic" there were many different human species. According to current research, only the modern human reached the "Neolithic era" though.
Vere Gordon Childe gave the name "Neolithic Revolution" to this process in the 1920s. He thought that it was as important as the Industrial Revolution (which happened in the 18th and 19th century).
Ancient history was the time from the development of writing to the fall of the Roman Empire. The fall of the Roman Empire caused chaos in Europe, leading to the Middle Ages (also called the Dark Ages or the Age of Faith).
Sumer was the world's first known ancient civilization. The Sumerians took over the fertile crescent region of Mesopotamia around 3300 BCE. By 3000 BCE, many cities had been built in Sumer. These cities were separated by the geography of Mesopotamia. They formed independently and each had their own government. They were called city-states and often fought with each other.
Sumer grew crops on the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. A surplus in food led to a Division of labour. This means that some people were able to stop growing crops and do other jobs, since enough crops were already grown. This brought a split in society. Today, such a split is called "social pyramid". In a social pyramid, people are grouped into social classes based on their wealth and power. In Sumer, the king, priests, and government officials were at the top of the social pyramid. Below them were the artisans, merchants, farmers, and fishers. At the bottom of the pyramid were slaves. Slaves were often prisoners of war, criminals, or people working to pay off debt.
In Sumer, only the sons of the rich and powerful learned how to read and write. They went to a school called "edubba". Only the boys who went to "edubba" could become scribes.
The Sumerians created the world's first system of writing; it was called cuneiform. The oldest versions of one of the world's first literary works, the "Epic of Gilgamesh", go back to this time. They also invented sun-dried bricks, the wheel, the ox plow, and were skilled at making pottery. They are also thought to have invented the sailboat.
Other civilizations around this time were also built along major river systems. These civilizations are called river valley civilizations. River valley civilizations were the most powerful civilizations in this time period because water was needed to have an agricultural society.
These civilizations were similar to Sumer in that:
In the river system of Mesopotamia, after the Sumers, two other great civilizations rose to power: the Babylonians with their king Hammurabi (famous for the Codex Hammurabi) and the Assyrians. Just to the east was the long-lasting civilization of Elam.
Ancient Egypt grew along the Nile river and was its most powerful in the second millennium BC. When it was its biggest, it went all the way from the Nile delta to a mountain called Jebel Barkal in Sudan. 
It was created around 3500 BC and probably ended at about 30 BC when the country was invaded by the Roman Empire.
The society of ancient Egypt depended on a balance of natural and human resources, especially the irrigation of the Nile Valley so that Egyptians could grow crops. They are also known for writing in hieroglyphs, building the famous pyramids, other sorts of tombs and big temples and for their military. 
There was a great difference between classes in this society. Most of the people were farmers but they did not own the agricultural products they produced. These were property of the state, temple, or noble family that owned the land. There was slavery, but it is not clear how it was practiced.
The rulers of ancient Egypt tried to keep their people happy by religion that made them respect the rulers and their past.
The religion of Judaism formed about 1500 BCE in context with the Egyptian and Babylonian civilization.
The first dynasty of Ancient China, the Shang Dynasty (商朝), has been carbon dated through Turtle shells with writing on them to back to about 1500 BC. They say China began as city-states in the Yellow River valley. At the end of the Zhou Dynasty lived the greatest Chinese philosophers: "Kong Fuzi", founder of Confucianism, and Laozi, founder of Daoism. The Qin (秦) emperor Qin Shi Huang in 221 BC created the first centralized state in China based on his political philosophy of legalism and made everyone write the same way. He fought against "Confucianism". He also started a precursor of the Great Wall. In 202 BC the Han Dynasty took over and developed an empire of similar strength as the Roman Empire and towards the end of its rule influenced by India introduced Buddhism in China.
The Indus Valley Civilization started from about 2600 BC to 1900 BC. It marked the beginning of the urban civilization on the subcontinent. It was centered on the Indus River and its tributaries. The civilization is famous for its cities that were built of brick, had a road-side drainage system and multi-storied houses.
During the Maurya dynasty started in 321 BCE, most of the Indian subcontinent was united under a single government for the first time. Ashoka the Great who in the beginning sought to expand his kingdom, then followed a policy of ahimsa (non-violence) after converting to Buddhism. The Edicts of Ashoka are the oldest preserved historical documents of India, and under Ashoka Buddhist ideals spread across the whole of East Asia and South-East Asia.
The Gupta dynasty ruled from around 320 to 550 AD. The Gupta Empire included only Central India, and the area east of current day Bangladesh, however this empire never included present-day Pakistan to the west. Gupta society was ordered in with Hindu beliefs. Historians place the Gupta dynasty alongside with the Han Dynasty, Tang Dynasty and Roman Empire as a model of a classical civilization.
The Maya civilization is a civilization that started in Central America. They lived mostly on the Yucatán Peninsula in what is now known as Mexico, but also Honduras, Belize and Guatemala. They were the only known civilization of pre-Columbian America to have a fully developed written language. They also made great achievements in art and architecture and had a very advanced system of mathematics and astronomy.
The area where the Maya civilization developed was inhabited from around the 10th millennium BC. The first Maya settlements were built there in about 1800 BC, in the Soconusco region. This is in the modern-day state of Chiapas in Mexico, on the Pacific Ocean. Today, this is called the "Early Preclassic period". At the time, humans began to settle down permanently. They started to grow livestock. Pottery and small clay figures were made. They constructed simple burial mounds. Later they developed these mounds into step pyramids. There were other civilizations around, especially in the north, such as the Olmec, the Mixe-Zoque, and Zapotec civilizations. These people mostly lived in the area of the modern-day state Oaxaca. The exact borders of the Maya empire in the north are unclear. There were probably areas where Maya culture overlapped with other cultures. Many of the earliest significant inscriptions and buildings appeared in this overlapping zone. These cultures and the Maya probably influenced one another.
There has been a long history of contact between Papuan peoples of the Papua New Guinea and the Aboriginal people. Aboriginal people seem to have lived a long time in the same environment as the now extinct Australian megafauna. Stories about that are told in the oral culture of many Aboriginal groups.
The Hallstatt era is named after the city Hallstatt in Austria, where the first artifacts were found. It lasted from about 1200 BC to about 275 BC. There were different periods, which today are mainly told apart by the kinds of brooches used at the time. These brooches changed rather rapidly, and can therefore give us good guesses at to what time they came from. Hallstatt culture sites have been found in the east of France, in Switzerland, in the south of Germany, in Austria, in Slovenia and Croatia, northwestern Hungary, southwestern Slovakia and southern Moravia. The culture can be divided into an eastern and a western one quite easily; the dividing line runs through the Czech Republic, and Austria, between longitudes 14 and 15 degrees east.
In this time, the social structure developed into a hierarchy. This can be documented by various things that were added to graves. In the Bronze Age, people used to live in big settlements. As iron became available, trade routes changed. A new richer class evolved. Unlike before, these richer class people liked to live in big houses in the countryside, as a demonstration of their wealth. Funerals also changed, from cremation burials, to burials with stone coffins. The new upper class used their wealth for import goods, mostly from the Mediterranean.
The La Tène culture is a culture that lasted from about 500 BC to about 100 AD. It is named after the city of "La Tène" (today, Marin-Epagnier, next to Neuchâtel). It was influenced a lot by the Roman and Greek cultures. There are two sources for this:
The Celts basically lived in clans. Each clan was headed by a leader, which came from the Druids or the Bards. Women were much better off than with the Romans, they were almost equal to men. There was polygamy and polyandry (A man could have several women, a woman could have several men).
Illyria is the part of west-south Balkan Peninsula populated by Illyrians whose descendants are Albanians.
Illyrians lived in tribunes such as Epirus, Dardania, Taulantia etc.
They had their own language, the Illyrian language that was different from the Greek language and Roman language.
At the year 1000 BC the population of Illyria is estimated to be around 500,000.
What is known today as "Ancient Greece" is a very important period in history. Most people agree that it came after the Minoan and Mycenaean civilizations. It ended when the Romans invaded Greece, in 146 BC. Greek culture had a very powerful influence on later civilizations, especially the Romans. The Greeks developed what is now called a city-state, or a polis. There were many polises. Some of the more important ones were Athens, Sparta, Corinth and Thebes. The word "politics" comes from there. It literally means: things that are about the polis. Greek cities did not have much contact with each other, because of the mountains and many islands Greece is made up of. When a city no longer had enough food to care for all its citizens, some people were sent out to set up a new city. This was called a "colony". Each city was independent, and ruled by someone within that city. Colonies also looked to the city where they originally came from for guidance.
When Greece went to war (for example against the Persian Empire), there was an alliance of such city states, against the Persians. There were also many wars between different city states.
There were many artists and philosophers who lived in that period. Most of them are still important for philosophy today. A well-known artist was Homer. He wrote epics about the war against the Trojans, and the early history of Greece. Other well-known artists were Aristophanes and Sappho. Well-known philosophers include Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. A well known mathematician of the time was Euclid. Statesmen of the time were Pericles and Alexander the Great.
Ancient Rome was a civilization that started in modern-day Italy, in the 8th Century before Christ. The civilization lasted for 12 centuries. It ended, when Mehmed II conquered Constantinople, on May 29, 1453. According to legend, the Roman civilization was founded by Romulus and Remus, in the year 753 BC. The Roman Empire developed in wars against Carthage and the Seleucid Empire. Julius Caesar conquered Gaul, modern France, and Augustus ended the Roman republic by becoming emperor. At its biggest extent, the empire covered all of the Mediterranean. Rome became so big, because it led war against other nations and then assimilated their culture.
In 293, Diocletian organized a separate administration of the western and the eastern part of the empire. The capital of the western part was Rome, the capital of the eastern part was Constantinople. Constantine I was the first to stop discrimination against Christians (313). Christianity became state religion under the reign of Theodosius I.
The western part of the empire had many problems with barbarians. In the 5th century, the Huns migrated westwards. This meant that the Visigoths moved into the empire, to seek protection. Rome was sacked by barbarians multiple times. On September 4, 476, the Germanic chief Odoacer forced the last Roman emperor in the west, Romulus Augustus, to quit. After about 1200 years, the rule of Rome in the West came to an end.
The eastern part had similar problems. Justinian I managed to conquer parts of North Africa and Italy. Shortly after he died, all that was left were parts of Southern Italy, and Sicily. In the east, the empire was threatened by the Sassanid Empire.
After the fall of Western Rome, the Germanic tribes that took over tried to learn from Roman civilization, but much was forgotten and up to the Renaissance not many achievements happened in Europe. But with the rise of Islam, many changes happened during the Islamic Golden Age. The Greek and Roman traditions were kept and further development took place. The Chinese civilization had a Golden Age during the Tang period, when their capital was the biggest in the world. During the Renaissance, Europe developed and made great advancements in many areas as well.
In Arabia, Muhammad founded Islam in 632. His followers rapidly conquered territories in Syria and Egypt. They soon were a direct threat to the Byzantine Empire, that suffered from the Plague of Justinian. In the 8th and 9th centuries, the Byzantine Empire managed to stop Islamic expansion. They even reconquered some of the territories lost earlier. In 1000 A.D. the eastern Empire was at its height: Basileios II reconquered Bulgaria and Armenia. Culture and trade flourished. Soon afterward the expansion was abruptly stopped. This was in 1071, at the Battle of Manzikert. The battle lead the empire into a dramatic decline. For the Byzantine Empire this meant several centuries of civil wars and Turkic invasions. The Muslim caliphate had an Golden Age under the Abbasid. 
Their power forced Emperor Alexius I Comnenus of the Byzantine Empire to send a call for help to the West in 1095. The West sent the Crusades. These eventually led to the "Sack of Constantinople". It was the participants of the Fourth Crusade who did that. Constantinople was conquered in 1204. Because of this, what was left of the Empire became fragmented into successor states. The winner of these disputes was that of Nicaea. After Constantinople was again conquered by imperial forces, the empire was little more than a Greek state on the Aegean coast. The Eastern Empire came to an end when Mehmed II conquered Constantinople on May 29, 1453. The Ottoman Empire took its place and from 1400 to 1600 was the most powerful empire in the Middle East and ruled at the southern and eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea.
The Tang Dynasty (618–907), with its capital at Chang'an (today Xi'an), was the biggest city in the world at the time and is considered by historians as a high point in Chinese civilization as well as a golden age of culture. The Ming Dynasty ruled from 1368 to 1644. The Ming built a vast army and navy.
From around the 6th–7th century. In South India, Chola kings ruled Tamil Nadu, and Chera kings ruled Kerala. They had trading relationships with the Roman Empire to the west and Southeast Asia to the east. In north India, Rajputs ruled in many kingdoms.
In 1336, two brothers named Harihara I and Bukka founded the Vijayanagara Empire in an area which is now in the Karnataka state of India. The most famous king of this empire was Krishnadevaraya. In 1565, rulers of this empire were defeated in a battle. But the empire continued for about the next one hundred years. 
Northern India was ruled by Islamic sultans.
The Heian Period in Japan is famous for its art, poetry and literature. The writing system, Kana, was developed. It was followed by the feudal period (1185–1853) during which samurai and daimyos were the leading figures and the shogun the real monarch whereas the tennō had only a role as religious head. Between the years 1272 and 1281 the Mongols tried to invade but were driven out by the Japanese.
In 1542, a Portuguese ship reached Japan. Japanese learned about guns and firearms from them.
Genghis Khan in 1209 brought together the Mongol tribes and founded the Mongol Empire, one of the largest land empires in history. Later Kublai Khan would go on to expand the empire and found the Mongol-ruled Yuan Dynasty of China. The empire later broke into several empires, all of which were later destroyed.
The Middle Ages was the time from the fall of the Roman empire until the middle of the 15th century. From 500 to about 800 there was some decline compared with the Roman civilization. European villages were often destroyed and looted by barbarians such as the Vikings. During the High Middle Ages magnificent castles and large churches called cathedrals were built and important works of literature were written. In the later Middle Ages, there was a plague called the Black Death. The Black Death killed one-third to one-half of Europe's population.
A system called feudalism was a very important part of the Middle Ages. In this system, the king was at the top of the social pyramid. The king gave land to the lord in exchange for loyalty. The lords were the next in the pyramid. The lords gave land (called a fief) to knights in exchange for loyalty and protection. The knights came next in the pyramid. Peasants were not part of the feudal system because they did not give or receive land. They worked on a lord's manor in exchange for protection.
The Crusades were also fought during the Middle Ages. There is a theory that says the Crusades helped end the Middle Ages along with the Black Death, increased trade and better farming technology.
The Renaissance started in Italy. "Renaissance" is a French word meaning "rebirth". The Renaissance meant that people learned from the ancient Greek and Roman or "classical" cultures that had been forgotten for some time. Artists learned from classical paintings and sculptures. So they reinvented perspective and the art of free standing realistic sculptures that had been characteristic in Greek and Roman art. Some famous Renaissance artists are Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, and Raphael. The Gutenberg printing press, invented by Johannes Gutenberg, was also developed during this time.
The Renaissance was also a time of great achievements in science (Galileo Galilei, Francis Bacon), philosophy (Thomas More) and literature (Dante Alighieri, William Shakespeare).
What is known as the classical period lasted from about 250 to about 900. During this time, many monuments were constructed. There are also many big inscriptions from then. In this period, the Maya moved to building large cities. This is known as urbanism. Many important intellectual and artistic developments happened in an area that is known as the "southern lowlands".
Like the Ancient Greek, the Maya civilization was made of many independent city-states. Agriculture was important around these city states like Tikal and Copán. 
The most important monuments are the pyramids they built in their religious centers and the palaces of their rulers. The palace at Cancuén is the largest in the Maya area. There are no pyramids in the area of the palace. Other important things the archaeologists found include the carved stone slabs usually called "stelae" (the Maya called them "tetun", or "tree-stones"). These slabs show rulers along with hieroglyphic texts describing their genealogy, military victories, and other accomplishments.
The Maya also had trade routes that ran over long distances. They traded with many of the other Mesoamerican cultures, such as Teotihuacan, the Zapotec, and other groups in central and gulf-coast Mexico. They also traded with non-Mesoamerican groups, that were farther away. Archaeologists have found gold from Panama in the Sacred Cenote of Chichen Itza.
Important trade goods were cacao, salt, sea shells, jade and obsidian.
In the 8th and 9th century, the cities in the southern lowlands had problems, and declined. At the same time, the Maya stopped making big monuments and inscriptions. Shortly afterwards, these cities were abandoned. Currently, archaeologists are not sure why this happened. There are different theories. Either ecological factors played a role in this, or the cause of this abandonment was not related to the environment.
In the north, development went on, form the 10th to about the 16th century. The influences from the outside left more traces in the Maya culture at that time. Some of the important sites in this era were Chichen Itza, Uxmal, and Coba. At some point, the ruling dynasties of Chichen and Uxmal declined. Afterwards, Mayapan ruled all of Yucatán until a revolt in 1450. The area then degenerated into competing city-states until the Yucatán was conquered by the Spanish.
By 1250, there developed other city-states. The Itza maintained their capital at Tayasal. It ruled over an area extending across the Peten Lakes region, including the community of Ekckixil on Lake Quexil. Postclassic Maya states also survived in the southern highlands. One of the Maya kingdoms in this area is responsible for the best-known Maya work of historiography and mythology, the Popol Vuh.
The Spanish started to conquer Maya lands. This took them much longer than with the Inca or Aztecs, because there was no capital city. This meant that when they had conquered one city, this had little influence on the whole empire. The last Maya states were finally subdued in 1697.
The Maya people did not disappear though. There are still about 6 million of them. Some are well-integrated, others continue speak one of the Maya languages and uphold their cultural heritage.
The Aztecs built an empire in Central America, mainly in Mexico. The empire lasted from the 14th to the 16th century. They spoke the Nahuatl language. Their capital was Tenochtitlan. It was built on islands in a lake. Tenochtitlan was one of the greatest cities of the world in that time.
The Aztecs believed in polytheism. Quetzalcoatl (feathered snake), Huitzilopochtli (hummingbird of the south) and Tezcatlipoca (smoking mirror) were the most important Gods. Sometimes the Aztecs killed humans to please their gods. Between 1519 and 1521 the Spanish leader Hernán Cortés defeated the Aztecs and took their empire. Some Aztecs did not want to fight against the soldiers of Cortés, because they thought they were Gods.
Today many Mexicans have Aztec and other Native American forefathers. People still use Aztec symbols in Mexico. On the Mexican flag there is a picture of an eagle on a cactus with a snake in its mouth. This was an Aztec symbol. Also the name "Mexico" is an Aztec word.
The Aztecs ate a lot of plants and vegetables that could be grown easily in the Mexico area. The main food that they ate was corn, which they called maize. Another food that they ate was squash.
Aztecs also had a lot of harsh punishments for certain crimes. For the following crimes the punishment was death: adultery, wearing cotton clothes (cotton clothes were only for the nobles), cutting down a living tree, moving a field boundary making your land bigger, making someone else's smaller, major theft and treason.
The Incas were a civilized empire in western South America. The Incas are called a "pre-Columbian" empire. This means that their country was here before Christopher Columbus. They ruled parts of South America around what is now Peru for a little over 100 years, until the Spanish invasion in the 16th century.
The Incan empire or , meaning "four regions" in Quechua, only lasted for about 100 years as the arrival of the Spaniards in 1532 conquered them. Their main language was Quechua, but as the Incas were basically made up of many different groups there were probably many other different languages.
Their capital was in the city of Cusco, or Qosqo, in what is now southern Peru.
Manco Capac founded the first Inca state around 1200. It covered the area around Cusco. In the 1400s, Pachacuti began to absorb other people in the Andes. The expansion of the Inca Empire had started. The Inca Empire would become the biggest empire in the Americas before Columbus.
In 1532, the civil war ended. The brothers Huascar and Atahualpa, fought for who would succeed their father. During this time, the Spanish conquerors took possession of the Inca territory. They were led by Francisco Pizarro. In the following years the conquistadors managed to extend their power over the whole Andean region. They suppressed successive Inca rebellions until the establishment of the Viceroyalty of Perú in 1542 and the fall of the resistance of the last Incas of Vilcabamba in 1572. The Inca civilization ends at that time, but many cultural traditions remain in some ethnic groups as Quechuas and Aymara people.
Ancient Egypt and Carthage are well known civilizations of ancient Africa. But because there are not many written sources in large parts of Sub-Saharan Africa, the history of Africa is not easy to write about. But with new techniques such as the recording of oral history, historical linguistics and archeology knowledge has improved, not only for the empires and kingdoms of Ethiopia, Ghana, Mali, Nubia, Kush and Kerma.
Colonization happened after Christopher Columbus discovered the Americas. European countries such as England, France, and Spain built colonies in the Americas. These settlers fought the native Americans to take over their land. The colonisation of the Americas was the beginning of modern times.
An important part about discovering the Americas was the Columbian Exchange The Columbian Exchange brought new foods, ideas, and diseases to the Old World and New World, changing the way people lived. Historians believe that almost everyone as far as Asia was affected in some way by the Columbian Exchange.
Protestant Reformation started with Martin Luther and the posting of the 95 theses on the door of the castle church in Wittenberg, Germany. At first he protested against corruption such as simony or the sale of indulgences. But then it became clear that he had different ideas about the church doctrine. He thought that Christians should only read the Bible to find out what God wants from them. That meant that they did not need priests (see: Five solas). The three most important traditions that came directly from the Protestant Reformation were the Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist, Presbyterian, etc.), and Anglican traditions.
The Counter-Reformation, or Catholic Reformation, was the Catholic Church fighting the Protestant Reformation. New religious orders, such as the Jesuits were founded and missionaries sent around the world. Decisions were taken at the Council of Trent (1545–1563).
The Industrial Revolution started in Great Britain. It brought many advances in the way goods were produced. These advances allowed people to produce much more than they needed for living. The early British Empire split as its colonies in America revolted to establish a representative government.
The French Revolution lead to massive political change in continental Europe, as people following the ideas of Enlightenment asked for human rights with the slogan "liberté, egalité, fraternité" (liberty, equality, ). That led to the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, but also to terror and the execution of King Louis XVI. The French leader, Napoleon Bonaparte, conquered and changed Europe through war up to 1815. As more and more small property holders were granted the vote, in France and the UK, socialist and trade union activity developed and revolution gripped Europe in 1848. The last of serfdom were abolished in Austria-Hungary in 1848. Russian serfdom was abolished in 1861. The Balkan nations began to regain their independence from the Ottoman Empire. After the Franco-Prussian War, Italy and Germany became unified in 1870 and 1871. Conflict spread across the globe, in a chase for empires. The search for a "place in the sun" ended with the outbreak of World War I. In the desperation of war, the Russian Revolution promised the people "peace, bread and land". The defeat of Germany came at the price of economic destruction, which was written down in the Treaty of Versailles.
From 1644 to 1912 the Qing or "Manchu Dynasty" ruled China. The dynasty was founded by the Manchu clan in northeast China (Manchuria). It expanded into China proper and its surrounding territories, establishing the "Empire of the Great Qing". 
Its military power weakened during the 1800s, and faced with international pressure, massive rebellions and defeats in wars, the Qing Dynasty declined after the mid-19th century. It was overthrown in 1912.
During the Edo period, Japan had many small rulers. There were about 200 of them, called the daimyo. Out of them, the Tokugawa clan was most powerful. They ruled from a place called Edo. This place was around the present day’s Tokyo. For fifteen generations they were the most powerful clan in Japan.
Beginning from the early 17th century, the rulers (known as shogunate) started a policy of , known as sakoku in Japanese language. They suspected that traders, merchants and missionaries wanted to bring Japan under the control of European powers. Except the Dutch and the Chinese, all foreigners, traders and merchants from other countries, missionaries were no longer allowed into Japan.
Still even during the period of seclusion, Japanese continued to gain information and knowledge about other parts of the world. 
This policy of seclusion lasted for about 200 years. It ended 1868 with Meiji Restoration, when the emperor took over again and started a lot of reforms.
The Mughal Empire existed from 1526 to 1857. When it was biggest it ruled most of the Indian subcontinent, then known as Hindustan, and parts of what is now Afghanistan. It was founded by Babur in 1526 and ruled until 1530. Its most important ruler was Akbar (1556–1605). After the death of Aurangjeb (1658–1707), the Mughal Empire became weak. It continued until 1857. By that time, India came under the British Raj.
Settlement by the Spanish started the European colonization of the Americas, it meant genocide of the native Indians. The Spanish gained control of most of the Caribbean and conquered the Aztecs. So they founded the Spanish Empire in the New World.
The first successful English settlements were in North America at Jamestown (Virginia), 1607 (along with its satellite, Bermuda in 1609) and Plymouth (Massachusetts), 1620. The first French settlements were Port Royal (1604) and Quebec City (1608). The Fur Trade soon became the primary business on the continent and as a result transformed the Native Americans lifestyle. Plantation slavery of the West Indies lead to the beginning of the Atlantic slave trade.
Rivalry between the European powers created a series of wars on the North American landmass. The American Revolution led to the creation of the United States of America. Spain's hold on its colonies weakened till it had to give them independence.
The United States expanded quickly to the west. At the same time, British built more in Canada.
During the 15th century the Portuguese began exploring Africa. At the Guinea coast they built their first fort in 1482. They started slave trade after the European discovery of America in 1492 to supply settlers from there with workers. Soon English, Spanish, Dutch, French and Danish built their forts as well. But their influence on the inland was minor (except from of population by slave trade) till during the 19th century larger colonies were founded.
The 20th century was a very important time in history. New technology and different ideas led to many worldwide changes in the time of just 100 years.
World War I was a war fought from 1914 to 1918. During the time of the war, it was called "The Great War", or "The War to End All Wars". Chemical poisons, tanks, aeroplanes, and bombs were used for the first time.
There were four main causes of the war:
These were causes that made it likely that a war would start in Europe. The "spark" that started the war was the assassination of the heir to the throne in Austria-Hungary: Archduke Franz Ferdinand by a group of young Serbians. Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia and each country's allies then joined the war. This created a bigger conflict which turned into World War I.
Europe divided into two groups of allies: the Central Powers and the Allied Powers (the "Allies"). The Central Powers were made up of Germany, Austria-Hungary, the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria. The Allies were made up of Britain, France, Russia, Italy and the United States.
World War I was fought on two fronts; the Eastern Front and the Western Front. Trench warfare was commonly used on the Eastern Front.
Because of a British blockade, Germany began using U-boats, or submarines, to sink British ships. After the sinking of two ships with Americans on board, and the public release of the Zimmermann Note, The U.S. declared war on Germany, joining the Allies.
On November 11, 1918, Germany signed the armistice, meaning "the laying down of arms", to end the war. After the war ended, the Treaty of Versailles was written and Germany was made to sign it. They had to pay $33 million in reparations (payment for damage).
After the war the German Empire, the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire and Austrian Empire ended and France and Britain got weaker.
The 1920s and 1930s had military-related fascist dictators take control of Italy, Germany, Japan and Spain. They were helped by the Great Depression starting in 1929. When Hitler in 1933 had gained power in Germany he prepared World War II.
Of all the wars ever fought, World War II involved the most countries and killed the most people. More than 60 million people died, making it the worst disaster of all time. It lasted six years in Europe, from 1939 to 1945.
It was fought between the Axis Powers (Germany, Italy and Japan) and the Allied Powers. At first the Axis Powers were successful, but that ended in Europe with the Battle of Stalingrad in 1943 and the invasion in Normandy in 1944. But Hitler was able to pursue his plan to annihilate Jews nearly all over Europe. Today, this plan is called the Holocaust.
In the Pacific it ended with the battles of Midway and Guadalcanal. Germany surrendered on May 8. The atomic bombs on the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki led Japan to surrender on August 15, 1945.
After World War II the United Nations was founded in the hope that it could solve arguments among nations and keep wars from happening. Communism spread to Central and Eastern Europe, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, North Vietnam and North Korea. In 1949, China became communist. During the 1950s and 1960s, many third world countries became communist.
This led to the Cold War, a forty-year argument between the United States, the Soviet Union, and their allies (mainly countries that were members of NATO or the Warsaw Pact). Each country wanted to promote their type of government. The Soviet Union wanted to spread communism, and the United States wanted to spread democracy. People across the world feared a nuclear war because of the tension.
Communism became less popular when it became clear that it could not promote economic growth as well as Western states and that it was not suited for a reform that allowed freedom of speech for everybody. Therefore, the Soviet Union forced Hungary to give up its reform in 1956, it favoured the building of the Berlin Wall in 1961 and it stopped reform in Czechoslovakia in 1968. When in 1988/89 Gorbachev made clear that he would not force the countries of the East block to stick to Communism the Berlin Wall was torn down in 1989 and the Soviet Union collapsed (1991). Then the United States was the only superpower left.
After Mao Zedong's death China's communist party proved that economic reform was possible without political freedom and paved the way for enormous economic growth.
As the 20th century ended, the European Union began to rise and included former satellite states and even parts of the Soviet Union. States in Asia, Africa and South America tried to copy the European Union.
The twentieth century was a time of great progress in terms of technology. People began to live longer because of better medicine and medical technology. New communications and transportation technologies connected the world. But these advances also helped cause problems with the environment.
The last half of the century was the rise of the information age and globalisation. These two things increased trade and cultural exchange. Space exploration expanded all through the solar system. The structure of DNA was discovered.
The same period also raised questions about the end of human history because of unmanaged global dangers: nuclear weapons, greenhouse effect and other problems in the environment.
As the 20th century ended and the 21st century started, people relying on one another to deal with common dangers could be achieved. Some scientists referred to this as a "Planetary Phase of Civilization".

</doc>
<doc id="42875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42875" title="Ur">
Ur

Ur was the one of the world's first cities, in Mesopotamia. It was a Sumerian city-state, founded around 3,800 BC. There are written records dating from the 26th century. Ur was once a coastal city near the mouth of the River Euphrates on the Persian Gulf. It is now well inland, south of the Euphrates on its right bank, from Nasiriyah, Iraq.
In the Sumerian city, the Ziggurat of Ur stood a skyscraper over the city. It was about 20 metres (66 feet) tall. Later the ziggurat became more than a place for gods. There were workshops for craftworkers. For the priests, they were temples to do worship. There were big staricases to get up and down. The only level that remains today is the bottom. They tell a lot about the people who built them. Sumerians had no tools and machinery like us. They were careful brick builders. Brickmakers formed mud bricks there were perfect. After drying they take them to the site and set them in place with bitumen. Bitumen is a thick sticky black stuff. It's like asphalt, the stuff they use to pave roads. They braided reeds so they would be stronger, and hooked them up like steel cables.
Ur had three social classes. The richer, like government officials, priests, and soldiers, were at the top. The second level was for merchants, teachers, laborers, farmers and craftmakers. The bottom were for slaves captured in battle. Burials at Ur give insight into people's social standing. Kings and queens were buried with treasure. Rich people were buried with less. Since irrigation gave Ur abundant crops, not everybody needed to work on farms. People learned other skills. Sir Leonard Woolley found a tablet that listed Ur's special workers. The chisel workers made sculptures, the gem cutters made gems, and the fullers stomped on woven wools to make them soft. The metal workers made weapons. Cities have different groups. Some of the richer people are more powerful.

</doc>
<doc id="42880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42880" title="Odenwald">
Odenwald

The Odenwald is a mountain chain in the south of Hesse, in the north of Bavaria and the north of Baden-Württemberg. 
In the south of the Odenwald there is the Neckar River. In the east there is the Main River . In the west there is the valley of the Rhine River. The highest mountain is the Katzenbuckel (literally "cat's hump", 626 m).
The big cities Mannheim and Frankfurt am Main are near to the Odenwald. People of these cities like to go there at holidays. It is known for its clean thin air. There are many marked hiking paths. You can find wild blueberries, strawberries and mushrooms in the forests. 
Several small towns are very beautiful like Weinheim on the Bergstraße and Michelstadt. The mild climate of the area is well known. 

</doc>
<doc id="42886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42886" title="Sviatoslav I, Prince of Kiev">
Sviatoslav I, Prince of Kiev

Sviatoslav I was an early ruler of the Kievan Rus', a nation that evolved into modern Ukraine. He was the son of Igor I of Kiev and Olga of Kiev. He ruled from 962 until 972. During his reign he destroyed the Khazar Empire and for a short time conquered what is now Bulgaria.

</doc>
<doc id="42889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42889" title="Citrus">
Citrus

Citrus is a common term and genus of flowering plants in the family Rutaceae. It originated in tropical and subtropical southeast Asia.
Citrus fruits usually have a sour taste. There are many types of citrus fruits in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="42899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42899" title="Daylight saving time">
Daylight saving time

During the summer months, the sun stays is visible for a longer time, and sunset happens late in the day. For this reason, certain countries advance the time by one hour near the start of summer, and put it back one hour during autumn. The time during summer is called Daylight saving time (DST). In Europe it is called summer time. The time during the winter months is called "standard time".
DST helps stores that sell to people after they get off work, but it hurts farmers and others whose hours are set by the sun. It cuts traffic accident rates. Sometimes it can reduce energy costs, but it can also increase them.
The United States, Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada and many other countries have DST. These countries also have regions that do not have DST:
Iceland, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus are countries in Europe without DST.
Since 1996 all clocks in the European Union, of which the UK is a member state, have changed on same dates and at the same time, 01:00 GMT.
Permanent Summer Time has support in some northerly countries such as the UK. It was tried in the British Standard Time experiment, with Britain remaining on GMT+1 throughout the year. This took place between 27 October 1968 and 31 October 1971.
There are proposals for GST+1 in the winter, and double summer time (GST+2) in the winter. In favour are most city dwellers: children do not have to come home after school in the dark, and late afternoon and early evening activities benefit. In favour also were those concerned with accidents, because both accidents and fuel consumption go down.
Against are many farmers in northerly latitudes, because sunrise would occur in winter at about 10.00 in the morning. However, in March 2010 the National Farmers Union said that it was not against Single/Double Summer Time, and is in fact relatively neutral, with many farmers expressing a preference for the change.
Most computers, mobile phones and other devices connected to the Internet will automatically adjust their clocks for DST. Some older computers will not adjust or will adjust the time incorrectly or on the wrong date. Also, computers with more than one operating system may be incorrectly adjusted twice or more when each operating system boots.

</doc>
<doc id="42910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42910" title="Lanthanum">
Lanthanum

Lanthanum is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol La. It has the atomic number 57. It is part of a group of chemical elements in the periodic table named the Lanthanides. It is a rare earth element. It is silvery white, malleable and ductile. It is soft and can be cut with a knife.

</doc>
<doc id="42914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42914" title="Rowing">
Rowing

Rowing is about moving a boat on water using human muscle power. It can be a sport. The goal in rowing is to move as fast as possible on top of the water. The athletes use a boat. They move the boat forward by using two sculls or one oar. There are different types of rowing. The types depend on how many people are in the boat and if they have a coxswain or not. Rowing is a very popular sport in England, the Commonwealth, and the Northeastern United States. The old universities of the United States and England have yearly rowing matches.

</doc>
<doc id="42916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42916" title="Inkjet printer">
Inkjet printer

An Inkjet printer is a printer for computers. It uses special ink to print on the paper. Another type of printing technology is the Laser printer.
Usually, inkjet printers are used by people who print very little. The ink comes in special ink cartridges, which can be very expensive and uneconomical. Also, the ink in the cartridge may dry up. This means that a new cartridge is needed. Three colors of cartridges, which combine magenta, yellow and cyan inks are used to create color tones. A black cartridge is also used for crisp monochrome output. 
Many professionals use inkjet printers to print on very large surfaces (up to 5m width). These printers usually do not use cartridges, but have a continuous supply of ink that could last for a long time.
Inkjet printers need special paper. This paper has been treated so that the ink does not smear. 
Less expensive inkjet printers, which cost a little more than 100 US dollars, are a bargain for users who want to be able to print pages in color. Inkjet printers can be very cheap but the ink can also be rather expensive.
An inkjet printer can print between 300 and 720 DPI (Dots Per Inch).

</doc>
<doc id="42917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42917" title="Laser printer">
Laser printer

A laser printer is a printer for computers. It uses LED-technology to get small particles of toner from a cartridge onto paper. Very often, this is more economical to use than the ink of inkjet printers.
The laser printer was first invented by a team at Xerox in 1969. The first laser printer was called the Xerox 2000.
Laser printing is a process which typically involves seven steps:

</doc>
<doc id="42919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42919" title="Lawrencium">
Lawrencium

Lawrencium is a chemical element. It is also named eka-lutetium by some people. It has the symbol Lr. It has the atomic number 103. It is a radioactive element that does not exist in nature. It has to be made. Lawrencium is made from californium. The isotope that has the longest half-life (Lr) has a half life of about 3.6 hours.
No uses for lawrencium are known. What lawrencium looks like is not known because not enough has been made to see it with human eyesight.
Is a Block-D Group3 Period 7 element. Discovered by Albert Ghiorso and co-workers in 1961, in California. Named after Ernest O. Lawrence, inventor of the cyclotron, a research instrument with which several new elements have been found/made.

</doc>
<doc id="42937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42937" title="Darmstadtium">
Darmstadtium

Darmstadtium is a chemical element. It has been named ununnilium (Uun) or eka-platinum but is now named darmstadtium. It has the symbol Ds. It has the atomic number 110. It is a transuranium element. 
Darmstadtium is a radioactive element that does not exist in nature. It has to be made. The isotopes with an atomic mass from 267 to 273 have very short half-lifes. The half life of these isotopes is measured in milliseconds. Isotopes of darmstadtium with an atomic mass of 279 and 281 were synthesised after the other isotopes. Ds-279 and Ds-281 decay more slowly. The isotope with an atomic mass of 279 has a half life of 180 milliseconds and Ds-281 has a half life of 11.1 seconds.
No uses for darmstadtium are known. What darmstadtium looks like is not known because not enough has been made to see it with human eyesight.
Darmstadtium was first made on November 9, 1994. It was made at the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung (GSI) in Darmstadt, Germany. Only a few atoms of it were made. It was made by bombarding a lead target with nickel. A nuclear fusion reaction happened and made the element.
This is shown by the equation below that is the reaction that happened. Pb is the symbol for lead, Ni is the symbol for nickel and n is the symbol for a neutron. 
The element was named for Darmstadt which was the place of its discovery. The GSI is in Wixhausen, a part of the north of the city of Darmstadt. The new name (darmstadtium) was given to the chemical element by the IUPAC in August 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="42939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42939" title="Wampanoag">
Wampanoag

The Wampanoag were a Native American tribe. They lived in what is now the American region of New England. The Wampanoag tribe helped the English settlers to survive, after they arrived in the "Mayflower".
The caught a bacterial infection called leptospirosis or Weil's syndrome in the early 17th century. It caused a many deaths and damaged their society greatly, though their descendents still survive today.

</doc>
<doc id="42940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42940" title="Mandir">
Mandir

Mandir means ("gladdening") but is generally referred to a place where Hindus go to worship God in the form of various deities. Murtis help them to do this.
The Murtis are marble images ceremonially infused with the divine presence of god. They are daily worshipped with five artis and other ceremonies. 
Murtis answer prayers of the faithful and inspire spiritually is also part of christianity.
They are sometimes abstract, but more often representations of God in a personal form like Shiva or Ganesh, Rama or Krishna, Saraswati, Vishnu, Brahma, Brahman or Kali. Murtis are made according to the prescriptions of the Silpasastra alloy Panchaloga, and then installed by priests through the prana pratishtha ceremony. Afterward the divine personality is present in the murti but in cases of serious discrepancies in worship may leave the form.
To show respect, Hindus give gifts and food to the murtis. They are treated with respect and are treated as part of the family. They are given clothes and are changed at certain times every day. the murti, they stop to pray.
They are also very powerful some people think that they are very holy.

</doc>
<doc id="42948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42948" title="Kitchener, Ontario">
Kitchener, Ontario

Kitchener is a city in Ontario, Canada. Kitchener is in Southwestern Ontario and is near Toronto, Hamilton, Mississauga and London. It is in Waterloo Region. Other cities in Waterloo Region include Waterloo and Cambridge. Sometimes Kitchener, Waterloo, and Cambridge are known as the "technology triangle". It is on the Grand River, which leads to Lake Erie.
At first, Kitchener was called Berlin. When World War I started it seemed like a bad idea to have a city named after the capital of Germany. The city was renamed Kitchener, after a British general, Herbert Kitchener. Kitchener then slowly became a prosperous city as it is today.
A rapid transit system is planned to be added in the Waterloo Region.

</doc>
<doc id="42949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42949" title="Spring (water)">
Spring (water)

A spring is a point where water flows out of the ground. A spring may flow the whole year or only sometimes. This depends on the water getting into the ground all of the time (rain) or only once in a while (snow melting).
A spring often sends water down, along the land. This is how rivers start.
Some springs produce water that is good for health reasons. Sometimes towns grow by these springs because many people who are ill come there to get better. Such towns are called spa towns.

</doc>
<doc id="42951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42951" title="Thorium">
Thorium

Thorium is a chemical element. It is a weakly radioactive metal. It has a shiny, silvery white color. It has the chemical symbol Th. It has the atomic number 90. Thorium is named for Thor, the Norse god of thunder. It is found in nature, especially in India, the United States, and Australia. Many scientists believe that thorium would be a good nuclear fuel, because it makes much less waste and is four times as common as uranium. It makes 3,200,000 times as much energy as coal and 200 times as much energy as uranium and scientists believe there is enough of it to power the world for thousands of years. Natural thorium has an atomic weight of 232.

</doc>
<doc id="42952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42952" title="River source">
River source

The source of a river or stream is the original point from which the river flows. It may be a lake, a marsh, a spring or a glacier. This is where the stream starts.
The source is the farthest point of the river stream from its estuary or its confluence with another river or stream. The farthest stream is called the headstream or headwater. They are usually cool waters because of shade and barely melted ice or rain. They may also be glacial headwaters. These are waters made by the melting of the ice of glaciers.
Where a river is fed by more than one source, it is usual to regard the highest as its source. The source is where a river begins, and the mouth is where it joins the sea.The source of a river generally discharges water with less force leading to the formation of Interlocking spurs.

</doc>
<doc id="42953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42953" title="Laserdisc">
Laserdisc

A Laserdisc, like a DVD, can play video of a higher quality than VHS. A Laserdisc is much larger than a DVD. To play Laserdisc movies, a LaserDisc player is needed.
Laserdisc was first produced by MCA in 1978, and became well known in the 1980s. Movie companies stopped making Laserdisc movies when DVDs became well known in the late 1990s. Today some of the better Laserdisc players still sell for $1,000 USD or more.
Laser Discs work like a regular CD-ROM. The surface of the disc is covered with small holes that are read by a laser. This sequence of holes and no holes is turned into pictures and sound by the Laserdisc player. Most Laserdiscs can hold about 30 minutes to an hour of video per side for a total of 1 to 2 hours per disc.
The early Laserdisc players used a Helium-Neon laser to read the disc, but the later models used infrared lasers. The first units that were made with the infrared laser had some problems such as skipping, strange colors spots, and fuzziness. These problems were fixed in later models.
Some of the later Laserdisc players made were ones that could play Audio CDs as well as Laserdiscs. In Japan, one of the last models to be produced even had the ability to play DVDs as well as CDs and Laserdiscs.

</doc>
<doc id="42956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42956" title="Californium">
Californium

Californium is a chemical element. It is a radioactive metal. It has the chemical symbol Cf. It has the atomic number 98. Californium is a transuranic element. It is in nature on Earth but is also in other parts of the universe. Californium does not have many uses. It was discovered by bombarding a curium target with alpha particles (helium ions).
Californium is named after the US State of California, where it was discovered, in the University of Berkeley.

</doc>
<doc id="42960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42960" title="Torgau">
Torgau

Torgau is a town on the banks of the Elbe in northwestern Saxony, Germany. The town is well known as the place where during the Second World War, United States Army forces met with forces of the Soviet Union during the invasion of Germany on April 25, 1945.
This marked the beginning of the line of contact between Soviet and American forces, but not the occcupation zones. In fact the area surrounding Torgau at first occupied by U.S. forces was later, in July 1945, given over to Soviet forces.

</doc>
<doc id="42963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42963" title="Chemical bond">
Chemical bond

Chemical bonds are what joins atoms together. When two or more atoms are in a chemical bond they stay together unless the needed amount of energy, or more, is transferred to the bond. Something different can then happen. 
Chemical bonds can be explained using different theories. Some of these theories try to explain chemical bonds in a simple way that can be used by chemists to imagine what could happen when they try to make molecules. Some explain how the atoms are bonded together with more detail and are used by chemists and physicists. There are two types of bonds; covalent and ionic. Covalent bonds form when atoms share electrons. Ionic bonding is the attraction between oppositely charged ions. Chemical bonds are negatively charged electrons that are pulling protons into each other.
A common way chemists describe chemical bonds is through the number of electrons each atom has on itself. Each atom is drawn with the number of electrons as dots to form a maximum of eight. The number of dots changes if there are less or more electrons. If the electrons form a chemical bond then a line is drawn between the two electrons.

</doc>
<doc id="42965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42965" title="Physical property">
Physical property

A physical property is a property, quality or way that an object is. A physical property can always be measured without changing or making the object chemically different or different in a way that would effect its chemical or atomic structure. There are two types of physical properties: "intensive" and "extensive".
Physical Properties also include when a Physical Change occurs. 

</doc>
<doc id="42967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42967" title="Concept">
Concept

A concept is an idea that is applied to all objects in a group. It is the way people see and understand something. The name used to identify a concept (the concept's label) is a "term". For example, the word "Dog" is the term to identify the concept of what a dog is. Everything that a person knows about a dog is the concept of the term dog. 
Different terms can be used to identify the same concept. Car and Automobile are both terms for the same concept. Different languages have different terms for the same concept. This is what makes translation possible. The terms may be different in each language, but the concept is the same. The concept of jumping is the same to a person from England and a person from Italy, but one person uses the term "Jump" to mean the concept and the other person uses "Salto".

</doc>
<doc id="42968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42968" title="Kenpo">
Kenpo

Kenpo or kempo is the descriptive name of various Japanese martial arts with Chinese origins, and also of hybrid martial arts: the Japanese ones and the Chinese ones. Kenpo is similar to karate and includes more punches and kicks than holds or joint locks of wrestling. 
Kempo is a Japanese Martial Arts form. However, unlike Karate, its origins are linked back to China and still have very strong influences from Chinese systems. 
It is not uncommon for a Kempo artist to both use traditional Japanese and Chinese style techniques. The difference lies in that because of the Chinese influence, the Japanese moves tend to emphasize more fluidity than most of the other Japanese styles. And because of the Japanese influence, there is a stronger focus for shorter stances and movements than other Chinese styles.
For the same reason that many other styles are sometimes simply listed as "karate", Kempo has long been strongly linked under the general banner of "karate". Kempo is known for its near explosive, short-ranged attacks that often move faster than the opponent can see. 
Kempo has a very strong presence in Hawaii, the home base for many of the systems under Kempo that exist today in the United States. Throughout each of the histories of the different groups there are strong signs of the continued merging of both Chinese and Japanese influences.

</doc>
<doc id="42977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42977" title="Edge">
Edge

Edge can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="42979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42979" title="Tyr">
Tyr

Tyr is a god in Norse mythology. In the Eddas, he is either the son of Odin or Hymir. He is the god of single (man-to-man) combat. Tyr only has one hand.
At one point in time, the gods decided that the wolf Fenrir (also called "Fenriswolf") could no longer go free. They wanted to lock him up onto a chain. But he broke every chain they tried to put on him. Finally, they had the dwarves make a magical chain. But Fenrir sensed what the gods would do. So Fenrir asked that one of them put his hand into his mouth. Tyr was the only one who had the courage. When Fenrir sensed he had been tricked, he bit off Tyr's hand. Tyr remained handless forever.
Fenrir will remain bound until Ragnarök. Then, Tyr's opponent will be Garm, the guard dog of Hel.

</doc>
<doc id="42981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42981" title="Loki">
Loki

Loki is the god of mischief, guile, cunning and trickery in Norse mythology. He is also seen as the personification of chaos and –evil as well as being the Lord of Lies. At one point in time he was also known as being the God of Fire. 
He is portrayed as a scheming craven who cares only for self-preservation and guilty shallow pleasures. He’s depicted as being playful, malicious, and at certain times even helpful, but he’s always irreverent, nihilistic and impetuous. 
Loki possesses the ability of changing his entire appearance (called Shapeshifting) and even his gender, although he had to borrow Freyja's magical cloak at times to change into a falcon. He has been known to take the form of a mare, salmon and an old Jotun woman
Once, Loki changed himself into a mare, and he bore the son of a horse. This eight-legged horse is called Sleipnir, and became the favourite horse of Odin. Loki also has many monstrous children, namely Hel, Fenrir, and Jörmungandr. He and his children became enemies of the gods in Ragnarok.
Loki is a murderer. He cut off the hair of Thor's wife, Sif, but then replaced it, he tricked a giant into building the defensive walls of Asgard, stole Freyja's necklace, helped Thor rescue his hammer mjolnir, gave the goddess Idunn to a giant, then rescued her, etc. He was blamed for the death of the god Baldur, using the blind god Hodhr's hands. In a poem called Lokasenna (Loki's Arguments), he insulted all the gods and goddesses. For this, he was bound to rock with the intestines of his son, until Ragnarok. Loki was punished many times in ways including; having a venomous snake drip venom into his eyes and he had his lips sewn together with a leather thong by the dwarves.
At Ragnarok, Loki was freed by the giants, and he fought against his rival, the god Heimdall, resulting in the demise of them both.

</doc>
<doc id="42983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42983" title="Freyja">
Freyja

Freyja (or Freya, Freja, Frejya) is a goddess in Norse and Germanic Mythology. She is the twin sister of Freyr and the daughter of Njord. She was originally worshipped as a fertility goddess but in the Eddas she was often portrayed as a goddess of love, beauty and attraction. She was also associated with war, battle, death, wealth, magic and prophecies. Freyja was said to be the most beloved, honored, and renowned among goddesses. She is one of the most popular deities of Norse mythology.
The Valkyries collect the souls of heroes killed in battles and bring them to valhalla, where they will become warriors of the gods. Freyja shares with Odin half of these heroes. Her sacred realm is Folkvang (Warriors' Field), here lies her great and fair hall Sessrumnir (Room of Seats). At this hall, she decides where her warriors shall sit.
This is what written in the original myth:
The ninth hall is Folkvang, where bright Freyja decides
Where her warriors shall sit,
Some of the slain belong to her,
Some belong to Odin.
Freyja married a god called Odr She deeply loves her husband, but he often went away on long journeys, and Freyja cried red golden tears for him. Her tears become gold and amber when they fall to Earth, therefore gold was called "Freyja's tears". They have two beautiful daughters called Hnoss and Gersemi.
Freyja often rides in a chariot pulled by big blue cats, or on a golden battle boar. She is called "The Fair One". In the myths, there were three giants who wanted to marry Freyja, but they were all killed by Thor, the god of thunder.
Freyja also has a precious necklace called Brisingamen (Jewelry of Fire). The god Loki once stole this necklace, and Freyja had to ask the god Heimdall for help. Heimdall won the fight with Loki and gave the necklace back to Freyja. For this, Loki is also called "Thief of Brisingamen", and Heimdall is also called "Seeker of Brisingamen".
When Thrymr, the King of the frost giants, told Loki to ask Freyja to become his wife, the goddess was so angry that heaven was shaken, and the necklace Brisingamen broke. The god Thor later borrowed the necklace and came to the wedding, dressed up as Freyja. Thor killed Thrymr and all his relatives.
Freyja is a warrior goddess. Whenever she rides into battles, she gets half of the souls of dead heroes. Freyja is also a priestess, and she taught Odin the magic arts. She has a magical cloak made of feathers which allows her to fly between different worlds.
Freyja is the patron goddess of crops and childbirths. She is also a goddess of love, whom lovers may send prayers to.
Frigg and Freyja are the two main goddesses in Norse mythology. They were especially worshipped by Vikings. Freyja is said to be the kindest among goddesses. In a poem in Poetic Edda, a young man called Ottar always trusted in the goddesses; he built a rock shrine for the goddesses, and Freyja answered his prayers. She disguised Ottar as her golden boar, and went on a trip to help him find his ancestors.
In final battle of Ragnarok, Odin, and Freyr will die. Freyja alone will remain among the gods, and she continues the sacrifices.
Freyr's name means "the Lord", Freyja's name means "the Lady".
The day of the week, Friday, is named either after her, or after Odin's wife Frigg. The Orion was called Frigg's distaff or Freyja's girdle. Frigg and Freyja may be one and the same goddess.
Freyja is also widely known as Vanadis, which means Lady of the Vanir. The metallic element Vanadium was named after her. The Vanir are close relatives of elves. Freyr is the Lord of the elves, his sacred realm is Alfheim, home of the elves.
Another well-known name of godddess Freyja is Gefn, which means "Giver", a suitable name for the fertility goddess.
Freyja represents the Norse women of Viking Age, whose husbands often went away to war. From Freyja's name, noble Norse women are called Fru, wives are called house-fru. And Frau means "woman" in German.
Freya and Freja are now common Scandinavian female names.

</doc>
<doc id="42986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42986" title="Frigg">
Frigg

Frigg (or Frigga) is a goddess in Norse mythology. She is Odin's wife. She is the goddess of marriage, motherhood, managing the household, and keeper of the domestic arts. She has the power of prophecy, but she does not tell what she knows. Her children are Baldr, Höðr and, in an English source, Wecta; her stepchildren are Hermóðr, Heimdall, Tyr, Vidar, Váli, and Skjoldr. Thor is her stepson. Frigg's companion is Eir, the gods' doctor and goddess of healing. Frigg's attendants are Hlín (a goddess of protection), Gná (a messenger goddess), and Fulla (a fertility goddess). It is unclear whether Frigg's companions and attendants are simply different aspects of Frigg herself (cf. avatar). According to the poem "Lokasenna" Frigg is the daughter of Fjorgyn (masculine version of "Earth," cf. feminine version of "Earth," Thor's mother), her mother is not identified in the stories that have survived. 
Frigg is the foremost goddess of the Æsir, she is often confused with Freyja, foremost goddess of the Vanir.
Friday, the fifth day of the week is named either after her or after Freyja.
In Norse mythology, Frigg ("Eddas") or Frigga ("Gesta Danorum") was a goddess. It was said to be "foremost among the goddesses," the wife of Odin, queen of the Æsir, and goddess of the sky. One of the Ásynjur, she is a goddess of marriage, motherhood, fertility, love, household management, and domestic arts. Her primary functions in the Norse mythological stories are as wife and mother, but these are not her only functions. She has the power of prophecy although she does not tell what she knows , and is the only one other than Odin who is permitted to sit on his high seat Hlidskjalf and look out over the universe. She also participates in the Wild Hunt (Asgardreid) along with her husband. Frigg's children are Baldr, Höðr and, in an English source, Wecta; her stepchildren are Hermóðr, Heimdall, Tyr, Vidar, Váli, and Skjoldr. Thor is either her brother or a stepson. Frigg's companion is Eir, the gods' doctor and goddess of healing. Frigg's attendants are Hlín (a goddess of protection), Gná (a messenger goddess), and Fulla (a fertility goddess). It is unclear whether Frigg's companions and attendants are simply different aspects of Frigg herself (cf. avatar). According to the poem "Lokasenna" Frigg is the daughter of Fjorgyn (masculine version of "Earth," cf. feminine version of "Earth," Thor's mother), her mother is not identified in the stories that have survived. 

</doc>
<doc id="42990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42990" title="William Wallace">
William Wallace

William Wallace was a Scottish knight who fought the King of England (Edward I) in the Middle Ages. He was born in c.1272, and executed by the English on 23 August 1305. Scotland had been claimed by Edward, and Wallace refused allegiance to Edward.
Wallace was probably born around 1270-1272. Little is known about his birth or childhood. Exactly where and when Wallace was born is not very clear. Some people say he was born about 1272, but a book printed in the 16th century called "History of William Wallace and Scottish Affairs" says he was born in 1276. Tradition says he was born in Elderslie, near Paisley in Renfrewshire. There are links with Ayrshire as well, and it is not clear whether Wallace first fought the English in Ayrshire or Lanark. Tradition sees Wallace as a being a 'commoner', or normal person. Robert the Bruce, who also fought the English, was seen as being more noble. But this is not strictly true because Wallace's family were minor nobles.
King Edward offered Scotland a deal which allowed them to have a Scottish king so long as King Edward was still in charge. This required the Scottish nobles to kneel, and swear allegiance to his sovereignty. Wallace refused, and led the resistance which followed. A series of battles were fought:
Wallace evaded capture by the English until 5 August 1305 when John de Menteith, a Scottish knight loyal to Edward, turned Wallace over to English soldiers at Robroyston near Glasgow. Wallace was taken to London at Westminster Hall, where he was tried for treason. He replied to the charge, "I could not be a traitor to Edward, for I was never his subject". Wallace was however found guilty.
After the trial, on 23 August 1305, Wallace was taken from the hall, stripped naked and dragged through the city at the heels of a horse to the Elms at Smithfield. He was hanged, drawn and quartered–the most terrible execution in English law. It meant he was strangled by hanging but released while he was still alive, his body cut open, and his bowels burnt before him. Then he was beheaded, and his body cut into four parts. His preserved head (dipped in tar) was placed on a pike atop London Bridge. It was later joined by the heads of the brothers John and Simon Fraser, who had been colleagues of Wallace. Wallace's limbs were displayed, separately, in Newcastle upon Tyne, Berwick-upon-Tweed, Stirling, and Aberdeen. 
A book called "The Acts and Deeds of Sir William Wallace, Knight of Elderslie" was written by a minstrel named Blind Harry in the 15th century. The book is written more like a story than a true version of his life, and has led to much of the legends around William Wallace. The film Braveheart is based on the novel.
A plaque stands in a wall of St Bartholomew's Hospital near the site of Wallace's execution at Smithfield. In 2002 William Wallace was ranked as number 48 of the "100 Greatest Britons" in an extensive UK poll conducted by the BBC.

</doc>
<doc id="42994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42994" title="Æsir">
Æsir

The Æsir are the main gods of Norse mythology. They include Odin, Frigg, Thor, Baldur and Tyr. A second family of gods, the "Vanir", is also a part in the Norse mythology. This group includes the god Njord and his children, Freyr and Freyja. These gods joined the Æsir as hostages after a war between Æsir and Vanir. The Æsir gods are usually connected with power and war.
The things that happened between the Æsir and the Vanir are an interesting part of Norse mythology. Most mythologies have "older" and "younger" families of gods. The Æsir and Vanir were shown as near the same age as each other. The two groups of gods fought each other, made treaties, and traded hostages. Freyr and Freyja were said to be hostages. Some think that things that happened between the Æsir and Vanir are the same things which were common to different Norse clans at the time. 
The Æsir did not grow old. They stayed young by eating the apples of Iðunn. While they did not age, they could be killed. It was said that most of them will die at Ragnarök.

</doc>
<doc id="42999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42999" title="Braveheart">
Braveheart

Braveheart is an American historical war drama movie starring Mel Gibson. It is loosely based around the life of 13th century Scottish warrior William Wallace, who fought against the English when they occupied Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="43000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43000" title="Semiconductor">
Semiconductor

A semiconductor is a material that in some cases will conduct electricity but not in others. Good electrical conductors, like copper or silver, easily allow electricity to flow through them. Materials that block the flow of electricity, like rubber or plastic, are called insulators. Insulators are often used to protect people from electric shock. As the name implies, a semiconductor does not conduct as well as a conductor. Semiconductors are the foundation of modern electronics. 
By the addition of different atoms into the crystal lattice (grid) of the semiconductor it changes its conductivity by making n-type and p-type semiconductors. Silicon is the most important commercial semiconductor, though many others are used. They can be made into transistors, which are small amplifiers. Transistors are used in computers, mobile phones, digital audio players and many other electronic devices.
Like other solids, the electrons in semiconductors can have energies only within certain bands (i.e. ranges of energy levels) between the energy of the ground state, corresponding to electrons tightly bound to the atomic nuclei of the material, and the free electron energy, which is the energy required for an electron to escape entirely from the material.
Semiconductors were being studied in laboratories as early as the 1830's. In 1833 Michael Faraday was experimenting with silver sulfide. He discovered that as the material was heated it conducted electricity better. This was the opposite of how copper acted. When copper is heated it conducts less electricity. A number of other early experimenters discovered other properties of semiconductors. In 1947 at Bell Labs in New Jersey, the transistor was invented. This led to the development of integrated circuits, which power almost all electronic devices today.
Doping is the process of adding a small impurity to a pure semiconductor to change its electrical properties. Lightly and moderately doped semiconductors are called extrinsic. A semiconductor doped to such high levels that it acts more like a conductor than a semiconductor is referred to as degenerate. Most semiconductors are made out of silicon crystals. Pure silicon has little use but doped silicon is the basis for most semiconductors. Silicon Valley was named for the large number of semiconductor startup companies that were located there.
Today, semiconductors are used far and wide. Semiconductors can be found in nearly every electronic device. Desktop computers, the Internet, tablet devices, smartphones all would not be possible without semiconductors. 
Semiconductors can be made into very precise switches with a small amount of voltage. The voltage that the semiconductor doesn’t need can be sent to other electrical components in the device. Semiconductors can also be made very tiny and many of them can fit into a rather small circuit. Since they can be made so small, electrical devices today can be made thin and lightweight without compromising processing power.
Some of the dominating companies in the semiconductor business are Intel Corporation, Samsung Electronics, TSMC, Qualcomm and Micron Technology. 

</doc>
<doc id="43002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43002" title="Curium">
Curium

Curium is a chemical element. It is a radioactive metal. It has the chemical symbol Cm. It has the atomic number 96. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the actinides. Curium is a transuranic element. It is a radioactive element that does not exist in nature. Curium has to be made. Curium has a silver color. Curium is made by bombarding a plutonium target with alpha particles (helium ions). Curium was named after Marie Curie and her husband Pierre.

</doc>
<doc id="43003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43003" title="Lanark">
Lanark

Lanark is a town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is close to Carluke and Biggar. Lanark is aproximately 40 miles from Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland. William Wallace once lived there. There is a statue of Wallace on the town church. A plaque remembers where he "first drew sword to free his native land" in 1296, when he killed Heselrig, the English sheriff of Lanark. This event forms the start of the Mel Gibson film, "Braveheart". 
Lanark is also notable for its annual Lanimer celebrations, where local children on coloured floats parade through the streets along with marching pipe bands. A Lanimer Queen is elected from the children, and crowned in a ceremony at the foot of the High Street. A Lord Cornet is chosen from local businessmen, and acts as escort for the Queen for the events of Lanimer Week.

</doc>
<doc id="43004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43004" title="Robert I of Scotland">
Robert I of Scotland

Robert I of Scotland (11 July 1274 – 7 June 1329) was King of Scotland from 1306 to 1329. He is better known as Robert the Bruce, or simply The Bruce. He is famous for beating the English army at the Battle of Bannockburn near Stirling in 1314.
Robert the Bruce was born at Turnberry Castle on 11 July 1274. He was the oldest son of the sixth Robert Bruce and Marjorie, the Countess of Carrick. 
Robert the Bruce's family originally came from France. They were from a place called Brus in Normandy, which is in the northern part of France. An ancestor also named Robert de Brus came to England with William the Conqueror in 1066. Another Robert de Brus came to Scotland with David I of Scotland and his family became powerful lords.
In 1286, King Alexander III of Scotland died. His granddaughter was supposed to become Queen of Scotland, but she died too. In 1292 the Bruce family and another family called the Balliols (BAY-lee-ols) asked King Edward I of England to decide who would become the new king. King Edward chose John Balliol. 
In 1292 Robert's family decided that he should be the head of all the Bruces in Scotland.In 1297, King Edward I of England wanted Scotland go to war against France. Many Scottish leaders said no and against the English king. Robert joined this rebellion. Edward won most of the battles against the Scottish rebels. Finally Robert ended up doing what Edward wanted.
In 1306, Robert the Bruce met a man called John Comyn (KOHM-in) in a church. John Comyn also wanted to be King of Scotland. They had an argument and Robert killed John. Soon after, Robert went to Scone (skoon), and the Scottish lords brought out the royal clothes that they had hidden from the English. Then Robert was crowned King of Scots.
Robert the Bruce then fought a lot of battles to make Scotland free instead of always doing what the English king wanted. He fought King Edward I, and then his son, King Edward II. In 1314, Robert the Bruce's army defeated Edward II's army at the Battle of Bannockburn. 
In 1315, Robert the Bruce sent his army to Ireland. At that time the English were in control of Ireland. Robert fought with them and made his brother, Edward Bruce, High King of Ireland in 1316. The Scottish army did not treat the Irish people well, and they were forced to leave after Edward Bruce was killed in 1318.
On June 7th, 1329, Robert the Bruce died. After a life of fighting he had wanted to redeem himself by joining the Crusades. Realizing he could not accomplish this he sent his trusted friend Sir James Douglas to take his heart in a small silver box on crusade. James Douglas took the heart and with several knights left on their journey to honor Robert's request. But in fighting in Spain Sir James was killed and the heart was returned to Scotland. the Bruce's body is buried in Dunfermline Abbey, while his heart is buried in Melrose Abbey.
Robert did not want any fighting over his kingdom after he died. He provided for his brother Edward Bruce to follow him as king. But after Edward died in 1318 Robert's heir became his son David who became king as David II of Scotland. Following David, Robert's grandson Robert II Stewart by his daughter Marjorie was heir to the throne king as Robert II of Scotland. He left behind him a well-ordered kingdom.
In 1295 Robert married Isabella of Mar, daughter of Donald, 6th Earl of Mar. Together they had a daughter:
<br>
In 1302 Robert married his second wife Elizabeth de Burgh. She was the daughter of Richard de Burgh, Earl of Ulster Together they had:
<br>
Robert also had several illegitimate children.

</doc>
<doc id="43007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43007" title="Geelong, Victoria">
Geelong, Victoria

Geelong is the second biggest city in the state of Victoria, Australia. It has a large port and 190,000 people living in its area. Geelong at Corio Bay, which is 75 kilometres south-west 
Melbourne. 
The city is a near many famous tourist attractions, for example the Great Ocean Road, the Shipwreck Coast and the Bellarine Peninsula. Geelong also has the second oldest Australian rules football club in the world, the Geelong Football Club, also called "The Cats". 

</doc>
<doc id="43008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43008" title="Monty Python's Life of Brian">
Monty Python's Life of Brian

Monty Python's Life of Brian is a 1979 comedy movie by Monty Python. It is about the life of Brian Cohen (Graham Chapman), a young man born on the same night and the same street as Jesus Christ.

</doc>
<doc id="43009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43009" title="Foundry">
Foundry

A foundry is a place where molten (melted) metals are poured into casts, to make metal things of a certain shape.

</doc>
<doc id="43014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43014" title="Call of Duty series">
Call of Duty series

Call of Duty (short form: "CoD") is a first person and third-person shooter video game series. There are 15 games in total, not counting add-ons and DLCs. The first 8 games, excluding "Modern Warfare", are about World War II. The "Modern Warfare" series takes place in present times. "Call Of Duty: Black Ops" takes place in the secret missions of the Cold War. It was created by Treyarch and published by Activision. The majority of the games were published by Infinity Ward, and some were developed by Treyarch. There are "Call of Duty" games for the Gamecube, Xbox, PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC, Nintendo Wii, and the Nintendo DS. The games are rated Teen or Mature for blood, violence and strong language. 
The games in the series are: 

</doc>
<doc id="43022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43022" title="Elementary particle">
Elementary particle

In physics, an elementary particle or fundamental particle is a particle that might not be made of other particles. 
An elementary particle can be a fermion or a boson. Fermions are the building blocks of matter and have mass, while bosons behave as force carriers for fermion interactions and some of them have no mass. The Standard Model is the most accepted way to explain how particles behave, and the forces that affect them. According to this model, the elementary particles are further grouped into quarks, leptons, and gauge bosons, with the Higgs boson having a special status.
Of the particles that make up an atom, only the electron is an elementary particle. Protons and neutrons are made of quarks.
There are three basic properties that describe an elementary particle: "mass", "charge", and "spin". Each property is assigned a number value. For mass and charge the number can be zero. For example, a photon has zero mass and a neutrino has zero charge. These properties always stay the same for an elementary particle.
Mass and charge are properties we see in everyday life, because gravity and electricity affect things that humans see and touch. But spin affects only the world of subatomic particles, so it cannot be directly observed.
Fermions (named after the scientist Enrico Fermi) have a spin number of ½, and are either quarks or leptons. There are 12 different types of fermions (not including antimatter). Each type is called a "flavor". The flavors are:
Six of the 12 fermions are thought to last forever: up and down quarks, the electron, and the three kinds of neutrinos (which constantly switch flavor). The other fermions "decay". That is, they break down into other particles a fraction of a second after they are created. Fermi-Dirac statistics is a theory that describes how collections of fermions behave. Essentially, you can't have more than one fermion in the same place at the same time.
Bosons, named after the Indian physicist Satyendra Nath Bose, have spin 1. Although most bosons are made of more than one particle, there are two kinds of elementary bosons:
The photon and the gluons have no charge, and are the only elementary particles that have a mass of 0 for certain. The photon is the only boson that does not decay. Bose-Einstein statistics is a theory that describes how collections of bosons behave. Unlike fermions, it is possible to have more than one boson in the same space at the same time.
The Standard Model includes all of the elementary particles described above. All these particles have been observed in the laboratory.
The Standard Model does not talk about gravity. If gravity works like the three other fundamental forces, then gravity is carried by the hypothetical boson called the graviton. The graviton has yet to be found, so it is not included in the table above.
The first fermion to be discovered, and the one we know the most about, is the electron. The first boson to be discovered, and also the one we know the most about, is the photon. The theory that most accurately explains how the electron, photon, electromagnetism, and electromagnetic radiation all work together is called quantum electrodynamics.

</doc>
<doc id="43025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43025" title="Seamonkey">
Seamonkey

Seamonkey may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="43029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43029" title="Spin (physics)">
Spin (physics)

In physics, spin is the angular momentum of an object. 
For large visible objects like the Earth, spin is the angular momentum of the turning of the Earth around its axis. This tells the amount of rotation that it has. Angular momentum changes with the mass and shape of the object, and with how fast it is turning.
Experiments such as the Stern-Gerlach experiment have shown that sub-atomic particles, such as electrons, seem to have a north pole and a south pole much like magnets do. Scientists once thought that this was caused by the particle spinning on its axis like a planet.
Later, it was shown that the electron would have to be spinning faster than the speed of light to do this. This is why scientists no longer believe that the electron is actually spinning like a planet. Scientists do, however, continue to refer to the magnetic properties of particles as "spin".
Spin, whatever it is, seems to follow some of the laws of angular momentum, but not all of them. A "spinning" electron (or any other sub-atomic particle with spin) can only have certain values of angular momentum. Electrons can also align themselves against a magnetic field in ways that would be impossible in the everyday world.
Spin is considered a fundamental property of any particle.  

</doc>
<doc id="43031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43031" title="Bendigo, Victoria">
Bendigo, Victoria

Bendigo is a city in central Victoria, Australia. There are about 86,000 people in Bendigo. It is the fourth biggest city in Victoria after Melbourne, Geelong and Ballarat. The city area is and has the towns Bendigo, Marong, Lockwood, Lockwood South, Ravenswood, Sebastian, Elmore, Heathcote, Maiden Gully, Lake Eppalock, Axedale, Goornong, Raywood and Huntly, all together, there are 100,000 people living there.
Strathfieldsaye is a small suburb in Bendigo. It takes its name from Stratfield Saye House, which was awarded to the Duke of Wellington after his defeat of Napoleon at the Battle of Waterloo. In the 2011 census, Strathfieldsaye had a population of 4,648. 

</doc>
<doc id="43032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43032" title="Ballarat, Victoria">
Ballarat, Victoria

Ballarat is a city in central Victoria, Australia. Nearly 90,200 people live there, which makes it the third biggest city in Victoria, after Melbourne and Geelong. It is also the biggest city that is not on the coast in Victoria. It is about north-west of Melbourne. The city area covers about .
Tribes of Australian Aborigines, the Wathaurang and the Borneghurk, used to rest here, and called it "Balla-arat" meaning "elbow-place."
The first people from Europe came to Ballarat in 1837 to be sheep farmers. They took over large areas of land, with some farms more than . By 1840 there were more than 20 farms with thousands of sheep in the Ballarat area. The city area was a farm owned by William Cross Yuille and Henry Anderson who arrived in 1838. 
Gold was found at Ballarat in late August 1851, by James Regan and John Dunlop and within three weeks there were nearly 1000 people digging in the area looking for gold. In two days the Cavanagh brothers dug up of gold from a hole less than two metres deep. This area is now called "Golden Point". Within a year there were 20,000 people living in Ballarat. With so many people coming to look for gold, the town soon became bigger. The Post Office opened on November 1, 1851.
Ballarat is famous as the site for an uprising, or rebellion. This is known as the Eureka Stockade or the Eureka Rebellion, which took place on 3 December 1854. About 30 miners were killed. This is an important moment in Australian history. The site now has a museum, called the Eureka Centre, with displays about the rebellion. The rebel miners flag, the Eureka Flag can be seen at the Ballarat Fine Art Gallery.
Gold mining made Ballarat a rich town, and it was made a city in 1871. The railway came to the town with the opening of the Geelong-Ballarat line in 1862, and a direct line to Melbourne finished in December 1889.
The money made from gold mining can still be seen in size of many public buildings, the large parks, wide streets, the grand style of shops and hotels, and large houses built for the wealthy residents. From the 1880s to the start of the 20th century the city changed from a gold rush town to a large industrial city. Factories that made equipment for mining slowly changed into engineering and manufacturing businesses. The Victorian Railways built the Ballarat North Workshops in April 1917.
During 1901, the Duke of Cornwall and York, later King George V, opened the first Commonwealth Parliament in Melbourne. While in Victoria, the Duke and Duchess made several journeys by train, on 13 May they went from Melbourne to Ballarat via Geelong, returning to Melbourne via Bacchus Marsh. Ballarat's airport was opened in 1930.
In 1940 the Federal Government took over the airport as an air base for the Empire Air Training Scheme. During WWII the base was a RAAF Wireless Air Gunners' School as well as the base for USAAF Liberator bomber squadrons. During the war the airport was made much bigger, with three sealed runways. Two of these were over 2,000 metres (6,550 ft) long and 45 metres (150 ft) wide. The aerodrome remained the RAAF School of Radio until 1961 when it was returned to normal use. The City of Ballarat now runs the airport which is listed on the Victorian Heritage Register for its social and historic importance.
After World War II, Ballarat grew to the northwest. To ease the housing shortage a large estate was built by the Housing Commission of Victoria on the old Ballarat Common This area is now called Wendouree West. From 1951 to 1962, 750 houses were built, with another 300 added in the 1970s. This was matched by private housing built in Wendouree.
In the 1980s the areas of growth have been in the south and west of the city, as well as new building in the inner areas of the city. Through the 20th century Ballarat continued to grow at a steady rate. New public buildings have been built including the hospital, the library, the law courts and the police station complex. Ballarat is home to many schools, including Damascus College.

</doc>
<doc id="43037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43037" title="Heimdall">
Heimdall

Heimdal (or Heimdallur) is one of the gods in Northern mythology. He is the guardian of the Bifröst Bridge. He was the son of nine different mothers and was called the "White God". 
Heimdal is the guardian of the gods. He will blow a horn, called the "Gjallarhorn", if Asgard is in danger. His senses are so good that he can hear the grass grow and he can see to the end of the world. Heimdal could hear a leaf fall. He does not need any sleep at all. 
Heimdal was said to be the last of the gods to die at Ragnarok when he and Loki would kill one another.

</doc>
<doc id="43038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43038" title="Tantalum">
Tantalum

Tantalum is a chemical element. Tantalum was named tantalium. It has the chemical symbol Ta. It has the atomic number 73. It is a rare metal. It is hard and blue-gray. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals.
Tantalum does not easily corrode. It is found in the mineral tantalite.

</doc>
<doc id="43039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43039" title="Hafnium">
Hafnium

Hafnium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Hf. It has the atomic number 72. It is a metal. It is silver gray. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. The chemistry of hafnium is similar to zirconium.
Hafnium is found in zirconium minerals. 
Hafnium is used in tungsten alloys in filaments and electrodes. It is also used as a neutron absorber in control rods in nuclear power plants.

</doc>
<doc id="43040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43040" title="Lutetium">
Lutetium

Lutetium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Lu. It has the atomic number 71. It is a metal. It is silver white. In chemistry it is placed in a group of metal elements named the transition metals. Lutetium can also be grouped with the lanthanides because it is near the lanthanides in the Periodic Table. Its physical properties are like the lanthanides.

</doc>
<doc id="43041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43041" title="Anaheim Ducks">
Anaheim Ducks

The Anaheim Ducks are an ice hockey team from Anaheim, California. They are in the National Hockey League (NHL). The Ducks changed the name on June 22, 2006. They used to be the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim. The name comes from the Disney movie "The Mighty Ducks".
The team was created in 1991 and started playing in the 1993 season. The Ducks were originally owned by The Walt Disney Company. In 2005, Disney sold the Ducks to Susan and Henry Samueli
They are in the Western Conference's Pacific Division. They play their home games at Honda Center, in Anaheim, California. Their team colors are black, gold, and orange. Bruce Boudreau is the team's head coach. Ryan Getzlaf is the captain of the team. 
To date, they have won one Stanley Cup. It was in the 2006-2007 season. The Anaheim Ducks won the conference championship in the 2002-03 season and 2006-2007 season. They have won a Pacific division title in 2006-2007.

</doc>
<doc id="43042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43042" title="Móði and Magni">
Móði and Magni

In Norse mythology, Móði (or Modi) and Magni are the sons of Thor. Their names mean "Angry" and "strong". Magni is the son of Thor and the giantess Járnsaxa. Nothing is known about Móði's mother.
Other than his part after Ragnarök, nothing is known about Móði. Magni is a part of the myth of Thor's battle with the giant Hrungnir.
Thor hit the giant in the head with his hammer, Mjolnir. Mjolnir broke Hrungnir's skull. The giant fell down dead with his leg on the neck of Thor. The other gods came to lift the leg off of Thor. They were not strong enough to lift it. Magni was only three days old. He came to his father and lifted the leg off of him by himself. Thor gave Magni the horse Gold-Mane. Hrungnir had owned the horse. Odin was upset that Thor gave the horse to "the son of a giantess" and not to Odin, Thor's own father.

</doc>
<doc id="43053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43053" title="Kerosene">
Kerosene

Kerosene or paraffin oil is a colourless flammable liquid, usually used for fuel. Kerosene is made from petroleum. It may be used as fuel for lamps, in some kinds of cooking stoves, and in heaters. Kerosene is also used in the fuel for jet engines. The most common use for kerosene in Canada and the US is lighting camp lamps. Kerosene is used as cooking fuel in India.

</doc>
<doc id="43055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43055" title="Brass instrument">
Brass instrument

A brass instrument is a musical instrument that you play by blowing through a mouthpiece to change the pitch, or note. 
With brass instruments, the sound starts at the lips.
Their mouthpieces just help your lips buzz. It does not matter if the instrument is really made of brass, as long as it works that way. 
It is not important what the instrument is made of. Some brass instruments are really made of wood, but are still called brass instruments, like the serpent. Other instruments are made of brass but do not work like this, like the saxophone. They are not called brass instruments although they are made of brass.
There are also parts of the instrument that change the resonance and thus the pitch, like slides or valves.
A brass band is a group of brass instruments and drums that play music together. They are often used to play for parades and processions because the players can march and play at the same time. Brass bands were very popular in England. Many factories and coal mines had their own bands. The workers would play in the bands after work. One famous band is the Grimethorpe Colliery Band.

</doc>
<doc id="43056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43056" title="Crystallization">
Crystallization

Crystallization is the way that atoms gather to make tightly bonded or connected groups. It separates a solid from a liquid or sometimes from a gas. Crystallization can be from a melt or from a solution, and can be natural or artificial. Faster crystallization can make smaller crystals as in basalt, and slower can make bigger ones as in granite. 
Artificial crystallization is a technique that forms solid crystals from a homogeneous solution. For crystallization to occur the solution at hand ought to be supersaturated. Put simply, the solution should contain more solute molecules than it would under ordinary conditions. This can be achieved by various methods—solvent evaporation, cooling, chemical reaction, 'drowning' being the most common ones used in industrial practice.
To make things clear we can use a simple example. We take a bowl of water to which we add sugar crystals. We keep adding sugar to it until we reach a stage when no more crystals can be dissolved. This solution so obtained is a saturated one. It is interesting to note that we can dissolve more crystals to this particular saturated solution by heating it (since solubility of solutes increases with increase in temperature, although exceptional cases occur). This elevation in temperature causes more sugar crystals to dissolve in it (thus forming a supersaturated solution), but when the temperature of the solution is allowed to attain equilibrium with the surroundings, the solubility of the solute decreases (because the temperature of the solution has decreased) and the 'excess' sugar so added crystallizes out. This process essentially illustrates the simplest of supersaturation techniques. 
'Drowning' is the addition of a nonsolvent in the solution that decreases the solubility of the solid. Alternatively, chemical reactions can also be used to decrease the solubility of the solid in the solvent, thus working towards supersaturation.
Crystallization can be divided into stages - primary nucleation is the first. It is the growth of a new crystal, which in turn causes secondary nucleation - the final stage (if removal of the crystals is not an issue). Secondary nucleation requires existing crystals to perpetuate crystal growth. In our sugar example, we had obtained such nuclei when the 'excess' sugar had just about crystallized out assisting further crystal formation. Secondary nucleation is the main stage in crystallization for this is what causes the 'mass production' of crystals.

</doc>
<doc id="43059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43059" title="Stir frying">
Stir frying

Stir frying is a when food is cooked in a Wok (a traditional Asian pan for cooking). This method usually makes food cook faster.

</doc>
<doc id="43070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43070" title="Ragnarok Online">
Ragnarok Online

Ragnarok Online is an online computer game. It was made by Gravity Corp. It is a Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game. The game was first released in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="43071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43071" title="Cairns, Queensland">
Cairns, Queensland

Cairns is a city in Queensland, Australia. 120.000 people live there. Cairns is about 1720 km (1,069 miles) north of Brisbane and about 2500km (1,553 miles) from Sydney by road. It is built on the shores of Trinity Bay.
Cairns is an important travel destination for tourists because it is warm all year round and is near many attractions. The Great Barrier Reef is only one-and-a-half hours away by boat. The Daintree National Park and Cape Tribulation, about 130km north of Cairns, are popular areas for experiencing a tropical rainforest. It is also a starting point for people wanting to see Cooktown, Cape York Peninsula, and the Atherton Tableland.
Captain James Cook named Trinity Bay when he arrived there in his ship HM Bark Endeavour on Trinity Sunday, 1770. The first Europeans to settle arrived in 1876 when gold was found near Cairns. It was named after the Governor of Queensland, Sir William Cairns.

</doc>
<doc id="43073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43073" title="Arabian Sea">
Arabian Sea

The Arabian Sea is a sea between Arabian Peninsula and the Indian peninsula. It covers around 4,600,000, km. The Arabian Sea one of the warmest seas. 

</doc>
<doc id="43075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43075" title="Base (chemistry)">
Base (chemistry)

A base is a substance that can accept a hydrogen ion (H+) from another substance. A chemical can accept a proton if it has a negative charge, or if the molecule has an electronegative atom like oxygen, nitrogen, or chlorine that is rich in electrons. Like acids, some bases are strong and others are weak. The weak bases are less likely to accept protons, while the strong bases quickly take protons in solution or from other molecules.
An acid is a base's "chemical opposite". An acid is a substance that will donate a hydrogen atom to the base. 
Bases have a pH greater than 7.0. Weak bases generally have a pH value of 79 while strong bases have a pH value of 9–14. 
Bases can be used to neutralize acids. When a base, often OH, accepts a proton from an acid, it forms a water molecule which is harmless. When all of the acids and bases react to form water molecules and other neutral salts, it is called neutralization. Acids can also be used to neutralize bases. 
Every base has a conjugate acid formed by adding a hydrogen atom to the base. For example, NH (ammonia) is a base and its conjugate acid is the ammonium ion, NH. A weak base forms a strong conjugate acid and a strong base forms a weaker conjugate acid. Since ammonia is a moderately strong base, ammonium is a considerably weaker acid.
Bases have these characteristics:
Some common household products are bases. For example, caustic soda and drain cleaner are made from sodium hydroxide, a strong base. Ammonia or an ammonia-based cleaner such as window and glass cleaner, is basic. These stronger bases may cause a skin irritation. Other bases, like cooking ingredients sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) or cream of tartar are basic, but these are not harmful and suitable for cooking. 
Gloves should always be worn when handling bases. If skin irritation is encountered, the affected area should be rinsed thoroughly with cold water. If that does not stop the problem, contact medical help as soon as possible. 
A strong base is a base that gives off a hydroxide ion, OH–, when put in water. There are eight of them.

</doc>
<doc id="43076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43076" title="Ytterbium">
Ytterbium

Ytterbium is a chemical element. It has the chemical symbol Yb. It has the atomic number 70. It is part of a group of chemical elements in the periodic table named the Lanthanides. Ytterbium is a rare earth element. It is soft and silver color.
Ytterbium is found in minerals named gadolinite, monazite, and xenotime. In nature it is found as a mix of seven stable isotopes. Ytterbium is used in some steels and is also used to make lasers. 

</doc>
<doc id="43079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43079" title="Ununtrium">
Ununtrium

Ununtrium is a chemical element. It is also named eka-thallium. It has the symbol Uut. It has the atomic number 113. It is a transuranium element. 
Ununtrium does not exist in nature. It has to be made. It is made from the alpha decay of ununpentium.
No uses for ununtrium are known. What darmstadtium looks like is not known because not enough has been made to see it with human eyesight. Using trends in the Periodic Table it could be soft, silver color, very reactive metal like sodium.
On February 1 2004 ununtrium and ununpentium were discovered. A team of Russian scientists at Dubna from the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research and American scientists at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory first reported the chemical elements.
On September 28 2004 a team of Japanese scientists said that they had made the element.
In May 2006 in the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research made ununtrium using a different method. They found the identity of the last products of the radioactive decay of the ununtrium they made.
Ununtrium is a temporary IUPAC systematic element name. 
Scientists from Japan suggested the name "japonium" (symbol "Jp") or "rikenium" ("Rk").

</doc>
<doc id="43081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43081" title="Heart transplant">
Heart transplant

A heart transplant is a type of surgery where someone's heart is removed and another one is put in because theirs is not working properly. The new heart is taken from a dead person who does not need it any more. The first heart transplant on a human was done by Christiaan Barnard in December 1967.

</doc>
<doc id="43085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43085" title="Joan Baez">
Joan Baez

Joan Chandos Báez (born 9 January 1941) is an American folk singer. Baez is known for her very individual vocal style. She is a soprano with a three-octave vocal range. Many of her songs talk about with social issues.
She is best known for her 1970s hits "Diamonds & Rust" and "The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down". She is also known for "Sweet Sir Galahad" and "Joe Hill." She sang these songs at the 1969 Woodstock festival and the songs became famous. She is also well known due to her relationship with Bob Dylan and her love for activism in areas such as nonviolence, civil and human rights and the environment. 
She has performed for nearly fifty years. Baez has released over thirty albums. She has recorded songs in over eight languages. She is considered a folksinger, but after the 1960s her music became a lot different from folk. She sings many kinds of music, including rock, pop, country, and gospel. Baez is famous for singing other peoples' songs very differently. She sang songs by The Beatles, Jackson Browne, Paul Simon, The Rolling Stones, Stevie Wonder and many others.

</doc>
<doc id="43086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43086" title="Kalmar Union">
Kalmar Union

The Kalmar Union was a historical consisting union of the kingdoms of Denmark, Norway and Sweden, and various other provinces and areas. At that time, Norway included Iceland, Greenland, the Faroe Islands, Shetland, Orkney, and parts of Finland belonged to Sweden. The union was started in 1397 at a meeting in the town of Kalmar in Sweden. The union ended in 1523 when Sweden left the union.

</doc>
<doc id="43099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43099" title="Bay of Plenty">
Bay of Plenty

The Bay of Plenty is a region in New Zealand. It was first called the Bay of Plenty by Captain James Cook in November 1769. The Māori name for the bay is "Te Moana-a-Toi" ("the sea of Toi").

</doc>
<doc id="43101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43101" title="Plotter">
Plotter

A plotter is a kind of printer for computers. Plotters use vector graphics. Usually they are used to print to paper which is very large in size. Plotters print things using special, colored pens. There is one called the drum plotter. They are often used in warehouses. They are generally used for making flex or maps.

</doc>
<doc id="43102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43102" title="Dot-matrix printer">
Dot-matrix printer

Dot-matrix printers are printers for computers. A dot matrix printer creates characters by striking pins against ink ribbons. Each pin makes a dot and combinations of dots form characters and illustrations. This is much like a typewriter. Each character is made from a matrix of dots. Today, dot matrix printers are not used by many people anymore. They are still in use where forms (with multiple copies) need to be filled out.The print head moves back and forth on the paper like a typewriter and prints the image or text

</doc>
<doc id="43105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43105" title="Vercingetorix">
Vercingetorix

Vercingetorix ( in Gaulish) born 72 BC, died 46 BC) was a chieftain of the Gallic tribe of the Arverni. He led the great Gallic war against Roman imperialism in 52 BC. His name in Gaulish means "over-king of the marching men"; the "marching men" would now be called "infantry".
Vercingetorix was probably one of the first to unite some tribes of Gaul against a common enemy. This was the last major uprising of the peoples of Gaul against the Roman invaders.

</doc>
<doc id="43106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43106" title="Philippe Noiret">
Philippe Noiret

Philippe Noiret (1 October 1930, in Lille, France – 23 November 2006 in Paris) was a well-known French actor. He is probably best known for his role in Cinema Paradiso, and for playing Pablo Neruda in the film Il Postino. He died on November 23, 2006 of cancer.
Film

</doc>
<doc id="43112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43112" title="Monica Bellucci">
Monica Bellucci

Monica Belllucci (born on 30 September 1964 is an Italian actress. She was born in Città di Castello, Umbria. Bellucci started modelling at 16. She is the daughter of Maria Gustinelli, a painter, and Luigi Bellucci, who owned a trucking company. She used to be a fashion model. She speaks Italian, French, and English fluently and has acted in each of these languages, as well as Aramaic. She is currently considered as an Italian sex symbol. Bellucci is married to Vincent Cassel and has a daughter named Deva (born 12 September 2004). In 2004, while pregnant with her daughter, Bellucci posed nude for the Italian "Vanity Fair" Magazine in protest against Italian laws that allow only married couples to use in-vitro fertilization and that prevent the use of donor sperm.

</doc>
<doc id="43129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43129" title="Murrayfield Stadium">
Murrayfield Stadium

Murrayfield stadium in Edinburgh is the home of the Scottish national rugby team. It was first built in 1925. In 1995, the stadium was renovated. It has seats 67,800 people. It held the record for the most people at a rugby union match. 104,000 people watched Scotland play Wales in 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="43130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43130" title="List of football clubs in Sweden">
List of football clubs in Sweden

This is a list of football clubs in Sweden.
Å Ä Ö

</doc>
<doc id="43131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43131" title="Allmänna Idrottsklubben">
Allmänna Idrottsklubben

AIK (which stands for Allmänna Idrottsklubben), is a sports club from Sweden. It is one of the biggest and one of the oldest in the country. It was founded in 1891. The name means "Common" (or "Public") "Sports Club". It has departments for many different sports including football, ice hockey, bandy, golf, table tennis, bowling, and handball.

</doc>
<doc id="43133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43133" title="Network Ten">
Network Ten

Network Ten is one of three major television networks in Australia. It started broadcasting television in 1965, when they were called Independent Television Network.
Shows that Network Ten buy from other countries and broadcast in Australia include:
Shows made in Australia for Network Ten include:

</doc>
<doc id="43135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43135" title="Seven Network">
Seven Network

Seven Network is one of three major television networks in Australia. In recent years, it has grown into a diversified media company. Seven Network's main shareholder is Kerry Stokes.
Seven Network's studio headquarters are in a converted warehouse at Jones Bay Wharf in Pyrmont, Sydney. Its headquarters for its news department are in Martin Place, Sydney. Seven's major production facilities are at Epping in Sydney's northern suburbs. Seven Network are planning to move their production facilities to a specially built site at the Australian Technology Park in Redfern.

</doc>
<doc id="43136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43136" title="Accountancy">
Accountancy

Accountancy or accounting is the profession of communicating financial information about a business to shareholders and managers. Accountants are people who do accountancy, and also carry out the auditing or checking of a company's books and records. In Britain, this auditing is often carried out by a qualified person called a "chartered accountant".
When accountants do accounting work, they write in the books of account (ledgers) that belong to a company. Every time money is spent or earned, it is written in the ledger. The information in the ledger is used to prepare the company accounts monthly, quarterly (every three months) and annually. These annual accounts show what money the company has taken in in the year and what it has spent this money on. It also shows if the company made a profit in the year, who owes the company money and those to whom the company owes money and any big expensive items the company has bought which they expect to use for a number of years. Lenders, managers, investors, tax authorities (the people who collect taxes for the Government) and other decision makers look at these annual accounts. Managers and investors look at the ledger and make decisions about how to spend money in the future. Lenders like banks look at the accounts before they lend money to the company. Tax authorities look at them to check that the company is paying the correct amount of taxes.
The word "accountant" originally comes from the Latin word "computare" – ‘’to reckon, count, number’’, via French.
The word ‘’accomptant’’ was the original spelling and pronunciation of the word ‘’accountant’’. However, over time, people began to drop the ‘’p’’ in the word ‘’accomptant’’. Gradually, the word changed both in the way it was said and spelt to how it is today.
The basic accounting equation is assets=liabilities+equity.
Accountancy is very old. It started when humans first started to farm and form towns and cities. People who thought about economics (keeping track of money and valuable things) thought of a way to write down the sizes and values of crops.
The earliest accounting records were found among the ruins of ancient Babylon, Assyria and Sumeria, which are more than 7,000 years old. The people of that time relied on primitive accounting methods to record the growth of crops and herds. Because there is a natural season for farming and herding, it is easy to count and determine if a surplus had been gained after the crops had been harvested or the young animals weaned.
The invention of a form of bookkeeping using clay tokens represented a huge cognitive leap for mankind.
In the twelfth-century A.D., the Arab writer, Ibn Taymiyyah, wrote a book called "Hisba". This book has details about accounting systems that were used by Muslims before the mid-seventh century A.D. Muslim accounting was influenced (changed) by Romans and Persians. In his book, Ibn Taymiyyah gives details of a complex governmental accounting system.
The "Res Gestae Divi Augusti" (Latin: "The Deeds of the Divine Augustus") is a remarkable account to the Roman people of the Emperor Augustus' stewardship. It listed and quantified his public expenditure, which encompassed distributions to the people, grants of land or money to army veterans, subsidies to the "aerarium" (treasury), building of temples, religious offerings, and expenditures on theatrical shows and gladiatorial games. It was not an account of state revenue and expenditure, but was designed to demonstrate Augustus' munificence. The significance of the "Res Gestae Divi Augusti" from an accounting perspective lies in the fact that it illustrates that the executive authority had access to detailed financial information, covering a period of some forty years, which was still retrievable after the event. The scope of the accounting information at the emperor's disposal suggests that its purpose encompassed planning and decision-making.
The Roman historians Suetonius and Cassius Dio record that in 23 BC, Augustus prepared a "rationarium" (account) which listed public revenues, the amounts of cash in the "aerarium" (treasury), in the provincial "fisci" (tax officials), and in the hands of the "publicani" (public contractors); and that it included the names of the freedmen and slaves from whom a detailed account could be obtained. The closeness of this information to the executive authority of the emperor is attested by Tacitus' statement that it was written out by Augustus himself. 
Records of cash, commodities, and transactions were kept scrupulously by military personnel of the Roman army. An account of small cash sums received over a few days at the fort of Vindolanda circa 110 CE shows that the fort could compute revenues in cash on a daily basis, perhaps from sales of surplus supplies or goods manufactured in the camp, items dispensed to slaves such as "cervesa" (beer) and "clavi caligares" (nails for boots), as well as commodities bought by individual soldiers. The basic needs of the fort were met by a mixture of direct production, purchase and requisition; in one letter, a request for money to buy 5,000 "modii" (measures) of "braces" (a cereal used in brewing) shows that the fort bought provisions for a considerable number of people.
The Heroninos Archive is the name given to a huge collection of papyrus documents, mostly letters, but also including a fair number of accounts, which come from Roman Egypt in 3rd century CE. The bulk of the documents relate to the running of a large, private estate is named after Heroninos because he was "phrontistes" (Koine Greek: manager) of the estate which had a complex and standarised system of accounting which was followed by all its local farm managers. Each administrator on each sub-division of the estate drew up his own little accounts, for the day-to-day running of the estate, payment of the workforce, production of crops, the sale of produce, the use of animals, and general expenditure on the staff. This information was then summarized as pieces of papyrus scroll into one big yearly account for each particular sub—division of the estate. Entries were arranged by sector, with cash expenses and gains extrapolated from all the different sectors. Accounts of this kind gave the owner the opportunity to take better economic decisions because the information was purposefully selected and arranged.
Luca Pacioli (1445–1517), also known as Friar Luca dal Borgo, is said to be the "Father" of accountancy. He wrote a textbook in Latin called "Summa de arithmetica, geometrica, proportioni et proportionalita" ("Summa on arithmetic, geometry, proportions and proportionality", Venice 1494). This textbook was used in the abbaco schools in northern Italy. Sons of merchants and craftsmen were taught in these schools. This textbook was written about math. It has the first printed description of how merchants from Venice kept their accounts. Merchants from Venice used a system called the double-entry bookkeeping system.
Double-entry bookkeeping is where there is a debit and credit entry for every transaction.
Pacioli wrote down this system but he did not invent it, but he is still called the "Father of Accounting". The system he wrote had most of the accounting cycle as it is known today. He wrote about using journals and ledgers, and warned that a person should not go to sleep at night until the debits were the same as the credits. His ledger had accounts for assets (things that have value), liabilities (debts and loans that are to be paid to someone else), capital (money), income and expenses. He showed how to write year-end closing entries and suggested that a trial balance be used to prove that a ledger is balanced. His treatise (long essay) in the book also has info about other topics, such as accounting ethics and cost accounting.
The first book written in the English language on accounting was published in London, England by John Gouge in 1543.
In 1588 John Mellis from Southwark, England wrote a short book of instructions for keeping accounts.
There was another book written in 1635 that was described as "The Merchants Mirrour, or directions for the perfect ordering and keeping of his accounts formed by way of Debitor and Creditor". This book was written by Richard Dafforne, who was an accountant. This book has many references to books about accountancy that were written much earlier. One chapter of this book is titled "Opinion of Book-keeping's Antiquity". In this chapter the author says that, according to another author, the bookkeeping he wrote about was used two-hundred years earlier in Venice.
There were several editions of Richard Dafforne's book. The second edition was published in 1636. The third edition was published in 1656. Another edition was published in 1684. The book is very complete in how it describes scientific accountancy. It contains a lot of detail and explanation. The science that supports accountancy was liked by many people in the seventeenth century. This is supported by the fact that there were so many editions. Starting at this point in history, there have been many books written about accountancy. Many authors claim to be professional accountants and teachers of accountancy. Because of this, it shows that there were professional accountants who were employed in the seventeenth century.
A financial audit is where an internal audit and an external audit are done. For an external audit, an independent (unrelated) auditor takes a look at financial statements and accounting records. By looking at these records, the auditor can find out if these records are true, fair and follow Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). "Internal audit" tries to get info for management usage, and is done by employees.

</doc>
<doc id="43138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43138" title="Des Lynam">
Des Lynam

Desmond Michael Lynam (born 17 September 1942) is an Irish television and radio presenter. He was born in Ennis, County Clare, Republic of Ireland. He is best known for presenting the BBC's sport coverage such as "Grandstand".
Lynam also presented "Countdown" on Channel 4 from 2005-2006. He was replaced by Des O'Connor.

</doc>
<doc id="43139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43139" title="Carbonate">
Carbonate

A carbonate is a chemical compound that is made of carbon and oxygen. When added to an acid, a carbonate will produce carbon dioxide, water and a chemical salt. It is found naturally in the earth.
Carbonate has the carbonate ion, . The name may also mean an ester of carbonic acid, an organic compound containing the carbonate group C(=O)(O–).

</doc>
<doc id="43146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43146" title="Antonie van Leeuwenhoek">
Antonie van Leeuwenhoek

Antonie Philips van Leeuwenhoek (24 October 1632 – 30 August 1723; name pronounced 'Laywenhook') was a Dutch tradesman and scientist from Delft, Netherlands. He is known as "the father of microbiology". He is best known for his work to improve the microscope. Using his handcrafted microscopes, he was the first to see and describe single celled organisms, which he originally referred to as "animalcules", and which we now refer to as microorganisms. He was also the first to record microscopic observations of muscle fibers, bacteria, spermatozoa and blood flow in small blood vessels.
Van Leeuwenhoek never wrote books, just letters. In his youth he was apprenticed to a draper; a later Civil position allowed him to devote time to his hobby: grinding lenses and using them to study tiny objects. With his simple microscopes — skillfully ground, powerful single lenses capable of high image quality — he observed protozoa in rainwater and pond water and well water and bacteria in the human mouth and intestine. He also discovered blood corpuscles, capillaries, and the structure of muscles and nerves. In 1677, he first described the spermatozoa of insects, dogs, and humans. His research on lower animals argued against the doctrine of spontaneous generation, and his observations helped lay the foundations for the sciences of bacteriology and protozoology.

</doc>
<doc id="43153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43153" title="Barbie">
Barbie

Barbie is best known as a toy doll. Starting as just a doll, Barbie became a brand. It is most common in the United States. It is named after a girl named Barbara. Barbara was the toy maker's daughter. Though the brand is most famous for the doll, other merchandise has been created with the Barbie name such as games, movies, videos, clothing, accessories, and books. The clothes and fashion accessories allow girls a taste of high fashion. 
Throughout the decades, Barbie has reflected and encouraged feminine growth in the workplace in the United States and been a miniature model of women worldwide. The doll has been criticized for causing self-image complexes, yet other companies continue to produce similar dolls. "The Barbie doll is the biggest selling toy in the history of proprietary toy manufacturing." On average, 172,000 dolls are sold by Mattel each day.
"Barbie always represented the fact that a woman has choices."-Handler
Barbie has portrayed more than one hundred twenty-five careers and fifty nationalities.
When Barbara was a child, her parents saw she would rather play with paper dolls than dolls, so her mother created the Barbie doll. This information was later thought to be false as Barbara's mother had been contested by someone living near her, that she had created a much similar doll, Lilli, before she had. As there was no proof, Barbie remained.
Ruth Handler was the creator of Barbie. Her parents were Polish Jewish immigrants. She was the tenth child. Her husband, Elliot Handler was the founder of Mattel in 1945, which is the largest toy company in the world. She originally wanted to name the doll "Barbara", after her daughter, or "Bab's" after her daughter's nickname. However, both those names were copyrighted.
Barbie was first released on March 9, 1959 at a toy fair in New York after seven years of battling disagreements. At the time, Mattel was the third largest toy company in the United States. Ruth's display of Barbie was housed at the New Yorker Hotel in a hotel room, since so many businesses brought their toys to put on display. She had to halt the projected production that she assumed she would acquire in business orders at the fair. It was a disappointing day for Ruth and Barbie. In March 1959, Barbie debuted as a teen fashion model on television with more positive response leading the way for the dolls popularity rise.
A blonde Barbie from this decade in mint condition has an appraisal price listing of five thousand-$5,250. The brunette Barbie that was made at the same time is worth $1,000 more than the blonde.
In the 1960s Barbie's friends joined the line up of fashion dolls. Ken was her boyfriend and came to be in 1962. The Ken doll got his name from Ruth's son. Midge was her friend who was a redhead meeting the toy marketplace in 1963, a year after Ken. Allen was Ken's friend. Skipper was her little sister that was produced in 1964. Tutti and Todd were her twin siblings were introduced in 1966. Francie was her adult cousin. In 1967, Francie was changed into the first black Barbie doll causing consumers to believe it reflected the support of interracial marriages. Since this was during Civil Rights' time, she was not very successful. Twelve months later Mattel introduced Christie, the second black Barbie, who was much more accepted. Cara and Julia were also produced as Barbie's black friends. The roles of Barbie evolved as equality for women's rights progressed. The doll started in the 1960s portraying stereotypical female positions like teacher, stewardess, nurse, etc. A series of novels were also written introducing Barbie and her birthplace in the 60's. Bendable legs and swivel hips were introduced on Barbie in 1965. Jack Ryan created them.
Hairstyles of the Barbie's in the 1960s were typically the classic bubble-cut hairstyle of the era taken from the First Lady of the early 60's Jackie Kennedy. The Barbie that is worth the most from this decade according to "Schroeder's Collectible Toys" is Color Magic Barbie made in 1967. Her hair and costume changes color. If it is complete with its cardboard box, it is worth $4,000.
Children could purchase the new bendable Barbie's at a discounted rate if they wanted to trade in the old style in the 1970s. Christie's black boyfriend, Brad was introduced in 1970.
Barbie's facial features were changed in 1971 from eyes cutting from the side and smile without teeth to eyes forward and a wide smile exposing teeth. This change occurred to keep current with the times representing a "forward-thinking peace-and-love generation."
The first doctor Barbie appeared in 1973. Cara's boyfriend Brad reached the toy market in 1975. The flip hairstyle was a popular way for Barbie's hair to be styled in the 70's. The Sears' exclusive Dramatic New Living Skipper Very Best Velvet Barbie made in 1970-71 has the highest list price for the decade in "Schroeder's Collectible Toys" at $1,500.00.
Hispanic and black Barbies were no longer featured as friends of Barbie's in the 1980s. They had reached the Barbie title in their own right. Magic Curl Barbie made its debut in 1982 feauting both black and white races. The first Asian doll produced representing Hong Kong in 1981 came from a mold with a rounder face and almond shaped eyes. A Japanese Barbie hit the market in 1985 as one of the first other nationalities offered with the collection of International Dolls of the World Barbies following its release. Barbie was made into a pilot in 1989. The doll could be viewed as opening the door for female acceptance in otherwise male dominant careers paving the way with astronaut Barbie debuting eighteen years prior to Sally Ride's first female in space endeavor. The 1980s also began the Holiday Barbie collection. The first one was produced in 1988 and its listed value is $325, which is $700 less than what it was worth in the 1990s.
Shani, Asha, and Nichelle were produced to offer greater skin tone and facial feature selection to represent blacks more accurately in 1991.A hit single produced by the band Aqua entitled "Barbie Girl" climbed charts worldwide in 1997. Also in 1997, Puerto Rican Barbie debuted. Barbie's body measurements changed in 1998 due to consumer demand. Her breasts and hips were reduced and waist was widened. Race car driving NASCAR Barbie hit toy store shelves in 1998 and 1999 foreshadowing the first female race car driver Danica Patrick. Barbie was flashy and wore bright colors in the 90's. 1994's Barbie Snow Princess worth $1100 is the highest listed of the decade in "Schroeder's Collectible Toys".
Since her late mother Ruth could not dip Barbie's hand and footprints in her concrete slab on Hollywood Boulevard in 2002, Barbara her daughter in which the doll was named after did the honors inducting the doll to superstar status. In 2006 a movie, "The Tribe" used Barbie to connect with being Jewish in America. In 2008, Barbie was transformed into a representation of African culture for the hundredth anniversary of the first African American sorority Alpha Kappa Alpha. 2009 brought about changes to the black Barbie adding fuller lips and altered facial features at the request of consumer complaints. Tricelle was given more textured and curlier hair. Chataine Barbie made in 2003 is worth $425 according to "Schroeder's".
Some people believe Barbie gives girls a wrong idea of what they will look like when they grow up. If her doll size proportions were converted into life size body measurements (breast size, waist size, hip size) only 1 in 100,000 women would be able to obtain her figure. Though recent plastic surgery advancements has reduced that gap. Many people believe that the introduction of the Barbie doll was wrong due to the fact it made young girls believe they had to become skinny in order to be just like Barbie. The doll has been blamed for eating disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia. If a girl or woman was Barbie's actual size, she would suffer from back problems due to her breast size. She would also be unable to support her weight on her tiny feet making it impossible for her to walk. She is not supposed to be taken as a literal interpretation of a teenage girl. Barbie was not built to give girls an inferior complex when comparing themselves to the doll. She was built to be a longer lasting alternative to the easily torn paper dolls for hours of enjoyment reinacting life scenes through a child's creativity and imagination. Barbie is a teen doll, which gives little girls a peek at what might happen in their teen life. This was thought to be bad, because Barbie has lots of boyfriends. 
Ruth Handler, Barbie's creator, has been blamed for taking the Barbie doll design from a doll made in Germany in 1955, the Lilli doll that was sold mainly at tobacco shops for men post war. Lilli was originally a cartoon character in a tabloid newspaper in Germany created by Reinhard Beuthein in 1952. O.M. Hausser/Elastolin Company had Max Weissbrodt, a doll maker of theirs get a patent for Lilli's limb design. Ruth is rumored to have purchased a few of the dolls while in Switzerland with her family. The Barbie doll has been in competition with other toy companies' doll designs. Ideal Toy and Novelty Company began making Tammy in 1962, American Character Doll Company challenged Barbie's sales in 1963 with Tressy, and Remco started producing the Littlechap Family in 1964. However, none had the popularity of Barbie. At the time of production, Tammy gave Barbie creators a financial scare. She was based on a movie character played by Debbie Reynolds. Instead of being surrounded with friends and boyfriends, the doll came with a mother and father, which might be why her popularity never surpassed Barbie's.
Barbie is a very big trend. She has had many sisters, boyfriends, and friends. She has dream houses and clothes. She has many jobs from teacher to doctor to astronaut. There have been many other dolls like Barbie since Barbie was first produced. Barbie also created MyScene dolls, a spoof of Bratz. The fact is the creator of Barbie, Ruth Handler, fought sexism and overcame her domesticated gender role to accomplish her goals in the business arena as a female by producing the world famous Barbie doll.
Scheffler, Joann, "The Barbie Doll's March 1959 debut", Cincinnati Pop Culture Examiner, http://www.examiner.com/x-27339-Cincinnati-Pop-Culture-Examiner~y2010m3d7-The-Barbie-Dolls-March-1959-debut-see-the-first-Barbie-tv-ad-here, retrieved 2010-03-14

</doc>
<doc id="43158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43158" title="Parmesan cheese">
Parmesan cheese

Parmesan cheese is the name of a few kinds of Italian extra-hard cheeses made of cow's milk. It is usually the cheese to go with Spaghetti and other typical Italian pasta, but it also has many other uses. Parmesan is a part of Italian national cuisine and is usually grated. It is hard, sharp and dry.
Usually, Parmesan cheese is either Parmigiano-Reggiano or Grana Padano cheese. Both cheeses are AOC. This means that the way they are made, and the region they come from are strictly regulated.
Only these brands (Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano) are protected. In many parts of the world, cheese is sold as "Parmesan cheese" that has nothing to do with the true (Italian) Parmigiano Reggiano or Grana Padano. The biggest producers of such cheeses are the United States and Argentina.
The original Parmesan cheese is one of the most expensive cheeses in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="43159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43159" title="Franz Liszt">
Franz Liszt

Franz Liszt (born Raiding, nr. Sopron, October 22, 1811; died Bayreuth, July 31, 1886) was a Hungarian composer and pianist. Liszt (pronounced like “list”) was one of the most important musicians of the 19th century. He was the greatest pianist of his time and went on lots of tours through Europe where everyone filled the concert halls to hear him. He wrote a lot of music for piano. Many of his piano pieces were harder to play than anything that had been written before. In this way he developed the technique of piano playing, setting new standards for the future. In his compositions he often used new ideas which sounded very modern in his time. He was very helpful to other composers who lived at that time, helping them to become better known by conducting their works and playing some of their orchestral pieces on the piano.
Liszt’s father was an official who worked for Prince Nikolaus Esterházy, the same noble family who employed the composer Joseph Haydn. When he was seven his father started to teach him the piano. He was a child prodigy, and within a year or two he was already playing in concerts. He was so promising that some rich Hungarians said they would pay for his music education.
In 1821 his family moved to Vienna. He had piano lessons from Czerny and composition lessons from Salieri. He soon became famous although he was still a young boy, and he met famous musicians like Beethoven and Schubert. Beethoven is supposed to have kissed him on the forehead.
In 1823 his family moved again, this time to Paris. He wanted to go to the Conservatoire to study music but Luigi Cherubini would not let him in because he was a foreigner (i.e. not French). So he studied music theory privately with Reicha and composition with Paer. Soon he was asked to play the piano everywhere in Paris. He travelled to London. On his second visit there in 1825 he played to King George IV at Windsor.
Liszt continued to travel to other countries. After his father died he became a piano teacher in Paris. He fell in love with one of his pupils. It was the first of many love affairs he had with various women. He read a lot of books to try to educate himself properly. He met Berlioz and he liked the music of Berlioz very much. In 1831 he met the violinist Niccolò Paganini and he was amazed by his virtuoso playing. Liszt was to do for the piano what Paganini had done for the violin. Both men were drawn by cartoonists as devilish characters. Both men wrote music which was incredibly hard for their instruments.
Soon Liszt met a Countess called Marie d’Agoult. He began to have an affair with her. The Countess left her husband and went to live with Liszt in Geneva. They lived together for several years and had three children. When Liszt gave away a lot of his money to help pay for a monument to Beethoven in Bonn he had to earn money by going on tours again, so the countess left him. He still saw her and the children every summer for a few years but finally they separated completely.
Liszt spent eight years in Rome. He wrote a lot of religious music and took orders in the Catholic church. His daughter Cosima, who had married a famous conductor Hans von Bülow, left her husband and lived with Wagner. They had two children together. Liszt and Wagner quarrelled for many years about this.
Liszt spent most of his last years travelling to and fro between three cities: Rome, Weimar and Budapest. He called this his “vie trifurquée” (three-forked life). He died in Bayreuth July 31, 1886.
Liszt had a very strong personality which affected everyone he met. When he played the piano at concerts he was a great showman. A lot of people drew caricatures of him playing the piano with his wild mop of hair. He could be very polite and knew how to get on with the aristocracy. He could be very generous, giving both money and time to other musicians and giving praise where it was deserved. He was a powerful, unique character. Needless to say he was one of the most important romantic composers of his day. He is known for his dazzling virtuostic piano displays best.
Most of Liszt’s compositions were for piano. He wrote one piano sonata. It is in B minor. Its form is very different from the sonatas of composers like Beethoven. It is a very Romantic work, but it does not tell a story like a lot of Romantic pieces do. Mostly his piano works are shorter pieces which are quite free in form. He often took a theme and transforms it (changes it gradually). He wrote studies which are much more than just pieces to improve one’s piano technique. One collection is called "Transcendental Studies". In Switzerland he wrote "Années de pèlerinage" (Years of Wandering), a collection of pieces to which he gave titles later. Liszt explored all the possible sounds that the piano could make (it was still a fairly new instrument). Sometimes he made it sound like an orchestra. Some of his last piano works are much simpler to play, although the chords would have sounded very modern for his time. They are like the Impressionistic music of Debussy.
Not all Liszt’s piano pieces were original compositions: he also made arrangements or transcriptions. It seems a strange idea to us now to take someone else’s symphony and arrange it for piano. This is what Liszt often did. He took symphonies by Beethoven or songs by Schubert and changed them so that they could be played on the piano. Many people did not have the opportunity to hear concerts very often, and they certainly did not have radios or CDs, so Liszt was making these works more famous, helping them to reach a wider audience. He often made difficult transcriptions which meant that he changed the pieces and added a lot of extra ornamental notes, making a new piece out of an old one.
Liszt’s orchestral music is also very important. He wrote symphonic poems: pieces which tell a story or describe something. The best known one is called "Les préludes". He also wrote two piano concertos.
He wrote a lot of church music. Church music was often quite sentimental in those days, but Liszt tried to make his works help people to feel religious devotion.
In many ways Liszt was typical of the Romantic artist. He was always looking for a spiritual meaning to life. He carried a walking stick with the heads of St Francis of Assisi and Gretchen and Mephistopheles, characters from Goethe’s Faust. He was a 19th-century musician but through his thinking and his music he looked forward to the 20th century.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie (1980) ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="43160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43160" title="Wikia">
Wikia

Wikia is a website where people can make a wiki. Wikia was started in 2004 by Jimmy Wales (who also started Wikipedia) and Angela Beesley. It used to be called Wikicities, and the name was changed to Wikia on March 27, 2006 to prevent other people from mistaking it for a wiki on cities.
Wikis on Wikia must be about something which lots of people will like, so people cannot make them on any topic. All content on Wikia is released under a free license, such as the GNU Free Documentation License or the Creative Commons. Anybody can change pages on wikis at Wikia, so that no single person "owns" or is "the boss" of a wiki, and so that large communities can be made. The software used is MediaWiki.
Wikia uses advertisements to generate money, which is different than Wikipedia, which uses donations.
In general, Wikia has much lower standards of notability than Wikipedia does. This means that something can have an article on Wikia, but not on Wikipedia. Also, articles on Wikia are often written in more "in-universe" style; meaning that fictional characters and plots are written as if they are real. Some projects on Wikia are more for people who are very interested in the topic.
In August 2010, they said that a new look was coming, making some people take their wikis off the service. 
Like Wikipedia, Wikia uses the MediaWiki software.
There are several wikis that are the biggest and most well known. For example, LyricWiki is currently the biggest wiki in Wikia with more than 1 million articles.

</doc>
<doc id="43162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43162" title="Mozzarella">
Mozzarella

Mozzarella is a kind of fresh cheese. Originally, it was Italian but now it can be found all over the world. Its made of the milk of cows or of water buffalos. It is used on Pizza, but other recipes exist as well (for example, with sliced tomatoes and a little vinegar).

</doc>
<doc id="43163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43163" title="Limburger cheese">
Limburger cheese

Limburger cheese is a cheese made from cows' milk. Its name comes from the Duchy of Limburg, which is divided between Holland, Belgium and Germany today. Limburger cheese is known for its strong smell, which is caused by the bacterium that lives in its rind. Since about the mid nineteenth century, most Limburger is produced in Germany. 
There are many jokes about Limburger and its odor. In 2006 a study showing that the malaria mosquito ("Anopheles gambiae") is attracted equally to the smell of Limburger and to the smell of human feet earned the Ig Nobel Prize in the area of biology. This Cheese has now been placed in strategic locations in Africa to fight against malaria, which is spread by mosquitoes.

</doc>
<doc id="43168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43168" title="MyScene">
MyScene

MyScene is a type of doll created by the Mattel Toy Company. They share the product name of Barbie, but they have differences with the head shapes. The line was supposedly started as a rival to the popular Bratz dolls.
The My Scene characters have starred in three DVD movies:

</doc>
<doc id="43170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43170" title="Bora Bora">
Bora Bora

Bora Bora is a small island in the Leeward group of the Society Islands of French Polynesia, an overseas territory of France in the Pacific Ocean. Vaitape is the largest city on the island with 4,000 people. There is an airport on an islet where residents can fly to other islands in French Polynesia.
Bora Bora has one main road which runs around the island.

</doc>
<doc id="43171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43171" title="Appalachian Mountains">
Appalachian Mountains

The Appalachian Mountains (French: les Appalaches) are a large group of North American mountains. They are partly in Canada, but mostly in the United States. They form an area from 100 to 300 miles wide, running 1,500 miles from the island of Newfoundland in Canada to central Alabama in the United States. The individual mountains average around 3,000 ft (900 m) in height. The highest is Mt. Mitchell in North Carolina (6,684 ft or 2,037m). Mt. Mitchell is also the highest point in the United States east of the Mississippi River as well as the highest point in eastern North America.
The Appalachians today are the worn-down remains of a once huge mountain chain. They first formed about 480 million years ago during the Ordovician and once reached heights similar to that of the Alps and the Rocky Mountains. The Appalachian chain is a barrier to east-west travel as ridgelines and valleys run north-south and travelers must climb them again and again. Only a few mountain passes run east-west. The Erie Canal was built through one of them. In most places the Appalacians are the watershed between the drainage basins of the Mississippi River and the Atlantic Ocean.
The term Appalachia is used to refer to regions associated with the mountain range. It refers to the mountain range and the hills and plateau region around it. The term is often used to refer to just areas in the central and southern Appalachian Mountains. These areas usually include parts of the states of Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia, and North Carolina, and sometimes extending as far south as northern Georgia and western South Carolina, as far north as Pennsylvania, and as far west as southeastern Ohio.
The birth of the Appalachian ranges, some 480 million years ago (mya), was the first of several mountain-building plate collisions which made the supercontinent Pangaea. The Appalachians were at the center of the newly formed Pangaea. North America and Africa were connected, and the Appalachians were part of the same mountain chain as the "Anti-Atlas" or Little Atlas Mountains in Morocco. This mountain range, known as the Central Pangean Mountains, extended into Scotland, from the North America/Europe collision (see Caledonian orogeny).

</doc>
<doc id="43172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43172" title="Raven-Symoné">
Raven-Symoné

Raven-Symone Christina Pearman (born December 10, 1985) is an American actress and singer. She was born in Atlanta, Georgia. She moved to Ossining, New York at age three. Symone is most well known as the person Raven in the TV show "That's So Raven" and other parts in "The Cheetah Girls" and "The Cheetah Girls 2". She simply goes by the name Raven for most of her acting.
In August 2013, Raven-Symoné, gives no label to her sexuality, commented on legalizing gay marriage, "I was excited to hear today that more states legalized gay marriage. I, however am not currently getting married, but it is great to know I can now, should I wish to". She was dating AzMarie Livingston since 2012, and in October 2015, she announced that she had broken up with her.

</doc>
<doc id="43182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43182" title="Arabian horse">
Arabian horse

The Arabian horse is a breed famous for beauty and stamina. It is one of the oldest horse breeds in the world. Arabian horses are bred with horses of other breeds to add speed, beauty, endurance, and strong bones. Today, Arabian ancestors are found in almost every breed of riding horse.
The Arabian horse developed in the deserts of Arabia by the Bedouin people. People sometimes brought their horses into family tent for shelter and protection. This close relationship with humans made the Arabian a horse with a kind temper and quick to learn. It also was used as a war horse. This meant that it needed speed and to be very alert. This blend of traits makes it necessary for people today to treat Arabian horses with kindness and respect. 
Arabian horses have triangle-shaped heads, a wide forehead, big eyes, large nostrils, and small muzzles (noses). Most have a concave or "dished" profile. They have a slim, arched neck, smooth hindquarters and a naturally high-carried tail. Arabians have strong bone and good feet. They are especially noted for their excellent endurance. Arabians' hair coat colors are bay, gray, chestnut, and black. Arabians can have robicono and/or sabino genes. All Arabians have black skin under their hair coat, except under white markings. 
The Bedouin sold many Arabian horses to people from Europe. Other Arabian horses were captured in war and taken to other countries outside of the Middle East. Today, Arabian horses are found all over the world. Arabian horse families are now labeled by where their most recent ancestors were bred, such as "Polish," "Spanish," "Crabbet" (from England), "Russian," "Egyptian", and "Domestic" (in the United States). For example, a horse called a "Polish Arabian" is an Arabian horse who has recent ancestors that were bred at farms in Poland, from horses the Polish people bought from the Bedouin in Arabia many centuries ago.
Arabians compete in many places, including horse racing, horse shows, Endurance riding, show jumping, and more. They also make good pleasure, trail, and working ranch horses for people who do not like competitive events. Arabians also are seen in movies, parades, circuses and other places where horses are used.
There are many legends and myths about Arabian horses. One legend says that the prophet Muhammad selected his five finest mares (female horses), called "Al Khamsa" ("the five") to be the foundation of the Arabian breed. Another legend says the Queen of Sheba gave an Arabian mare to King Solomon, and that is how the breed began. Yet another story says Allah made the Arabian horse from the south wind, saying, "I create thee, Oh Arabian...I give thee flight without wings." 
In real history, Arabians are one of the oldest human-developed horse breeds in the world. Pictures of "Proto-Arabian" horses that looked a lot like modern Arabian horses were painted on rocks in the Arabian Peninsula as far back as 2,500 B.C. The ancestors of the Bedouin probably tamed horses not long after they tamed the camel. A horse skeleton was unearthed in the Sinai peninsula, dated to 1700 B.C., and is considered the earliest proof of the horse in Ancient Egypt. It was probably brought by the Hyksos invaders. This horse had a wedge-shaped head, large eye and small muzzle, just like the Arabian horse today.
In the desert, humans were the only source of food and water for the Arabian horse. Where there was no pasture, the Bedouin fed their horses dates, a fruit of the date palm tree, and camel's milk. Arabians needed to live on very little food, and survive a dry climate that was very hot in the day but very cold at night. Weak horses did not live, and the horses who survived the desert also had to survive being ridden for war. Therefore, the Arabian horse became very tough and able to live in a harsh world.
Napoleon rode a gray Arabian stallion named Marengo. George Washington rode a half-Arabian named Blueskin during the American Revolution. A fictional horse, "The Black Stallion," was played by a real Arabian stallion named Cass Ole in the movie that was based on the book by Walter Farley.
In 1864 the Sultan Abdulaziz, founded a new Horse stud with Arabian horses and sent a commission to purchase in Bialocerkiew, the stud of Count Branicki in Poland, whose breeding have a very good reputation. The Commission purchased 92 horses, including some descendants of the 1855 stallion Indjanin imported from England.

</doc>
<doc id="43183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43183" title="Earth's crust">
Earth's crust

The crust is the outer hard layer of the Earth, and is less than 1% of Earth's volume. The crust is made up of different types of rocks; igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks.Below the crust is the mantle. The upper part of the mantle is made up of peridotite, a rock denser than rocks common in the crust. The crust and the upper mantle make up the lithosphere. The lithosphere is broken up into tectonic plates that can move.The crust is of two different types. One is the continental crust (under the land) and the other is oceanic crust (under the ocean). The continental crust is thicker, and the oceanic crust is thinner. Thicknesses of the crust varies from 5–70 km.
The temperature of the crust increases with depth because of geothermal energy. Where the crust meets the mantle the temperatures can be between 200 °C (392 °F) to 400 °C (752 °F). The crust is the coldest layer upon all the layers because it exposed to atmosphere . 
A single family of silicates, the feldspars, account for about half of the material in the crust (60% by weight). and quartz is a sizeable proportion of the rest. Other common minerals are mica and hornblende.
Only 8% of the Earth's crust is non-silicate minerals, and this includes carbonates, sulfides, chlorides and oxides.
Igneous rocks make up over 90% of the Earth's crust by volume. This is not noticed because they are mostly covered by sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
The Earth's mantle and crust formed about 100 million years after the formation of the planet, about 4.6 billion years ago. At first the crust was very thin, and was probably changed often as the tectonic plates shifted around a lot more than they do now. The crust would have been destroyed many times by asteroids hitting the Earth, which were much more common in the Late Heavy Bombardment.
The oldest oceanic basalt crust today is only about 200 million years. Most of the continental crust is much older. The oldest continental crustal rocks on Earth are between 3.7 to 4.28 billion years old. These have been found in the Narryer Gneiss Terrane in Western Australia, in the Acasta Gneiss in the Northwest Territories on the Canadian Shield, and on the Fennoscandian Shield. A few zircons at least 4.3 billion years old have been found in the Narryer Gneiss Terrane. 
The average age of the current Earth's continental crust has been estimated to be about 2.0 billion years. Most crustal rocks formed before 2.5 billion years ago are in cratons. Such old continental crust and the mantle below it are less dense than other places in the earth. These are not easily destroyed when the plates shift. The making of new continental crust is linked to times of major orogeny or mountain building. This happens at the same time as the formation of the supercontinents such as Rodinia, Pangaea and Gondwana. The crust forms in part by the coming together of island arcs including granite and metamorphic fold belts. They are kept together partly by the using up of the mantle below the crust, which makes a mantle on which the crust can float.

</doc>
<doc id="43184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43184" title="Food chain">
Food chain

A food chain shows the feeding relationship between different living things in a particular environment or habitat. Plants are the bottom of a food chain because they are autotrophs that make their food from the non-living environment. Organisms that can make their own food are called producers. Consumers are animals that eat producers or other animals. The animal that eats the producer is called the primary consumer. The animal that eats the primary consumer is called a secondary consumer. The animal that eats the secondary consumer is called a third order consumer and so on to fourth, fifth, etc. The direction of arrows between the organisms shows who eats what.
Also, a food chain represents a series of events in which food and energy are transferred from one organism in an ecosystem to another. Food chains show how energy is passed from the sun to producers, from producers to consumers, and from consumers to decomposers. They also show how animals depend on other organisms for food.
In any ecosystem, many food chains overlap. Different food chains may include some of the same organisms. Several consumers may eat the same kind of plant or animal for food. When this happens, the food chain forms a food web. A food web shows how food chains are related within an ecosystem.

</doc>
<doc id="43188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43188" title="Embryology">
Embryology

Embryology is the study of embryos and their development. The study of embryology starts with the fertilisation of an egg, and continues until the foetus stage. A broader term, developmental biology, covers the whole period of growth from the egg to adult life. 
In mammals (and some other animals) embryos develop inside the mother, in the mother's womb. Otherwise it takes place after the egg is laid. It most animals, there are various stages between the egg and the adult animal. If the stages are well-defined the process is called metamorphosis. 

</doc>
<doc id="43191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43191" title="Histology">
Histology

Histology is the study of the microscopic anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals, particularly the tissues. It is a part of cytology, and an essential tool of biology and medicine.
Histology is usually done by looking at cells and tissues under a light microscope or electron microscope. The tissue has to be specially prepared beforehand.
The stages below are only described in outline. Laboratories which do histology work from schedules which are much more detailed.
Chemical fixatives are used to preserve tissue from decay. This preserves the structure of the cell and of sub-cellular components such as cell organelles (e.g., nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria). The most common fixative for light microscopy is formalin (4% formaldehyde in saline).
After fixing, the block of tissue is embedded in paraffin wax. This holds and preserves the tissue as a block.
The section is cut into a series of wafer-thin slices, each of which is put on a glass microscope slide. The machine which cuts the block is a mechanical guillotine which can be set to cut at a suitable depth for the tissue in question. 
Stains are dyes, chemicals used to make cells and tissues easy to see under a microscope. There are many tissue stains, and each of them has advantages and disadvantages.
This is the most widely used stain in biology and medicine. Haematoxylin colours cell nuclei and eosin colours cell cytoplasm.
Camillo Golgi developed a silver nitrate stain for nerve cells. His idea was used by Santiago Ramón y Cajal in his famous work on the structure of brain tissue.
Electron microscopy is used often as well as light microscopy. This has its own procedures. Its advantage is that it resolves things which light cannot resolve. For example, viruses were first seen by electron microscopy..
Specialised selective stains using immunology or radioactive labelling are now routine. The advantage of using antibodies or radioactive labels is that they stick to "specific kinds of molecules". 
Increasingly popular is tagging with a fluorescent stain, which shows up even if a tiny part of a cell is stained. Immunoinfluorescence is the name of this particular technique.

</doc>
<doc id="43192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43192" title="Ann Arbor, Michigan">
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Ann Arbor is a city in the US state of Michigan. It is the county seat of Washtenaw County. According to the 2010 United States Census, Ann Arbor was the 6th largest city in Michigan. In 2010, there were 113,934 people living there. The city is part of the Detroit Metropolitan Combined Statistial Area.
Ann Arbor was started in 1824. It is thought that the city is named after the wife, Ann, of one of the founders. The University of Michigan was moved to Ann Arbor in 1837. (Before that, the University had been in Detroit.) The city grew during the 1800s and 1900s. The only time the city did not grow was the Depression of 1873. 
During the 1960s and 1970s, Ann Arbor was an important place for the Civil Rights Movement, the anti-Vietnam War movement, and for left-wing and liberal politics.
Today, Ann Arbor is home to the University of Michigan. The University is very important to the city because 30,000 people work for it. 12,000 of these workers work for the University of Michigan Health System, which are hospitals and clinics run by the University. Ann Arbor's economy is also very high-tech. High-tech companies come to the area because there are many graduates and a lot of research and development money at the University.

</doc>
<doc id="43194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43194" title="Microbiology">
Microbiology

Microbiology - (Greek μικρός, mikrós, „tiny“, βίος, bíos, „life“ and λόγος, lógos, „science“) is a science in the composition of biology, which is occupied by the study of microorganisms (bacterium, (archaebacteria), microscopic fungi, protozoa,alga,and viruses). Into the field of the interests of microbiology enter their systematics, morphology, physiology, biochemistry, evolution, role in the ecosystems 
and also the possibility of practical use. Bacteriology is a division of microbiology.
In 1665, Robert Hooke saw that cork was made up of little cubes that he named cells. Later Anton van Leeuwenhoek made the important connection that cells are living things when he saw through his early microscope smallest one celled organisms. Later Christian Ehrenberg found that protista or bacteria were different kinds of cells. In the late part of the 1800s Martinus Beijerinck showed that there were small particles called viruses. Another important change in the study of microorganisms came from the discovery of DNA and RNA, because now it is possible to change the inside of a cell without killing it using a vector. One of the most recent discoveries that has changed the study of microbiology is the discovery of transposons or jumping genes. Another one is the discovery of animal genes in the cells.

</doc>
<doc id="43195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43195" title="Transposon">
Transposon

A transposon is a sequence of DNA that can move to new positions within the genome of a single cell. The press called them jumping genes, but it is not correct to call them 'genes'.
Transposons were first found by Barbara McClintock while working on maize. She received a Nobel Prize for her work in 1983.
Transposition can create significant mutations and alter the cell's genome size.
Transposons are only one of several types of mobile genetic elements.
Transposons themselves are of two types according to their mechanism, which can be either "copy and paste" (class I) or "cut and paste" (class II).
Class I (Retrotransposons):
They copy themselves in two stages, first from DNA to RNA by transcription, then from RNA back to DNA by reverse transcription. The DNA copy is then inserted into the genome in a new position. Retrotransposons behave very similarly to retroviruses, such as HIV. 
Class II (DNA transposons):
By contrast, the cut-and-paste transposition mechanisms of class II transposons do not involve an RNA intermediate.
Transposons are mutagens. They can damage the genome of their host cell in different ways:
Transposons can carry accessory genes, such as antibiotic resistance genes. They can be used to put a gene into the DNA of an organism. This has been done with fruit flies ("Drosophila melanogaster") by putting the transposon into the embryo.
Transposons are found in many forms of life. They may have arisen independently many times, or perhaps just once and then spread to other kingdoms by horizontal gene transfer. 
While some transposons may confer benefits on their hosts, most are regarded as selfish DNA parasites. In this way, they are similar to viruses. Various viruses and transposons also share features in their genome structures and biochemical abilities, leading to speculation that they share a common ancestor.
Excessive transposon activity can destroy a genome, which is lethal. Many organisms have developed mechanisms to inhibit them. Bacteria may use gene deletion to remove transposons and viruses from their genomes while eukaryotic organisms use RNA interference (RNAi) to inhibit transposon activity.
In vertebrate animal cells nearly all the 100,000+ DNA transposons in a genome code for inactive polypeptides. In humans, all of the Class I-like transposons are inactive. The first DNA transposon used as a tool for genetic purposes, the Sleeping Beauty transposon system, was a transposon which was resurrected from a long evolutionary sleep.
Transposons may have been co-opted by the vertebrate immune system as a means of producing antibody diversity: The V(D)J recombination system operates by a mechanism similar to that of transposons. This is a system of three genes which get rearranged in the production of vertebrate lymphocytes. The system diversely encode proteins to match antigens from bacteria, viruses, parasites, dysfunctional cells such as tumor cells, and pollens. 
The final DNA sequence, and thus the sequence of the antibody, is highly variable, even when the same two V, D, or J segments are joined. This great diversity allows VDJ recombination to generate antibodies even to microbes that neither the organism nor its ancestors have ever previously encountered.

</doc>
<doc id="43199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43199" title="Toowoomba, Queensland">
Toowoomba, Queensland

Toowoomba (also called 'Garden City' by people who live there) is a city in South East Queensland, Australia. It is 132 km west of Brisbane, and two hours drive from the Gold Coast and Sunshine Coast beaches. About 115,000 people live there, which makes Toowoomba Australia's second largest city that is not on the coast, after Canberra.
Every year in September, Toowoomba holds its annual Flower Festival. When this is taking place, the town, especially its CBD are decorated with flowers. People who live there may also open their gardens for public judging for the garden competitions. Another attraction is the parade, where one would see floats with flower themes. Many people from all over the nation visit the festival, and a popular way to arrive is on the specially operating retired steam train.
Another major event held in Toowoomba is the Easterfest. It is a large religious festival that thousands of people come to, to see many famous singers perform. Many put up tents on in Queens Park.
Toowoomba is also known for its historical buildings, such as the town hall, The Empire Theatre, and the Cobb & Co Museum. The town hall was the first in Queensland to be built for a town hall. The Empire Theatre was built as a silent movie house in 1911. A fire nearly destroyed the building, but it was built again, and reopened in 1933. Now, it is the biggest regional theatre in Australia. The Cobb & Co Museum began in the 1880s as a small mail run. It moved both mail and passengers to Brisbane and further.
Toowoomba is also home to some notable private schools, including Toowoomba Grammar School (which is a GPS school), Downlands College, and The Glenny School, none of which are 'co-educational'.
During the 2010-2011 Queensland floods, several people were drowned in their cars when water flooded the main shopping centre.

</doc>
<doc id="43200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43200" title="Albury, New South Wales">
Albury, New South Wales

Albury is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Hume Highway that runs between Sydney and Melbourne. The Murray River separates Albury from Wodonga. Albury is on the north side of the Murray River. The river is also the border between Victoria and New South Wales. It is about 550 km from the state capital Sydney, but only 312 km from the Victorian capital Melbourne. Albury is believed to have been named after Aldbury in Hertfordshire.
The Australian Aboriginal people called the area Bungambrewatha. There are a number of historical aboriginal sites including rock paintings. There are also scarred trees, where the bark has been removed to make shields and canoes. The rich river flats would have provided food for native animals, and the wetlands would have been home to large numbers of water birds.
The first Europens to arrive in the area were the explorers, Hamilton Hume and William Hovell in 1824. They made their mark in a tree on the riverbank which later became the spot where people heading south would cross the river. Crossing the river was easy in summer when the water level was low. By 1844 a ferry was built to carry people over the river all year. There were soon many farmers moving into the area with large flocks of sheep. Some of the first in Albury were William Wyse and Charles Ebden.

</doc>
<doc id="43205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43205" title="Francisco de Goya">
Francisco de Goya

Francisco de Goya y Lucentes (30 March 1746 – 30 April 1828) was a Spanish painter. He painted many portraits of the Spanish Royal Family. His most famous paintings are "Charles IV of Spain and His Family" and "The Third of May 1808".He regularly painted the famous Duchess of Alba. 
Goya was born in Fuendetodos, in the region of Aragón, Spain, in 1746. His parents were José Benito de Goya y Franque and Gracia de Lucientes y Salvador. He spent his childhood in Fuendetodos. His father's work was gilding (putting gold onto picture frames). In about 1749, the family moved to a house in the city of Zaragoza. Goya went to school at Escuelas Pias. He became best friends with Martin Zapater. Through their lives, they wrote many letters to each other. Because of these letters, historians know a lot about Goya's life. When he was 14 Goya became an apprentice to the painter José Luzán.
Goya later moved to Madrid where he studied with Anton Raphael Mengs, a painter who was popular with Spanish royalty. Goya and Mengs did not like each other, and Goya got bad marks in his examinations. Goya tried to join the Spanish Royal Academy of Fine Art in 1763 and 1766, but failed.
He then traveled to Rome. In 1771 he won second prize in a painting competition in the city of Parma. Later that year, he returned to Zaragoza. He got work painting frescos in several buildings including the dome of the Basilica of the Pillar. He studied with the painter Francisco Bayeu y Subías. His painting began to show the style which later made his famous. 
Goya married Bayeu's sister, Josefa, in 1774. Francisco Bayeu was a member of the Spanish Royal Academy of Fine Art. This helped Goya to get work with the Royal Tapestry Workshop. He worked there for 5 years, and designed 42 patterns. Many of his designs were made into tapestries and used to decorate the bare stone walls of the royal palaces, such as El Escorial. The Spanish Royal family saw his works and later gave him work as a portrait painter. He also painted an altarpiece (Holy picture) for the Church of San Francisco El Grande. Because of this picture, Goya was at last made a member of the Spanish Royal Academy of Fine Art.
In 1783, the Count of Floridablanca, commissioned Goya (gave Goya the paid work) to paint his portrait. Then King Charles III of Spain and other important people wanted Goya to paint their portraits. Goya became friends with Crown Prince Don Luis, and lived in his house. From 1788, in the reign of Charles IV, Goya became even more popular.
In the 1790s Goya became ill. It is not known exactly what his illness was. It is believed that he suffered mental breakdown. He may have had viral encephalitis or several strokes. He may have suffered from dementia. It is also thought that he may have been poisoned by lead paint. His sight, hearing, balance and mental health were all affected. From the 1790s onwards he began to paint pictures showing sad, violent subjects. His unhappiness was also affected by the French invasion of Spain in 1808. One of his most famous paintings, "The Third of May 1808", is about the execution of Spanish men trying to defend their country. 
After the defeat of the French, Goya did not get on well with King Ferdinand VII. Goya moved to a house far away from the court. He lived there with his housekeeper and her daughter, and taught painting to the girl, Rosario Weiss. Some of the walls of the house are painted with strange dark pictures, but it is not sure whether Goya did them. For two years Goya lived in France but returned to Spain where he was warmly welcomed home in 1826, He died in 1828 at the age of 82.
Goya's early cartoons for the royal tapestries are merry scenes of festivals in bright colours. 
Goya painted portraits of many famous people, including the Duke of Wellington. His paintings of the Royal Family of Charles IV of Spain and Ferdinand VII show them looking like very ordinary people, not like proud nobility. Queen Maria Luisa was delighted with the large portrait that he did of her family in 1800, even though a French writer Théophile Gautier said that Goya made them look "like the corner baker and his wife after they had won the lottery".
Two of Goya's most famous paintings were owned by a member of the royal court, Manuel de Godoy. These two paintings are called "The Nude Maja" ("La maja desnuda") and "The Clothed Maja" ("La maja vestida"). The nude painting was thought of as very shocking. In 1813, the Inquisition said that both paintings were pornography and took them away. They were returned to Goya in 1836. Nobody knows who the woman was that posed for Goya. One idea is that she was the Duchess of Alba. She may have been Godoy's mistress. Perhaps Goya painted the figure from his imagination. There is only one earlier nude painting by a Spanish artist, Velazquez's "Venus and Cupid", (see National Gallery, London). When this painting was done, other nude figures, painted in Italy, Germany and other countries, always showed the woman as a goddess from mythology or had some other "allegorical" meaning (was a symbol of some sort). This painting is unusual because the nude figure is not meant to be a Goddess and does not seem to have any symbolic meaning. It is the very first life-sized female nude in Western Painting that is just about the beauty of the female body.
 In 1793 and 1794 Goya was recovering from his illness. During this time, he painted eleven small pictures painted on tin. These pictures are known as "Fantasy and Invention" today. They show a change in his art. From that time on, he painted dark, frightening pictures about war, violence and madness. 
One painting is called "Courtyard with Lunatics". It is a scene in a mental asylum. It is about loneliness and fear. It shows how mentally ill people have trouble dealing with other people and normal life. Goya was the first artist to paint people with mental illness in a realistic way. Goya wanted to show that it was wrong to punish mentally ill people, and lock them up with criminals. There was a movement at this time to improve the life of people in asylums and prisons.
Goya made two series of prints. The first was called "Caprichos" and the second was called "The Disasters of War". The "Caprichos" series shows nightmarish scenes of the problems with Spanish society. "The Disaster of War" shows scenes of terrible violence. These were not published until more than 30 years after his death. "The Disaster of War" were made because of the war between France and Spain. One of Goya's most famous paintings is a large picture called "The Third of May 1808".(see above) It is about the executions of Spanish men that took place in 1808. This painting shows the courage of the unarmed Spanish hero. It shows the French soldiers in the firing squad acting as if they have no minds or feelings. This painting was a great inspiration to other painters such as the French painter Manet who painted a scene of the execution of the Governor of Mexico. 
Goya's most frightening picture shows a giant man, eating people. It is now called "Saturn Devouring His Sons", (after Saturn the Father of the Gods in Greek mythology) but no-one knows what it really means. It is more likely a picture of the way that War destroys people. In the house that Goya owned, there are paintings on the walls known as the "Black Paintings". They show scenes with the Devil and witches. It is not sure whether Goya really painted them. 
Goya's brightly coloured tapestry cartoons influenced the French Impressionist painters such as Monet and Renoir. His portraits were an influence on Manet and Degas as well as Renoir. The "Black Paintings" influenced Expressionist painters.

</doc>
<doc id="43209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43209" title="Inclusive disjunction">
Inclusive disjunction

Inclusive disjunction (also called or) is a Logic operation. It normally takes two inputs. It is false when both inputs are false. Otherwise it is true.
This is different from the exclusive disjunction.

</doc>
<doc id="43210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43210" title="Logical conjunction">
Logical conjunction

Logical conjunction (very often called and) is a Logic operation. Logical conjunction shows a true/false value ("output"). Whether it is true or false depends on two other true/false values ("inputs"). If both of the inputs are "true" at the same time, then logical conjunction outputs "true." If one of the inputs is false, or if both of the inputs are false, then logical conjunction outputs "false." Its logic gate equivalent is the AND gate.

</doc>
<doc id="43211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43211" title="Logical negation">
Logical negation

Logical negation (also known as not) is a logic operation. It takes one input. It flips the value of the input as the output. If the input was true, it returns false. If the input was false, it returns true.
The ASCII cote is ATL+170

</doc>
<doc id="43212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43212" title="Logic equality">
Logic equality

Logical equality is a logical operation. It takes two inputs. It returns true, if either both inputs are true, or both inputs are false. Otherwise (when they are different) it returns false.

</doc>
<doc id="43213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43213" title="Implication (logic)">
Implication (logic)

Implication (also known as logical consequence,implies, or If ... then) is a logical operation. It is the relationship between statements that holds true when one logically "follows from" one or more others. 
Implications take two arguments. It returns false if and only if the first term is true and the second term is false.
This may be problematic, because it means that from a false proposition, anything can follow.
The following shows a (valid) implication
Now look at the implications "I promise that if I am healthy, I will come to class". There are four possibilities:
In the second scenario, the implication promised was false and the promise was broken.

</doc>
<doc id="43215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43215" title="Hellenistic art">
Hellenistic art

The art of the Hellenistic time (400 B.C. to 0 B.C, a long time in the past, in Greece) is sculpture and painting and other things. For a long time, people said that the art of that time was not good. Pliny the Elder talked about the Greek sculpture of the classical time (500 B.C. - 323 B.C., the time before the Hellenistic time) and then said "Cessavit deinde ars" ("then art stopped"). But much good art is from the Hellenistic time. Many people know about the sculptures Laocoön (in the picture) and Venus de Milo and Winged Victory of Samothrace.
Now more people have looked at writing about the Hellenistic time. People discovered art from the Hellenistic time at Vergina and other places. Now people can see that the art of the Hellenistic time is very good art.
One of the things that made the Hellenistic time different from other times was the division of Alexander the Great's country into smaller parts. In every part there was a family of leaders. The Ptolemies had Egypt; the Seleucids had Mesopotamia, the Attalids had Pergamon, and other leaders had other parts. Every family of leaders gave money for art in a way that was different from the way the city-states did it. They made big cities and complex groups of buildings in a way that most city-states had already stopped doing by 500 BC. This way of making buildings was new for Greece. This way was not to try to change or fix a natural place, but to make the buildings fit the natural place. There were many places for pleasure, for example many theatres and places to walk. The Hellenistic countries were lucky because they had much empty space where they could make big new cities. Some of their new cities were Antioch, Pergamon, and Seleucia on the Tigris.
Pergamon is a very good example of Hellenistic architecture. It started with a simple fortress on the Acropolis (a very big rock).
Different Attalid kings added to it and made a huge group of buildings. The buildings stretch out from the Acropolis in many directions, using the natural way of that part of the earth. The agora, on the south on the lowest level, has galleries along its sides, with "stoai" (beautiful tall stone things to hold up the roof.) The agora is the beginning of a street which goes through the whole Acropolis. On the east and top of the rock are the buildings of the organizers, leaders and soldiers. On the west side, at a middle level, are religious buildings. One of the biggest ones is the one with the Pergamon Altar which is called "of the gods and of the giants" and is one of the most beautiful pieces of Greek sculpture. A very big theatre has benches stretched out over the sides of the hill, for people to sit on, and is able to hold almost 10,000 people.
At that time they liked to make very big things. The second temple of Apollo at Didyma was like that. It was twenty kilometers from Miletus in Ionia. Daphnis of Miletus made the design for it at the end of the fourth century B.C. (about 300 B.C.) but it was never finished. They continued building it until the 2nd century A.D. (past 100 A.D.). The sanctuary (special part of the temple) is one of the largest ever made near the Mediterranean. Inside a very big room, the "cella" has two rows of columns (tall round things) around it. The columns are the Ionic kind, almost 20 metres tall, with much complex stone art on the bases and tops.
Hellenistic sculpture includes portraits which show things such as suffering, sleep or old age. 
Attalus I (269-197 BC), to commemorate his victory at Caicus against the Gauls — called Galatians by the Greeks — had two series of votive groups sculpted: the first, consecrated on the Acropolis of Pergamon, includes the famous Gaul killing himself and his wife, of which the original is lost (the best copy is in the Massimo alle Terme museum of Rome, see illustration); the second group, offered to Athens, is composed of small bronzes of Greeks, Amazons, gods and giants, Persians and Gauls. Artemis Rospigliosi of the Louvre is probably a copy of one of them; as for copies of the Dying Gaul, they were very numerous in the Roman period. The expression of sentiments, the forcefulness of details — bushy hair and moustaches here — and the violence of the movements are characteristic of the Pergamene style.
These characteristics are pushed to their peak in the friezes of the Great Altar of Pergamon, decorated under the order of Eumenes II (197-159 BC) with a gigantomachy stretching 110 metres in length, illustrating in the stone a poem composed especially for the court. The Olympians triumph in it, each on his side, over Giants most of which are transformed into savage beasts: serpents, birds of prey, lions or bulls. Their mother Gaia, come to their aid, can do nothing and must watch them twist in pain under the blows of the gods.
Another phenomenon appears in Hellenistic sculpture: privatization, which involves the recapture of older public patterns in decorative sculpture. This type of retrospective style also exists in ceramics. As for the portraits, they are tinged with naturalism, under the influence of Roman art.
Few Greek wall paintings have survived the centuries. However, we can study the Hellenistic influences in Roman frescoes, for example those of Pompeii or Herculaneum. Certain mosaics provide a pretty good idea of the "grand painting" of the period: these are copies of frescoes. An example is the Alexander Mosaic, showing the confrontation of the young conqueror and the Grand King Darius III at the Battle of Issus, a mosaic which adorns the walls of the House of the Faun at Pompeii. It is believed to be a copy of a work described by Pliny the Elder (XXXV, 110) which had been painted by Philoxenus of Eretria for King Cassander of Macedon at the end of the 4th century BC. The mosaic allows us to admire the choice of colours, the composition of the ensemble with turning movement and facial expressivity.
Archeological discoveries at the cemetery of Pagasae (close to modern Volos), at the edge of the Pagasetic Gulf, or again at Vergina (1987), in the former kingdom of Macedonia, have brought to light some original works. For example, the tomb said to be that of Philip II has provided a great frieze representing a royal lion hunt, remarkable by its composition, the arrangement of the figures in space and its realistic representation of nature.
The Hellenistic period is equally the time of development of the mosaic, particularly with the works of Sosos of Pergamon, active in the 2nd century BC and the only mosaic artist cited by Pliny (XXXVI, 184). His taste for
trompe l'oeil (optical illusion) and the effects of the medium are found in several works attributed to him such as the "Unswept Floor" in the Vatican museum, representing the leftovers of a repast (fish bones, bones, empty shells, etc.) and the "Dove Basin" at the Capitoline Museum, known by means of a reproduction discovered in Hadrian's Villa. In it one sees four doves perched on the edge of a basin filled with water. One of them is watering herself while the others seem to be resting, which creates effects of reflections and shadow perfectly studied by the artist.
The Hellenistic period is that of the decline of painting on vases. The most common vases are black and uniform, with a shiny appearance approaching that of varnish, decorated with simple motifs of flowers or festoons. It is also the period when vases in relief appeared, doubtless in imitation of vases made of precious metals: wreaths in relief were applied to the body of the vase, or again the one shown here received veins or gadroons. One finds also more complex relief, based on animals or mythological creatures. The shapes of the vases are also inspired by the tradition of metal: thus with the lagynos (pictured here), a wine jar typical of the period.
In parallel there subsisted a tradition of polychromatic figurative painting: the artists sought a greater variety of tints than in the past. However, these newer colours are more delicate and do not support heat. The painting occurred therefore after firing, contrary to the traditional practice. The fragility of the pigments preventing frequent use of these vases, they were reserved for use in funerals.
The most representative copies of this style come from Centuripe in Sicily, where a workshop was active until the 3rd century B.C. These vases are characterized by a base painted pink. The figures, often female, are represented in coloured clothing: blue-violet chiton, yellow himation, white veil. The style is reminiscent of Pompei and is situated much more on the side of the grand contemporary paintings than on the heritage of the red-figure pottery.
Progress in bronze casting made it possible for the Greeks to create large works, such as the Colossus of Rhodes, with a height of 32 meters. Many of the large bronze statues were lost - with the majority being melted to recover the material. Because of this, only the smaller objects still exist. Fortunately, during Hellenistic Greece, the raw materials were plentiful following eastern conquests.
The work on metal vases took on a new fullness: the artists competed among themselves with great virtuosity. At Panagyurishte (now in Bulgaria), skilfully sculpted gold vases have been found: on an amphora, two rearing centaurs form the handles. In Derveni, not far from Salonica, a tomb has provided a great krater with bronze volutes dating from approximately 320 BC and weighing 40 kilograms (Derveni krater).
It is decorated with a 32-centimetre-tall frieze of figures in relief representing Dionysus surrounded by Ariadne and her procession of satyrs and maenads.
The neck is decorated with ornamental motifs while four satyrs in high relief are casually seated on the shoulders of the vase. The evolution is similar for the art of jewellery. The jewellers of the time excelled at handling details and filigrees: thus, the funeral wreaths present very realistic leaves of trees or stalks of wheat. In this period the insetting of precious stones flourished.
The figurines were equally fashionable. They represented divinities as well as subjects from contemporary life. Thus emerged the theme of the "negro", particularly in Ptolemaic Egypt: these statuettes of Black adolescents were successful up to the Roman period. Sometimes, they were reduced to echoing a form from the great sculptures: thus one finds numerous copies in miniature of the Tyche (good luck) of Antioch, of which the original dates to the beginning of the 3rd century BC.
Previously reserved for religious use, in Hellenistic Greece the Greek terracotta figurine was more frequently used for funerary, and even decorative, purposes. The refinement of molding techniques made it possible to create true miniature statues, with a high level of detail.
In Tanagra, in Boeotia, the figurines, full of lively colours, most often represent elegant women in scenes full of charm. At Smyrna, in Asia Minor, two major styles occurred side-by-side: first of all, copies of masterpieces of great sculpture, such as Farnese Hercules in gilt terra cotta. In a completely different genre, there are the "grotesques", which contrast violently with the canons of "Greek beauty": the "koroplathos" (figurine maker) fashions deformed bodies in tortuous poses — hunchbacks, epileptics, hydrocephalics, obese women, etc. One could therefore wonder whether these were medical models, the town of Smyrna being reputed for its medical school. Or they could simply be caricatures, designed to provoke laughter. The "grotesques" are equally common at Tarsus and also at Alexandria.
It was in the Hellenistic period that the Greeks, who until then only knew molded glass, discovered the technique of glass blowing, thus permitting new forms. The art of glass developed especially in Italy. Molded glass continued, notably in the creation of intaglio jewelry.
The art of engraving on gems hardly advanced at all, limiting itself to mass-produced items that lacked originality. As compensation, the cameo made its appearance. It concerns cutting in relief on a stone composed of several colored layers, allowing the object to be presented in relief through the effects of color. After that it is mounted on a pendant or as a ring. The Hellenistic period produced some masterpieces like the Gonzaga cameo, now preserved at the Hermitage Museum.

</doc>
<doc id="43216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43216" title="Interest">
Interest

Interest is the cost for borrowing money or the payment for lending money. Usually, this is fixed as a percentage of the amount of money borrowed (which is called "interest rate").
If the interest charged on $100 is 1 percent per year then every year the borrower must pay $1. If the $1 is not added to the amount owed then the borrower is paying simple interest. If simple interest of 1 percent is paid each year at the end of 100 years the borrower would have paid $100 in interest, $1 each year, and would still owe $100. If the $1 is added to the $100 the amount owed will increase to $101. 1 percent interest on $101 will be more than $1. This is called compound interest. Compound interest will cause the amount to grow each year. As the amount grows larger more is paid as interest each year and added to the total. If compound interest of 1 percent is paid on a loan of $100 each year the amount of interest paid will slightly increase and after 70 years the amount owed will have grown to $200 and the interest payment will have increased to $2.
1 percent compound interest on $100 will cause the amount to double to $200 in about 70 years. That is called the rule of 72 which can be used to figure out how fast something grows. The rule can be used to figure out how fast anything that always grows at the same rate will double in size. Suppose a kangaroo grows 10 percent a year; dividing 10 into 70 gives 7, so the kangaroo will double in size in 7 years. If the kangaroo grew 7 percent a year it would take 10 years for its size to double. If it only grew 2 percent it would take 35 years for its size to double.
At some times in the past, or in some places today, it has been illegal to make a person pay interest on a loan. It was, or is, against some religious rules. If the interest that a person must pay is too high, this is called usury. This is often illegal today, even when lower interest is legal.
Interest can also be the care or concern that someone has for something or someone. If someone cares about something, they "have an interest" in that thing, or they "find it interesting". If something is beautiful, or funny, or new, that might make the thing interesting. However, a very important concern, for example love or hate, is more than an interest. An interest can also be a task that someone likes to do or watch, like a game or a hobby.
If someone has a legal right to something (usually money or property) they have an interest in that thing. This is also true for someone who shares a right with others, or a person who has a future right to something. For example, if some brothers and sisters will be given a house after their parents die, each of them "has a financial interest" in the house, even if the parents are still living.

</doc>
<doc id="43217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43217" title="Newcastle, New South Wales">
Newcastle, New South Wales

Newcastle is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is also the second oldest city in Australia. Newcastle is 160km north of Sydney, and is the largest coal-harbour in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="43219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43219" title="Era">
Era

An era in geology is a time of several hundred million years. It describes a long series of rock strata which geologists decide should be given a name. An example is the Mesozoic era, when dinosaurs lived on the Earth. 
An era is made up of periods, and several eras make up an eon. The Phanerozoic eon started about 541 million years ago (mya). It is made up of the Paleozoic era (from the Greek for "oldest life"), the Mesozoic era ("middle life") and the Cainozoic era ("latest life").

</doc>
<doc id="43220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43220" title="Drowning">
Drowning

Drowning means dying from not being able to breathe in air and breathing in water or another liquid.
Near drowning is the survival of drowning where the person passes out or breathes in water, and can cause serious problems, including death, after the event. That means that near drowning can also need attention by doctors.
Secondary drowning is death caused by chemical or biological changes in the lungs after a near drowning incident.
In many countries, drowning is one of the biggest causes of death for children under 14 years old. Children have drowned in wading pools and even bath tubs. Many people drown in countries where there is a lot of water, especially if they swim in dangerous waters. For example, in the United Kingdom there are about 450 drownings each year (that is: 1 per 150,000 of its people), and in the United States there are about 6,500 drownings (or around 1 per 50,000 of its people). Drowning related injuries are the fifth most likely cause of accidental death in the US. In some places, drowning is the second most likely cause of injury and death for children. Victims are more likely to be male, young or teenage. Surveys say that 10% of children under 5 have been through a situation where they could have drowned. 

</doc>
<doc id="43222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43222" title="Schrödinger's cat">
Schrödinger's cat

Schrödinger's cat is a thought experiment about quantum physics. Erwin Schrödinger suggested it in 1935, in reaction to the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum physics. 
Schrödinger wrote:
In simple terms, Schrödinger stated that if you place a cat and something that could kill the cat (a radioactive atom) in a box and sealed it, you would not know if the cat was dead or alive until you opened the box, so that until the box was opened, the cat was (in a sense) "both" "dead and alive". This is used to represent how scientific theory works. No one knows if any scientific theory is right or wrong until said theory can be tested and proved.
Physics can be divided into two types; classic physics and quantum mechanics. Classic physics explains most physical interactions, like why a ball bounces when it drops. It can also be used to predict physical interactions, like what will happen when you drop a ball. However, there are some physical interactions which it does not explain; for instance, how light can be turned into electricity. Quantum mechanics provides a way for physicists to explain why these things happen. 
The Copenhagen interpretation is used to explain what is happening to the smallest part of an atom (a sub atomic particle) without looking at it (observing it or measuring it). Mathematics are used to show how likely something is to happen to the particle. A particle could be described as being 50% likely to be in one place at one time, or 50% likely to be in one place at another time. This could also be expressed as a chart (or wave form). This is very convenient when making quantum physics calculations. 
However the only way to be 100% sure of where a particle is, is to observe it. Up until the point that you observe it, the Copenhagen Interpretation says that the particle is there and is not there. It is only when you observe the particle that you know if it's there or not there. 
While this makes sense in quantum physics, it does not make sense in classical (real world) physics. 
Schrödinger wanted to show that this way of thinking about quantum mechanics would lead to absurd situations.He designed a thought experiment. 
"A cat is placed in a room that is separated from the outside world. "
"A Geiger counter which counts the amount of radioactive decay and a little bit of a radioactive element are in the room. "
"Within one hour, one of the atoms of the radioactive material might decay (or break down because the material is not stable), or it may not. "
"If the material breaks down, it will release an atomic particle, which will hit the geiger counter, which will release poison gas, which will kill the cat."
The question now is: at the end of the hour, is the cat alive or dead? Schrödinger says that according to the Copenhagen Interpretation, as long as the door is closed, the cat is dead and alive. There is no way to know until the door is opened. But by opening the door, the person is interfering with the experiment. The person and the experiment have to be described with reference to each other.
By "looking" at the experiment the person has influenced the experiment. 
The thought experiment was invented by Schrödinger to demonstrate the foolishness of thinking about quantum states for large objects. It has also been referenced many times in pop culture.

</doc>
<doc id="43224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43224" title="Wollongong, New South Wales">
Wollongong, New South Wales

Wollongong is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is on the eastern coast of Australia, , just over one hour from the south of Sydney and 2.5 hours from Canberra. It is the third largest city in New South Wales, after Sydney and Newcastle.

</doc>
<doc id="43225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43225" title="Yule">
Yule

Yuletide is a pagan holiday also known as the Winter solstice. Generally celebrated by Wiccans and Northern European Christians. "Yuletide" celebrates the birth of the Sun and also celebrates the "Mother" at the height of her "Greatness". 
Pagans celebrate Yuletide in many ways, most will decorate a "Yuletide" tree, keep it in their homes until most of the leaves fall off then burn the Yule log. Many Wiccans will decorate their alters with Yule colours and items and generally just honour the Goddess.
The Christian holiday, Christmas, was created by the Christian Romans based around the polytheistic (many Gods) Sun God festival (Sol Invictis) on the winter solstice, and people in northern Europe combined it with their Yule festival. Yule is celebrated on the 25th of December by most Northern Europeans and the 21st of December, by Wiccans and many non religious groups. For them, Yule is celebrated as the longest night of the year. It is the night when the sun sets earliest and rises latest the next day. The Wiccan ritual includes thanking the Goddess for the past year and asking for a happiness in the year to come.

</doc>
<doc id="43229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43229" title="List of cities in Australia">
List of cities in Australia

This is a list of cities in Australia sorted by state.

</doc>
<doc id="43233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43233" title="Warrnambool, Victoria">
Warrnambool, Victoria

Warrnambool is a city on the south-western coast of Victoria, Australia. About 32,000 people live in the city. It is at the western end of the Great Ocean Road. It is also on the Princes Highwaywhich links Melbourne and Adelaide. Warrnambool is 265 kilometres and 3 hours from Melbourne by road or rail. The name "Warrnambool" is an Indigenous Australian word meaning "water between two rivers", "two swamps", or "plenty of water".
There are daily trains to Melbourne, via Geelong, and buses to Ballarat, Hamilton and Mount Gambier, South Australia.
The average maximum temperatures are 22 C in summer and 14 C in winter.
It is possible that the first European people to come to Warrnambool arrived in the 1500s. There is a wrecked ship in the sand dunes near Warrnambool which historians believe is an early Portuguese ship. It may have been part of an expedition in 1522, led by Christovao Mendonca. The wreck was first seen in 1836, but the last sighting was in 1880. Tt is now covered in sand, and its exact location is now unknown. It is just one of the 80 wrecked ships along the coast. There are 29 wrecks in Lady Bay at Warrnambool. The first recorded exploration of this part of the Victorian coast was by the French explorer Nicholas Baudin in 1802. During the 1830s whaler hunters lived on the coast during the whaling season.
Farmers began to settle along the coast during the 1840s. In 1846 the town was surveyed and laid out, and the first land sale was held in 1847.

</doc>
<doc id="43238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43238" title="Whitney Sloan">
Whitney Sloan

Whitney Adela Sloan (born August 21, 1988) is an English actress. She is from London, England. Perhaps her most notable role is in a recent Disney made movie, "Go Figure".

</doc>
<doc id="43239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43239" title="Macedonia">
Macedonia

Macedonia or Macedonian may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="43240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43240" title="Rock, paper, scissors">
Rock, paper, scissors

Rock, paper, scissors is a two-person hand game. It is often used as a selection method in a similar way to coin flipping or drawing straws to randomly select a person for some purpose. However, unlike truly random selections, it can be played with skill if the game extends over many sessions, as a player can often recognize and exploit the non-random behavior of an opponent.
Sportsmen often use RPS (both officially and unofficially, in place of a coin toss) to decide on opening plays. Similarly, uncertain calls, or even the whole game in case of rain, may be so decided. It is also often used as a method for creating appropriately non-biased random results in live action role-playing games, as it requires no equipment. It is also used in some gambling sites as a form of novelty betting.
The exact name of the game can vary, with the three components appearing in a different order, or with "stone" in place of "rock". Non-English speakers may know the game by their local words for "rock, paper, scissors", although it is also known as Janken or Yakyuken in Japan, Kawi Bawi Bo in Korea, Pierre-Papier-Ciseaux in France, Ca-Chi-Pun in Chile, and in South Africa as Ching-Chong-Cha, the words used in the 'count'.
The players both count aloud to three, or speak the name of the game (e.g. "Rock! Paper! Scissors!" or "Reaux! Sham! Beaux!"), each time raising one hand in a fist and swinging it down on the count. On the third count, or on a further beat after the third count (saying "shoot"), the players change their hands into one of three gestures, which they then "throw" by extending it towards their opponent.
Rock is represented by a closed fist. 
Paper is represented by an open hand. 
Scissors is represented by the index and middle fingers extended. 
The objective is to select a gesture which defeats that of the opponent. Gestures are resolved as follows:
Rock blunts/smashes scissors; rock wins. 
Paper covers rock; paper wins. 
Scissors cut paper; scissors wins. 
In terms of logic, this type of game is intransitive.
If both players choose the same gesture, the game is tied and played again.
In some variations of the game, the winner of each round "uses" the weapon on the opponent's weapon, to demonstrate that they have won.
RPS is frequently played in a "best two out of three" match, and tournament players often prepare sequences of three gestures ahead of time.

</doc>
<doc id="43244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43244" title="Darwin">
Darwin

Darwin can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="43248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43248" title="Katie Leung">
Katie Leung

Katie Liu Leung (born 8 August 1987) is a Scottish/Chinese actress. She is most famous for her roles as Cho Chang in the Harry Potter series. She was born in Motherwell, Scotland. 
Her parents, Peter and Kar Wai Li Leung, are Chinese immigrants. After her parents got divorced, she lived with her father in a £400,000 house in Motherwell. Her two brothers and a younger sister, also live with her. Her father owns a restaurant and a fast food business in Motherwell. Leung went to school at Hamilton College, a Scottish private school in Glasgow. She is learning Cantonese and Mandarin.
Leung has been named as Scotland's most stylish female and as the hottest Scotswoman by "The Scotsman". She has also been in "Teen Vogue" and in "Evening Standard".
2008
2007
2006

</doc>
<doc id="43262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43262" title="Film noir">
Film noir

Film noir is a term used to describe crime drama movies from Hollywood that are often focused on sex, crime, and corruption. 
Film noir movies were mostly made from the early 1940s to the late 1950s in the United States, and they were usually filmed in black-and-white. The term "film noir" comes from the French term for "black film." Film noir movies include many different genres of movies, such as gangster movies, police movies, and detective movies. 
Film noir movies were often filmed so that there were many dark shadows in the movie, even on characters' faces. The Hollywood film noir movies were influenced by German film directors such as Fritz Lang, who used dramatic lighting techniques. Another influence on film noir movies was 1930s French books or movies about heroes who would die at the end of the story or stories with sad endings. Film noir movies were also influenced by crime fiction, such as the detective and crime stories by Dashiell Hammett, James M. Cain, and Raymond Chandler.
Some important film noir movies are: "Stranger on the Third Floor" (1940); "The Maltese Falcon" (1941) "Double Indemnity" (1944) "The Big Sleep" (1946) "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946); "Key Largo" (1948);"Kiss Me Deadly" (1955), and "Touch of Evil" (1958). 
The important actors from Hollywood film noir movies were Robert Mitchum, Humphrey Bogart, and Peter Lorre.
The film noir period was the 1940s and 1950s. Even in the years after the 1950s, some movies were made in the film noir style. In the 1960s and 1970s, there were movies like "The Manchurian Candidate" (1962) and "Chinatown" (1974), which were influenced by the film noir movies from the 1950s.
In the 1980s and 1990s there were movies that were a bit like film noir movies, like "Body Heat" (1981), "Basic Instinct" (1992), "Kill Me Again" (1989)," Red Rock West" (1992), and "Fargo" (1996). In the 2000s, there are also movies that are like film noir movies in some ways. For example, there are films such as "Memento" (2000) and "Sin City" (2005). 
There are also science fiction movies that look a bit like film noir movies because they look dark and they have a lead character who does some bad things, such as "Soylent Green" (1973); "Blade Runner" (1982), which starred Harrison Ford; and "Minority Report" (2002), which starred Tom Cruise.
Film noir movies are often shot in cities at night, and the stories often take place in bars, nightclubs, gambling clubs, casinos, and cheap hotels. This makes film noir movies look very dark, because the scenes are shot at night, or inside dark places like a bar or hotel.
Film noir movie scenes often have a lot of shadows, such as the shadows of window frames, blinds, or stair banisters. There are also often dark shadows on the movie scenes, even on the faces of the actors. All of the shadows and darkness make the film noir movies feel mysterious and stressful. 
The characters in film noir movies are often motivated by greed, jealousy, or revenge. The characters in film noir movies are often private detectives or police officers who are investigating crimes committed by bad criminals and gang members such as murder, gambling or prostitution. In film noir movies, there are often stories about robberies, heists, extortion of money (which is called "blackmail"), or murder.
In film noir movies, even the heroes or lead characters are often bad or partly bad in some way. For example, the hero of a film noir movie may help an innocent man or woman who is being threatened by a criminal, or rescue a woman from a criminal gang. Yet the hero or lead character may also do bad things, such as commit crimes, hurt or threaten people, or tell lies. 
Often, the hero or lead character of a film noir film will be bitter, sad, lonely, or depressed, because of bad things that happened to them. The person watching the movie has to decide if they think that a hero who does both good and bad things is a good person or not. The stories from film noir movies can make the audience think about how people should act, or how people should make choices in their life. This is one of the things that people like about watching film noir movies.
Film noir movies are not happy movies. In happy movies, like romance movies, people fall in love, get married, and live happy lives. In film noir movies, sad things happen. A good man with a wife might need money for their rent, and borrow the money from a criminal gang leader, because the good man has no other way of getting the money. Then the bad gang leader might force the good man to do bad things to pay back the money. Maybe the bad gang leader will threaten to hurt the good man's wife. Then the good man has to decide between protecting his wife or doing a bad crime. 
People who watch film noir movies like to see stories about people who have to make hard choices, or people whose lives have sad things happen in them. Real life is not a romantic comedy; people often have to make hard choices or have sad things happen.
Robert Ottoson wrote a book in 1981 about film noir called "A Reference Guide to the American Film Noir: 1940–1958".

</doc>
<doc id="43263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43263" title="Jazz fusion">
Jazz fusion

Jazz fusion (or "jazz-rock fusion" or fusion) is a genre or style of music. Jazz fusion mixes jazz with rock. Some jazz fusion also uses funk, rhythm and blues and world music.
Jazz fusion is usually played with instruments, without singing. The songs are often longer than those in pop music. A jazz fusion song could be five to ten minutes long. A pop song is usually about three minutes long. Also, jazz fusion songs have a long solo played by instruments. Frank Zappa, for example, had long guitar solos in his music, which was of the jazz fusion genre. In jazz fusion, solos are improvised, or made up as they are played, during a performance. 
Jazz fusion music is not heard much on the radio in the United States or Canada. In Europe, it is more popular on radio stations.
Jazz fusion began in the late 1960s in the United States. In the late 1960s jazz musicians such as Miles Davis and a band called The Tony Williams Lifetime began using electric instruments such as electric bass and electric piano in their jazz music. As well, jazz musicians began adding rhythms or beats from soul music, rhythm and blues, and rock music into their jazz music. Two important jazz fusion albums are "In a Silent Way" and "Bitches Brew." 
In the 1970s, more people began playing jazz fusion. It became more popular, so more people began listening to jazz fusion and going to jazz fusion concerts. In the 1970s, jazz musicians such as Herbie Hancock, Joe Zawinul, Jan Hammer and Chick Corea began using electronic synthesizers in their songs.
In the early 1980s, a new style of jazz fusion called "pop fusion" began being played. This new style of pop fusion was softer and slower than fusion from the early 1970s. Pop fusion was played a lot more on the radio than the fusion from the early 1970s. Pop fusion musicians include Lee Ritenour, Al Jarreau, Kenny G, Bob James and David Sanborn.
Steve Vai was an icon of jazz fusion in the 1980's and played extensive guitar based jazz fusion instrumentals.

</doc>
<doc id="43266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43266" title="Stadio Olimpico">
Stadio Olimpico

Stadio Olimpico is a sports stadium in Rome, Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="43267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43267" title="Insulation">
Insulation

Insulation might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="43270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43270" title="Arc de Triomphe">
Arc de Triomphe

The Arc de Triomphe (meaning "arch of victory)", at the centre of the place de l'Étoile and the western end of the Champs-Elysées, is a very famous monument in Paris.
Emperor Napoléon Bonaparte commissioned it in 1806 after victory in the Battle of Austerlitz. It is a large arch, but it is not possible to drive underneath it. Jean-François Chalgrin designed it, and it has roughly 300 steps that lead to the top. It has four main sculptures and six reliefs. Just beneath the vault of the arch, there is the tomb of the unknown soldier. The names of French generals and battles are engraved on the walls.

</doc>
<doc id="43271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43271" title="Show">
Show

Show can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="43273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43273" title="Traffic light">
Traffic light

Traffic lights (or traffic signals) are lights used to control the movement of traffic. They are placed on roads at intersections and crossings. The different colors of lights tell drivers what to do.
Traffic lights change their colors in the same order every time. In most English-speaking countries, traffic lights usually change in this order:
In some places, the red and yellow lights can be on the same time. In the United Kingdom, this signals that the light is about to turn green. In some parts of the United States, it signals that pedestrians can cross the road. In many places, traffic signals do not use the red and yellow lights together, and traffic lights go straight from red to green.
Garrett A. Morgan, an African-American inventor, invented one of the first traffic lights. He was one of the first people to get a patent for a traffic light.
William Potts, a police officer, invented the first traffic light with three colors.

</doc>
<doc id="43274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43274" title="Railway signal">
Railway signal

A railway signal or just signal is a mechanical or electrical machine that gives train drivers or engineers information about the state of the line ahead. This way, they know whether the train must stop or may continue. It can also tell what speed the train may go.
In Britain, modern signalling uses a system similar to Traffic Lights. A red signal means 'do not go any further'. A green signal means 'you can continue'. A yellow signal means the next signal will be red. A double yellow signal means the next signal will be yellow, so the signal after that will be red.

</doc>
<doc id="43278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43278" title="Maitland, New South Wales">
Maitland, New South Wales

Maitland is a city in New South Wales, Australia. The city is on the Hunter River. Maitland is 200 km north of Sydney and 30 km northwest of Newcastle. Maitland is sometimes called the largest city, that is not on the sea in New South Wales. The Maitland Gaol, which closed in 1998, is now a tourist attraction.

</doc>
<doc id="43279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43279" title="Benalla, Victoria">
Benalla, Victoria

Benalla is a city in Victoria, Australia. It is a city even though only 10,000 people live there. Benalla is on the Hume Highway between Sydney and Melbourne. The town is on the Broken River, which often floods. Benalla has a station on the main railway line between Sydney and Melbourne.
Major Thomas Mitchell went through this area on his way back to Sydney in 1836. One of the men with him, a convict named James Taylor, was drowned while trying to cross the Broken River. After Mitchell many farmers arrived with sheep to make new farms. The Reverend Joseph Docker (1793 - 1865) started a farm called ""Benalta"" in 1838 but later settled on the run Bontherambo, near Wangaratta. The name came from the Taungurung Australian aboriginal word meaning "musk duck". The name later changed to Benalla.
Seven men, working for farmers George and William Faithfull, were killed by the aborigines at Winding Swamp on April 11 1838. The police under Captain Lonsdale killed many Taungurung people as punishment. Their ears were cut off and taken back to Melbourne as a trophy (prize).
The town of Benalla was surveyed in 1846.
The Benalla Botanical Gardens were started in 1886. They cover an area of . The gardens are well known for their collection of roses. The gardens also have three "Ulmus x viminalis", an elm tree hybrid. These trees are listed on the Significant Tree Register of the National Trust. They are the only known examples of the hybrid elm in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="43281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43281" title="Grafton, New South Wales">
Grafton, New South Wales

Grafton is a small city on the northern coast of New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Clarence River and is 640 kilometres north of Sydney. The town is famous for its double-decker road/railway bridge.

</doc>
<doc id="43293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43293" title="Zupaysaurus">
Zupaysaurus

Zupaysaurus was a dinosaur that lived in South America 213 million years ago, during the Upper Triassic period. It was about 5 meters (15 feet) long. A dinosaur very similar to it, "Dracovenator", lived in South Africa at the same time. 
During the Triassic period, all the continents were connected to form the supercontinent of Pangaea, and animals could migrate freely between them. Zupaysaurus was a carnivore. 

</doc>
<doc id="43295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43295" title="Zephyrosaurus">
Zephyrosaurus

Zephyrosaurus was a small dinosaur. It was a relative of Hypsilophodon. It lived 132 million years ago, in the western part of what is now North America. It was 6 ft (2 metres) long and 3ft (1 metre) high.
The remains are bones from various parts of the body. It had a steep face, a raised knob on the upper jaw, and a larger knob on the cheekbone. Some of the bones may have allowed movement within the skull (cranial kinesis) as well. Like other hypsilophodonts, it had beak teeth.

</doc>
<doc id="43296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43296" title="Hypsilophodon">
Hypsilophodon

Hypsilophodon was a small, fast-running, plant-eating dinosaur. It lived 125 million years ago, was 2.3 metres long (7/8 feet), including tail, and weighed about the same as a man.
It was originally thought to be a young "Iguanodon" which could climb trees. Later it was realised to be a different species, and to be a running dinosaur, not adapted for climbing.
Like most small dinosaurs, "Hypsilophodon" was bipedal and ran on two legs. Its entire body was built for running; a light-weight, low, aerodynamic posture, long legs and stiff tail for balance. All this would have allowed it to travel remarkably fast for its size.
"Hypsilophodon" fed on low-growing vegetation, most likely preferring young shoots and roots in the manner of modern deer. The structure of its skull, with the teeth set far back into the jaw, strongly suggests that it had cheeks, an advanced feature that would have facilitated the chewing of food. There were twenty-eight to thirty ridged teeth in the animal's jaw which, due to their alternate arrangement, appear to have been self-sharpening. As in almost all dinosaurs and certainly all the ornithischians, the teeth were continuously replaced.
The level of parental care in this dinosaur has not been defined, although a neatly-arranged nest has been found, suggesting that some care was taken before hatching. Fossils of large groups have been found, so it is likely that the animals moved in herds. For these reasons, the hypsilophodonts, particularly "Hypsilophodon", have often been referred to as the "deer of the Mesozoic".
Despite living in the Cretaceous, "Hypsilophodon" had a number of primitive, or basal, features. For example, there were five fingers on each 'hand' and four on each foot. Most dinosaurs had fewer digits by the Cretaceous period. Also, although it had a beak, "Hypsilophodon" still had pointed triangular teeth in the front of the jaw. Most herbivorous dinosaurs had, by this stage, lost the front teeth altogether (although there is some debate as to whether these teeth may have had a specialized function in "Hypsilophodon").
The group Hypsilophodontidae remained the same from the Upper Jurassic to the end of the Cretaceous. It is possible that this was because the animals were almost perfectly adapted to their lifestyle, therefore selective pressure, it is assumed, was low.
The family named after "Hysilophodon" has these genera:

</doc>
<doc id="43298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43298" title="Dryosaurus">
Dryosaurus

Dryosaurus was a small plant-eating ornithopod dinosaur that lived in forests around 150 million years ago. 
Its family, the Dryosauridae, were precursors (ancestors) of the Iguanodons, and lived from the Middle Jurassic to the Lower Cretaceous.

</doc>
<doc id="43299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43299" title="Iguanodon">
Iguanodon

Iguanodon is a genus of ornithopod dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous period in Europe, North America, Africa and Asia. It lived 125/126 million years ago (mya).
Discovered in 1822 and described three years later by English geologist Gideon Mantell, "Iguanodon" was the second dinosaur formally named, after "Megalosaurus". Together with "Megalosaurus" and "Hylaeosaurus", it was one of the three genera originally used to define Dinosauria. 
A large, bulky herbivore, "Iguanodon" is thought by some to be in the same family as the duck-billed hadrosaurs. The taxonomy of the genus continues to be a topic of study as new species are named or long-standing ones reassigned to other genera.
Scientific understanding of "Iguanodon" has evolved over time. New information is got from the fossils. Researchers have made informed hypotheses about the living animal, including feeding, movement, and social behaviour. As one of the first scientifically known dinosaurs, "Iguanodon" has a small but notable place in the public's perception of dinosaurs. Its artistic representation changed after new interpretations of its remains.
There are at least two species recognised:
Because its front limbs were shorter than the hindlimbs, Mantell guessed it could move on two legs, as opposed to Owen, who thought it was quadrupedal. As it happens, it probably used both modes. Slow walking would be done on all fours, and faster running on the hind legs. Either way, the position of the body would be more horizontal than upright, with the tail held above the ground by its ossified (bony) ligaments (they can be clearly seen on the skeleton). It would defend itself against predators on its hind legs, using its strong front arms and dagger-like thumbs as weapons.
The teeth were close-set grinding teeth suitable for a browser. it is believed that, as with most other ornithischians, "Iguanodon" had some sort of cheek-like structure, muscular or non-muscular, to keep food in the mouth. 

</doc>
<doc id="43300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43300" title="Xylem">
Xylem

Xylem is a tissue in plants. Its cells have thick, hard walls. Xylem tissue dies soon after it is formed and is the wood in the middle of a tree. The dead cells are like pipes, hollow and rigid.
Xylem is one of two tissues in the plant which transport substances that plants need to live. Substances that xylem transports include water and minerals obtained through the plant's roots, as xylem runs from the roots to the stems and leaves. The other transport tissue is the phloem, which transports energy in the form of sugar (as well as any other chemicals) from the leaves to the rest of the plant.
Xylem cells are present in all parts of a plant, in stems, roots, and leaves. Water is carried against gravity by the negative pressure that builds up through the process of transpiration, which is the evaporation of moisture in leaves.
Xylem consists of four types of cells:
Most of these cells are dead cells and have thick walls.

</doc>
<doc id="43301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43301" title="Allosaurus">
Allosaurus

Allosaurus was a large theropod dinosaur from the Jurassic period, a predatory carnivore. 
"Allosaurus" averaged 8.5 metres (28 ft) in length, though some remains suggest it could reach over 12 meters (39 ft). Its three-fingered forelimbs were smaller than its large hind legs, and the body was balanced by a long, heavy tail. It weighed 2/3 tons.
It is the most common large predator found in the Morrison Formation of North America. This formation was laid down 155 to 145 million years ago, in the Jurassic.
"Allosaurus" was at the top of the food chain. It probably preyed on large herbivorous dinosaurs and perhaps even other predators (e.g. "Ceratosaurus"). Potential prey included ornithopods, stegosaurs, and sauropods. 
Some paleontologists think "Allosaurus" had cooperative behavior, and hunted in packs. Others believe they may have been aggressive toward each other. 
Groups have been found together in the fossil record. This might be evidence of pack behavior, or just the result of lone individuals feeding on the same carcass. 
Remains of many individuals have been found, including some which are almost complete. Over sixty individuals from one species have been found.
Sauropods, live or dead, seem to be likely candidates as prey. Sauropod bones with holes fitting allosaur teeth, and the presence of shed allosaur teeth with sauropod bones have been found. 
There is dramatic evidence for allosaur attacks on "Stegosaurus". An "Allosaurus" tail vertebra has been found with a partially healed puncture which fits a "Stegosaurus" tail spike. Also, there is a "Stegosaurus" neck plate with a U-shaped wound that correlates well with an "Allosaurus" snout. 
"Allosaurus" was probably not a predator of fully grown sauropods, unless it hunted in packs. It had a modestly sized skull and relatively small teeth, and was greatly outweighed by adult sauropods. Another possibility is that it preferred to hunt juveniles instead of fully grown adults.
Researchers have made other suggestions. Robert T. Bakker compared the short teeth to serrations on a saw. This saw-like cutting edge runs the length of the upper jaw, and could have been driven into prey. This type of jaw would permit slashing attacks against much larger prey, with the goal of weakening the victim.
Another study showed the skull was very strong but had a relatively small bite force. The authors suggested that "Allosaurus" used its skull like a hatchet against prey, attacking open-mouthed, slashing flesh with its teeth, and tearing it away without splintering bones. 
They suggested that different strategies could be used against different prey. The skull was light enough to allow attacks on smaller and more agile ornithopods, but strong enough for high-impact ambush attacks against larger prey like stegosaurs and sauropods. 
Their ideas were challenged by other researchers, who found no modern examples of a hatchet attack. They thought it more likely that the skull was strong to absorb stresses from struggling prey. 
The original authors noted that "Allosaurus" itself has no modern equivalent, so the absence of a modern 'hatchet attacker' was not significant. They thought the tooth row was well-suited to such an attack, and that articulations (joints) in the skull helped to lessen stress. 
Another possibility for handling large prey is that theropods like "Allosaurus" were 'flesh grazers' which could take bites of flesh out of living sauropods, sufficient to sustain the predator so it did not need to kill the prey outright. This strategy might have allowed the prey to recover and be fed upon again later. 
Another idea is that ornithopods, the most common available prey, could be subdued by "Allosaurus" grasping the prey with their forelimbs, and then making bites on the throat to crush the trachea. The forelimbs were strong and capable of restraining prey, and the articulation of the claws suggests that they could have been used to hook things. 
The shape of the "Allosaurus" skull limited binocular vision to 20° of width, slightly less than that of modern crocodilians. As with crocodiles, this may have been enough to judge prey distance and time attacks. The similar width of their field of view suggests that allosaurs, like modern crocodiles, were ambush hunters. 
Finally, the top speed of "Allosaurus" has been estimated at 30 to 55 kilometers per hour (19 to 34 miles per hour).
The fossil site known as the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry in Emery County, Utah was known in 1927, but major operations did not begin there until 1960. An effort from nearly 40 institutions got thousands of bones between 1960 and 1965. The quarry is notable for the many "Allosaurus" remains, the condition of the specimens, and our ignorance of its ancient origin. It is estimated that the remains of at least 46 "A. fragilis" have been found there, out of at least 73 dinosaurs. The fossils found there are disarticulated (separate) and well-mixed. 
Suggestions as to how it arose include animals getting stuck in a bog, to becoming trapped in deep mud, to falling victim to drought-induced mortality around a waterhole, to getting trapped in a spring-fed pond or seep. Regardless of the cause, the great quantity of well-preserved "Allosaurus" remains means the animal is one of the best-known theropods. Individuals of almost all ages and sizes are found, from less than 1 meter (3.3 ft) to 12 meters (39 ft) long.
There are five recognised species of "Allosaurus": 
"Allosaurus", like "Tyrannosaurus", has come to represent the quintessential large, carnivorous dinosaur in popular culture. 
It is a common dinosaur in museums. A number of museums cooperated in excavations at the Cleveland Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry. By 1976, museums in eight countries on three continents had Cleveland-Lloyd allosaur material or casts. "Allosaurus" is the official 'state fossil' of Utah.
"Allosaurus" is top predator in both Arthur Conan Doyle's 1912 novel, "The Lost World", and its 1925 film adaptation, the first full-length motion picture to feature dinosaurs. 
"Allosaurus" was used as the starring dinosaur of the 1956 film "The Beast of Hollow Mountain", and the 1969 film "The Valley of Gwangi". Gwangi is billed as an "Allosaurus", though Ray Harryhausen based his model for the creature on Charles R. Knight's depiction of a "Tyrannosaurus". "Allosaurus" appeared in the second episode of the 1999 BBC television series "Walking with Dinosaurs" and the follow-up special "The Ballad of Big Al", which speculated on the life of the 'Big Al' specimen, as revealed by the numerous injuries and pathologies in its skeleton.

</doc>
<doc id="43303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43303" title="Ceratosaurus">
Ceratosaurus

Ceratosaurus was a predatory dinosaur from the Upper Jurassic period, 156 to 145 million years ago. It had a large horn on its nose, and a pair of smaller horns in front of its eyes. Uniquely among theropods, "Ceratosaurus" had armor, in the form of small osteoderms running down the middle of its back.

</doc>
<doc id="43304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43304" title="Carnotaurus">
Carnotaurus

Carnotaurus was a predatory dinosaur that lived 70 million years ago. It was a large theropod which lived in South America during the Upper Cretaceous between about 72 and 70 million years ago. Although there is only one well-preserved skeleton, it is one of the best-understood theropods from the southern hemisphere. 
The skeleton, found in 1984, was uncovered in the Chubut Province of Argentina. The name "Carnotaurus" means "meat-eating bull", from its bull-like horns. "Carnotaurus" is a derived member of the Abelisauridae, a group of large theropods that occupied the large predatorial niche in the southern landmasses of Gondwana in the later Cretaceous.
"Carnotaurus" was a lightly built, bipedal predator, in length and at least in weight. As a theropod, "Carnotaurus" was highly specialized and distinctive. It had thick horns above the eyes, a feature not seen in other carnivorous dinosaurs, and a very deep skull sitting on a muscular neck. Also, it had small, vestigial forelimbs and long and slender hindlimbs. 
The remains include skin impressions showing a mosaic of small, non-overlapping scales about 5 mm in diameter. The mosaic was interrupted by large bumps that lined the sides of the animal, and there are no hints of feathers.
The distinctive horns and muscular neck may have been used in fighting rivals of its own species. Rivals may have fought with quick head blows, by slow pushes with the upper sides of their skulls, or by ramming each other head-on, using their horns as shock absorbers. The feeding habits of "Carnotaurus" remain unclear: some studies suggest the animal was able to hunt down very large prey such as sauropods, while other studies find it preyed mainly on relatively small animals. "Carnotaurus" was well adapted for running and was possibly one of the fastest large theropods.
The animal lived in an environment of estuaries, tidal flats or coastal plains. The climate would have been seasonal with both dry and humid periods. The most common vertebrates collected include lungfish, turtles, crocodiles, plesiosaurs, dinosaurs, lizards, snakes and mammals.o2000"/> Turtles are represented by at least five taxa. In 2011, the discovery of a new enantiornithine bird from the La Colonia Formation was announced.
It appears in the movie "Dinosaur" (2000), when two "Carnotaurus" were fighting with "Iguanodon", "Pachyrhinosaurus" and other species.

</doc>
<doc id="43306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306" title="Coelophysis">
Coelophysis

Coelophysis was a small fast running carnivorous dinosaur. It is one of the earliest known genera of dinosaur. "Coelophysis" was found in Upper Triassic strata dated to about 200 million years ago (mya). It lived in what is now the southwestern United States. Similar dinosaurs are found all over the world at that time.
"Coelophysis" walked on two legs (as did all theropods). It was no more than about three feet (1 meter) tall at the hips but because of a long tail could be almost 10 feet (3 meters) long. There is some evidence that these animals hunted in packs, from the large numbers found together at the Ghost Ranch fossil site in New Mexico. 
Two different sizes of this species have been found in the fossil record. At first paleontologists thought that they were two different species, but most now think that this is because "Coelophysis" males were larger than the females. This trait, known as sexual dimorphism, is often seen today in many animal species. 
"Coelophysis" had a long narrow head (approximately ), with large, forward-facing eyes that afforded it stereoscopic vision and as a result excellent depth perception. The eyes were supported by bony rings ("sclerotic" rings). The complete sclerotic ring of a juvenile "Coelophysis bauri" was compared to those of reptiles and birds. Evidently "Coelophysis" was a daytime predator which hunted by sight. The study found that its vision was superior to that of most lizards, and ranked with that of modern birds of prey.
For a while, it was thought that "Coelophysis" were cannibalistic, because what looked like "Coelophysis" babies were seen in the stomach of an adult "Coelophysis". However, these specimens were misinterpreted. Several specimens of "juvenile coelophysids" were actually small crurotarsan reptiles such as "Hesperosuchus". In some cases bigger individuals were crushed on top of smaller ones. There is no longer any evidence to support cannibalistic behavior in "Coelophysis".
Edward Drinker Cope first named "Coelophysis" in 1889. This was during the "Bone Wars" with Othniel Charles Marsh. An amateur fossil collector, David Baldwin, found the first remains of the dinosaur in 1881. The type species, "C. bauri" was named after him. These first finds were too poorly preserved to give a complete picture of the new dinosaur.
In 1947, a substantial 'graveyard' of "Coelophysis" fossils was found in New Mexico, at Ghost Ranch, close to the original find. So many fossils together were probably the result of a flash flood, which swept away a large number of "Coelophysis" and buried them quickly and simultaneously. It seems such flooding was commonplace at the time. The Petrified Forest of nearby Arizona was caused by a log jam of tree trunks caught in a flood. 
The Ghost Ranch specimens were numerous, with many well-preserved specimens. Since the Ghost Ranch specimens were discovered, more skeletons have been found in Arizona, New Mexico and an as-yet unconfirmed specimen from Utah, including both adults and juveniles. The deposits where "Coelophysis" was discovered date from the late Triassic, bur similar specimens have been found in the Lower Jurassic elsewhere in the world.
"Coelophysis" is the state fossil of New Mexico.

</doc>
<doc id="43307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43307" title="Dilophosaurus">
Dilophosaurus

Dilophosaurus (meaning 'double-crested lizard') was a medium-large dinosaur from 190 million years ago.
"Dilophosaurus" has been examined several times over the years and has been put into no less than nine different theropod groups. It may be related to the smaller "Coelophysis". Specific details of its life-style are few. Some of its fossils were found in terrain which was a low-lying slow-moving river system at the time. The animal was obviously a carnivore.
"Dilophosaurus" was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" scaring off a pack of "Megapnosaurus" and eating an "Anchisaurus".

</doc>
<doc id="43308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43308" title="SimCity 4">
SimCity 4

SimCity 4 is the fourth sequel to the SimCity computer game. It was created by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts.
The main new feature in this game is the addition of 'God Mode'. This is one of the three elements of gameplay. Players can add mountains, lakes, rivers and canyons to their landscape.
Another feature is "MySims" mode, a mode that lets players import their Sims from the game The Sims and add them into their city. This lets players see what they are thinking.
Cities are grouped into regions, which allow different cities in the same region to be connected. They can be connected by road or train, and cities could share water. Some regions come with the game, but you can create your own.
RCI stands for residential (housing), commercial, and industry demand. The higher the demand, the faster the city grows. No demand or negative demand causes buildings to be empty and run down. 
Big buildings show up when you have high density zones. The amount of people living in the city changes the amount of skyscrapers built in the city. Skyscrapers can be built when residential population reaches 30,000, and when commercial population reaches 45,000.

</doc>
<doc id="43311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43311" title="Elasmosaurus">
Elasmosaurus

Elasmosaurus was a 46 foot long swimming reptile that lived in the North American Inland Sea. It was a plesiosaur. 
It was first discovered in 1868 by a scientist named Edward Drinker Cope who accidentally put the head on the tail. It had 71 cervical vertebrae. 
It was suggested by D.M.S. Watson that their method was as surface swimmers, mostly eating with their head above water, darting down to snatch smaller fish which were feeding on plankton. It is hard to see the benefit of a long neck under water. Aquatic mammals operating under water all have a streamlined torpedo-shape, as did pliosaurs and ichthyosaurs. All the longer-necked families were, from the setting of the teeth and jaws, eaters of small fish. The large number of neck vertebrae is probably linked to the modest degree of flexibility between adjacent vertebrae.

</doc>
<doc id="43314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43314" title="Waffen-SS">
Waffen-SS

The Waffen-SS was part of the Schutzstaffel (SS). "Waffen-SS" means "armed SS" in German. The Waffen-SS was a paramilitary organisation within the SS.
The divisions of the Waffen-SS were made of specially trained soldiers. Their original job was to protect higher-ranking people in the SS and the Nazi Party. Together with the "Sturmabteilung" ("Storm Battalion," or SA), they were used as a police force. The Waffen-SS was officially an extra police force on the streets.
In 1937, some soldiers were reorganised. Nazi leaders gave some SS members the job of guarding and running concentration camps (and, later, death camps). These soldiers were moved from the Waffen-SS to the "SS-Totenkopfverbände".
In some of the concentration camps, like Auschwitz and Buchenwald, doctors of the Waffen-SS did experiments on humans.
Heinrich Himmler led the SS from 1929 until Nazi Germany lost World War II in 1945. After World War II, the SS were found guilty of crimes against humanity, and the SS was made illegal.
The Waffen-SS was grouped into divisions, as follows:
The differences to the normal army units were as follows:
One of the strangest SS units was the British Free Corps. It was a unit of the Waffen SS during World War II. The unit was made of about 27 prisoners of war from the British Empire. One British soldier who helped recruit other soldiers to join the unit was John Amery. After the war, he was sentenced to death for high treason. He was then executed.
After the end of the war, all soldiers were dismissed from the SS.
In 1951, the "Hilfsgemeinschaft auf Gegenseitigkeit der ehemaligen Angehörigen der Waffen-SS" was founded in Germany. This translates to "Mutual support organisation of former members of the Waffen-SS'." In English, it is better known as "HIAG." The group wanted soldiers who were in the Waffen-SS to be treated the same as soldiers of the Wehrmacht (the regular German Army).
The group also publishes a magazine. The magazine tries to send the message that the Waffen-SS just normal soldiers. Sometimes, there are also revisionist articles in it.

</doc>
<doc id="43317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43317" title="Pizzicato">
Pizzicato

Pizzicato means: playing a string instrument by plucking the strings (pulling a string with the finger and letting go quickly). Instruments such as the violin, viola, cello and double bass are normally played with a bow, but if the composer wants the player to pluck instead of bow, the word “pizzicato” or just “pizz” is written in the music. When the player has to play with the bow again the word “arco” is written in the music (“arco” is the Italian word for “bow”).
When instruments of the violin family are played pizzicato the player usually plucks the string with the index finger (pointing finger) of the right hand somewhere over the fingerboard. Bassists typically use the index and middle finger. Sometimes the player may rest the thumb on the edge of the fingerboard to keep the hand steady. Sometimes more fingers can be used for particularly fast pizzicato sections. Cellists and double bass players can use the thumb for plucking, especially for playing chords.
It is also possible to play pizzicato with the left hand (the hand which is normally doing the fingering). It is not difficult to pluck an open string with the left hand. Stopped strings are harder, and the brilliant violinist and composer Niccolò Paganini wrote some virtuoso pieces with extremely difficult left hand pizzicato. 
Very occasionally violinists may be asked to pluck their instruments holding them down in their laps. This is normally when they are deliberately imitating a guitar.
Very often players have to change very quickly from bowing to plucking and back again. It is easy to play a bowed note and then immediately a plucked note if the bowed note finished near the heel of the bow (the end where the bow is held). If the bowed note finishes near the tip the player needs a moment to get the hand ready to pluck. It can take a little more time to go back to bowing again because the player has to get the bow back into playing position.
If there is a long pizzicato section then it is more comfortable to put the bow down instead of holding it in the right hand all the time. This is fine so long as the player has time to pick the bow up again when it goes back to arco.
Pizzicato notes sound short and detached (staccato). The player can get different sounds by plucking in different parts of the string. High notes sound very short and dry. Pizzicato notes on the double bass sound much more resonant (big and boomy). Double basses often play pizzicato to give extra rhythmic and harmonic support. For example: in a waltz the cellos and violas might be accompanying the tune with an “um-cha-cha, um-cha-cha” while the double basses just pluck on the “um” (the first beat of the bar). Double basses usually play pizzicato when playing with jazz groups.
One special effect can be made by pulling the string hard and letting it go so that it snaps against the fingerboard. Bartók used this effect several times. This is not the same as jazz bass players who slap the strings at the end of a note (“slap bass”).
In orchestras composers used pizzicato in the 17th century. Monteverdi used it in his opera "Il combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda". In the 19th century the Romantic composers often asked for pizzicato. Tchaikovsky’s "Symphony no 4" has a whole scherzo movement for pizzicato strings. Johann Strauss wrote a "Pizzicato Polka" and in the 20th century Britten wrote a whole movement for pizzicato strings in his "Simple Symphony".

</doc>
<doc id="43321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43321" title="Movement (music)">
Movement (music)

Long pieces of classical music are often divided into movements. They are like different sections of the piece. Movements can be quite short, or extremely long. If you listen to a symphony it may often be divided into four movements. In the time of Haydn and Mozart the four movements were normally: a fast movement, a slow movement, a dance-like movement (minuet) and a fast movement to end the work.
Concert programmes usually show how many movements there are in the work that is being performed. It may show this using Italian musical terms (e.g. "Allegro" meaning "fast", "Presto" meaning "very fast" or "Andante" meaning "a gentle walking pace"). Here is an example:
Robert Schumann: Symphony no 4 in D minor op.120
Sometimes an orchestra will take a minute or two to retune their instruments, especially in a symphony by Mahler or Shostakovich where one movement might be as long as 25 minutes. At other times the conductor or performer will want to go almost straight on with hardly any break. Sometimes the composer shows that there should be no break at all between movements.
Audiences in the olden days often used to clap between movements, but usually these days they wait until the end of the work to applaud.
The German word for “movement” (in this musical sense) is “Satz” which really means “sentence”. A movement is like a sentence: a collection of things that belong together to make sense. All the movements together are like several sentences: they tell the whole story.

</doc>
<doc id="43329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43329" title="Port Hedland, Western Australia">
Port Hedland, Western Australia

Port Hedland is a city on the north coast of Western Australia. It has 13,000 people living there. It is the largest city in the Pilbara Region. For its size, it has a very large mineral port, because of one of the worlds biggest iron deposits.

</doc>
<doc id="43333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43333" title="Worms, Germany">
Worms, Germany

Worms (pronounced /voɐms/) is a town in southwestern Germany in the federal state of Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz). It lies on the River Rhine. Worms is famous for its local Liebfraumilch wine. It is an industrial center, producing chemicals and metal goods. At the end of 2004, it had 85,829 inhabitants.
Along with Cologne and Trier, Worms is one the oldest cities in Germany. But, there is a disagreement which of the three is actually the oldest. The town is mentioned in the "Nibelungenlied", an old Germanic saga. The town was also very important because of Martin Luther who defended his case against the emperor Charles V in Worms.
The Cathedral of Saint Peter is a very large church in the town. It is one of only three romanesque cathedrals in Germany. The other two are in Mainz and Speyer. The Worms cathedral is one of the most important romanesque buildings in Germany. 

</doc>
<doc id="43338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43338" title="Transistor">
Transistor

A transistor is an electronic component that can be used as an amplifier, or as a switch. It is made of semiconductor material. Transistors are found in most electronic devices. 
A transistor has three connectors or terminals. In the older bipolar transistor they are the collector, the emitter, and the base. The flow of charge goes in the collector, and out of the emitter, depending on the charge flowing to the base. In this way, it is possible for the base to switch on or off the flow through the transistor. A MOSFET names its terminals differently because it works differently. 
The transistor can be used for a variety of different things including amplifiers and digital switches for computer microprocessors. Digital work mostly uses MOSFETs. Some transistors are individually packaged, mainly so they can handle high power. Most are inside integrated circuits. 
Transistors have three parts, the gate, the drain, and the source (also, the wires can be called the emitter, the collector, and the base). When the source is connected to the negative terminal of the battery, and the drain to the positive terminal, no electricity will flow in the circuit (assuming you have only a lamp in series with the transistor). But when you touch the gate with the drain, electricity will flow. This is because when the gate is positively charged, the positive electrons will push other positive electrons in the transistor letting the negative electrons flow through. The transistor can also work when the gate is just positively charged, so it doesn't need to be touching the drain.
An easy way to think of how a transistor works is as a hose with a sharp bend, the water is the electrons, and when you positively charge the gate, it unbends the hose, letting water flow.
The basic Darlington transistor circuit is formed from two transistors wired emitter to base so they act as one transistor.
Transistors can be used as a switch or as an amplifier.
When the gate of a P-channel MOSFET is positively charged, electricity will flow through, this is useful for electronics that require a switch to be turned on, making it an electronic switch. This rivals the mechanical switch, which requires a constant force pressing on it.
In a MOSFET used as an amplifier, transistors take the flow of the drain and source, and since the source current is so much larger than the drain's current, it is common for the drain's current to rise to the value of the source's, amplifying it.
Transistors are made of semiconductor chemical elements, usually Silicon, which belongs to in Group IV in the periodic table of elements. Germanium, another group-IV element, is used together with silicon in specialized transistors. Researchers also study transistors made from special forms of carbon. Transistors can be also made from compounds such as gallium arsenide.
The transistor was not the first three terminal device. The triode served the same purpose of the transistor 50 years earlier. Vacuum tubes were important in household technology. Unfortunately, tubes were big and fragile and used far too much energy which shortened the life of the tube. The transistor was invented to solve these problems. 
Three physicists were credited with the invention of the transistor in 1947: Walter H. Brattain, John Bardeen, and William Shockley who contributed the most.
The transistor is an important component today. If not for the transistor, devices such as cell phones and computers, would be very different, or they might have not been invented.
Depending on their material and the process that is used to make them there are different types of transistors. For example FETs (Field Effect Transistors), IGBTs (Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors) etc.

</doc>
<doc id="43339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43339" title="Sex toy">
Sex toy

A Sex toy is a device that helps humans get more pleasure when they have sex or when they masturbate. Sometimes these devices are also called Adult toy, or Marital aid. "Marital aid" can also apply to certain herbs or drugs that have such an effect. Herbs with such an effect are called aphrodisiac. 

</doc>
<doc id="43344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43344" title="Compsognathus">
Compsognathus

Compsognathus was a small carnivorous theropod dinosaur, from the end of the Jurassic period, 144 million years ago. It was about a metre long, and ran on two legs, using its long tail to keep its balance. 
"Compsognathus" is known from two nearly complete specimens, one from Germany (89 cm 35 in long), and another from France (125 cm 49 in long). The German specimen was found in the Solnhofen limestone in Bavaria, over 150 years ago. 
The larger French specimen (MNHN CNJ 79) was discovered in 1972 in the Portland limestone, near Nice in southeastern France. Although originally described as a separate species called "Compsognathus corallestris", others have since renamed it as another example of "Compsognathus longipes".
It is one of the few dinosaurs whose diet is known with certainty: the remains of small, agile lizards are preserved in the bellies of both specimens.
Thomas Henry Huxley ("Darwin's bulldog"), who was a comparative anatomist, made a study of it nearly 150 years ago. He compared the first fossil bird, "Archaeopteryx", with "Compsognathus". These two fossils were found in the same rocks: Solnhofen limestone in Bavaria, Germany. The strata come from the end of the Jurassic, about 144 million years ago. Huxley showed that the two were almost identical, except for the front limbs and feathers of "Archaeopteryx". He showed the basic affinity of birds and reptiles, which he united them under the title of "Sauropsida". Huxley concluded that birds evolved from small carnivorous dinosaurs.
The remains of a lizard in the German specimen's thoracic cavity show that "Compsognathus" preyed on small vertebrates. Marsh, who examined the specimen in 1881, thought that this small skeleton inside "Compsognathus" belly was an embryo, but in 1903, Franz Nopcsa concluded that it was a lizard. Ostrom identified the remains as belonging to a lizard of the genus "Bavarisaurus", which he concluded was a fast and agile runner owing to its long tail and limb proportions. This in turn led to the conclusion that its predators, "Compsognathus", must have had sharp vision and the ability to rapidly accelerate and outrun the lizard. The "Bavarisaurus" is in a single piece, indicating that the "Compsognathus" must have swallowed its prey whole. The French specimen's gastric contents consist of unidentified lizards or sphenodontids.
"Comsognathus" was once thought to be the smallest dinosaur. However, if we assume the smaller specimen was a juvenile, then there are other slightly smaller species. The smallest dinosaur is probably "Anchiornis"; other candidates are: "Micropachycephalosaurus"; "Caenagnathasia"; "Microraptor"; and "Parvicursor".

</doc>
<doc id="43345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43345" title="Micropachycephalosaurus">
Micropachycephalosaurus

Micropachycephalosaurus (meaning 'tiny thick headed lizard') is a genus of ornithischian dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous. It was a herbivore, and lived in what is now Shandong, China. It was one of the smallest dinosaur ever discovered, just over a meter long, but with the longest name. Before it was discovered "Compsognathus" was the smallest known dinosaur.
The lack of the skull roof means the fossil cannot be placed at family level. It might or might not be a pachycephalosaur. Butler and Zhao therefore classified it as an indeterminate member of the Cerapoda. In 2011, cladistic analysis showed that "Micropachycephalosaurus" is a basal member of the Ceratopsia. In this context, basal does not mean 'ancestral'; the fossil is far too late for that. It means simply 'unspecialized', or lacking derived traits.

</doc>
<doc id="43346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43346" title="Velociraptor">
Velociraptor

Velociraptor was a predatory dromaeosaur of the Upper Cretaceous, about 75–71 million years ago.
It was a slender, lightly built carnivore. It was about two meters long (nearly seven feet) and 0.62 meters tall at the hip, which is bigger than the size of the common chimpanzee.
"Velociraptor" had one sickle-shaped claw on its foot which measured 6.5 centimeters along its length, and a smaller one on each hand. "Velociraptor" was warm blooded and had feathers.
Fossils from China suggest that the whole clade had similar traits.
Fossils of "Velociraptor" were first found in the Gobi Desert of Mongolia in 1922. In 1988, scientists from China found "Velociraptor" skeletons in northern China.
A famous "Velociraptor", discovered in 1971, was found attacking a "Protoceratops" in a fossil from Mongolia.
In September 2007 researchers found quill knobs on the forearm of a "Velociraptor" found in Mongolia. These bumps on bird wing bones show where feathers anchor, and their presence on "Velociraptor" indicate it too had feathers.
Turner and colleagues interpreted the presence of feathers on "Velociraptor" as evidence that the ancestors of dromaeosaurids could fly, making "Velociraptor" and other large members of this family secondarily flightless. This idea has since been discarded; the unmodified forearms count against it. Therefore, the feathers in the ancestors of "Velociraptor" had another function. The feathers of the flightless "Velociraptor" may have been used for display, for covering their nests while brooding.
The majority view is that dinosaur feathers were primarily adaptations for temperature regulation, and that other uses came later. "Velociraptor" was not able to fly.
Specimens from two species have been found:
In both cases the ecology of the time was dry, with sand dunes with occasional streams.
Films such as "Jurassic Park" and some of "The Land Before Time" films helped make "Velociraptor" popular. However, the raptors in Jurassic Park were far larger than the real thing. They were the size of "Utahraptor", a really large member of the same clade. The films also exaggerate its probable intelligence.

</doc>
<doc id="43347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43347" title="Rhea (moon)">
Rhea (moon)

Rhea (; ) is Saturn's second largest moon. It is made of ice and rock.
Rhea may have a thin ring system with three narrow bands in a disk of solid particles. These would be the first rings seen around a moon. The discovery was announced in the journal "Science" on March 6, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="43348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43348" title="Mimas (moon)">
Mimas (moon)

Mimas (from the Greek "Μίμᾱς") is one of Saturn's largest moons. It is also called Saturn I. Mimas is best known for its large crater, Herschel. In the centre of the crater is a very high mountain. Mimas was discovered by the English astronomer William Herschel on September 17, 1789. The moon is believed to have created the Cassini Division. This is a 4,800 km gap between Saturn's A and B rings.
Mimas was discovered in 1789 by William Herschel. He discovered it on September 17. Herschel discovered it along with another Saturnian moon, Enceladus
Mimas was named after one of the Titans in mythology. Mimas was the giant.
Mimas is full with craters like our Moon. But unlike the craters on the Moon, Mimas has icy craters like going through an icy object.
Mimas has craters, but the most famous is the Herschel crater. It is 130 km (80 mi) in diameter. The diameter of Herschel is about 1/3 of Mimas. If a comet or asteroid that hit Mimas were to hit Earth, the crater would be seen from space with all the Earth shown in view.
Mimas would evaporate away if it was too close to the Sun.
Mimas has been visited by 4 or 5 spacecrafts.

</doc>
<doc id="43349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349" title="Aphrodisiac">
Aphrodisiac

An aphrodisiac is a type of food or drink that has the effect of making those who eat or drink it more aroused in a sexual way. The name comes from the Greek goddess Aphrodite.
Some things thought by some to be aphrodisiacs are ginko, ashwaganda, oysters and chocolate.

</doc>
<doc id="43350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43350" title="Protoceratops">
Protoceratops

Protoceratops was a ceratopsian dinosaur from Mongolia. It was shown in a fossil being attacked by a "Velociraptor".

</doc>
<doc id="43355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43355" title="Megapnosaurus">
Megapnosaurus

Megapnosaurus was a small dinosaur from the early Jurassic. It was a relative of "Coelophysis" but it had two crests on top of its head. 
It is shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" attacking an "Anchisaurus" and getting scared off by a "Dilophosaurus". It was called Syntarsus at that time.

</doc>
<doc id="43356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43356" title="Vidar">
Vidar

Vidar is a god in Norse mythology. He is the son of Odin and the giantess Grid. He is the god of the forest, of revenge and of silence. In Ragnarök, his father, Odin, will be killed by Fenrir. Vidar will take revenge, by killing Fenrir. He will either do this by stepping on his jaw and tearing the wolf apart, or by driving a sword through the heart of the wolf.

</doc>
<doc id="43357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43357" title="Anchisaurus">
Anchisaurus

Anchisaurus was a small sauropod dinosaur from the early Jurassic. It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" getting attacked by a pack of "Megapnosaurus" and eaten by a "Dilophosaurus".

</doc>
<doc id="43358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43358" title="Segisaurus">
Segisaurus

Segisaurus was a small dinosaur from the Triassic. It was a relative of "Coelophysis".

</doc>
<doc id="43359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43359" title="Psittacosaurus">
Psittacosaurus

Psittacosaurus was a small ceratopsian dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous of what is now Asia, about 130 to 100 million years ago. It was notably more basal than other members of the Ceratopsia: it was bipedal, and had no horns or frill on its head. What made it a ceratopsian was its beak.
It is notable for being the most species-rich dinosaur genus. Nine to eleven species are recognized from fossils found in different regions of China, Mongolia and Russia, with a possible additional species from Thailand.
All species of "Psittacosaurus" were gazelle-sized bipedal herbivores with a high, powerful beak on the upper jaw. At least one species had long, quill-like structures on its tail and lower back, possibly with a display function. Psittacosaurs were extremely early ceratopsians and, while they developed many novel adaptations of their own, they also shared many features with later ceratopsians, such as "Protoceratops" and the elephant-sized "Triceratops".

</doc>
<doc id="43360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43360" title="Zuniceratops">
Zuniceratops

Zuniceratops was a ceratopsian dinosaur. It grew up to 13 feet (or 4 meter long. His dinosaur family came from Asia.
His scientific name is "Zuniceratops christopheril", had 2 tons.

</doc>
<doc id="43361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43361" title="Quilmesaurus">
Quilmesaurus

Quilmesaurus was a predatory dinosaur from the Cretaceous period. It lived 95 million years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="43362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43362" title="Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia">
Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia

Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich Romanov (12 August 1904 – 17 July 1918) was the heir apparent of Russia during the Russian Revolution. He would have become Tsar Alexei II. He was the youngest of five children and the only son of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia and Alexandra Fyodorovna. His sisters were Olga, Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia.
He had the disease hemophilia. He inherited the disease from his mother. The disease can be traced back to his great grandmother Queen Victoria. His father gave up the throne in 1917 and his family was exiled and then murdered in Ekaterinburg in 1918. When Alexei was struggling with hemophilia a Russian Orthodox monk named Grigori Rasputin, commonly known as Rasputin, healed Alexei better than any doctor could. This might have led to the family's murder, because they were so fond of Rasputin. Once Rasputin was murdered, Alexei and his family were murdered only two years later. 
In 2000, Alexei and his family were made saints by the Russian Orthodox Church.
In 2008 his body was one of those found near the site where the family was murdered. DNA tests proved all 5 of the Tsar's children had been killed.

</doc>
<doc id="43363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43363" title="Zalmoxes">
Zalmoxes

Zalmoxes is a genus of ornithopod dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Romania. It was a relative of Iguanodon and, like all its order, it was a herbivore. 
Most of the skeleton is known with exception of the end of the tail, the hands and the feet.

</doc>
<doc id="43365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43365" title="Oviraptor">
Oviraptor

Oviraptor is a genus of dinosaurs from what is today Mongolia. "Oviraptor" was a relatively large-brained dinosaur which cared for its eggs. In 1924, an "Oviraptor" fossil was found on top of some eggs, and some thought that it had been eating the eggs. Others thought that the fossilized "Oviraptor" was probably a parent of the eggs in the nest, and not an egg stealer.
"Oviraptor" lived in the Upper Cretaceous period, about 75 million years ago. Only one definite specimen is known (with associated eggs), from Mongolia, though a possible second specimen (also with eggs) comes from the northeast region of Inner Mongolia, China.
"Oviraptor" is usually drawn with a distinctive crest, similar to that of the cassowary. However, re-examination of several oviraptorids show that this well-known, tall-crested species may actually belong to a relative of "Oviraptor", the genus "Citipati". It is likely that "Oviraptor" did have a crest, but its exact size and shape are unknown due to crushing in the skull of the only recognized specimen.
Judging by its relatives, "Oviraptor" probably had feathers. It had a toothless beak, but its feeding habits are unknown. The only "Oviraptor" fossil preserved the remains of a lizard in the region of its stomach cavity, implying that the species was at least partially carnivorous.
In 1976, Barsbold put six more brooding (nest sitting) specimens into the genus "Oviraptor", but these were later reclassified in the new genus "Conchoraptor". Another specimen, IGN 100/42, is perhaps the most famous, owing to its well-preserved complete skull and large size. This specimen was referred to the genus "Oviraptor" by Barsbold in 1981, and was presented as "Oviraptor" in popular magazines and scientific studies. However, this specimen, with its distinctive tall, cassowary-like crest, was re-examined by the scientists who described the nesting oviraptorids, and found to resemble them more closely than the original specimens of "Oviraptor". For this reason, they removed IGN 100/42 from the genus "Oviraptor", suggesting it was a species of "Citipati".

</doc>
<doc id="43366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43366" title="Oyster">
Oyster

Oysters are a family of bivalves with rough, thick shells, the Ostreidae, plus some other types which are called 'oyster'. Many species are edible, and are usually served raw. They are also good when cooked. In history, they were an important food source, especially in France and Britain. They used to grow in huge oyster beds, but were "overfished" in the 19th century. Nowadays they are more expensive, so eaten less often.
Some of the unrelated 'oysters' are the pearl oyster, "Pinctada", which is a clam, and a few mussels which look a bit like oysters when they are taken out of their shells.

</doc>
<doc id="43392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43392" title="Tumour">
Tumour

A tumour (or tumor) is tissue that is growing where it should not be. Tumours are either malignant (harmful) or benign (safe). 
The Tasmanian Devils in Tasmania, Australia are in danger of becoming extinct because of a malignant tumour that grows on their face.

</doc>
<doc id="43399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43399" title="99">
99


</doc>
<doc id="43401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43401" title="Sony Ericsson">
Sony Ericsson

Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB is a mobile phone manufacturer. The company is a joint venture that was established in 2001 by Japanese consumer electronics company Sony and the Swedish telecommunications company Ericsson. The two companies no longer make mobile phones independently.

</doc>
<doc id="43403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43403" title="Australian dollar">
Australian dollar

The Australian dollar (AUD) is the official currency of the Commonwealth of Australia. It has been in use since February 14, 1966. The Australian dollar is also used on Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Norfolk Island, and the independent Pacific Islands of Kiribati, Nauru and Tuvalu. In Australia the dollar symbol $ is usually used. The signs A$ or AU$ are often used to show that it is the Australian dollar. It is subdivided into 100 cents. 
In 2011 the Australian dollar was the fifth-most-traded currency in world. The most traded currencies were the US dollar, the Euro, the yen, and the pound sterling. 
The Australian dollar is liked by people who trade in currencies. This is because Australia has high interest rates and little government control on currency trading. Australia's economy and political systems are also seen to be stable.
The dollar was introduced on 14 February 1966, replacing the Australian pound.
From 1966, coins were made in amounts of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 and 50 cents. One-dollar coins were made from 1984. Two-dollar coins were made from 1988. The one- and two-cent coins were not made after 1991 and are no longer used. Cash sales are made to the nearest five cents. All coins have the image of the head of state, Queen Elizabeth II on the back. They are made by the Royal Australian Mint in Canberra.
Australia has often made special 50-cent coins. The first was in 1970, to honor Captain Cook's finding the east coast of Australia. In 1977 a coin was made for Queen Elizabeth II's Silver Jubilee. In 1981 a coin was made for the wedding of Charles and Diana. The Brisbane Commonwealth Games had a special coin in 1982. Another one was made for the Australian Bicentenary in 1988. There have been many more special coins made since the 1990s. They are popular with people who collect coins. Australia has also made special 20-cent and one-dollar coins.
Australia has made special five-dollar coins, of aluminium/bronze and bi-metal, and many silver and gold bullion coins in bigger values. These are not normally used, although they are legal tender.
Current Australian 5-, 10- and 20-cent coins are the same size as the old Australian, New Zealand and British sixpenny, shilling and two shilling (florin) coins. In 1990. the UK replaced these coins with smaller versions, as did New Zealand in 2006 - at the same time discontinuing the five-cent coin. The Australian 50-cent coin is a large coin. It weighs 15.55 grams and is 31.51 mm across.
The first paper banknotes in Australian dollars were printed in 1966. The one, two, ten and 20-dollars notes matched the old pound banknotes. The five-dollar note was printed in 1967, after the public were used to decimal currency. 
The one-dollar note was replaced by a coin in 1984. The two-dollar note was replaced by a coin in 1988. The 50-dollar note was first printed in 1973. In 1984 Australia printed the 100-dollar note.
Notes are different sizes depending on their value. This is to help people are visually impaired (unable to see properly). They are the same height but different lengths. The $5 is the smallest, $100 the largest. Notes are also colour coded: $5 pink (there are two designs); $10 blue; $20 red; $50 yellow; and $100 green.
In 1988, the Reserve Bank of Australia gave out plastic, (polypropylene) polymer banknotes (produced by Note Printing Australia), to celebrate 200 years of European settlement in Australia. All Australian notes are now made of polymer.
To make it hard to copy these notes, they have see through windows with a picture image of Captain James Cook. Every note also has a seven-pointed star which has only half the printing on each side. Australian banknotes were the first in the world to use such features.

</doc>
<doc id="43405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43405" title="Washing machine">
Washing machine

A washing machine is a machine that washes dirty clothes. It contains a barrel into which the clothes are placed. This barrel is filled with water, and then rotated very quickly to make the water remove dirt from the clothes. Most washing machines are made so that detergent (liquids or powders) can be put into the machine. These can help make the clothes cleaner.
Sometimes a washing machine and a clothes dryer are put together. Washing machines often use technology to change how you want to wash.

</doc>
<doc id="43406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43406" title="Benign">
Benign

The word benign is often used to refer to a medical condition that will not become life-threatening if it is not treated, but can also mean that something is not harmful. It is often used in relation to tumours that do not metastasise to other parts of the body. Tumours that are referred to as being benign may still be life-threatening because of other reasons. Because of this, the term applies mainly to their biological behaviour.
Tumors that are benign may be at risk of changing into malignancy. These are termed "premalignant".

</doc>
<doc id="43411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43411" title="Frankfurt U-Bahn">
Frankfurt U-Bahn

"The Frankfurt U-Bahn" is an underground railway network in the city of Frankfurt, Germany. It is run by the "Verkehrsgesellschaft Frankfurt", short VGF. It has 9 lines and a network of 65 kilometers (40 miles) and has exactly 86 stations, apart 27 underground and 59 above ground. Two lines, the U2 and the U3 crosses the city border in Oberursel and Bad Homburg.

</doc>
<doc id="43412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43412" title="Geraldton, Western Australia">
Geraldton, Western Australia

Geraldton is a city and port in Western Australia 424 km north of Perth. 29,996 people live there, which makes it the fifth-largest city in Western Australia.
Today the city is an important for mining, fishing, wheat, sheep and tourism.

</doc>
<doc id="43424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43424" title="Frankfurt Airport">
Frankfurt Airport

Frankfurt Airport ("in German": Rhein-Main-Flughafen) is the biggest airport in Germany and the third largest in Europe (in terms of passengers, in cargo second largest), it is in Frankfurt.
In 2005, 52 million passengers flew from Frankfurt and 1.89 million tonnes of cargo.
The airport has two train stations, the terminal for the commuter trains is under the terminal and the station for the long-distance trains is five minutes to walk.
Until 2005, the Rhein-Main Air Base was in the south of the civil airport. Frankfurt airport recorded its all-time hottest temperature in July 2015 at 101.8 °F (38.8 °C).

</doc>
<doc id="43428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43428" title="Marki">
Marki

Marki is a town near Warsaw, in Poland. About 23,300 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="43435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43435" title="William Harvey">
William Harvey

William Harvey was an English medical doctor. He was born in Folkestone, Kent, England on 1 April 1573. He was the first to explain how blood was moved through the body by the heart. He died on 3 June 1657 in Roehampton.
A hospital in Ashford, Kent is named after Harvey. He went to The King's School, Canterbury, then Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. He then went to University of Padua where he graduated in 1602. 
When Harvey returned to England he married Elizabeth Browne, the daughter of Elizabeth I's royal physician. He became a doctor at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London from 1609 until 1643.
William Harvey is famous for his idea on blood being pumped around the body by the heart. He was the first to describe correctly and in detail the circulation and its properties. A few men knew about the lesser circulation of the blood through the lungs, but their work was lost. One 16th century work on theology, entitled "Cristianismi restitutio", was written by Miguel Serveto. After he had been burnt at the stake for heresy (by Calvin), his book was destroyed. Three copies survived. A century and a half later, long after Harvey, someone noticed he had said something about the blood circulating. 
Harvey announced his discoveries about the circulatory system in 1616 during a series of lectures (his lecture notes still exist). He wrote a book ("Exercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et sanguinis in Animalibuson") about it in 1628. He said that blood was pumped around the body in a closed system. Blood was pumped by the heart through the body before coming back to the heart to repeat the process. This went against what was believed at the time to be true. 
The Roman doctor, Galen believed that there were two systems in the body dealing with blood. It was thought at the time that the dark red blood in veins came from the liver and the bright red blood in arteries came from the heart. It was believed that the liver and heart made the blood and it was used up by the body parts it was pumped to.
Harvey's ideas came from dissecting human bodies. Harvey found that the liver would have to make 540 pounds of blood every hour for Galen to be right. This showed him that the blood was not being used up. It was being reused by the body. He said blood flowed through the heart in two loops. One loop went to the lungs and got oxygen. The other loop went to the organs and body tissue giving them the oxygen. He said the heart was just a pump that pumped blood around the body.

</doc>
<doc id="43437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43437" title="Zoey 101">
Zoey 101

Zoey 101 is an American television series. It was on Nickelodeon from 9 January 2005 until 2 May 2008. It is about on the lives of teenagers at a boarding school, Pacific Coast Academy (PCA). The main character is Zoey Brooks, played by Jamie Lynn Spears. The series was created by Dan Schneider. It was nominated for an "Outstanding Children's Program" Emmy Award in 2005. "Zoey 101" was the most expensive production ever for Nickelodeon series. It was shot completely on location in Malibu. It was also Nickelodeon's best performance for a series premiere in almost eight years. However, many critics have made negative comments about the show. Jamie Lynn Spears has been playing Zoey for 3 years from 2005 till 2008.
Zoey Brooks goes to a once all-boys boarding school in California, where she must fit in, even though she is a girl. The series focuses on normal problems that a teenage girl may have to deal with. Zoey has two best friends called Lola and Quinn.
Several video games based on the television series were developed by THQ. They were published by Barking Lizards.
The original was released on 2 March 2007 for Gameboy Advance. Players play mini-games in trios for three semesters (levels), with a final game at the end. Players must successfully complete each mini-game, then a dare, and then a challenge. Dares and challenges are randomly chosen from three games. Players can choose to play mini-games freely in the main menu. Mini-games can only be unlocked in story mode. The game received negative reviews from sites such as Nintendo World Report and Common Sense. Game Rankings had a percent of 40% based on 2 reviews.
"Zoey 101: Field Trip Fiasco" was released for Nintendo DS. It was released in the U.S. on September 11, 2007. The plot involves Zoey wanting to do a documentary movie about the local national park. The player controls Zoey. The player has to go around the Pacific Coast Academy delivering things to people, or collect objects scattered around the school before time runs out. A map can be pulled out to help. After finishing fetch quests, the player plays a Minigame. Minigames require Scribbling on the touch screen to hose off cars or picking up Frisbees. Minigames last about 2 minutes. This game also received bad reviews. Metacritic had a score of 31/100 and Game Rankings had a score of 41.25% both based on 4 critics.

</doc>
<doc id="43441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43441" title="Velocisaurus">
Velocisaurus

Velocisaurus was a theropod dinosaur related to "Ceratosaurus". Its remains were found in Patagonia, in strata from the Cretaceous period.
This animal is known only from its leg and feet bones. "Velocisaurus" was probably around 1.2 meters long (4 ft). The foot is unique in that the middle (third) metatarsal (foot bone) was the main weight-bearing element. Its upper end has thickened and the shafts of the adjoining second and fourth metatarsals have thinned considerably. Such a condition is unknown for other theropods, including birds, but a similar set-up occurred in three-toed horses (like "Mesohippus"). José Bonaparte explained it as an adaptation for a cursorial (running) lifestyle. He suggested that "Velocisaurus" was itself an omnivore, because the sole claw found, of the fourth toe, was not curved, but relatively straight.

</doc>
<doc id="43442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43442" title="Valdosaurus">
Valdosaurus

Valdosaurus ("Weald Lizard") is a genus of bipedal herbivorous dinosaurs found on the Isle of Wight and elsewhere in England. It is found in the Lower Cretaceous.
Its classification is in the Dryosauridae family. It is related to the Iguanodonts.

</doc>
<doc id="43443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43443" title="Irish Potato Famine">
Irish Potato Famine

The Great Famine or the Great Hunger () is the name given to the famine in Ireland between 1845 and 1852. Outside Ireland, it is usually called the Irish Potato Famine. The famine was caused by "the potato blight", a fungus-like organism which quickly destroyed the potatoes in Ireland, and throughout Europe. The effect was particularly severe in Ireland because potatoes were the main source of food for most Irish people at the time. 
It is believed that between 500,000 and more than one million people died in the three years from 1846 to 1849 because of hunger or disease. Another million became refugees because of the famine. Many people who left Ireland moved to Great Britain, the United States, Canada and Australia.
In Ireland this time is referred to as "the starvation". The potato was the only crop affected, yet Ireland continued to produce corn, wheat, barley, and beef. However, the mostly English landlords made a bigger profit by selling these food products elsewhere. 
By the late 17th century, potato had become common as a supplementary rather than a major food. The diet was mainly around butter, milk, and grain products. Potato became a base food of the poor, especially in winter. The lack of genetic variability among the potato plants in Ireland caused the emergence of "Phytophthora infestans" which had devastating effects in Ireland. Another factor is that holdings were so small that no crop other than potatoes would be able to feed a family.
Starting in 1801, Ireland had been directly governed, under the Act of Union, as part of the United Kingdom. In the 40 years after the union, British governments grappled with the problems of governing the country. One historian calculated that, between 1801 and 1845, there had been 114 commissions and 61 special committees enquiring into the state of Ireland. "Without exception their findings prophesied disaster. Ireland was on the verge of starvation, her population rapidly increasing, three-quarters of her labourers unemployed, housing conditions appalling and the standard of living unbelievably low".

</doc>
<doc id="43444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43444" title="Wannanosaurus">
Wannanosaurus

Wannanosaurus is the smallest known ornithischian dinosaur. Its length is estimated at just less than a metre. It lived in the Upper Cretaceous, about 80 million years ago, and was found in Anhui, China. 
It is known from a single partial skeleton, including a partial skull roof and lower jaw, an upper leg and lower leg, part of a rib, and other fragments. It was herbivorous, but may also have eaten insects. Wannosaurus means Wanno lizard. It is one of several pachycephalosaurs with flat-topped skulls.

</doc>
<doc id="43445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43445" title="Chihuahua (dog)">
Chihuahua (dog)

A chihuahua is a very small kind of dog and is bred to be a pet. 
They can reach a height of 6-9 inches (12.7–20.3 cm) and a weight of 2–6 pounds (0.9–2.7 kg). Chihuahuas can have a long or short coat, and come in many different colors. These are black, white, beige, brown, and dark brown. They only need grooming once a week if short coat or it may be twice if you have a long coat. Chihuahuas can have upto six puppies because of their small bodies. 
The Chihuahua's start goes back to Mexico as the descendants of the Techichi, a long haired and silent dog. The Techichi was liked by the Toltec people, one of the indigenous (original) people of Mexico. Chihuahuas are believed to have been made by breeding the Techichi and Chinese Crested Dogs (a type of small hairless dog) to form today's Chihuahuas. 
Another possible start for Chihuahuas was the breeding of Techichis with Spanish terriers, which were well liked at the time and were known for their small body and black and tan colors. Mating with another type of dog increased the loudness of the Techichi's bark while making it smaller. 
Chihuahuas were named after the Chihuahua state in Mexico. The word Chihuahua comes from the Na'huatl word "xicuagua", which means "sandy, dry place".

</doc>
<doc id="43446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43446" title="Minmi">
Minmi

Minmi is a genus of small ankylosaurian dinosaur that lived during the Lower Cretaceous of Australia, about 119 to 113 million years ago. 
A recent cladistic analysis suggests that "Minmi" is the most basal known ankylosaur.
That does not mean it was the ancestor of the group; it is far too late for that. It means its body is not specialized, and is relatively unchanged from whatever was the ancestral group.
Two good specimens of "Minmi" have been described, including a mostly complete skeleton, and additional fragments may belong to this genus. The dinosaur grew to about 2 m (6.5 ft) long, and was roughly 1 m (3 ft) tall to the top of the shoulder.
"Minmi" is classified in the Ankylosauria, but is too 'primitive' (basal) to be included in either the Ankylosauridae or Nodosauridae. 
As with other ankylosaurians, "Minmi" was herbivorous Unlike most herbivorous dinosaurs, there is direct evidence of the diet of "Minmi": gut contents are known from the well-preserved nearly complete specimen. The gut contents consist of fragments of fibrous or vascular plant tissue, fruiting bodies, spherical seeds, and tissue (possibly from fern sporangia). The most common remains are the fibrous or vascular fragments, which have clean cut ends. 
Because of the small size of the fragments, they are probably nibbled from plants or chopped in the mouth. These small fragments may have come from twigs or stems, but their size is more suggestive of vascular bundles in leaves. The clean cuts, and lack of gastroliths, suggest that the animal relied on chewing to grind food. The seeds (0.3 mm [0.01 in] across) and fruiting bodies (4.5 mm [0.18 in] across) were apparently swallowed whole. When compared to gut contents and scat from modern herbivorous lizard, emu and goose, this shows "Minmi" had a more sophisticated process for cutting up plant material.
It had bony protrusions on its head, back, abdomen, legs and along the tail. Several types of armour are known in place in "Minmi", including small ossicles, small keeled scutes on the body, large scutes without keels on the snout, large keeled scutes on the neck, shoulders, and possibly tail, spike-like scutes on the hips, and a combination of ridged and keeled scutes and triangular plates on the tail. There was one preserved ring of scutes around the neck. The arrangement of armour is unclear on the tail, although the triangular plates may have run on the sides of the tail, with long scutes forming a row along the top of the tail. However, unlike other ankylosaurians, "Minmi" had horizontal plates of bones that ran along the sides of its vertebrae (hence its species name, "M. paravertebra").

</doc>
<doc id="43447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43447" title="Rugops">
Rugops

Rugops was a dinosaur related to "Carnotaurus". It lived in what is now Africa, about 95 million years ago. It was a medium-sized carnivorous dinosaur, up to 27 feet long. 
"Rugops" lived at the same time "Spinosaurus", "Carcharodontosaurus", and "Deltadromeus", in the Upper Cretaceous. 
"Rugops" was a carnivore, with weak jaws and small teeth. It may have been a scavenger, feeding on dead animals. It also may have preyed on sauropods, such as "Paralititan" and "Aegyptosaurus", and ornithopods, such as "Ouranosaurus". The name "Rugops" means "wrinkled face". The bony wrinkles on its snout may have helped to support a structure, such as horny crest or a wattle, like on a rooster or a turkey. 

</doc>
<doc id="43449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43449" title="Abrictosaurus">
Abrictosaurus

Abrictosaurus was a heterodontosaurid dinosaur from the Lower Jurassic of what is now southern Africa. It was a small bipedal herbivore or omnivore, about 1.2 meters (4 feet) long, and weighing less than 45 kilograms (100 pounds).
"Abrictosaurus" is usually thought to be the most basal member of the family Heterodontosauridae. "Lycorhinus" and "Heterodontosaurus" both had high-crowned cheek teeth, which went over each other in the jaw, making a continuous chewing surface analogous to those of Cretaceous hadrosaurids. "Abrictosaurus" had more widely-split cheek teeth, with lower crowns, more similar to other early ornithischians. 
The family as a whole has canine-like tusks. Tusks were clearly present on one of the two specimens of "Abrictosaurus". The upper caniniform measured 10.5 millimeters (0.4 inches) high, while the lower reached 17 mm (0.67 in). 
"Abrictosaurus" had smaller, less powerful forelimbs than "Heterodontosaurus" and one fewer phalanx bone (finger joint) in both the fourth and fifth digits of the forelimb.

</doc>
<doc id="43450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43450" title="Heterodontosaurus">
Heterodontosaurus

Heterodontosaurus (meaning "different toothed lizard") is a genus of small herbivorous dinosaur with prominent canine teeth which lived in the Lower Jurassic of South Africa. It was related to "Abrictosaurus". It had 3 different kinds of teeth.

</doc>
<doc id="43451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43451" title="Camarasaurus">
Camarasaurus

Camarasaurus (meaning "chambered lizard") was a large plant-eating sauropod. It was about 18 meters long and weighed about 18 metric tones. Its name comes from its skull, which is in the shape of an arch. It lived during the late Jurassic, between 155 and 145 million years ago. These dinosaurs may have lived in herds.
It was first discovered in 1877 in Colorado by Oramel W. Lucas. Its fossil remains have been found in the Morrison Formation of Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming.
There are four species of Camarasaurus:
It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America". 
"Camarasaurus" is among the most common and frequently well-preserved sauropod dinosaurs. The maximum size of the most common species, "C. lentus", was about 15 meters (50 ft) in length. The largest species, "C. supremus", reached a maximum length of 23 meters (75 ft) and maximum estimated weight of 47 tonnes (51.8 tons).
The arched skull of "Camarasaurus" was remarkably square and the blunt snout had many fenestrae (openings). It was sturdy and is often found in good condition by paleontologists. The 19 centimeter long (7.5 in) teeth were shaped like chisels (spatulate) and arranged evenly along the jaw. The strength of the teeth indicates that "Camarasaurus" probably ate coarser plant material than the slender-toothed diplodocids.
There is a fossil record of two adults and a 12.2 meter (40 ft) long juvenile that died together in the late Jurassic leriod, about 150 million years ago (northeast Wyoming). It is assumed that their bodies were washed to their final resting place, in river mud. This suggests that "Camarasaurus" traveled in herds or, at least, 'family' groups. Also, recovered camarasaur eggs have been found in lines, rather than in neatly arranged nests as with some other dinosaurs, which appears to suggest that, like most sauropods, "Camarasaurus" did not tend its young.

</doc>
<doc id="43452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43452" title="Zizhongosaurus">
Zizhongosaurus

Zizhongosaurus was a very large plant-eating dinosaur. It was a large sauropod, related to "Camarasaurus".

</doc>
<doc id="43454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43454" title="Belching">
Belching

Belching is the act of making a burp. It is letting air out of the stomach through the mouth. Burping is caused by air being trapped in the stomach. "Esophageal speech" is the act of "burping" words.

</doc>
<doc id="43473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43473" title="Great Fire of London">
Great Fire of London

The Great Fire of London happened in London, 1666. The fire lasted for four days, from 1 September until 5 September.
It threatened the aristocratic district of Westminster (the modern West End), Charles II's Palace of Whitehall, and most of the suburban slums. However, it did not reach these districts. It burned down 13,200 houses, 87 churches, Old St Paul's Cathedral, and most of the government buildings. It is believed that it destroyed the homes of 70,000 of the 80,000 people that lived in the city. It is not known how many people died in the fire. Only a few deaths are certain, but for many of the victims there were no records. Also, the fire may have cremated many, leaving no recognisable remains.
The fire started at the bakery of Thomas Farriner (or Farynor) in Pudding Lane. It began just after midnight on Sunday, September 2 and grew very fast. Firefighters of the time usually made firebreaks by destroying buildings around the fire so it could not spread. This did not happen soon enough because the Lord Mayor, Sir Thomas Bloodworth, was not certain what to do. By the time he ordered such measures, it was too late.
The fire pushed north on Monday into the center of the city. Some people thought that foreigners were setting the fires. They believed it was the French and Dutch. Both countries were England's enemies in the Second Anglo-Dutch War, a war that was happening at that time. On Thursday, the fire spread over most of the City, destroying St. Paul's Cathedral and crossed over the River Fleet. It was close to setting fire to Charles II's court at Whitehall.
The attempt to put out the fire is believed to have been successful because of two things:
The social and economic problems created by the disaster were very big. Leaving London to go and live elsewhere was strongly encouraged by Charles II. He feared a London rebellion amongst the refugees who had lost their property. Despite numerous radical proposals, London was reconstructed on essentially the same street plan used before the fire.
The fire is said to have also helped to get rid of the Great Plague which had hit London in 1665, and killed about 70,000 of the 90,000 population.

</doc>
<doc id="43482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43482" title="Golgi complex">
Golgi complex

The Golgi complex, also known as the Golgi apparatus or simply the Golgi, is a cytoplasmic organelle. It is found in eukaryote cells, as in animals, plants, and fungi. 
The complex was discovered by Camillo Golgi in 1898. Golgi was ignored and his discovery was said to be dirt on his lenses. Years later, electron microscope pictures showed structures just like in the original Golgi drawings. It is made of several flattened sac-like membranes which look like a stack of pancakes.
The main function of the Golgi apparatus is to process and package macromolecules, such as proteins and lipids. They come to the Golgi after being built, and before they go to their destination. The Golgi complex inspects them for flaws and discards extra material added during their manufacture, wraps them up and then targets them for packaging. The Golgi complex is especially active in processing proteins for secretion. The Golgi releases special enzymes called lysosomes, which clean off any extra amino acids. When the package is ready, it is pinched off the Golgi and released into the cytoplasm. 
The Golgi complex is part of the cellular membrane system, and so is the endoplasmic reticulum. It has two faces called the maturation face and formation face. 

</doc>
<doc id="43486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43486" title="Institut Teknologi Bandung">
Institut Teknologi Bandung

Institut Teknologi Bandung (ITB) is a public government-funded, higher education, technology school located in Bandung, West Java, Indonesia. 
The symbol of Institut Teknologi Bandung is Ganesha, a Hindu god representing wisdom. 

</doc>
<doc id="43488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43488" title="Superconductor">
Superconductor

A superconductor is a special type of material that conducts electricity without resistance. That means that electrons (tiny particles with negative charge) can flow very easily through the material. This can be achieved only at very low temperatures. The critical temperature at which a material becomes superconducting varies from material to material. Most materials are not superconductors. 
Another property of superconductors is the Flux Trapping Effect, which can cause a rare earth magnet to float above a cooled superconductor. 

</doc>
<doc id="43508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43508" title="Alan Freeman">
Alan Freeman

Alan Leslie "Fluff" Freeman (born 6 July 1927 in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, died 27 November 2006 in London, England) was an Australian radio presenter who worked for most of his career in the United Kingdom.
In May 2000 he was presented with a Lifetime Achievement award at the Sony Radio Academy Awards.
Freeman was best known for presenting "Pick of the Pops" on BBC Radio 1 throughout the 1960s and 1970s.
Freeman was openly bisexual.

</doc>
<doc id="43519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43519" title="Sunflower">
Sunflower

The sunflower ("Helianthus annuus") is an annual plant in the family Asteraceae, with a large flower head ("capitulum"). The stem of the flower can grow up to 3 metres tall, with a flower head that can be 30 cm wide. Other types of sunflowers include the California Royal Sunflower, which has a burgundy (red + purple) flower head.
The flower head is actually an inflorescence made of hundreds or thousands of tiny flowers called florets. The central florets look like the centre of a normal flower, and the outer florets look like yellow petals. All together they make up a "false flower" or pseudanthium. The benefit to the plant is that it is very easily seen by the insects and birds which pollinate it, and it produces thousands of seeds. 
The sunflower is the state flower of Kansas. That is why Kansas is sometimes called the Sunflower State.
To grow well, sunflowers need full sun. They grow best in fertile, wet, well-drained soil with a lot of mulch. In commercial planting, seeds are planted 45 cm (1.5 ft) apart and 2.5 cm (1 in) deep.
The outer petal-bearing florets are the sterile florets and can be yellow, red, orange, or other colours. The florets inside the circular head are called disc florets, which mature into seeds. 
The flower petals within the sunflower's cluster are always in a spiral pattern. Generally, each floret is oriented toward the next by approximately the golden angle, 137.5°, producing a pattern of interconnecting spirals, where the number of left spirals and the number of right spirals are successive Fibonacci numbers. Typically, there are 34 spirals in one direction and 55 in the other; on a very large sunflower there could be 89 in one direction and 144 in the other.
Sunflowers commonly grow to heights between 1.5 and 3.5 m (5–12 ft.). The tallest sunflower confirmed by Guinness World Records is 9.17 m (2014, Germany). In 16th century Europe the record was already 7.3 m (24 ft., Spain). Most cultivars are variants of "H. annuus", but four other species (all perennials) are also domesticated. This includes "H. tuberosus", the Jerusalem Artichoke, which produces edible tubers.
Sunflower "whole seed" (fruit) are sold as a snack food, after roasting in ovens, with or without salt added. Sunflowers can be processed into a peanut butter alternative, Sunbutter. In Germany, it is mixed together with rye flour to make Sonnenblumenkernbrot (literally: sunflower whole seed bread), which is quite popular in German-speaking Europe. It is also sold as food for birds and can be used directly in cooking and salads.
Sunflower oil, extracted from the seeds, is used for cooking, as a carrier oil and to produce margarine and biodiesel, as it is cheaper than olive oil. A range of sunflower varieties exist with differing fatty acid compositions; some 'high oleic' types contain a higher level of healthy monounsaturated fats in their oil than Olive oil.
The cake remaining after the seeds have been processed for oil is used as a livestock feed. Some recently developed cultivars have drooping heads. These cultivars are less attractive to gardeners growing the flowers as ornamental plants, but appeal to farmers, because they reduce bird damage and losses from some plant diseases. Sunflowers also produce latex and are the subject of experiments to improve their suitability as an alternative crop for producing hypoallergenic rubber.
Traditionally, several Native American groups planted sunflowers on the north edges of their gardens as a "fourth sister" to the better known three sisters combination of corn, beans, and squash.[9] Annual species are often planted for their allelopathic properties. However, for commercial farmers growing commodity crops, the sunflower, like any other unwanted plant, is often considered a weed. Especially in the midwestern USA, wild (perennial) species are often found in corn and soybean fields and can have a negative impact on yields.
Sunflowers may also be used to extract toxic ingredients from soil, such as lead, arsenic and uranium. They were used to remove uranium, cesium-137, and strontium-90 from soil after the Chernobyl disaster (see phytoremediation).

</doc>
<doc id="43528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43528" title="Peter Cushing">
Peter Cushing

Peter Cushing, OBE (26 May 1913 – 11 August 1994) was an English actor. He is best known for his roles in horror movies and "".
Born Peter Wilton Cushing in London, England. His movie career began in 1939 in a small role in "The Man in the Iron Mask" (1939), followed by "Laddie" (1940). He interpreted the role of Osric, in the classic written by William Shakespeare, "Hamlet" (1948), with Laurence Olivier.
His best roles he played in his career were the Victor Frankenstein, in the British horror movie "The Curse of Frankenstein" (1957), by Terence Fisher he plays of role brilliantly, Victor creates a monster in the attic of his castle. His other role was that of Doctor Van Helsing in "Dracula" (1958), in this movie he must fight Dracula. In these two movies he was accompanied by another great actor Christopher Lee. They formed a very successful duo, starring in dozens of Hammer movies as "The Hound of the Baskervilles" (1959), "The Mummy" (1959), "The Gorgon" (1964), "Dr. Terror's House of Horrors" (1965). They clashed again as Van Helsing and Dracula, in "Dracula A.D. 1972" (1972), and "The Satanic Rites of Dracula" (1974).
Also re-interpret the character of Baron Frankenstein, in "The Revenge of Frankenstein" (1958), "The Evil of Frankenstein" (1964), by Freddie Francis, "Frankenstein Created Woman" (1967), "Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed" (1969), and "Frankenstein and the Monster from Hell" (1974), directed by Terence Fisher.
Peter Cushing also teamed with Vincent Price in movies including "Scream and Scream Again" (1970), "Dr. Phibes Rises Again" (1972), "Madhouse" (1974), which plays an evil agent movie., and "House of the Long Shadows" (1983). 
In 1977 he obtained the role of Grand Moff Tarkin, in "Star Wars" by George Lucas. 
In the last years of his career had appearances in some comedies "Top Secret!" (1984). 
His last job was in 1986 in the movie "Biggles" (1986). 
In 1982 he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. He died of the disease in 1994.
Cushing also made ​television, in mystery series, including "Sherlock Holmes" (1968), as Sherlock Holmes, "The Avengers", "Great Mysteries", "Space: 1999", "The New Avengers", "Hammer House of Horror", and the TV movies "The Masks of Death" (1984), as Sherlock Holmes

</doc>
<doc id="43533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43533" title="Brian Krause">
Brian Krause

Brian Krause (born February 1, 1969) is an American actor. He grew up in El Toro, California. He is best known for his role as Leo Wyatt on the WB Network television series "Charmed" from 1998 to 2006.
Krause made his first movie as Richard Lestrange in the movie sequel "Return to the Blue Lagoon" (1991). A year later, he also starred opposite Alice Krige, playing Charles Brady in the horror movie "Sleepwalkers".
Brian and his wife Beth Bruce had their first child, Jamen, in 1996. They divorced in 2000. He dated co-star Alyssa Milano. During his time off the set, he enjoys being a handyman which was his job before acting (and was his character's job when he played Leo Wyatt on "Charmed"). He also enjoys golf and auto racing.

</doc>
<doc id="43534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43534" title="Julian McMahon">
Julian McMahon

Julian McMahon (born July 27, 1968, in Sydney, Australia) is an Australian actor and former model. His father, Sir William McMahon was Prime Minister of Australia from 1971-1972. McMahon is best known for playing Cole Turner on the television series "Charmed" and Christian Troy on the series "Nip/Tuck".

</doc>
<doc id="43535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43535" title="Ted King">
Ted King

Theodore William King (born October 1, 1965) is an American actor. He was born in Hollywood, California. Ted King is also credited as T.W. King.
King is first known to soap opera fans as Danny Roberts on "Loving" in 1999 and "The City" until the series was went off the air in March 1997. He had the starring role in the series "Timecop" on ABC in the fall of 1997. He was on the series "Charmed" as Inspector Andy Trudeau from 1998 to 1999. In 2002, King returned to soaps operas as Luis Alcazar on "General Hospital" for a few months until his character was killed on the series. In 2003, he returned to "General Hospital" as Luis' twin brother, Lorenzo Alcazar.

</doc>
<doc id="43537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43537" title="Coffs Harbour, New South Wales">
Coffs Harbour, New South Wales

Coffs Harbour is a city on the north coast of New South Wales, Australia. It is 540km north of Sydney and 440km south of Brisbane. Coffs Harbour is famous for its bananas and is also an important diving spot. It also has a campus of the Southern Cross University.

</doc>
<doc id="43560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43560" title="Yggdrasil">
Yggdrasil

Yggdrasil is the name of the tree that links the 9 different worlds of Norse mythology. The tree is an ash. It links Niflheim, Asgard, Midgard, Vanaheim, Alfheim, Nidavellir, Svartalfheim, Jotunheim, and Muspelheim. Below the tree resides Hel as well as the Well of Urd.
Life flows through Yggdrasil so those who can create and grow life (goddesses) Yggdrasil makes them stronger giving goddesses powers held deeper within themselves. 
As an example when Sjöfn wields Yggdrasil she then is not just a minor goddess of love. She is now able to heal those who are injured or dying. She can reach a power so far inside of herself that she would have never known about when holding Yggdrasil.

</doc>
<doc id="43562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43562" title="Impeachment">
Impeachment

Impeachment is a way to remove government officials from office in some countries. It happens when the official does not want to leave his or her job. It is like an indictment (something that the prosecutor needs to get before the trial). Someone is impeached when a legislature votes to do that. Later, there is another vote on whether or not to convict, which is like guilty. The second vote may be by the same people who did the impeachment, or someone else as in a bicameral legislature.

</doc>
<doc id="43563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43563" title="Indictment">
Indictment

In common law, an indictment is a charge saying that a person committed a very serious crime. They used to be given out by grand juries (a special jury usually made up of 24 people that is used to see if a person should be charged), but many places do not have grand juries anymore. Sealed indictments are kept secret until they are unsealed.

</doc>
<doc id="43564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43564" title="Trial">
Trial

A trial is where two people or two groups of people argue in a court.
In a civil trial, there is a plaintiff and a defendant. The plaintiff tries to prove that he or she has a reason why the defendant needs to give him or her money.
In a criminal trial, there is a prosecutor and a defendant. The prosecutor works for the government and tries to prove that the defendant committed a crime. It often takes a long time to get a trial scheduled as the courts can be very busy. In the United States, Federal court can take up to 10 months to get a court date. 
The judge contols the courtroom. He or she decides who speaks when, and they decide what evidence and arguments can be used. Sometimes, a jury is brought in to determine whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty. If there is no jury, the judge or judges decide whether the defendant is proven guilty or not. If the defendant is proven guilty of the crime, the judge will decide the punishment, which is also called the "sentence". If the crime is serious, the defendant may go to prison or, in some countries, be executed. For smaller crimes, there is often a fine—money that must be paid, in addition to having a criminal record.
Trials are different in places where the laws are different. Different countries, cities and states all have different laws that change how trials happen. Trials in some places are very short. In some places, however, important trials can take as long as a few years while the two sides gather information and put together their arguments. 
A military trial is a court-martial. 

</doc>
<doc id="43576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43576" title="Belinda (entertainer)">
Belinda (entertainer)

Belinda Peregrin Schüll (born August 15, 1989 in Madrid, Spain) is a Spanish-born Mexican singer and actress. She starred in Disney Channel's movie "". She sang "A La Nanita Nana" and "Why Wait" in the movie. For a music video, she sang "Dance with Me" with Drew Seeley. She has a disc called "Utopia" and her song "Ni Freud Ni Tu Mamá". She has been acting since she was 5 or 6 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="43578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43578" title="Ngo Dinh Diem">
Ngo Dinh Diem

Ngo Dinh Diem or "Ngô Ðình Diệm" in Vietnamese was the first President of South Vietnam. He was born on 3 January 1901 in Hue, Vietnam 
He was overthrown and killed on 2 November 1963 by the South Việtnamese army during the Buddhist crisis. The army then set up a military dictatorship.

</doc>
<doc id="43585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43585" title="Great Plague of London">
Great Plague of London

During the Great Plague of London (1665-1666), the disease called the bubonic plague killed about 100,000 people in London, England. In seven months, almost one quarter of London's population (one out of every four Londoners) died from the plague. At its worst, in September of 1665, the plague killed 7,165 people in one week. After this, the number of people dying from the plague began to slow down. 
Around September of 1666, the great outbreak ended. The Great Fire of London, which happened on 2-3 September 1666, may have helped end the outbreak by killing many of the rats and fleas who were spreading the plague.
Though most of the people who died during the Great Plague lived in London, the plague also killed people in other areas of England. By the time the Great Plague ended, about 2.5% of England's population had died from the plague. To compare, about 2% of the entire United Kingdom's population (including soldiers and civilians) died in World War I, and about 1% of the entire United Kingdom's population died in World War II.
The Great Plague of 1665 was the last major plague in England. Before the Great Plague, England had had outbreaks of plague (meaning many people got the disease) every few decades. For example:
Historians think the plague spread to England from the Netherlands. Dutch trading ships carrying cotton from Amsterdam may have brought the plague to England. Amsterdam was badly hit by the plague in 1663–1664; the disease killed about 50,000 people.
In London, the first places hit by the plague were the dock areas outside of the city and the parish of St Giles in the Fields. In these places, poor workers lived crowded together in bad conditions. Nobody kept records about the deaths of very poor people, so nobody knows how many of these people may have died from the plague. However, records say the first person to die of the plague in London was Rebecca Andrews, on 12 April 1665.
By July 1665, plague was in the city of London itself. Many of the people who could afford to leave the city left for the countryside. King Charles II of England, his family, and his court left the city for Oxfordshire. Most wealthy merchants and professionals left the city, so most businesses were closed. As the plague got worse, more and more people left. London got so empty that grass started to grow on the streets.
However, most of the city's government officials stayed in London. So did the Lord Mayor of London, Sir John Lawrence. As the plague got worse, more and more people left, but a small number of clergymen, physicians and apothecaries chose to stay. Also, people who were too poor to move to the countryside had no choice but to stay in the city.
Some of the people who stayed in London wrote about the Great Plague. Samuel Pepys's diary about living through the plague has given historians a lot of information about what the plague was like. Henry Foe, a saddler who lived in East London, also decided not to leave the city. Years later, in 1722, Foe's nephew Daniel Defoe wrote "A Journal of the Plague Year", a story about the plague, which he may have based on Foe's journals.
People in London tried many different things to try to treat the plague and stop it from spreading. At the time, nobody understood what caused the plague, how it spread, or how to treat it. Antibiotic medications, which are the only treatment for plague, would not be discovered for another 300 years. People were so afraid of catching the plague from other people that they threw dead plague victims' bodies in overcrowded pits and buried them all together, as quickly as possible. In one parish in London, 1,114 dead plague victims were buried together in a hole that was fifty feet long and twenty feet wide.
As the plague got worse, people began to do worse things. Some people refused to help sick family members. Other people forced sick servants to leave, even though they had nowhere to go. Eventually, if one person in a home got the plague, the whole family was forced to stay in the home. A red cross and the words "Lord have mercy upon us" would be painted on the door. Samuel Pepys wrote in his diary: "the plague [is] making us cruel as dogs to one another."
Government officials tried several public health programs to prevent more people from getting the plague. For example:
"Plague doctors" walked the streets diagnosing victims, although many of them were not actual doctors. Wearing special costumes, they tried to treat plague victims with bloodletting, frogs, and leeches.
Though the plague was worst in London, it also affected other parts of England. Perhaps the most famous example was the village of Eyam in Derbyshire. Nobody knows for sure how the plague got to Eyam. However, stories say that a merchant carrying cloth from London accidentally brought the plague with him. The villagers quarantined themselves - kept themselves apart from other people and other villages - to make sure the disease would not spread any further. This kept the plague from spreading outside Eyam. However, about 80% of the people in Eyam died from the plague within a little over a year.
As time went on, more and more people died from the plague. This continued until the week of 19-26 September, 1665. This was the worst week of the Great Plague: 7,165 people died from the plague in that week. After that, the number of deaths from the plague began to slow down. By February 1666, the King and his court decided it was safe enough to return to London.
Some people - though not nearly so many - continued to get the plague until September 1666. Around that time, the plague outbreak ended. The Great Fire of London, which destroyed most of the centre of London, may have helped.

</doc>
<doc id="43586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43586" title="Empress Matilda">
Empress Matilda

Empress Matilda (c. February 1101–10 September 1167), sometimes called Empress Maud, was the second child of Henry I of England and Matilda of Scotland. Her brother, William Adelin, died in the wreck of the White Ship in 1120. This made Matilda the hereditary heir to the English throne. At her father's death in 1135, her cousin King Stephen rushed to take the throne. This led to a civil war between Stephen and Matilda, known as the Anarchy.
She was called "empress" because as a child she was married to Henry V, Holy Roman Emperor. She was Queen of England for a short time in 1141. The feud between Matilda and Stephen ended when Matilda's son, Henry, was named by Stephen as his successor. This was at the Treaty of Wallingford in 1153. Stephen's own chosen successor, his son Eustace, died in 1153.

</doc>
<doc id="43597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43597" title="Kaiser">
Kaiser

Kaiser was title used for the Emperor of Germany from the creation of unified Germany in 1871 until the end of World War I. The Holy Roman Emperor was also called "Kaiser". The word "Kaiser" is the German way to say Caesar, the name the ancient Romans used for their Roman Emperor, just as "Tsar" is the Russian way to say it.

</doc>
<doc id="43621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43621" title="Orange, New South Wales">
Orange, New South Wales

Orange is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is on the Mitchell Highway about 250 kilometres west of Sydney. The main street (where people do all the shopping) is quite large for a country town. There are five high schools and five primary schools in Orange. Orange has two tennis centres, a big pool, an indoor sports centre, a netball centre, football pitches, a university, hockey pitches and lots of parks. There is also a big mine called Cadia and a big fun lake located outside of the town.

</doc>
<doc id="43627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43627" title="Endometrium">
Endometrium

The endometrium is the innermost membrane of the uterus in mammals. During pregnancy, the endometrium develops a lot of glands and capillaries. These all become interconnected and form a placenta when a fertilised ovum attaches itself to the uterus. The capillaries supply the fetus with nutrients; they also take away waste products such as carbon dioxide. 

</doc>
<doc id="43632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43632" title="Nibelungenlied">
Nibelungenlied

The Nibelungenlied, translated as The Song of the Nibelungs, is an epic poem in Middle High German. It tells the story of dragon-slayer Siegfried at the court of the Burgundians, and of the revenge of his wife Kriemhild, which leads to the death all the heroes of the Bugundians and of Kriemhild as well.
The saga of Siegfried was also used in the opera cycle "Der Ring des Nibelungen" of Richard Wagner. Nibelung in this context means "dwarf".
The Nibelungenlied is based on earlier works. It was part of oral tradition, meaning it usually was not written down. During the Middle Ages people started to write down stories more and more. Overall there are about 35 German sources and one Dutch source for the story. There was an original manuscript but it has been lost. The three oldest manuscripts have been labelled "A", "B", and "C". 
"B" seems to be closest to the original; however, the real relation between the three manuscripts is unknown. The Nibelungenlied probably had a broad oral tradition, as there were many different versions. It is difficult to judge how these oral versions influenced the written ones.
Manuscripts A and B end with "daz ist der Nibelunge not" (that is the fall of the Nibelungs"); for this reasons, they are known as the "Not versions". Manuscript C ends with "daz ist der Nibelunge liet" (). It is known as the "Lied-version". In total, the C text has been edited with regard to the public of the time. It is less dramatic. This probably made it more popular. Aesthetically, the B text would have been the greatest artistic achievement for a contemporary public.
The author who wrote down the original that is now lost is unknown. However, there are a few candidates:
Serious researchers tend to ignore the last three options, because there is not enough evidence to support them.
This was probably not in the original though, but added later. The original probably began by introducing Kriemhild:
English translations:

</doc>
<doc id="43633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43633" title="Dwarf (mythology)">
Dwarf (mythology)

A dwarf is a short, humanlike creature from Norse and Germanic mythologies. They have been used in many fairy tales, fantasy, fiction and role-playing games.
In some stories, dwarves are mean, living under bridges, and having a bad reputation for stealing treasure. One example is the Norwegian Troll. It is an ugly and foolish creature who tells lies. It causes problems everywhere it goes. That is how the Internet troll got its name. In Robert Louis Stevenson's story, "Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," Edward Hyde is described as "a dwarf."
On the other hand, J. R. R. Tolkien's hobbits and the munchkins in The Wizard of Oz are likeable, honest, good and smart. 

</doc>
<doc id="43642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43642" title="Vanir">
Vanir

The Vanir is one of the two kinds of deities in Norse mythology. The others are the Æsir. The Vanir are peace-loving gods, related to Elves ; while Æsir are warlike gods, related to Giants. Important members of the Vanir include:
They live in Asgard together with the Æsir as a token of goodwill following a peace treaty. Others live in Vanaheimr. The goddess Freyja receives half of the slain heroes as a share of power between the two clans.

</doc>
<doc id="43646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43646" title="Mole (unit)">
Mole (unit)

Mole is the SI unit of measurement used to measure the number of things, usually atoms or molecules. One mole of something is equal to Avogadro's number. 
The measurement of Avogadro's number was refined in 2011 to ± .
We use this number because it is the number of carbon atoms in 12 grams of carbon-12, which is the most common kind of carbon. We can measure anything in moles, but it is not very useful for most things because the numbers are so big. For example, one mole of grapefruits would be as big as the earth. 
The number does not lend itself to easy expression in words. The nearest "casual" number is one million-million-million-million, which is 10. 
Because different molecules and atoms do not have the same mass, one mole of one thing does not weigh the same as one mole of something else. Atoms and molecule mass is measured in u. One u is equal to one gram per mole. This means that if an atom has a mass of one u, one mole of this atom weighs one gram.
Moles = mass (g) / Relative mass (grams per mole)
Example: How many moles are there in 20 grams of hydrogen?
A value of 1 can be used for hydrogen's relative mass, although the correct value is slightly larger. So: moles = mass/relative mass = 20/1 = 20 moles.
Moles = concentration (mol/dm) x volume (dm)
Example: How many moles are there in 100cm of 0.1M HSO?
1 dm is the same as 1000 cm, so the value in cubic centimetres needs to be divided by 1000. 100/1000 x 0.1 = 0.01 moles.
A methane molecule is made from one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. Carbon has a mass of 12.011 u and hydrogen has a mass of 1.008 u. This means that the mass of one methane molecule is 12.011 u + (4*1.008u), or 16.043 u. This means that one mole of methane has a mass of 16.043 grams.
A mole can be thought of as two bags of different sized balls. One bag contains 3 tennis balls and the other 3 footballs. There is the same number of balls in both bags but the mass of the footballs is much larger. It is a different way to measure things. Moles measure the number of particles, not the mass. So both bags contain three moles.
A mole is simply a unit of the number of things. Units are invented when existing units can not describe something well enough. Chemical reactions often take place at levels where using grams wouldn't make sense, yet using absolute numbers of atoms/molecules/ions would be confusing, too.
The SI units for molar concentration are mol/m. However, most chemical writing uses mol/dm, or mol dm, which is the same as mol/L. These units are often written with a capital letter M (pronounced "molar"), sometimes preceded by an SI prefix, for example, millimoles per litre (mmol/L) or millimolar (mM), micromoles/litre (µmol/L) or micromolar (µM), or nanomoles/L (nmol/L) or nanomolar (nM).
The absolute yield of a chemical reaction mostly stated in moles (called the "molar yield").

</doc>
<doc id="43651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43651" title="Plesiosaurus">
Plesiosaurus

Plesiosaurus was a large fossil marine reptile, a genus in the order Plesiosauria. 
The first specimen discovered by Mary Anning in 1820-21 was missing its skull. She found it on the 'Jurassic Coast' of Lyme Regis, Dorset, England. In 1823 she found another one, this time complete with its skull. The name "Plesiosaurus" was given by the Rev. William Conybeare.
"Plesiosaurus" was a predator, living mostly on fish and belemnites. It would swim through schools of fish and use its long neck and sharp teeth to snap them up.
"Plesiosaurus" was a fairly typical member of its order, and measured around 3 to 5 metres (10 to 16 ft) in total length. The snout was short, but the jaws were able to open very wide, and had a series of conical teeth in sockets. The neck was quite long, and the short tail was used for steering. Like all plesiosaurs, it used its large paddles to swim.
Only two species are known, and the genus existed for about 25 million years from the beginning of the Jurassic period.

</doc>
<doc id="43659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43659" title="Doraemon">
Doraemon

Doraemon (ドラえもん) is a Japanese manga and anime series. It was written by Fujiko F. Fujio. It was started in a children’s magazine in 1969. Doraemon is the name of a robot cat that came from the future to help a boy named Nobita Nobi. Doraemon is about the life of Nobita Nobi. In a typical story Doramon uses a gadget to solve a problem for Nobita, but Nobita goes too far and ends up being punished and learning a lesson.
Doraemon was turned into an anime television show in 1979. It still is being shown on television. As of 1996, about 100 million comic books have been sold. A Japanese-to-English version of the original called "Doraemon: Gadget Cat from the Future" was published from 2002. A local translation is published in each Asian country such as Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea and Vietnam. Despite popularity amongst people who only speak English, such as tourists who buy VHS and DVD media of Doraemon, the show is not in most English-speaking countries. Doraemon is endorsed by 7-11 in Thailand as a mascot.

</doc>
<doc id="43660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43660" title="Alfred the Great">
Alfred the Great

Alfred the Great (c. 849 - 26 October 899) was King of Wessex from 871 to 899. He was the first monarch from the British Isles to style himself as 'King of the Anglo-Saxons' and so he is sometimes considered the first English king. Alfred started the Royal Navy in the 9th century.
Alfred was the youngest son of King Æthelwulf of Wessex and Osburga. She was the daughter of Oslac, Athelwulf's butler. Alfred was born in 849 in the royal village of Wantage then in Berkshire. In the world he grew up in there was constant talk and fear of Viking raiders. For fourteen years they had been raiding but a year after Alfred's birth they remained all winter. The Viking menace was now settled on the island of Thanet in Kent.
When he was about four Alfred's mother, Osburga, died. At age twelve Alfred had difficulty finding a qualified teacher to help him learn to read and write. He finally overcame the problem and learned to read and write by using the writings of the church. At some point in his childhood Alfred was made a (a high rank in Anglo-Saxon England styled on the Roman office of consul). The ceremony involved him receiving a red cloak, a jeweled belt and a sword. This ceremony meant he was not destined to join the church, as the younger sons typically were. His life as an adult would be as a nobleman and possibly, if he survived his four older brothers, as king someday.
Before he was seven years old he had traveled to Rome twice. In 853 Alfred was sent with an escort and met Pope Leo IV. In 855 King Æthelwulf traveled to Rome taking his young son Alfred with him. They stayed in Rome a year and returned through France. There king Æthelwulf and his son Alfred stayed at the court of Charles the Bald. Æthelwulf became engaged to Charles's eldest daughter, Judith, then about aged twelve. That same October they were married at Verberie in northern France.
While Alfred and his father were in Rome and France, 855-856, his older brother Athelstan had died. On the king's return his son Ethelbald, with his followers. was threatening a civil war. To prevent this from happening Æthelwulf stepped down as king. He gave the rule over Wessex to his son Ethelbald. He took over the rule of Kent, Essex, Sussex and Surrey ruling Wessex as the under-king with his child bride Judith sharing his throne. In 858 king Æthelwulf died.
Ethelbald, now the undisputed king, next did the unexpected. He married his and Alfred's stepmother Judith. According to Asser, all men in England were horrified. Two years later in 860, Ethelbald was dead. Alfred's third brother, Ethelbert, succeeded to the throne. He united all of Wessex into one kingship. Queen Judith sold all of her extensive holdings in England and returned to France.
The next brother to rule Wessex was Ethelbert. In the same year he succeeded his brother there was a great Viking raid on the south coast of England. The Vikings plundered Winchester the chief city of Wessex and obtained a great deal of . As they returned to their ships they were ambushed by Anglo-Saxons from Hampshire and Berkshire. A few survived and returned to their ships. For the next three years Southern England was free of Viking raids. But the year 865 saw the arrival of the Great Heathen Army in East Anglia. For a time they were more interested in Northumbria. They gained control of York and moved south into Mercia then made their winter camp in Nottingham.
Meanwhile, King Ethelbert died in early 866. So far all the brothers had been childless and so the succession was passed from brother to brother. The fourth brother in line was Ethelred. He became king in 866. It was at this time Alfred was given the title of "Secundarius" (Latin for secondary). In effect it meant he was given regal power over part of the kingdom or limited joint authority over the entire kingdom. in 868 Burgred, the King of Mercia, asked King Ethelred and Alfred for their help against the Danes (Vikings). But their forces together could not defeat the Danes. By 871 the Mercians and East Anglians had been defeated. Only Wessex could mount an army against the Vikings. That year Wessex was invaded by a large Danish army. After many battles the Anglo-Saxons were able to slow the Danes' progress. Ethelred died. He left a young son named Ethelwald who later rebelled against Edward the Elder.
Alfred became king in the middle of this conflict. But before the end of the year he succeeded in effecting a peace, probably by paying a sum of money to the invaders.
Alfred earned the name 'the Great' by defending the kingdom from Viking invasions. Alfred was a scholar and encouraged education in the kingdom as well as improving the legal system.
By the close of the ninth century the four independent kingdoms of England had been reduced to just one. Wessex was the only remaining kingdom not destroyed by the Vikings. Beginning about 886 Alfred claimed to be the king of all the English. The exception was those parts of England that were under Danish rule. This was the beginning of unifying England under a single king. For many Alfred was the first king of the English. But he did not technically rule all of England. That distinction was given to Athelstan (ruled 924–939). King Ethelstan was Alfred's eldest grandson.
In the 880s Alfred formed a marriage alliance with Mercia, still a powerful kingdom. his daughter, Ethelflaeda, married king Ethelstan (II), of Mercia. After his death Ethelflaeda ruled as Queen of Mercia.
By 890 Alfred was making literacy among his people a priority. There were still Viking attacks and Alfred was still telling his people to continue fighting and not give up. Alfred died in 899. He was succeeded by his son, Edward the Elder who was crowned on (8 June) 900.
In 868 Alfred married Ealhswith, daughter of Ethelred, surnamed Mucill, Ealdorman of the Gainas. Together they had several children:

</doc>
<doc id="43661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43661" title="Festival">
Festival

A festival is a gathering of people to celebrate something. It can also refer to a particular day or group of days when people in a country have a holiday so that they can celebrate something. Festivals may be religious festivals. They may also be events which feature music, dancing, poetry, movies, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="43670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43670" title="Oort cloud">
Oort cloud

The Oort cloud, or Öpik–Oort cloud, is a cloud of comets and other objects. Astronomers believe it is way beyond the orbits of Pluto and the Kuiper belt. The Oort cloud is believed to be the source of long-period comets in the Solar System.
The Oort cloud may lie about 50,000 AU, or nearly a light-year, from the Sun. This means the cloud is nearly a quarter of the way to Proxima Centauri, the nearest star to the Sun. 
The Kuiper belt and scattered disc, the other two reservoirs of trans-Neptunian objects, are less than one thousandth of the Oort cloud's distance. The outer limit of the Oort cloud defines the boundary of the Solar System and the region of the Sun's gravitational dominance.
The Dutch astronomer Jan Hendrik Oort was the creator of the Oort cloud idea. The Oort cloud was named after him, as were the Oort comet, and Oort constants.
The Oort cloud takes up a lot of space and has trillions of comets about tens of millions of kilometers apart. 
The Oort cloud is made up of an Inner Oort cloud and an Outer Oort cloud. The Outer cloud is weakly bound to the Sun; long-term comets are thought to come from there. The Inner Cloud is also called the Hills Cloud and may be the maker of comets.
The objects in the Oort cloud are believed to consist of much ice, and since the object 1996 PW was found, it is believed that rocky objects might be in the Oort Cloud. 
The Oort cloud is thought to be the remains of a disk made out of gas which surrounded the Sun long ago.

</doc>
<doc id="43686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43686" title="Dynasty">
Dynasty

Dynasty means rulers who belong to the same royal family for generations. The term is also used to describe the era during which that family ruled.
Famous dynasties were: 

</doc>
<doc id="43690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43690" title="Han Dynasty">
Han Dynasty

The Han Dynasty came to power in 202 BC. They followed the philosophies of Confucianism and Legalism. This was called the Han Synthesis. Under this dynasty, China made much progress in arts and science. The empire also became larger and larger. China started trading with a number of other countries. Merchants used the Silk Road to reach China. During this dynasty Buddhism was introduced in China. The Han dynasty was a very important period in Ancient China and many consider it to be the golden age of China.They started the Silk Road. Today, the dominant ethnic group of China calls themselves the Han Chinese since this was the dynasty where many of the norms of Chinese culture found a firm foundation in the culture, including Confucianism and Traditional Chinese Characters.The first emperor of the han dynasty is liu bang known in Chinese as han gaozu 汉高祖
Fairbank, John King and Merle Goldman (1992). "China: A New History; Second Enlarged Edition" (2006). Cambridge: MA; London: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press. ISBN 0-674-01828-1

</doc>
<doc id="43693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43693" title="Zhou Dynasty">
Zhou Dynasty

The Zhou Dynasty defeated the Shang Dynasty using the mandate of heaven and said they where immortal at about 1046 BC, and came to power. They changed the capital from Henan to a place near present day Xi'an, near the Yellow River. The Zhou Dynasty also brought a new theory. This theory told the people that kings had the order of the gods to rule the country (mandate of heaven). Almost all dynasties of Chinese rulers continued to repeat this theory. The kings of this dynasty won many new areas. For the first time in the history of China, large number of persons also moved from one area to other area for settlement.
During the Zhou Dynasty, the origins of matured Chinese philosophy developed. The greatest Chinese philosophers were "Kong Fuzi" (Latin: Confucius), founder of Confucianism, and Laozi, founder of Daoism. Other philosophers, theorists, and schools of thought in this era were Mozi (Latin: Micius), founder of "Mohism", Mengzi (Latin: Mencius), a famous Confucian who expanded upon Kong Fuzi's legacy, Shang Yang and Han Feizi, responsible for the development of ancient Chinese Legalism (the core philosophy of the Qin Dynasty), and Xunzi. 

</doc>
<doc id="43694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43694" title="Tony Iommi">
Tony Iommi

Frank Anthony "Tony" Iommi (born 19 February 1948, in Birmingham, England) is an English guitarist and songwriter. He is most famous for starting the heavy metal band Black Sabbath. He is the only person who has stayed a member of the band since it began in 1968.
In 2003, Iommi was listed at number 86 in Rolling Stone Magazine's ""100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time"" issue.
In 2006 Tony Iommi was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="43698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43698" title="Yellow River">
Yellow River

The Yellow River or Huáng Hé (sometimes simply called the River in ancient Chinese) is the second longest river in China (after Yangtze River) and the sixth longest in the world. The river is 5464 km long and it drains at the Bohai Sea, a gulf of the Yellow Sea. The river is often called the "Mother River of China" and "the Cradle of the Chinese civilization" in China.

</doc>
<doc id="43705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43705" title="Rebellion">
Rebellion

A rebellion is when people refuse to obey orders and fight against authority. Those who do this are "rebels". They may be citizens of a country who try to take over the government by force because they do not trust the current system. Some rebels in history were slaves who fought back against their masters or against slavery in general. Leader of slave rebellions include Spartacus and Nat Turner.
An example would be the Zhou dynasty in China who made the rulers of other Chinese states that they captured live with their own families in the Zhou capital, Anyang. However, they failed to stop rebellion this way because it brought together groups of lords who might rebel under their control. The Zhou dynasty declined because other lords that were ruling parts of China rebelled.
Rebellion is a usual method of secession. 

</doc>
<doc id="43710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43710" title="List of French monarchs">
List of French monarchs

The monarchs of France ruled from the start of the Frankish Kingdom in 486 to 1870. During most of its history, France was ruled by kings. Four Carolingian monarchs were also Roman Emperors and the Bonapartes were Emperors of the French.
This article lists all rulers to have held the title "King of Franks", "King of France", "King of the French" or "Emperor of the French".
The title "King of the Franks" was in use until the reign of Philip II. During the short time when the French Constitution of 1791 was in effect (1791–1792) and after the July Revolution in 1830, the style "King of the French" was used instead of "King of France (and Navarre)".
In addition to the Kingdom of France, there were also two French Empires. The First French Empire was from 1804–1815. It was founded and ruled by Napoleon I. The Second French Empire was from 1852–1870. It was founded and ruled by his nephew Napoleon III.
The name of France comes from the Germanic tribe known as the Franks. The Merovingian kings began as chieftains. The oldest known was Chlodio. Clovis I was the first of these to rise to true kingship. After his death, his kingdom was split between his sons into Soissons (Neustria), Paris, Orléans (Burgundy), and Metz (Austrasia). Several Merovingian monarchs brought back together the Frankish kingdoms and took the title of "King of the Franks". But upon their deaths, according to Frankish custom, the kingdom would often be split once again between their sons.
The last Merovingian kings, known as the lazy kings (rois fainéants), did not hold any real political power. The Mayor of the Palace governed instead. When Theuderic IV died in 737, Mayor of the Palace Charles Martel left the throne vacant and continued to rule until his own death in 741. His sons Pepin and Carloman briefly brought back the Merovingian dynasty by raising Childeric III to the throne in 743. In 751, Pepin deposed Childerich and took the throne.
Three of the twelve kings during the 147-year Carolingian Dynasty – Odo, his brother Robert I and Robert's son in law Raoul/Rudolph – were not from the Carolingian Dynasty but from the rival Robertian Dynasty. The Robertian Dynasty became the Capetian Dynasty with when Hugh Capet took the throne in 987.
The chronology of Head of State of France continues with the Presidents of France. There were short term periods by the Chief of State of the French State (1940–1944), the Chairman of the Provisional Government of the French Republic (1944–1946) and the President of the French Senate (1969 and 1974) during the Fifth Republic.

</doc>
<doc id="43712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712" title="Battle">
Battle

A battle is a fight between two or more groups where each group is trying to defeat (beat) the others. Battles are most often fought during wars, military campaigns, or two or more people fighting. If two armies fight many battles over period of time it is called a war. The ground on which a battle is fought is called a battlefield.
Battles can very important, for example the 1389 Battle of Kosovo, which was a draw in military terms, changed the history of the Balkans, Europe, and the entire world. The outcome changed Ottoman politics and had influence in the region for well over 500 years.

</doc>
<doc id="43713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43713" title="Device">
Device

Device could mean:
Devise could also mean:
Or see the placename Devizes

</doc>
<doc id="43714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43714" title="Edward IV of England">
Edward IV of England

Edward IV of England was a king of England. He was born on April 28, 1442. He was King of England from March 4, 1461 until his death on April 9, 1483.
Edward was the eldest of the four sons of Richard Plantagenet, Duke of York. The Duke of York was a very powerful man, and had a claim to the throne of England. He became more popular than the existing king, Henry VI of England, who was thought to be weak. When the duke tried to take the throne from Henry VI, the Wars of the Roses broke out. By the time Edward was eighteen, he and his brother Edmund, Earl of Rutland, who was seventeen, were old enough to take part in the fighting, and Edward turned out to be a very good soldier. He was helped by Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick, a clever nobleman who fought for the Duke of York. At the Battle of Wakefield in 1460, Edward's father, and his brother Edmund, were both killed. As his father's heir, he now claimed the throne. In March 1461, he entered London with his army and was crowned king, although he was only nineteen. King Henry VI was put into prison.
For a while, Edward ruled the country well, with help from the Earl of Warwick. Then Edward met a woman called Elizabeth Woodville, whom he wanted to marry. The Earl of Warwick did not know about their romance, and he wanted King Edward to marry a foreign princess in order to make an alliance with another country, which would have made his position stronger. Elizabeth and Edward got married secretly in about 1464, and they had ten children in the nineteen years of their marriage. 
When the Earl of Warwick learned of Edward's marriage, he was angry. He grew even more angry as time went on, because Elizabeth's family became powerful and the king no longer respected Warwick as he had done in the beginning. In 1459 he rebelled against the king, with help from another of Edward's younger brothers, George, Duke of Clarence; George was married to the Earl of Warwick's elder daughter, Isabel. The rebels went to France and made an alliance with Queen Margaret, who was the wife of King Henry VI. The Earl of Warwick managed to defeat King Edward in battle in 1471, and freed King Henry VI from prison. Henry was now king again, and Edward had to escape to Burgundy, while his wife and children went into hiding. 
The Duke of Burgundy was married to Edward's sister Margaret, so he was willing to help raise more troops. When Edward returned to England, he defeated the Earl of Warwick in battle and killed him. Shortly afterwards, Queen Margaret and her son arrived in England. They were also defeated in battle by King Edward, and his throne was safe. To make sure of this, Edward arranged for King Henry VI to be killed.
While Edward was away in Burgundy, his wife Elizabeth had given birth to a son, Edward, who was given the title of Prince of Wales. He would be the next king. Edward ruled with help from his two brothers. George, who had once rebelled against him, was now loyal, and the youngest brother, Richard, Duke of Gloucester, had always been loyal. There were still quarrels between them and the powerful Woodville family. George and Richard also quarrelled with each other, and in the end King Edward had to put George in prison, where he died.
Edward IV died very suddenly at the age of forty. His son became King Edward V of England, but his reign did not last long. Edward's brother, Richard, thought that it would not be a good idea for a boy to be king, and he took the throne himself. No one really knows what happened to Edward's two sons, the Princes in the Tower.

</doc>
<doc id="43718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43718" title="Pterosaur">
Pterosaur

Pterosaurs were flying reptiles which lived in the Mesozoic era at the same time as the dinosaurs. Most pterosaurs were quite small, but in the Upper Cretaceous some grew larger than any other flying animals. The pterosaur "Quetzalcoatlus" had a wing-span of up to 12 metres (~40 feet).
The first fossils occur in the Upper Triassic, and the group continues until the K/T extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous (220 to 65.5 million years ago). Pterosaurs are the earliest vertebrates known to have evolved powered flight. Their wings were made from a flap of skin between their bodies and a big fourth finger (sometimes called the "wing finger"). The pterosaurs fall into two groups. The earlier Rhamphorhynchoids (e.g. "Rhamphorhynchus") had long tails and toothed jaws; The pterodactyloids (e.g. "Pterodactylus") had short tails, and many had beaks with no teeth.
The first pterosaur fossil was discovered in the Late Jurassic Solnhofen limestone in Germany in 1784. This was exactly the same place as "Archaeopteryx" was found. Georges Cuvier first suggested that pterosaurs were flying creatures in 1801. Since the first pterosaur fossil was found, twenty-nine species of pterosaurs have been found in those deposits alone. A famous early UK find was an example of "Dimorphodon" by Mary Anning, in 1828 at Lyme Regis, Dorset, England. The name Pterosauria was coined in 1834.
Pterosaurs were genuine fliers, able to flap or soar. Their bodies were covered with fine hairs, so they were able to regulate their temperature (they were warm-blooded). They are a close sister-group to the dinosaurs, part of the Archosauria.
This early group did well from the Upper Triassic to the end of the Jurassic. When we first see them in the fossil record they have developed three families, so biologists know their early evolution is not yet revealed. These three families are represented by the three genera "Rhamphorhynchus", "Dimorphodon" and "Eudimorphodon". At least one more family appears at the start of the Jurassic, the Anurognathidae.
The group had a long tail, usually stiffened by rod-like bony tendons to keep it straight. This shows that their flight was extremely stable, which means it kept on course, rather than darted about. This feature is also found in "Archaeopteryx" and in early bats, and in insects like dragonflies.
To understand this, it helps to know some basic things about flight aerodynamics and stability. Early planes were highly stable, and so are airliners. To dart about quickly requires special advanced brains and reflexes, which later birds and pterosaurs had, but early ones did not. The analogy in planes would be fighter planes, which need such fast reactions that the details are worked out by computer, with the pilot indicating where to go. It requires more brains to control unstable flight than it does stable flight.
All species in the group have teeth. This again has a parallel with birds; "Archaeopteryx" and many Cretaceous birds have teeth; modern birds do not. The disadvantage of teeth is that they are quite heavy; when the animal can do without them, they will gradually get selected out. Obviously, without teeth food cannot be chewed, but there are ways around that. Stones in the gizzard or stomach do the grinding in some birds.
The group died out at the end of the Jurassic, which was a minor extinction event. Even near the end of the Jurassic, "Rhamphorhynchus" was the most common pterosaur found at the famous "Archaeopteryx" site at Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany, so it is surprising that they became extinct so soon after that. A single specimen of the insect-eating "Anurognathus" was also found at Solnhofen. It had a shorter tail than any other rhamphorhynchoid. This suggests its need to dodge about to catch insects: "agile and highly manoeuvrable".
Fossil pterodactyloids appear in the Upper Jurassic. They were short-tailed pterosaurs, indicating that they had more sophisticated control of their flight, and that no doubt gave them some advantages. 2–300 specimens of 17 different species of pterosaur has been found at Solnhofen from eight different genera. They include the earliest examples of "Pterodactylus", and "Germanodactylus", a genus which is also found in England and China. "Ctenochasma", also from Solnhofen, had a comb of 260 thin teeth showing it to be a filter-feeder that may have waded or swam in the water. There were several other genera with similar life-styles.
In the Lower Cretaceous there were many pterodactyloids, mostly quite small. Gradually, larger versions evolved, and by the Upper Cretaceous most pterosaurs had huge wing-spans and clearly covered huge distances soaring on upcurrents in a warm environment. "Pteranodon", with a wing-span of over 20 feet (7m), and "Quetzalcoatlus", with a wingspan of 40 feet (12m) are famous examples. The question of their eating habits is still undecided.
Since birds were already common in the Lower Cretaceous, they would have competed vigorously with the smaller pterodactyloids. That may explain the extinction of the smaller pterosaur species, though the lack of fossils from the forested areas makes it difficult to judge. The huge Upper Cretaceous types clearly lived a different life-style from the smaller species, and one which was not yet accessible to birds. As the climate changed in the Upper Cretaceous, becoming colder and more seasonal, the number of pterosaurs became fewer. Like most of the larger species on Earth, the huge pterosaurs did not survive the K/T extinction event. At least some families of birds did. So ended the competition between the two types of flying reptile through the long 79 million years of the Cretaceous period.
There are many adaptations of the head and jaws of pterosaurs, so it is quite certain that different forms used different feeding methods, as birds do. Overall, most fossils have been found in marine strata, which suggests that they could fly well over water, and that fish were on the menu for many species. The jaws of fish-eaters was long and often held forward-pointing teeth, good for catching fish (see "Anhanguera"). Remains of a last fish supper have been found in "Pteranodon".
Fossils show that one pterosaur, the "Pterodaustro" found in Argentina, had comb-like strainers in its mouth. The pterosaur probably ate by filling its lower jaw with water and pushing the water out of its mouth through the strainers. The strainers could catch any plankton or other small creatures that were in the water, and when the water was gone, the animal could eat what was left. Other species had long, compressed lower jaws, which suggest they were skimmers at the top of the water.
The other main item of diet was the insects. Flying insects were abundant in the Mesozoic, and many pterosaur species give clear signs that this was their food. These have a broad mouth, often with short peg-like teeth.
For a long time people thought pterosaurs could only glide and soar, and were not strong enough to flap their wings. In the 20th century, after aeroplanes had been invented, our understanding of flight advanced. English palaeontologists showed that pterosaurs could fly, and Tilly Edinger showed that by the end of the Jurassic, pterosaur brains were more like that of modern birds than of "Archaeopteryx". Recent work has used working model to simulate their flight. The wing membrane was about 1mm thick, with a tough skin and had long fibres reinforcing it. This can be clearly seen in some of the fossils. The structure helped the wings survive the stresses of flight. The larger pterosaurs were mainly soarers, as is the case with birds today.
How pterosaurs moved on the ground has been something of a mystery. It is most likely that they walked on four legs while on the ground, as fossil tracks have been found showing they used both their legs and hands to support them.
Pterosaurs also had special bones. They were extremely light (even more than bird's wings – some were almost as thin as a piece of paper), and some were almost hollow. Tiny holes in the bones are evidence of air sacs which extended into the vertebrae and limb bones, as it does with birds. Also present were supporting struts which made these bones stronger. With these special bones, even the largest of pterosaurs, "Quetzalcoatlus", probably weighed less than 200 pounds.
Pterosaurs were probably egg-layers, and some eggs have been found at pterosaur sites. There is evidence that some species, such as "Pteranodon", had sexual dimorphism (sexes looked different). The skeletons with large cranial (head) crests and small pelvic canals were presumably males. Where several specimens occur at the same location, adults can be distinguished from juveniles. Evidence of tooth wear in "Eudimorphodon" suggests the young were insectivorous, while the adults ate fish. Development took place rapidly in these warm-blooded reptiles, and much of their life-style parallels that of birds. The high energy-level needed for flight explains why both reptilian forms (pterosaurs and birds) developed similar metabolism. In many respects, birds and pterosaurs are good examples of convergent evolution.

</doc>
<doc id="43720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43720" title="Quetzalcoatlus">
Quetzalcoatlus

Quetzalcoatlus was a huge pterosaur, the largest animal ever to fly. It had a 10 to 12 meters wing-span (33/40 feet), but was light in construction (~200 pounds). 
"Quetzalcoatlus" had an unusually long neck, and when it stood on the ground it was as tall as a giraffe. 
Its fossil record is from the Upper Cretaceous of North America, 70–65.5 million years ago. "Quetzalcoatlus" became extinct at the K/T extinction event. 
The first "Quetzalcoatlus" fossil was found in Big Bend National Park in Texas by a college student from the University of Texas in Austin. His name was Douglas Lawson. When he was in the park, he saw a bone sticking out of a rock. Since the bone looked very hollow, like the bone of a bird, he thought it was part of a flying creature – and he was right. With his professor's help, he kept digging until lots of bones from an arm and wing were found. The rest of the animal's body was missing. Many others have looked for the rest of that huge pterosaur, but it has never been found. Other fossils of "Quetzalcoatlus" have been found, of course, but none were as big as the one Lawson found.
Since "Quetzalcoatlus" was so large, two researchers suggested it was too heavy to fly. This would have been astonishing, because in the whole fossil record there is no flightless pterosaur. It has been thought their mobility on the ground was too poor for them to survive without flight. However, a recent discussion of this idea concluded they probably could fly after all. Another analysis suggested their flight was quite strong. Since we have only a few bones, the question of weight cannot be settled at present.
The feeding habits of "Quetzalcoatlus" (which had a long beak with no teeth) are unknown. This question, and its flight, are still being discussed. The lack of a more detailed skeleton is the main problem in reaching conclusions. Two theories have been proposed.
One idea is that it ate fish, by flying with its jaw in the water, and snapping up fish when it hit them. Texas was largely covered by the Western Interior Seaway at the time. "Of these proposed lifestyles, in-flight piscivory [fish-eating] appears to have gained the most acceptance, with skim-feeding being a frequently suggested foraging method.
The other theory is that it fed on land, partly as a carrion feeder, like vultures and buzzards, and foraged for small animals. This view is gaining ground, because the jaw does not show the adaptations for skimming found in modern birds who catch fish this way.
In flight, it was certainly a soarer, flying on up-currents of air in a warm environment, and its remains come from a site which was far inland in the Cretaceous.
"Quetzalcoatlus" was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" eating a dead "Triceratops" carcass.

</doc>
<doc id="43721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43721" title="Mozilla (web browser)">
Mozilla (web browser)

Mozilla was a web browser that was made open source. It was developed by Mozilla Foundation. 
Mozilla was the base of Mozilla Firefox.

</doc>
<doc id="43722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43722" title="Fedora (operating system)">
Fedora (operating system)

Fedora is a distribution (or "distro") of Linux developed by the community-supported Fedora Project and sponsored by Red Hat. It is designed to be safe and is used by companies and governments. Fedora's mission statement is: "Fedora is about the rapid progress of Free and Open Source software."
Linus Torvalds, author of the Linux kernel, says he uses Fedora because it had fairly good support for PowerPC when he used that processor architecture. He became used to the operating system and continues to use it.
"Fedora Core 1" was the first version of Fedora and was released on November 6, 2003, and was codenamed Yarrow. Fedora Core 1 was based on Red Hat Linux 9 and shipped with version 2.4.19 of the Linux kernel, version 2.4 of the GNOME desktop environment, and version 3.1.4 of KDE (the K Desktop Environment).
"Fedora Core 2" was released on May 18, 2004, codenamed Tettnang. It shipped with Linux 2.6, GNOME 2.6, KDE 3.2.2, and SELinux XFree86 was replaced by the newer X.org, a merger of the previous official X11R6 release, which additionally included a number of updates to Xrender, Xft, Xcursor, fontconfig libraries, and other significant improvements.
"Fedora Core 3" was released on November 8, 2004, codenamed Heidelberg. This was the first release of Fedora Core to include the Mozilla Firefox web browser, as well as support for the Indic languages. This release also replaced the LILO boot loader with GRUB. SELinux was also enabled by default, but with a new targeted policy, which was less strict than the policy used in Fedora Core 2. Fedora Core 3 shipped with GNOME 2.8 and KDE 3.3. It was the first release to include the new Fedora Extras repository.
"Fedora Core 4" was released on June 13, 2005, with the codename Stentz. It shipped with Linux 2.6.11, KDE 3.4 and GNOME 2.10. This version introduced the new Clearlooks theme, which was inspired by the Red Hat Bluecurve theme. It also shipped with the OpenOffice.org 2.0 office suite, as well as Xen, a high performance and secure open source virtualization framework. It also introduced support for the PowerPC CPU architecture, and over 80 new policies for SELinux.
The last two cores introduced specific artwork for that version. This is a trend that has continued in later Fedora versions.
"Fedora Core 5" was released on March 20 2006, with the codename Bordeaux, and introduced the Fedora Bubbles artwork. It was the first Fedora release to include Mono and tools built with it such as Beagle, F-Spot and Tomboy. It also introduced new package management tools such as pup and pirut ("see Yellow dog Updater, Modified"). This release replaced the old LinuxThreads, with the Native POSIX Thread Library.
"Fedora Core 6" was released on October 24 2006, codenamed Zod. This release introduced the Fedora DNA artwork, replacing the Fedora Bubbles artwork used in Fedora Core 5. The codename is derived from the infamous villain, General Zod, from the Superman DC Comic Books. This version introduced support for the Compiz compositing window manager and AIGLX (a technology that enables GL-accelerated effects on a standard desktop). It shipped with Firefox 1.5 as the default web browser, and Smolt, a tool that allows users to inform developers about the hardware they use.
None of these distributions are maintained by the Fedora Project.
Fedora 10, codenamed "Cambridge", was released on 25 November 2008.
Fedora's official software package repository includes, for example, UNetbootin.

</doc>
<doc id="43729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43729" title="Bagel">
Bagel

Bagels are a type of bread made with flour. They look like doughnuts, and they are leavened with yeast. They have a crisp, shiny crust and a dense inside. Bagels are glazed, and in a ring-shaped roll. They are different from doughnuts because they are boiled before baked. Bagels are sometimes called "the cement doughnuts". 
The bagel is regarded as a special kind of Jewish food. They are eaten usually for breakfast or a snack.
Bagels are made from the basic bread ingredients of flour, yeast, salt, and sweet kinds of spices. Flour gives the bread its chewy taste, which can be made more light by eggs, milk, and butter. They are the only bread product that is boiled before it is baked.
Bagels are often toasted in a toaster and then paired with foods like cream cheese (a soft cheese that tastes a little sweet) and jam, or with butter. Bagels can also be used to make sandwiches, with meat (for example smoked salmon) and egg and cheese. Bagel sandwiches are usually eaten for breakfast or lunch.
The first bagel was made in 1683 when a baker from Vienna Austria was grateful to the King of Poland for saving Austria from the Turkish people. The baker changed the local bread so that it would look like the King’s stirrup. The new bread was called "beugel", which was from the German word for stirrup, "bugel".
Bagels were formally an obscure ethnic treat found only in the city's Jewish neighourhoods. Bagels were first sold in grocery stores in the 1950s. Frozen bagels were first introduced in 1960.
When Austrian Jews went away to America, they brought the beugel with them. The first beugel bakeries were founded in New York City in the 1920s. Later the name was changed and called a bagel. Bagels have been used as a symbol of the continuous cycle of life—without beginning and without end.

</doc>
<doc id="43730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43730" title="Doughnut">
Doughnut

A doughnut (spelled donut in American English) is a type of deep fried dessert food made out of dough or batter. 
Ring doughnuts are made by joining the ends of a long, thin piece of dough into a ring or by using a doughnut cutter, which perfectly cuts the outside and inside shape, leaving a doughnut-shaped piece of dough and a doughnut hole from dough removed from the center. This smaller piece of dough can be cooked or re-added to the batch to make more doughnuts. A disk-shaped doughnut can also be stretched and molded into a torus until the center breaks to form a hole. Or, a doughnut depositor can be used to place a circle of liquid dough (batter) into the deep fryer. Doughnuts can be made from a yeast-based dough for more puffy doughnuts or a special type of cake batter. Yeast-raised doughnuts contain about 25% oil by weight, whereas cake doughnuts' oil content is around 20%, but they have extra fat in the batter before frying. Cake doughnuts are fried for about 90 seconds at about 190 °C to 198 °C, turning once. Yeast-raised doughnuts absorb more oil because they take longer to fry, about 150 seconds, at 182 °C to 190 °C. Cake doughnuts normally weigh between 24 g and 28 g, whereas yeast-raised doughnuts normally are 38 g and are mostly larger when finished. Some types of cake doughnuts are also baked, as opposed to fried, which greatly reduces the fat content.
The two most common types of doughnut are ring doughnuts, which are shaped like rings, and filled doughnuts, which are round and have jam, jelly, custard, whipped cream, or chocolate inside them. There are also "doughnut holes" or "munchkins" which come in the shape of small balls. Most doughnuts have an icing (also called a "frosting") made with icing sugar, water, and flavourings (such as chocolate). Some doughnuts are rolled in sweet foods such as sugar or shredded coconut.
Doughnuts are often eaten in the morning, along with a cup of hot coffee. Doughnuts are sold at doughnut shops, bakeries, or grocery stores. People also eat doughnuts as a dessert, or as a snack.
Doughnuts can cause health problems if they are eaten too often. One of these problems is that doughnuts contain a large amount of fat. Eating too much fat can lead to clogged arteries. When the arteries get clogged, blood does not go through them easily. Also, doughnuts contain a large amount of sugar and white flour, which are turned into fat when they come inside our body. Doughnuts are a health concern in Canada where each person eats more doughnuts per year than any other country.

</doc>
<doc id="43738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738" title="Mary II of England">
Mary II of England

Mary II (30 April 1662 – 28 December 1694) was Queen regnant of England, Scotland, and Ireland from 1689 until her death. Mary was a Protestant. She became queen after the Glorious Revolution, which resulted in the deposition of her Roman Catholic father, James II and VII. Mary ruled together with her husband, William III and II. He became the ruler of both countries when she died in 1694. Popular histories usually call their joint reigns as those of "William and Mary". Mary had less power than William when William remained in England. When William went to military campaigns, however, she governed alone. She was a powerful, firm, and effective ruler. She gave most of her authority to her husband, but he greatly depended on her. She was very active in the Church of England, ruling it as its Supreme Governor. Though she shared this position with her husband, she used most of its power herself.
Mary was born at St. James Palace in London on 30 April 1662. Her father was James, Duke of York, and her mother was his first wife, Lady Anne Hyde. She was their oldest daughter. Mary's uncle was Charles II. Her grandfather by her mother's side was Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon. He served for a long time as Charles's chief advisor. Her mother gave birth to eight children, but only Mary and her younger sister Anne lived to adulthood.
The Duke of York became a Roman Catholic in 1668 or 1669, but Mary and Anne had a Protestant education, as Charles II had commanded. Mary's mother died in 1671, and her father married again in 1673. He took Mary of Modena, a Catholic, as his second wife. She was also known as Mary Beatrice d'Este. Before her marriage, Mary wrote many letters to Frances Apsley, the daughter of James II's hawks keeper. However, she did not return Mary's interest.
When she was 15, Lady Mary became betrothed to her first cousin, the Protestant William, Prince of Orange. William was the son of Mary, Princess Royal and Prince William II of Nassau. At first, Charles II did not want Mary to marry William. He wanted Mary to marry the heir to the French Throne, the Dauphin Louis, instead. This was because he hoped that England would become friends with France. He also wanted to have a Catholic successor to the throne. But because of Parliament's pressure, he later approved their marriage. He thought that it would make the Protestants like him more, but he was wrong. Mary and William married in London on 4 November 1677. It was reported that Mary wept through the whole ceremony.
Mary went to the Netherlands and lived there as William's wife. The Dutch people liked her because of her lively, friendly nature, and Mary loved William deeply. However, the marriage was often unhappy. Her three pregnancies ended in miscarriage or stillbirth, and Mary was very sad that she did not have a child. Her husband was often cold to her, and he had an affair with Elizabeth Villiers, one of Mary's ladies-in-waiting, for a long time. After some time, though, he grew warmer towards Mary.
When Charles II died without any children in 1685, the Duke of York became King as James II in England and Ireland. He also became James VII in Scotland. He tried to give freedom of religion to non-Anglicans. He did this by making the acts of Parliament by Royal Decree. The public did not like this. Several Protestant politicians and noblemen entered into negotiations (trying to reach agreements through discussion) with Mary's husband as early as 1687. In May 1688, James forced Anglican clergymen to read the Declaration of Indulgence. The Declaration of Indulgence was a statement that gave religious freedom to those who did not agree with the Church of England. This made him much less popular. Protestants became even more fearful when his wife, Mary of Modena, gave birth to a son–James Francis Edward–in June 1688. They were fearful because the son would, unlike Mary and Anne, be raised a Roman Catholic. Some said that the boy had been secretly carried into the Queen's room in a bed-warming pan instead of her stillborn baby. There was no strong proof to support this story, but Mary publicly doubted the boy's legitimacy. She sent a list of suspicious questions to her sister, Anne, about the boy's birth.
On 30 June, the Immortal Seven secretly asked William, who was in the Netherlands with Mary, to come to England with an army. William, who was jealous of Mary's position and power, did not want to go at first. But Mary told William that she did not care about political power. She said "she would be no more but his wife, and that she would do all that lay in her power to make him King for life".
William agreed to attack. He declared that James' newborn son was the "pretended Prince of Wales". He also gave a list of what the English people wanted, and said that he only wanted to have "a free and lawful Parliament assembled". The Dutch army, which had been turned back by a storm in October, landed on 5 November. The English Army and Navy went over to William. At this time, the English people's confidence in James was very low. They did not even try to save their King. On 11 December, the King tried to run away, but failed. He tried to run away again on 23 December. This second attempt was successful, and James escaped to France. He lived there in exile until his death.
Though Mary was sad because of the deposition of her father, William ordered her to look happy when they arrived in London. Because of this, people thought she was being cold to her father. James also thought his daughter was unfaithful to him. This hurt Mary deeply.
In 1689, a Convention Parliament called by the Prince of Orange came together to discuss what they should do. William of Orange felt uncomfortable about his position. He wanted to rule as a King, not simply as a husband of a Queen. The only example of joint monarchy was from the sixteenth century. This was Queen Mary I and the Spanish Prince Philip. When they married, it was agreed that Prince Philip would take the title of King. But Philip II was King only during his wife's lifetime. He also did not have much power. William wanted to remain King even after his wife's death. Some important people suggested making Mary the only ruler. But Mary, who was faithful to her husband, refused.
On 13 February 1689, Parliament passed the Declaration of Right. In this declaration, it said that James, by trying to run away on 11 December 1688, had abandoned the government, so no one at the time was king. Normally, James's oldest son, James Francis Edward would have been the heir. However, Parliament offered the crown to William and Mary as joint Sovereigns instead. But it was added that "the sole and full exercise of the regal (royal) power be only in and executed by the said Prince of Orange in the names of the said Prince and Princess during their joint lives." The declaration was later extended to take out all Catholics. This was because "it hath been found (discovered) by experience that it is inconsistent (not in harmony) with the safety and welfare of this Protestant kingdom to be governed by a papist prince".
William and Mary were crowned together at Westminster Abbey on 11 April 1689. The Archbishop of Canterbury usually performed coronations. But William Sancroft, the Archbishop at that time, felt that James II's removal had been wrong. Therefore, the Bishop of London, Henry Compton, crowned them instead. On the day of the Coronation, the Convention of the Estates of Scotland declared at last that James was no longer King of Scotland. William and Mary were offered the separate Scottish Crown. This was because the two kingdoms were not united until the Acts of Union in 1707. They accepted on 11 May.
Even after this was declared, there was still strong support for James in Scotland. John Graham of Clevehouse, the Viscount of Dundee, raised an army and won a victory at Killiecrankie on 27 July. But Dundee's army suffered great losses, and he was seriously wounded at the start of the battle. This stopped the only effective resistance to William, and the revolt was quickly crushed. The next month, there was a great defeat at the Battle of Dunkeld.
In December 1689 Parliament passed one of the most important documents in English history. This was the Bill of Rights. This measure gave several rights to Parliament and the people. Among other things, it declared that the Sovereign could not break laws passed by Parliament, demand taxes if the Parliament did not agree, raise an army during a time of peace if the Parliament did not agree, or punish members of the House of Parliament for anything they said during discussions.
After either William III or Mary II died, the other was to continue to rule. The person who would become the monarch after them would be any of their children. After the children would be Mary's sister Anne and her children. Last of all would be any children William III might have had from any marriage after that.
From 1690, William was often away from England, at first fighting Jacobites in Ireland. While her husband was away, Mary took care of the government. She was a firm ruler, and ordered her own uncle, Henry Hyde, 2nd Earl of Clarendon, to go to prison for trying to put James II back onto the throne. In 1692, she fired and put John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough, in prison for similar reasons. This made her much less popular. It also damaged her relationship with her sister, Anne. Anne had been strongly influenced by Churchill's wife, Sarah. She appeared at court with Sarah and supported Churchill, which made Mary very angry. She demanded that Anne make Sarah go away. Mary did not visit Anne during her pregnancy after that. After the baby was born, Mary did visit Anne, but she spent her time berating Anne for her friendship with Sarah. The sisters never saw each other again.
William had crushed the Irish Jacobites by 1692, but he continued with campaigns away from England to begin a war against France in the Netherlands. When William was away, Mary acted in her own name but on his advice. When he was in England, Mary never joined in political matters, as had been agreed in the Bill of Rights. However, she did join in the affairs of the Church, and all church matters passed through her hands.
Mary died of smallpox at Kensington Palace on 28 December 1694. She was buried at Westminster Abbey. When she died, Henry Purcell was called to write her funeral music, titled "Music for the Funeral of Queen Mary". William had grown to depend on Mary more and more, and was very sad when she died. It is reported that he said that "from being the happiest" he was "now going to be the miserablest creature on earth".
After Mary II's death, William III continued to rule as King. Princess Anne's last living child, William, Duke of Gloucester, died in July 1700. Parliament saw that William would have no more children. Because of this, it passed the Act of Settlement 1701. After Anne, the Crown would go to their nearest Protestant relative, Sophia, Electress of Hanover, and her Protestant heirs. When William III died in 1702, he was succeeded by Anne. She was succeeded by the son of Electress Sophia, George I.
Mary gave money to the College of William and Mary (in the present day Williamsburg, Virginia) in 1693. She also began the Royal Hospital for Seamen, Greenwich.
William III and Mary II called themselves "William and Mary, by the Grace of God, King and Queen of England, France and Ireland, Defenders of the Faith, etc." when they began their rule. On 11 April 1689, the Estates of Scotland recognized them as Sovereigns. From then on, William and Mary called themselves "William and Mary, by the Grace of God, King and Queen of England, Scotland, France and Ireland, Defenders of the Faith, etc.".
The arms used by the King and Queen were: "Quarterly, I and IV Grandquarterly, Azure three fleurs-de-lis Or (for France) and Gules three lions passant guardant in pale Or (for England); II Or a lion rampant within a tressure flory-counter-flory Gules (for Scotland); III Azure a harp Or stringed Argent (for Ireland); overall an escutcheon Azure billetty and a lion rampant Or (for the House of Orange-Nassau)".

</doc>
<doc id="43740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43740" title="Goal">
Goal

Goal can mean more than one thing. These meanings are listed below:

</doc>
<doc id="43744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43744" title="1936 Summer Olympics">
1936 Summer Olympics

The 1936 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XI Olympiad, were held in Berlin, Germany. 
The games were thought to be successful. The costs of the games was mostly paid for by the German government.
A total of 49 nations sent athletes to compete at the Berlin games.

</doc>
<doc id="43746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43746" title="Mesopotamia">
Mesopotamia

Mesopotamia, from the Greek language, means 'land between rivers'. It includes the Euphrates and the Tigris rivers, and the fertile land which surrounds them. It is part of the Fertile Crescent. Mesopotamia today is split. Most of it is in Iraq, but parts are in Kuwait, Syria, Turkey and Iran.
The area is often called the 'Cradle of Civilization'. The ancient writing called cuneiform was first used around 3000 BC by the Sumerians. They lived in city-states (a city and the land around it). According to Genesis in the Old Testament, Abraham lived in Mesopotamia before moving to Canaan.
Historically important cities in Mesopotamia included Uruk, Nippur, Nineveh, and Babylon, as well as major territorial states such as the Akkadian kingdom, the Third Dynasty of Ur, and the Assyrian empire. Some of the important historical Mesopotamian leaders were Ur-Nammu (king of Ur), Sargon (who started the Akkadian Kingdom), Hammurabi (who established the Old Babylonian state), and Tiglath-Pileser I (who started the Assyrian Empire).
Many advances in technology were made by the ancient Sumerians and Mesopotamians, such as irrigation, and trade by river, and flood control. Mesopotamians had agriculture and domesticated animals, or livestock, from the earliest records. Babylon is probably the first city built by settled people. Mesopotamia also was the place where the wheel was first used. First it was a pottery wheel that was used to make clay pots, then Sumerians adapted it for transport.
Mesopotamia is made up of different regions. Northern Mesopotamia is made up of hills and plains. Seasonal rains, and the rivers and streams come from the mountains. Early settlers farmed the land and used timber, metals and stone. Southern Mesopotamia is made up of marshy areas and wide, flat, plains. Cities developed along the rivers which flow through the region. Early settlers had to irrigate the land along the banks of the rivers in order for their crops to grow. 
Mesopotamia has been conquered many times, by many different peoples. It was the heartland of the Sumerian, Akkadian, Babylonian and Assyrian empires. As each new group moved into the region they adopted some of the culture, traditions and beliefs of the people who had come before. It was conquered by Alexander the Great (332 BC), the Parthians (150 BC), the Romans, the Persian Empire, the Arabs (7th century). It is still one of the most fertile (and therefore valuable) parts of the Middle East.
Ancient Mesopotamia begins in the late 6th millennium BC, and ends with either the rise of the Achaemenid Persians in the 6th century BC or the Muslim conquest of Mesopotamia in the 7th century CE. This long period may be divided as follows:
The Epic of Gilgamesh is an ancient story about a relationship between Gilgamesh and his close companion, Enkidu. Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh's equal to distract him from oppressing the citizens of Uruk. Together they undertake dangerous quests that incur the displeasure of the gods. Firstly, they journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba, its monstrous guardian. Later they kill the Bull of Heaven that the goddess Ishtar has sent to punish Gilgamesh for turning down her advances.
The second part of the epic is about Gilgamesh's distressed reaction to Enkidu's death, which takes the form of a quest for immortality. Gilgamesh attempts to learn the secret of eternal life by undertaking a long and perilous journey to meet the immortal flood hero, Utnapishtim. The words addressed to Gilgamesh in the midst of his quest foreshadow the end result: 

</doc>
<doc id="43747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43747" title="Joss Whedon">
Joss Whedon

Joss Hill Whedon (born June 23, 1964) is an American writer, director and producer. He was born Joseph Hill Whedon in New York City. He created the well-known television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Angel", and "Firefly", and has also written several movie scripts and several comic book series. After graduating from high school in 1982, he went to Winchester College in England. He received a film degree from Wesleyan University in 1987. Whedon is the director of the films "The Avengers" (2012) and "" (2015).
After moving to Los Angeles, California, Whedon got his first writing job on the television series "Roseanne". After working on movie scripts for several years, he went back to television, where he created three television series. Joss has had a couple of cameos (brief 'fun' appearances) in his series "Buffy", "Angel", and "Firefly". He has also been in an episode of "Veronica Mars".
Whedon has been said to be the world's first third-generation television writer. His father is Tom Whedon, a writer for "The Electric Company" in the 1970s and "The Golden Girls" in the 1980s. His grandfather is John Whedon, a writer for "The Donna Reed Show" in the 1950s. His brother, Zack Whedon, is a writer on HBO's "Deadwood".
The movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", filmed by director Fran Rubel Kuzui after a script of Whedon's, was not well-liked by critics and audiences. Years after, Whedon picked up its idea again and turned it into a hugely successful television series, also called "Buffy the Vampire Slayer".
The episode "Hush" (written by Whedon) got an Emmy Award nomination for Best Writing in a Drama Series in 2000. Another episode that got an Emmy Award nomination was "Once More, With Feeling", written and directed by Whedon. This was a musical episode, in which the actors were singing and dancing.
The series aired on The WB Network for five seasons, then moved to UPN for its last two seasons. It was the first series in television history to change networks between seasons without being cancelled and then picked up by a different network. Though "Buffy" first aired on Mondays at 9pm, from the middle of the second season it ran on Tuesdays at 8pm. In the musical episode, Buffy makes the comment, "Dawn's in trouble. Must be Tuesday."
"Angel" was a spin-off of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". The series was named after Buffy's vampire-with-a-soul boyfriend. It was created by Whedon and David Greenwalt. Tim Minear also helped at times. First shown in September 1999 on the WB, the series was on after "Buffy" on Tuesday evenings. When "Buffy" switched networks in 2001, "Angel" aired in a number of different time slots. The series' last episode had more people watching than the final "Buffy" episode. Joss Whedon was briefly in the series as the character 'Numfar' in its second season. The WB cancelled the series in May 2004 while it was in its fifth season. As Whedon had not planned to end "Angel," he had to change the story and ending of both the final season and the series.
The series "Firefly" did not go smoothly. Fox cancelled it in 2002, after airing only 11 of the 14 episodes and airing them out of order. The original two-hour pilot was the last episode aired. The contract with Fox did not allow the series to be shown by another network. Because of how Fox handled "Firefly", Whedon has said that he will not work with Fox again, under any circumstances.
Whedon had been writing a movie script about the "Firefly" series for Universal Studios. When the television series came out on DVD, the sales of the DVD were good enough to make sure the movie could be produced. In early 2004 Whedon said that a "Firefly" movie had been accepted by Universal, and shooting started in July 2004. The movie, called "Serenity", was in movie theaters in the United States on September 30, 2005. It was well liked by critics and fans, but did not make much money in theaters.
Although Whedon has said that he would not work with Fox again, it was announced on November 1, 2007 that this was changed. Whedon was hired to create seven episodes of a new series named "Dollhouse" starring Eliza Dushku. Dushku and Whedon have worked together before on "Buffy". The series is about people who have memories, skills and even complete personalities put into their minds for special jobs. After the job, their minds are erased until the next job. "Dollhouse" tells the story of Dushku's character, Echo, as she starts to remember things about herself even though her mind is constantly being erased. The series is about her trying to learn who she really is.
"Dollhouse" first aired on February 13, 2009.
Whedon has written and helped write several movies including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Toy Story", "" and "Titan A.E.". He was nominated for an Academy Award for "Toy Story"'s screenplay.
He also wrote helped edit and rewrite the scripts of "Speed", "Waterworld", "Twister" and "X-Men". Except for "Speed", not much of Whedon's work stayed in the final versions of any of these screenplays. He has said that he had a good script for "Alien: Resurrection", which was ruined by its director Jean-Pierre Jeunet. His "Waterworld" script was thrown out. Only two of his lines were kept in the final script of "X-Men". Even the "Buffy" movie was very different from what he originally wrote. According to Graham Yost, the writer of "Speed", Whedon wrote most of its dialogue.
He wrote and directed 2005's "Serenity", based on his television series "Firefly". "Serenity" won the 2006 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Long Form.
In 2006, Whedon was scheduled to write and direct Warner Bros.' version of "Wonder Woman". He eventually stopped working on the script. Universal Pictures agreed to a script by Whedon called "Goners" which he will also direct.
Parts of the storyline in the movie "" are very similar to what he wrote in the Marvel comic book "Astonishing X-Men". The idea of a cure for mutation was his story. The scientist who finds the cure in the movie is named Dr. Kavita Rao. This is the same name as the scientist in the comic book. Simon Kinberg has said someone at the studio who had read Whedon's comics asked the writers to use a mutant cure idea in their script.
In an interview with Empire Online, Whedon said he would like to direct a Harry Potter movie. However, he has not seen any of the movies and will not watch any until J.K. Rowling is done writing the series
In 2012, two movies produced by Whedon were released. The horror movie "Cabin in the Woods" was released in April. Whedon wrote the script for the movie with director Drew Goddard. On May 4th, the Marvel Comics superhero movie "The Avengers" was released in the United States. Whedon wrote and directed the movie. "The Avengers" was released internationally one week before it was released in the United States. This release did not include some of the largest international markets, including China, Russia and Japan. It still made $185M in it international opening week. It was the 9th highest foreign opening ever.
Whedon has loved comic books all his life. He wrote the Dark Horse Comics series "Fray". The story takes place in the far future of the Buffyverse.
He was also involved with the "Buffy" comic book series. He wrote the main storyline of the five-issue mini-series "Tales of the Vampires" and three stories in the "Tales of the Slayers". One of those stories was about Melaka Fray from "Fray".
The three-issue mini-series "" was based on the "Firefly" series. It took place just before the movie "Serenity". It was released from June to August of 2005. The first two issues sold out before going into a second printing.
Whedon has said that more "Serenity" comics are planned for the near future. 
Whedon and other "Buffy" writers write more for the "Buffy" series. These stories would take place after the final episode. They would be considered "Season 8". The first 6-issues are due out in March 2007. Both projects will be published by Dark Horse Comics. In August 2007, Dark Horse Comics began a series on online comics on MySpace. One of the series shown, "Sugarshock", is written by Whedon
Whedon is also writing "Astonishing X-Men" in Marvel Comics' popular series about the X-Men. This has been one of Marvel's best-selling comics in 2006. It has been nominated for many awards. It won the award for "Best Continuing Series" in 2006.
It has also been said that Whedon helped writers with the ending to the comic "Civil War".
Whedon will become the new writer of the Marvel comic "Runaways" when series creator Brian K. Vaughan finishes his run. Whedon is actually a fan of the series. He had a letter published in the first volume. The letter was included in the Volume 1 hardcover version.
Whedon sees himself as a feminist. Feminist themes are common in his work. The best example is what he says is his habit of writing about "teenage girls with superpowers". This is seen in "Buffy", "Firefly", and "Serenity". Whedon says his mother is the reason for his feminist idea. When Roseanne Barr asked him how he could write so well for women, he replied, "If you met my mom, you wouldn't ask." 
The character Kitty Pryde from the X-Men comic was an early model for Whedon's strong teenage girl characters: "If there's a bigger influence on Buffy than Kitty, I don’t know what it was. She was an adolescent girl finding out she has great power and dealing with it." Many of Whedon's young female characters went through the same type of thing. Whedon has now come full circle, writing the character of Kitty Pryde in the "Astonishing X-Men" comic.
Whedon is interested in the homosexual community. He is strongly for LGBT rights. In his works, including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", he has gay characters as both the major and the minor characters. In "Buffy", he used scenes that suggested that either Xander Harris or Willow Rosenberg might be homosexual. At the time, he did not know which character he wanted to be gay. He decided that Willow would take part in a lesbian relationship with another young woman, fellow college student Tara Maclay. Two more minor characters in the series, Larry and Scott, were also homosexuals. In "Angel", the script hinted at a homosexual experience between Spike and Angel. In "Firefly", Inara Serra was shown as being bisexual. She accepted both male and female clients.
The dialogue in Joss Whedon's series and movies is notable. It is often very witty and has many pop culture references. Some are easy to notice other are more difficult. He also likes to turn nouns into adjectives by adding a "y" at the end of the word ("Vampires are fangy"). According to one of the "Buffy" writers, "It's just the way that Joss actually talks." 
Many characters die in Whedon's series. This is very true in "Buffy". It is common for extras and even minor characters to die in action-based series and movies. Whedon also kills off main characters. He gets the audience to care about the character before their death. It is a part of "doing [his] job". On the 'Serenity' DVD commentary, Whedon says that he'd rather have fans say 'Why'd they kill (that guy)? I liked him!' than 'Oh. He's dead. Turn the page'. Whedon often kills off characters right after something very good happens to them.
As seen in "Buffy," "Firefly," and "Angel", nearly all of the romantic relationships Whedon series end badly. One member in the relationship will usually end up dying or turning evil. The break-up will end up being very painful.
There is a strong theme that family is the group of people that a person lives their life with, not the people who raised them as a child. This is a major theme for the main characters in all of his television series.
Whedon often shows fathers in a bad way. Most of them are not around. Wes' father was shown several times to be abusive. While mothers play a big part in his works, characters rarely talk about or seem to be ever affected by their fathers. Whedon's characters often find someone to take the place of a father in their lives.

</doc>
<doc id="43756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43756" title="Guanajuato, Guanajuato">
Guanajuato, Guanajuato

Guanajuato is a Mexican city. It is one of Mexico's safest cities. Guanajuato is the capital of Guanajuato state.

</doc>
<doc id="43758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43758" title="Bathurst, New South Wales">
Bathurst, New South Wales

Bathurst is a city in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is about 200km west of Sydney. Bathurst has a campus of Charles Sturt University and a cathedral.

</doc>
<doc id="43766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43766" title="List of Pacific typhoon seasons">
List of Pacific typhoon seasons

The following is a list of Pacific typhoon seasons. Unlike Atlantic and Pacific hurricane seasons, they run for the whole year, starting on January 1 and ending on December 31. These dates are when tropical cyclones usually form in the western half of the Pacific Ocean, north of the equator.
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011

</doc>
<doc id="43771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43771" title="Songhai Empire">
Songhai Empire

The Songhai Empire dominated the western Sahel in the 15th and 16th century. 
At its peak the empire was one of the largest in both Islamic and African history. The Songhai people were the ruling elite in the empire. Gao was the capital of the empire. Other important cities in the empire were Timbuktu and Djenné, conquered in 1468 and 1475 respectively. Trade flourished in those towns. 
Initially, the empire was ruled by the Sonni dynasty (c. 1464–1493), but it was later replaced by the Askiya dynasty (1493–1591).

</doc>
<doc id="43773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43773" title="SeaMonkey">
SeaMonkey

SeaMonkey is a free and open source Internet application suite, which uses the Gecko rendering engine. It works on many operating systems. It is very useful, and includes an e-mail client, a calendar, a HTML editor, an IRC client, and a web browser. It is made by the SeaMonkey Council, formerly by Mozilla Foundation.
On March 10, 2005 the Mozilla Foundation said that they will not develop the Mozilla Application suite, including the Netscape web browser, because Firefox and Thunderbird were more popular. The SeaMonkey Council renamed the project SeaMonkey and continued its development. The newest version of its main release version is 2.3.
The web browser of SeaMonkey contains a lot of features used in new web browsers like tabbed browsing, pop-up blocking, e-mail, newsgroups, web editing software, spell checking, and an address book.
Optionally included in the SeaMonkey suite is an IRC chat application.

</doc>
<doc id="43774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43774" title="Proceratosaurus">
Proceratosaurus

Proceratosaurus was a small dinosaur from the Middle Jurassic, about 165 million years ago. It was found in Gloucestershire, England, in 1910. It was a carnivorous theropod.
"Proceratosaurus" was first believed to be an early ancestor of "Ceratosaurus", but it was actually an ancestor of the coelurosaurs. Thus, it was an early ancestor of "Tyrannosaurus" and its relatives in the Upper Cretaceous.
The animal in life was about 3m long and weighed up to 60kg.

</doc>
<doc id="43775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43775" title="Cowboy Bebop">
Cowboy Bebop

Cowboy Bebop is a Japanese anime television show. It first aired in Japan in 1998. It was created by Sunrise and directed by Shinichiro Watanabe. The show is about a group of bounty hunters who travel in outer space to catch criminals. It has 26 episodes. The series has received a "TV-MA" rating in the United States.
Cowboy Bebop first aired in the United States in 2001 on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. It was the first anime to be aired on Adult Swim. It was very successful. It was so successful that Cartoon Network decided to put more anime on Adult Swim.
There is a movie, a manga, and two video games based on the show. The movie is called "". The video games are for Playstation and Playstation 2. They were never released in the United States.
Cowboy Bebop is inspired by American culture. Jazz music is mostly played in the show. The episodes are called "Sessions." 
Cowboy Bebop takes place in the year 2071. The members of the space ship Bebop travel through outer space trying to catch criminals. Bounty hunters are known as "Cowboys". If they catch the criminals alive then they get a reward. If the criminals die, the cowboys get nothing. The criminals are called bounties. Most episodes are about catching a bounty. Some episodes are about the characters' pasts and lives. At the beginning there are two main heroes, Spike and Jet. Later they would meet with others. They had become the crew of the space ship Bebop. Other members of the Bebop are Faye, computer hacker Ed, and a dog named Ein.

</doc>
<doc id="43778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43778" title="The Vision of Escaflowne">
The Vision of Escaflowne

The Vision of Escaflowne is a Japanese anime television show that aired in Japan on April 2, 1996. It is called Tenkuu no Escaflowne in Japanese which means "Escaflowne of the Heavens". It was made by Sunrise and directed by Kazuki Akane. Escaflowne has 26 episodes.
"Escaflowne" has two mangas based on it, a videogame that was made for Playstation, and a movie.
Episode 1 Faiteful Confession
Episode 2 The Girl From the Mystic Moon
Episode 3 A Gallant Swordsman
Episode 4 The Diabolical Adonis
Episode 5 Seal of the Brothers
Episode 6 City of Intrigue
Episode 7 Unexpected Partings
Episode 8 The Day the Angel Flew
Episode 9 Memories of a Feather
Episode 10 The Blue Eyed Prince
Episode 11 Prophecy of Death
Episode 12 The Secret Door
Episode 13 Red Destiny
Episode 14 Dangerous Wounds
Episode 15 Paradise Lost
Episode 16 The Guided Ones
Episode 17 The Edge of the World
Episode 18 Gravity of Destiny
Episode 19 Operation: Golden Rule of Love
Episode 20 False Vows
Episode 21 Reaction of Fortune
Episode 22 The Black Winged Angel
Episode 23 Storm Premonition
Episode 24 Fateful Decision
Episode 25 The Zone of Absolute Fortune
Episode 26 Eternal Love

</doc>
<doc id="43779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43779" title="Fusion">
Fusion

Fusion means to merge or combine. It could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="43780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43780" title="Fir">
Fir

Firs ("Abies") are about 45-55 species of evergreen trees in the family "Pinaceae". Fir trees can reach heights of 10–80 m tall and trunk diameters of 0.5–4 m when mature. The difference between firs and other members of the pine family is that their needle-like leaves are attached to the twig by a base that resembles a small suction cup, and by erect, cylindrical female cones 5–25 cm long that release the winged seeds. The male cones are normally much smaller and spread through the tree so that the wind can help pollinate the female cones.
Like all members of the pine family, these trees have a sticky sap called resin.
Fir wood is not suitable for construction because it is not very resistant to insects and decay. It is usually sawn or crushed into fine sheets or pieces and made into plywood or for indoor or temporary outdoor use. However, fir trees are used widely in gardening. They can be used as shelter trees to protect other plants from wind or grown alone as decorative trees.

</doc>
<doc id="43783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43783" title="Conifer cone">
Conifer cone

A cone (or pine cone) is an organ on plants in the division Pinophyta (conifers) that contains the reproductive structures. It is the part of a tree that lets the tree reproduce. Its formal name in botany is strobilus, plural "strobili".
The familiar woody cone is the female cone, which produces seeds. The male cones, which produce pollen, are usually smaller and much less conspicuous even at full maturity. The individual plates of a cone are known as scales.
The male cone (microstrobilus or pollen cone) is structurally similar across all conifers, differing only in small ways (mostly in scale arrangement) from species to species. Extending out from a central axis are microsporophylls (modified leaves). Under each microsporophyll is one or several microsporangia (pollen sacs).
Conifer cones and their seeds have been used for lots of different purposes. They are often used for decorations. Some seeds, for example, the seeds of pinyon pines, are used in prepared foods and baking. 
Most mature cones are closed when wet and open when dry. In a few species, it takes fire to open the cones.

</doc>
<doc id="43800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43800" title="Ein">
Ein

Ein or EIN can have different meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="43803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43803" title="Punch and Judy">
Punch and Judy

Punch and Judy is a very popular puppet show which children in Britain love to watch. It is traditionally performed at the seaside in a small booth which can easily be transported. The characters are all glove puppets. The story is told by a man who calls himself “The Professor”. He cannot be seen, but he wears the puppets on his hand like gloves and makes them move.
Punch wears a jester's motley. He is hunchbacked and his hooked nose almost meets his curved chin. He has a big stick and hits the other characters with his stick, saying "That's the way to do it!". He speaks in a funny way called a "swazzle". There is also a baby, a crocodile, a policeman and a string of sausages. The simple kind of humour used is called “slapstick”.
The Punch and Judy show has its origins in the 16th century Italian commedia dell'arte. This sort of comedy always had the same people in the stories (“stock characters”). The figure of Punch comes from the stock character of Pulcinella, called "Punchinello" in English. Punch's wife was originally "Joan".
May 9, 1662 is said by 'Professors' to be Punch's UK birthday, for that was the first known date on which the figure who later became Mr. Punch was seen in Britain. The diarist Samuel Pepys saw a puppet show using an early version of the Punch character near St. Paul's Church in London's Covent Garden.
The British show developed into "Punch and Judy". In other countries the stories developed differently. In Germany, Punch is called "Kasper" and Judy is "Grete". The characters date back to the 18th century in German-speaking countries. In The Netherlands Punch is called "Jan Klaassen" and Judy is "Katrijn"; in Denmark "Mester Jackel"; in Italy "Pulcinella" (with "Teresina" as the female part); in Russia "Petruschka"; in Romania "Vasilache "; and in France "Polichinelle".
In 1827, "The Tragical Comedy or Comical Tragedy of Punch and Judy" became the first published Punch and Judy script. In 2006, the Punch and Judy show was named one of 12 icons of Englishness by the British government’s Department for Culture, Media and Sport.

</doc>
<doc id="43820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43820" title="Boomerang (TV channel)">
Boomerang (TV channel)

Boomerang is the name of at least four television networks owned by Cartoon Network. Boomerang was one of the two actual spin-offs of Cartoon Network, showing classic animated cartoons and animated television series from the Warner Bros., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and Hanna-Barbera archives.
Formerly a segment of programming within the Cartoon Network, the channel was launched at the end of the 20th century and introduced to satellite in April 1, 2000. In 2003 there were bumpers telling you what was coming up next.

</doc>
<doc id="43823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43823" title="Boomerang">
Boomerang

A boomerang is a flying tool that is best known for its ability to return to the thrower. In the past, it was made of wood, but most of the modern boomerangs are made of other materials.
Most people know that Australian Aborigines used boomerangs for hunting. But the oldest boomerang was found in a cave in Poland and is more than 20,000 (twenty thousand) years old. This kind of boomerang does not return to the thrower, but it can fly longer distances and more stably than other things which can be thrown. These days (returning) boomerangs are usually used for recreation. 
Most of the boomerangs do not have the classical "L"-shape. The modern boomerang is special in that it will return to the one who threw it, if it is thrown correctly. However, some boomerangs do not return because their wings do not have the right profile. Most of the boomerangs are made for right-handed use. Left-handed people have to use other boomerangs that are mirror-inverted, or have to throw with their right hand. 
A boomerang is not thrown like a frisbee. It has to be thrown almost vertically, with an inclination of about 10–20 degrees and with a lot of rotation (spin). When facing the wind, throw with an angle of 30–45 degrees to the right (left-handed: to the left) of the wind. Be sure to choose a field that is big enough. Watch out for passers-by, and do not throw when people are standing in the range of the boomerang. See also the link provided in the section below.
There are a lot of boomerang clubs in many countries all over the world. These clubs organise workshops and tournaments. The best boomerang-throwers come from Australia, France, Germany, Japan, Switzerland and the United States of America. A few years ago, the International Federation of Boomerang Associations (IFBA) was founded to help to spread knowledge about boomerangs.

</doc>
<doc id="43829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43829" title="Niflheim">
Niflheim

Niflheim is the world of frost and cold of Norse Mythology. Frost Giants live there. The river Hvergelmir also is there. Yggdrasil has one of its roots in the spring of the river. The serpent Nidhogg gnaws at this root.
Niflheim is ruled by the Giantess Angrboda.

</doc>
<doc id="43830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43830" title="Baldur">
Baldur

Baldr (also Balder, Baldur or Baldor) is Odin's second son. He is the god of love, peace and forgiveness. His twin brother is the blind god of darkness, Hodr. His wife is called Nanna. They have a son, called Forseti, god of justice. Baldur also has a ship, which is the largest ship ever built. It is called Hringhorni. His hall is called Breidlabik.
Based on the Merseburg charms, his germanic name may have been Phol. 
Baldur once had a nightmare that he would be killed. His mother, Frigg, made all the things on Earth vow not to hurt him. The mistletoe did not vow, however, and Frigg considered it to be so unimportant that she thought nothing of it. Loki found out that the mistletoe had not vowed, and thus made a spear out of mistletoe, and tricked Hodr into killing Baldur with it. The death of Baldur is believed to be the beginning of Ragnarok. Many gods and goddesses will come to his funeral. His wife Nana also died of sadness. His father, Odin, placed the golden ring Draupnir on Baldur, but he later sent the ring back from helheim. This ring somehow came to Freyr's hand.
During Ragnarok, the veils between the realms were destroyed, so Baldur was able to escape from Hell while Loki used the open gates to lead his army of dead against the Gods. After the death of Odin at the fangs of Fenrir the wolf, Baldur and Hodr came back to Asgard, and they rule in place of their father.

</doc>
<doc id="43843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43843" title="Cell (disambiguation)">
Cell (disambiguation)

A cell can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="43853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43853" title="Prophecy">
Prophecy

A prophecy is a claim of what the future will be like, which is not based on any ordinary source of information. In some ways, prophecies are similar to religion. Not all people believe in prophecy. People that do think they come from God or a god. They are often hard to understand and need interpretation. Very often, they concern one very specific event. People who make prophecies are called prophets. In Ancient Greece, people who made prophecies were called oracles, most notably the Oracle of Delphi. Since then, people like Nostradamus have made prophecies. 
To prophesy is to make a prophecy. The two words are spelled differently and pronounced differently. "Prophesy" is a verb, and "prophecy" is a noun.

</doc>
<doc id="43866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43866" title="Anatotitan">
Anatotitan

Anatotitan is now called "Edmontosaurus".

</doc>
<doc id="43867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43867" title="Ornithomimus">
Ornithomimus

Ornithomimus was a lightly built fast-running North American feathered dinosaur. 
"Ornithomimus" had three toes on each foot, long arms and neck, but a small head. It also had claws on each hand and foot. It had no teeth and weak jaws, which might mean it was omnivorous.
"Ornithomimus edmonticus" was the largest species, 12 ft (3.5 meters) long, 7 feet (2.10 meters) high and weighed about 100-150 kg. It walked on two legs and looked slightly like an ostrich, except for its long tail. 
There has been trouble with naming. Some speciments are put in other genera, like Dromiceiomimus and "Struthiomimus".
In 1995, 2008 and 2009, three "O. edmontonicus" specimens with evidence of feathers were found. Two adults had quill knobs on the lower arm, indicating the former presence of bird-like feather shafts. A juvenile had impressions of long fluffy feathers in the form of hair-like filaments covering the rump, legs and neck. 
The feather imprints were found in sandstone, previously thought to not be able to support such impressions.

</doc>
<doc id="43873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43873" title="Book of Job">
Book of Job

The Book of Job () is the 18th book in the Hebrew Bible or Old Testament. It is one of the books in the class of poetry. 
The Bible says "In the land of Uz" there lived a man whose name was Job. He feared God and shunned evil. He had seven sons and three daughters, and he owned seven-thousand sheep, three-thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred donkeys, and had a large number of servants. He was the greatest man among all the people of the East." 
"When a period of feasting had run its course, Job would send and have them purified. Early in the morning he would sacrifice a burnt offering for each of them, thinking, "Perhaps my children have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. This was Job's regular custom."
The Bible also says that Job was a pious, rich, loyal and a man who loved God.
One day Satan and the Angels of God went to God. God tells Satan about his servant Job and how good he is. Satan says that the only reason why he is like that is because God was good to him and gave him sons and daughters and many animals. Satan asks if he can test Job and God lets him. God tells Satan not to kill Job.
The first test Satan did was to take away all of Job's animals, killing the servants that were with the animals, and killing all of Job's sons and daughters while they were eating together. Even though Satan did these things to Job, Job did not curse God like Satan wanted Job to do.
Satan and the Angels went to meet God again. Like before, God talked about how good his servant Job is. Satan says that Job will curse God if he makes Job sick, which he did. This is the last meeting with Satan, the Angels.
Satan afflicted sores all over Job's body. Job's wife told him to curse God and die. Job told her that if he said that, that would be foolish. Even though Job lost everything he had and suffered from painful sores all over his body, he did not sin against God by cursing him. Satan had failed in trying to make him sin. This is the final time Satan is mentioned in the Book of Job.
When Job's friends heard about the things that happened to him they went to comfort him. Most of the book tells about Job and his friends talking. The names of his friends are Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar. Towards the end of the book, Job's friends start to think that Job is not good because a lot of bad things are happening to him. Job keeps on saying that he is good but he starts to wonder if God really is good.
After God speaks to Job and his three friends, God asks Job where he was when He created the earth and filled it with amazing things (meaning that it is not possible for man to understand God's ways). God gets very angry at Job's friends for thinking that Job was not a good man and for saying things about God they did not know about, and Job prays for his friends: God answers his prayer. God blesses Job because he did not curse Him. God gives him more than he had before.

</doc>
<doc id="43899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43899" title="Abide with Me">
Abide with Me

Abide with Me is a religious song or hymn. It was written by Henry Lyte in 1847. The hymn was sung at the wedding of King George VI of the United Kingdom and the wedding of Queen Elizabeth II. The song is sung at the start of the FA Cup finals.
Abide with me; fast falls the eventide;
The darkness deepens; Lord with me abide.
When other helpers fail and comforts flee,
Help of the helpless, O abide with me.
Swift to its close ebbs out life’s little day;
Earth’s joys grow dim; its glories pass away;
Change and decay in all around I see;
O Thou who changest not, abide with me.
Not a brief glance I beg, a passing word;
But as Thou dwell’st with Thy disciples, Lord,
Familiar, condescending, patient, free.
Come not to sojourn, but abide with me.
Come not in terrors, as the King of kings,
But kind and good, with healing in Thy wings,
Tears for all woes, a heart for every plea—
Come, Friend of sinners, and thus bide with me.
Thou on my head in early youth didst smile;
And, though rebellious and perverse meanwhile,
Thou hast not left me, oft as I left Thee,
On to the close, O Lord, abide with me.
I need Thy presence every passing hour.
What but Thy grace can foil the tempter’s power?
Who, like Thyself, my guide and stay can be?
Through cloud and sunshine, Lord, abide with me.
I fear no foe, with Thee at hand to bless;
Ills have no weight, and tears no bitterness.
Where is death’s sting? Where, grave, thy victory?
I triumph still, if Thou abide with me.
Hold Thou Thy cross before my closing eyes;
Shine through the gloom and point me to the skies.
Heaven’s morning breaks, and earth’s vain shadows flee;
In life, in death, O Lord, abide with me.

</doc>
<doc id="43900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43900" title="Hail Mary">
Hail Mary

Hail Mary is a Christian prayer to Mary, the mother of Jesus. Most of the prayer comes from the Gospel of Luke. Some things were also added to the prayer during the 13th century (the 1200s). When a person says a Hail Mary, he asks Mary to pray for him.
In Roman Catholicism, the Hail Mary makes up the most important part of the Rosary. The Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox also use the prayer. So do many other groups within Christianity, including Anglicans, Independent Catholics, and Old Catholics. Some Protestant denominations also use the Hail Mary. 
The Hail Mary uses two phrases from Saint Luke's Gospel. The first is "Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee, blessed art thou amongst women" (). (In Simple English, this means: "Be glad. You are full of grace. You are with God. You are blessed.") The second is "Blessed art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb" (). (This means: "You and your child (Jesus) are both blessed.")
When the Hail Mary was first created, it was much shorter than it is now. In Western Europe, in the mid-13th century, the prayer was just a few words. The word "Mary" was added after the word "Hail." The entire prayer was "Hail Mary, full of grace." We know this from Saint Thomas Aquinas's writings about the prayer.
In the first phrase from Saint Luke's Gospel, the Angel Gabriel is greeting Mary. Like all of Saint Luke's Gospel, this phrase was first written in Koine Greek. The first word of greeting, , "chaíre", is translated "Hail." This means "Rejoice" or "Be glad." This was a normal greeting in Koine Greek. These greetings are still used in modern Greek.
The Hail Mary prayer used by the Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches is written: This means:
The same thing can be translated differently into English:
"Theotokos" is the title given to Mary in the Eastern Churches. It is a Greek word that means "the one who gives birth to God."
There are different ideas about when the Hail Mary was changed to today's version. The Catholic Encyclopedia says that the Hail Mary was not changed until about 1050.
Saint Thomas Aquinas said that by the mid-thirteenth century, the Western churches had added only one word - "Mary" - to the Biblical verses the prayer came from. Adding her name made it clear that Mary was the person the prayer talked to. However, around the same time, the name "Jesus" was also added. This made it clear that Jesus was "the fruit of [Mary's] womb." 
This means that the Western version of the Hail Mary did not come from the Greek version. The Greek version has very different words, like "for thou hast given birth to the Saviour of our souls," which never appeared in the Western version.
Before the 16th century, the Hail Mary greeted and praised Mary. However, during the 16th century, new words were added. These new words asked Mary for help. In 1555, a Dutch Jesuit named Petrus Canisius added these words to his catechism: "Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners." By the time of the Council of Trent eleven years later, this sentence, and some new words, had been added to the Hail Mary. In 1566, the Catechism of the Council of Trent included this sentence in the prayer: "Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen."
This is the last change that has been made to the Hail Mary. 
In Latin, the prayer is written this way (the macrons are given for pronunciation only and do not appear in the Latin language):
For translations from the Latin into various languages, see Wikisource.
The Syriac Orthodox Church uses a different version of the Hail Mary. This version is much closer to today's Western form than the Greek form.
In this prayer, a leader starts the prayer and everyone else says the rest:
In the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches, the Hail Mary is very common. It is said in the Greek form, or in translations from the Greek form. The prayer is not said quite as often as in the West. However, it is well-known and is still used often. It also appears in several canons of prayer. It is usually sung three times at the end of Vespers during an All-Night Vigil. It is also said many times during daily prayers.
There are two different versions of the Hail Mary in Church Slavonic:
The first version is older. The Old Believers still use this version. So do the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church and the Ruthenian Catholic Church. 
The second version was created in 1656, as part of changes to liturgy made by Patriarch Nikon of Moscow. This version is used by the Russian Orthodox Church, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.
The Hail Mary is the most important part of the Rosary. The Rosary is a way of praying. It is often used by Latin Rite (Western) Catholics. It is also used in the East (but only by Latinised Ukrainian and Maronite Catholics). 
When praying the Rosary, Catholics pray ten sets of Hail Marys. Before each set, they pray one Our Father (also called the "Pater Noster" or The Lord's Prayer). After each set of Hail Marys, they pray one 'Glory Be' ("Gloria Patri"). One set of these prayers is called a "decade." Usually, Catholics say five decades when they pray the Rosary.
While praying each decade, Catholics think about the four different Mysteries of the Rosary. Each of the Mysteries has to do with things that happened in Jesus' and Mary's lives. The Mysteries include:
The Hail Mary is also the most important part of the Angelus. This is a prayer that many Catholics say three times every day. Some Anglicans and Lutherans say the Angelus too.
Traditional Anglicans also use the Hail Mary, in mostly the same way as Roman Catholics do. Both groups use the Rosary and say the Angelus. Anglican churches often have statues of the Virgin Mary. 
Many Anglicans pray the Hail Mary. However, in different areas, the prayer may be used differently. This is because the Catholic and Anglican Churches have some different beliefs.
Many people have written music for the Hail Mary (also called the "Ave Maria"). 
During the Renaissance, the Hail Mary very often set to music by composers, like Jacques Arcadelt, Josquin Desprez, Orlando di Lasso, and Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina. However, at this time (before the Council of Trent), there were still different versions of the prayer. Because of this, some of the earlier Renaissance pieces have different words than today's Hail Mary. For example, Josquin Desprez actually created more than one musical version of the "Ave Maria".
One of the most famous musical versions of the prayer was created by Charles Gounod in 1859. He added melody and words to Johann Sebastian Bach's first prelude (the beginning piece of music) from the Well-Tempered Clavier. 
Other famous musical versions of the Hail Mary were written by:
Protestant Christianity, like Catholicism, does not worship Mary. Some Protestants have used musical versions of the "Ave Maria," but changed the words. For example, "Ave Redemptor" uses the music of the "Ave Maria," but focuses on Jesus instead:

</doc>
<doc id="43904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43904" title="Studio">
Studio

A studio is a place where an artist can work. Studios can be used for many things, such as making photos, movies, television shows, cartoons, or music. The word comes from the Latin word, "studium", which means to eagerly want something.
A music studio is a room or group of rooms that are used for practicing music. Most music studios have a piano and a mirror. 
A recording studio is used for recording music, speech, or other kinds of sound. Many recordings become works of art in themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="43907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43907" title="Electric Light Orchestra">
Electric Light Orchestra

The Electric Light Orchestra, also known as ELO, were a popular English rock band from the 1970s and early 1980s. Their leader was musician and songwriter Jeff Lynne. Lynne wrote and sang most of their songs. He also produced their recordings. Other members included Richard Tandy on keyboards, Bev Bevan on drums, Mike D'Albuquerque and later Kelly Groucutt on bass guitar. Hugh McDowell, Mik Kaminski, and Melvyn Gale played violin and cello. The orchestra's name is a joke on "electric light" and a "Light Orchestra" (an orchestra that plays light music).
The band began as a side project of another band, The Move, by musicians Roy Wood and Jeff Lynne. While The Move had added touches of classical music to their pop hits, Wood and Lynne wanted to blend rock music and classical music more closely. Move drummer Bevan joined their project. Wood played nearly all the non-rock instruments on their first album. They made the most of recording studio technology, including multitrack recording and overdubbing.
Their first album was titled "Electric Light Orchestra". It was released with that name in the United Kingdom. When the album was released in the United States, their American record label, United Artists, did not know the album was titled after the group. They phoned ELO's British label to ask for the title. When nobody answered, "No Answer" was written down. Mistaken later for the title, the album appeared in America as "No Answer". The band's first single was titled "10538 Overture". It became an FM radio favourite. In time, ELO's music became more popular than The Move's had been. The Move disbanded, and Electric Light Orchestra became a full-time group.
Roy Wood decided to leave ELO partway through the recording of the second album. He started another band called Wizzard. Jeff Lynne took over leadership, and McDowell, Kaminski and Gale joined. The album, "ELO 2", was finished and released, but was not as well liked as the first. A single on the album was a cover version of Chuck Berry's "Roll Over Beethoven". It added parts of many Beethoven compositions to Berry's song. It became another radio hit.
Their third album, "On the Third Day", included a rock interpretation of "In the Hall of the Mountain King". The album had another hit single, titled "Showdown". ELO began to tour the United States. They started with small audiences. They became more popular with time, and added theatrical touches to their shows. New contact microphones made it possible for the classical musicians to move around and even dance on stage, as pop musicians did. The audiences enjoyed watching them.
By their fourth album, "Eldorado", ELO had gone from overdubbing their small membership to recording with real orchestras. They had problems when they worked in their native England. British classical musicians usually kept more to union rules than to the job of making music. They sometimes walked out during recordings. This hurt the process of making their records, so ELO tried a studio called Musicland in Munich, Germany. They liked the way the studio worked, and the German musicians were more devoted. ELO used Musicland many more times.
Their next album, "Face the Music" (1975), yielded two hit singles, "Strange Magic" and "Evil Woman". ELO became even more popular. A compilation album, "Olé ELO", featured most of their early singles. Three songs from their 1976 album, "A New World Record", became worldwide hits. These were "Telephone Line", "Livin' Thing", and "Do Ya", which was a remake of a Move song.
ELO recorded a double album in 1977, "Out of the Blue", which included "Turn to Stone", "Sweet Talkin' Woman", and "Mr. Blue Sky", which also became hit records. The band toured worldwide, with a stage set that looked like a UFO, which opened to reveal the band performing inside. Their shows included lots of stage lighting, and laser effects.
Their next new album, "Discovery", did not appear until 1979. ELO's record label, Jet Records, changed distributors from United Artists to Columbia Records, and this was part of the delay. "Discovery" included two singles, "Shine a Little Love" and "Don't Bring Me Down". "Don't Bring Me Down" was the first ELO single to not include any classical instruments. Columbia issued a "Greatest Hits" album, which overlapped some of the "Olé ELO" songs with later ones.
ELO became less popular during the 1980s. They had fewer hits. They recorded the "Xanadu" soundtrack with singer Olivia Newton-John. They also released the albums "Time" (with the title song and "Hold On Tight" as singles) in 1981, "Secret Messages" (with "Stranger") in 1983, and finally "Balance of Power", which included "Calling America", in 1986. By this time the classical musicians had left. Lynne now was recording their parts with synthesizers or session players.
Jeff Lynne was now producing other recording artists, including The Everly Brothers, and stopped working with Electric Light Orchestra in 1986. Most of the remaining members, though, wanted to continue working together and regrouped, first as a band named OrKestra, then later as "ELO Part II". These lineups toured for years, playing ELO's old hits and releasing two albums of new material, while Lynne continued his producing career. Lynne also released a solo album, "Armchair Theatre", in 1990, and formed the Traveling Wilburys with former Beatle George Harrison.
Lynne recorded an album, "Zoom", in 2001, again using the ELO name, but with a new set of musicians. He made a handful of television appearances with the new lineup. They played both old and new songs. He also planned to tour with them. Interest in the band was not strong, though, and most of the shows were cancelled. 
Electric Light Orchestra's music had only a weak presence in popular culture from the mid-1980s until the early 2000s. Their blend of classical and rock music made their music hard to put in radio play lists. ELO's music has made a comeback in the 2000s through its use in movie soundtracks, and also in commercials such as for Monster.

</doc>
<doc id="43911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43911" title="Vicious">
Vicious

The word vicious has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="43916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43916" title="Ash">
Ash

The term Ash can have different meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="43917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43917" title="Ash tree">
Ash tree

Ash trees are medium to large trees of the genus Fraxinus of the family Oleaceae (Olive-tree like). The family contains between 45 and 65 species. Some of them are evergreen, but most are deciduous. They grow in most parts of the world. The seeds are commonly known as "keys" in English. They are a type of fruit known as a . Most of the ash species have light-green, oval shaped, leaves. The central stem of the compound leaf has 9 – 13 leaflets (small leaves) in pairs, with one at the tip. There are no stalks to the side leaflets. The leaflets are pointed and toothed, with hairs on the lower surface. The leaves appear relatively late in spring, and are amongst the first to be shed in autumn.
If they are deciduous they may turn yellow before dropping, sometimes frost may cause them to drop while still green. Ash trees are becoming endangered due to the emerald ash bores.
The buds are black, sooty or velvety in appearance and are sometimes compared to a Bishop’s Mitre in shape.
Ash wood is used to make various tools, handles, baseball and softball bats and bows. It also makes very good firewood. Ash trees are also perfect material for old fashion shafts for bow and arrows.
In Norse Mythology, the world tree Yggdrasil is commonly thought to be an ash tree. The first man, Askr, was formed from an ash. The first woman was made from an alder. 

</doc>
<doc id="43918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43918" title="Ash Wednesday">
Ash Wednesday

Ash Wednesday is the first day of Lent in the Western Christian calendar. It occurs 46 days before Easter. The date is different each year because the date of Easter varies. It can fall as early as February 4 and as late as March 10. 
Those able to and willing to should fast voluntarily between Ash Wednesday and Easter. There are exceptions, though. Pregnant women, sick people, children, and the old usually don't have to. 
Ash Wednesday is a very important part of Lent.
The dates of Ash Wednesday are:

</doc>
<doc id="43926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43926" title="Valkyrie">
Valkyrie

Valkyries (Old Norse: "Valkyrja" "Choosers of the Slain") are lesser goddesses in Norse Mythology. They serve the chief god Odin. Their task is to choose those who have died in the most heroic way in battle. The Valkyrie then carries the chosen one off to Valhalla. This chosen one would then be called einherjars. They would then be shared between Odin and Freyja. They would fight at Odin's side at Ragnarök, the battle at the end of the world. In Valhalla, the Valkyries would also serve drink and care for the well-being of the feasting warriors. 
The old Norse people thought that Valkyries rode giant wolves, and that they had black wings which correspond to ravens; these two creatures both scavenge corpses on the battlefield symbolizing death and destruction. With the spread of Christianity the idea of what a Valkyrie was like changed more and more to a Romantic description of a beautiful woman. 
Richard Wagner composed some operas, featuring Valkyries (German: "Walküren", singular: "Walküre"). These operas are "Die Walküre", "Siegfried", and "Götterdämmerung". They feature a story of a valkyrie Brünnhilde, her punishment for disobeying her father, and her falling in love with Siegfried. The music for the opening of Act Three of "Die Walküre" is very famous. It is called the "Ride of the Valkyries".

</doc>
<doc id="43932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43932" title="Zosterops">
Zosterops

Zosterops is a type of bird. There are many different species of Zosterops around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="43934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43934" title="Dimorphodon">
Dimorphodon

Dimorphodon was a prehistoric flying pterosaur from the early Jurassic period. It had a big head, a small brain, a tall beak, and two types of teeth. Variation in teeth is rare in pterosaurs. 
Like "Rhamphorhynchus", "Dimorphodon" is only found in Jurassic strata. It was the first pterosaur found in England, by Mary Anning, in 1828.

</doc>
<doc id="43935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43935" title="Cryolophosaurus">
Cryolophosaurus

Cryolophosaurus is a theropod dinosaur from the Lower Jurassic period. It is the only theropod to be found in Antarctica. "Cryolophosaurus" was discovered in the Jurassic Hanson Formation in the Transantarctic Mountains. The find of this dinosaur was significant because it proves that the dinosaurs lived on all continents and that high latitude climates were tolerated by dinosaurs at that time. 
"Cryolophosaurus" is also significant because it is the oldest known tetanuran from any continent: it is the only one from the early Jurassic.
"Cryolophosaurus" had a large crest on the top of the skull, above the eyes. It extends upwards from the skull. 
"Cryolophosaurus" was found about from the South Pole but then it was about or so farther north. Also found were the remains of "Glacialisaurus" (a large basal sauropodomorph), a crow-sized pterosaur, synapsids, and another unknown theropod. There are also the remains of many plant genera around the same age as fossils of "Cryolophosaurus", proving that dense plant matter had once grown on Antarctica's surface before it drifted southward.

</doc>
<doc id="43938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43938" title="Coloborhynchus">
Coloborhynchus

Coloborhynchus was a pterosaur. It has been found in Lower Cretaceous rocks in England and Brazil. It is a similar genus to "Anhanguera" and "Ornithocheirus".
The type specimen of "Coloborhynchus" is known only from a partial upper jaw. It can only be distinguished from its relatives by its unique combination of tooth socket positions. In "Coloborhynchus", the two front teeth pointed forward and were higher on the jaw than the other teeth, while the next three pairs of teeth pointed to the sides. The final two pairs of teeth in this specimen point downward. Finally, a unique oval depression was located below the first pair of teeth.
The possible species "Coloborhynchus capito" is the largest toothed pterosaur known. A specimen from the Cambridge Greensand has a very large upper jaw tip which displays the typical teeth which distinguish "C. capito" from other species. The jaw tip is nearly 10 cm tall and 5.6 cm wide, with teeth up to 1.3 cm in base diameter. If the proportions of this specimen was the same as other known species of "Coloborhycnhus", the total skull length could have been up to 75 cm, leading to an estimated wingspan of .

</doc>
<doc id="43942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43942" title="Alder">
Alder

Alder is the common name for about 30 kinds of trees and shrubs of the Alnus genus. They are a part of the birch family ("Betulaceae"). Most of them are smaller in size. Leaves are mostly deciduous, only very few alders are evergreen.
Alder trees are found in all parts of the northern hemisphere and they are often found on poor and/or wet soil. Alders have simple leaves with a toothed edge. The male flowers are in the form of hanging catkins and the female flowers are much smaller catkin-like structures "(see image)." The pollen is transferred from the male to the female flower by the wind. The female flower parts develop into little, green, rounded cone-like fruits which turn brown in autumn and open to release the seeds. 
The best known species are the , which can be seen throughout Europe. The largest is probably the , native to North America. It reaches about 32–35 metres in height. The widespread is a shrub, rarely more than 5m high. The commonest alder in the UK is the Black Alder, also called the Common Alder or European Alder. 
Alder is a preferred tree for bees, especially in spring. It is also used to make charcoal. 

</doc>
<doc id="43945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43945" title="Futabasaurus">
Futabasaurus

Futabasaurus was a plesiosaur from the Upper Cretaceous. A complete skeleton of one has not been found. It is not known very well. 
"Futabasaurus" is the first elasmosaurid found in Japan. The type species is "F. suzukii". Many of the bones of the type specimen show apparent scavenging or predation by sharks.

</doc>
<doc id="43946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43946" title="Ovum">
Ovum

An ovum (Latin: "egg", plural: ova) is the name for the haploid female reproductive cell, or gamete. Both animals and land plants (embryophytes) produce ova. 
Ova are made and released by a female's ovaries. At birth, a female has all of her eggs, and from puberty, she releases an egg once a month until none are left. This is called oogenesis. 
When the ovum is fertilised by a male's sperm, it becomes a zygote, which develops into a new organism. The ovum is fertilized inside the female body, and the embryo then develops inside the uterus, being fed by the mothers placenta.
The ovum is the largest cell in the human body. You can see it without a microscope. The human ovum is between 100 and 200 µm long. They are nevertheless much smaller than the cleidoic eggs laid externally by reptiles and birds, which is why they need a long period of internal development in the womb.
The sexual cycle is quite different in other mammals, whose females are only receptive during their 'heat', which triggers the release of eggs from the ovary. Sexual activity then continues for a few days, then ceases entirely until the next heat.
In many plants, ova are made inside archegonia through meiosis. The archegonium has a long 'neck' with the egg cell inside. When the egg is mature, the neck opens and sperm swims in to fertilize the egg.
In flowering plants, the female gametes are made of only eight cells, called the embryo sac, inside the ovule. The cell closest to the opening of the embryo sac becomes the egg cell. When pollinated, sperm swims into the embryo sac and fertilizes the egg. The zygote then develops into an embryo inside the ovule.

</doc>
<doc id="43947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43947" title="Ovule">
Ovule

Ovules produce the female reproductive cells which get fertilized during sexual reproduction in seed plants. The word literally means "small egg".
The megagametophyte (also called the "embryo sac" in flowering plants) is inside the ovule. The megagametophyte produces the egg cell.

</doc>
<doc id="43948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43948" title="Horn (musical instrument)">
Horn (musical instrument)

The horn is a brass instrument. It developed from the horns that some animals have on their heads. Modern horns are often called French horns.
Horns were often used during hunting. These early brass instruments were round so that the hunter could put his arm through it and carry it on his shoulder and blow it while riding a horse. The riders could send messages to one another by blowing particular notes.
In the 17th century the modern orchestra was developing. Orchestras played for operas. Opera stories in those days were usually about gods and goddesses or kings and queens. There was often a hunting scene in the story. Hunters were asked to come and play their horns in the orchestra for these scenes. This is how the horn became an orchestral instrument.
A brass instrument gives one basic note. Changing the pressure with the lips produces a few other notes. Gradually horn players discovered that if they put their right hand in the bell they could change the basic note. This made it possible to play lots of different notes. When Mozart wrote his horn concertos he was writing for a hand horn. When a note is played using the hand in the bell it makes the note sound different: more muffled (a bit like speaking while covering your mouth with your hand). A Mozart horn concerto sounds very different when played on a modern horn.
Another way to change the notes on a horn was to use crooks. These are like extensions to the horn. The longer the tube the lower the note, so adding a crook (an extra circle) would give a lower basic note.
By the 1830s the modern horn with three valves had been invented. These valves change the length of the tube, so that the horn had now become chromatic i.e. it could play all the notes including sharps and flats. Composers like Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss wrote complicated music for the horn which would never have been possible on the natural, valveless instruments. However, some composers preferred the sound of the natural horn. Brahms wrote for the natural horn when he wrote his "Horn Trio" for piano, violin and horn. Benjamin Britten, in his "Serenade for tenor, horn and strings", asks for the horn to played naturally (without valves) for the fanfare at the beginning to make it sound like a hunting horn.
The horn has a conical bore. This means that the tubing gradually becomes wider (a trumpet and trombone have a cylindrical bore): the tubing is the same thickness all the way along. The modern horn has 6.4 metres of tubing. It makes a beautiful, warm sound, but it is quite hard to play because the mouthpiece is small and the harmonics (the notes that can be played by changing the lip pressure) are very close together. The horn is a transposing instrument, usually in F (a written C sounds like the F below).
At the end of the 19th century the so-called “double horn” was invented, which was like a combination of a horn in F and a horn in B flat.
In the 18th century there were generally two horns in an orchestra. This became three or four in the 19th century, and some large orchestras now may have up to eight horns.

</doc>
<doc id="43949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43949" title="Valhalla">
Valhalla

In Norse mythology, Valhalla (or "Val-hall") is a giant hall. In it, Odin's Valkyries preside over all those warriors which were slain in battle, and deeemed worthy to attend. The Valkyries also choose the warriors. These warriors will fight on Odin's side at Ragnarök, the battle at the end of the world.
Valhalla, Hall of the Slain, is presided over by Odin. This vast hall has five hundred and forty doors. The rafters are spears, the hall is roofed with shields and breast-plates litter the benches. A wolf guards the western door and an eagle hovers over it. It is here that the Valkyries, Odin's messengers and spirits of war, bring half of the heroes that died on the battle fields (the rest go to Freya's hall, Folkvang). These heroes, the Einherjar, are prepared in Valhalla for the oncoming battle of Ragnarok. When the battle commences, eight hundred warriors will march shoulder to shoulder out of each door. When the doors are opened you can see the army of the gods who will kill all who threaten them.

</doc>
<doc id="43954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43954" title="Horn (anatomy)">
Horn (anatomy)

Horns are part of the body of some animals. They grow on the animal's head. They are projections (things that stick out) made of hard skin. The horn has a lot of keratin in it, the same protein that is in human hair and nails. 
Normally horned animals will have two horns, but the rhinoceros has just one horn in the middle of its head.
Animals often use their horns for fighting one another.
Thousands of years ago people used the horns of dead animals for musical instruments (see horn (musical instrument)). In later times, they were used for carrying gunpowder.

</doc>
<doc id="43955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43955" title="Mead">
Mead

Mead is a fermented alcoholic drink. It is made from honey. Its history is possibly as old as that of beer. It is made by mixing honey, water, and yeast. Some kinds of mead also include spices or fruit. Mead is sometimes called "honey wine".
Archaeologists discovered that people made mead 9,000 years ago. Mead was described in the Rigveda, which is a Hindu religious text. Mead is popular in Central Europe and the Balkans. Mead is also made in Ethiopia and South Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="43958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43958" title="Ull">
Ull

In Norse mythology, Ull (or Ullr or Uller) is the son of Sif, and the of Thor. He is thought to be the god of Winter, of hunting, of hand-to-hand combat, and of the willow tree. He is married to Skadi, the goddess of winter, and the ex-wife of Njord. His name means "glory". He was said to be a great archer and skier who left blazing trails across the sky. 
For this reason he is celebrated in modern times as the god of skiing. His name is used as a name for ski lodges like the House of Ullr at Thredbo, New South Wales. ULLR Labs make smartphone applications to help people avoid avalanches.

</doc>
<doc id="43959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43959" title="Thrud">
Thrud

Þrúðr, sometimes written as Thrúd, is a daughter of the gods Sif and Thor in Norse mythology. Although her name is mentioned in the "Prose Edda", it gives no direct powers or other information about her. Thrúd is also the name of one of the valkyries described in "Grímnismál" (stanza 36). The two may or may not be the same person. Thrúd is the goddess of the heath, of willows, of trees, flowers and the grass. Her name means strength in Old Norse.

</doc>
<doc id="43960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43960" title="Hugin and Munin">
Hugin and Munin

Hugin and Munin are two ravens, commonly associated with Odin. They bring Odin news from the world, when he sends them out. Their names translate as thought and memory, respectively.

</doc>
<doc id="43964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43964" title="Hel (goddess)">
Hel (goddess)

Hel is a goddess of Norse mythology. Her father is Loki, and her mother is Angrboda, a giantess. Her siblings are Jörmungandr and Fenrir. Her task is to reign over the realm of the dead, also called Hel or Neifelheim, where the dead peacefully go to in the afterlife.
Hel is half dead and half alive due to complications of her father and her mother. Half of her face is beautiful, like that of her father, while the other half is ugly and difficult to look at like her mother. From the waist up the skin is pink, alive and healthy. Below the waist is dead and rotting.

</doc>
<doc id="43973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43973" title="Runestone">
Runestone

A Runestone or Rune stone is a large stone, with runes inscribed on it, dating from the early Middle Ages. Currently, about 6000 such stones are known to exist in Scandinavia. About half of them date from the tenth and eleventh century, and were found in Sweden. Most of them are like grave stones. They announce the life and death of a local person. About 10 percent of the known stones tell about the travels and deaths of persons abroad. Some of these texts are similar to what Scandinavians who travelled to Byzantium have written in Latin.

</doc>
<doc id="43984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43984" title="Balcony">
Balcony

A balcony is a kind of floor at a certain height, which stands out from the building. Usually, there is some kind of balustrade so people do not fall off.

</doc>
<doc id="43990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43990" title="Bergstraße Route">
Bergstraße Route

Bergstraße ("Mountain Road") is the name of a mountain route, and the area around it, which stretches across the western edge of the Odenwald in southern Hesse and northern Baden-Württemberg, Germany. 
The name "Bergstraße" also refers to the district Kreis Bergstraße, the independent wine-growing region of Hessische Bergstraße and the Badische Bergstraße in the Baden wine-growing area.
The route goes almost straight from north to south at the spot where the Rhine lowlands meet the western edge of the Odenwald. The name comes from the road's route along the foot of the mountains, the Rhine lowlands once being too damp to build a road there.
The route mostly follows the modern B3 road. It begins in Darmstadt and, after passing through Eberstadt, splits into the "Old Bergstraße" and the "New Bergstraße", which goes somewhat farther to the west. The two routes meet again at Zwingenberg.
In Weinheim-Lützelsachsen the route splits into an old and a new Bergstraße again. The new one passes west of the old route as far as Heidelberg-Handschuhsheim, where the two meet once more. The route carrying on after the Neckar from Heidelberg to Wiesloch is still usually known as the Bergstraße, even though the type of country and climate typical of the Bergstraße is no longer as clear.

</doc>
<doc id="44000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44000" title="Caucasus">
Caucasus

The Caucasus or Caucasia is a region in Eurasia bordered on the south by Iran, on the southwest by Turkey, on the west by the Black Sea, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the north by Russia. The Persian name for the region is "Qafqâz". Caucasia includes the Caucasus Mountains and surrounding lowlands. 
The Caucasus Mountains are commonly known as a line between Asia and Europe, and the lands in Caucasia are different considered to be in one or both continents. The northern portion of the Caucasus is known as the Ciscaucasus and the southern portion as the Transcaucasus. The highest peak in the Caucasus is Mount Elbrus (5,642 m) which, in the western Ciscaucasus in Russia, is generally considered the highest point in Europe.
The Biblical Mount Ararat where Noah's Ark landed is known as the landmark of the ancient Armenian realm. The peak of Ararat is seasonally capped with snow. In Greek mythology, the Caucasus or Kaukasos was one of the pillars supporting the world. Prometheus was chained there by Zeus. The Roman poet Ovid placed Caucasus in Scythia and said it was a cold and stony mountain which was the abode of personified hunger.

</doc>
<doc id="44001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44001" title="Hamidian massacres">
Hamidian massacres

The Hamidian massacres took place around 1895 until 1897. The estimated number of Armenians killed are around 100,000 - 300,000.
These events are known by the Armenians as the "Great Massacres". The Armenians believed the Hamidian measures showed the extension of the Turkish state to do a systematic policy of murder and plunder against a small population. The Armenian revolutionary groups started around the end of the Russo-Turkish War of 1878 and grew with the first introduction of Article 166 of the Ottoman Penal code 166, and the raid of Erzerum Cathedral. 
Article 166 was meant to control the possession of arms, but it was used to target Armenians by not letting them possess arms. Local Kurdish tribes were armed to attack the defenseless Armenian population. Some diplomats said that the aim of these groups was to commit massacres so as to show counter-measures, and to invite "foreign powers to intervene," as Istanbul's British Ambassador Sir Philip Currie seen in March 1894. Even some Turkish authors admit the that this was just a pretext for the massacres.

</doc>
<doc id="44002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44002" title="Alfred Pampalon">
Alfred Pampalon

Alfred Pampalon (24 November 1867 – 30 September 1896) was born in the city of Lévis, Quebec, and died at 28 in Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré. He was a Redemptorist priest known for having a deep faith in God and a deep love of Mary. He is a patron for people with addictions.
He was known to be a modest, prayerful person, and was thought of as honest and pure by his classmates. 
Pampalon was devoted to Mary; before going to a Redemptorists' monastery, he went to a statue of Mary and asked her to pray for the monks to let him join. The Monastery allowed him to join despite his poor health, because they saw his strong desire to become a Redemptorists father. While training to become a Roman Catholic priest his fellow students asked him how he managed to study philosophy so well, and he replied he imagined Mary was asking him the questions. He would make his head touch the floor and pray to her daily, and while dying he would pray to her throughout the day.
At the age of 26, Pampalon found out that he had tuberculosis. During this time he stayed devoted to God, moving back to Quebec to be a priest there. While dying from tuberculosis he gave communion, baptized people, and heard confessions. Before his death he was in constant pain, and would spend his days in prayer. The night before he priest died, he said in a soft voice "O death..., O holy death..., come..., do come! O divine Savior..., my hope is in your merits... I am happy... to suffer for you! I want to go to Heaven... to see you and Mary," After this he got up and sang the Magnificat in a loud voice. He has become known as the "Hail Mary Saint" because of this.

</doc>
<doc id="44004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44004" title="Armenian oblast">
Armenian oblast

Armenian oblast (1828-1840 AD) was an oblast (province) around eastern Armenia. It was created by the Russians when they took over Eastern Armenia, a large number of Armenians moved back from Persia to Armenia and about 35000 Muslims (Azeris, Kurds and Lezgins) and various nomadic tribes left the area.

</doc>
<doc id="44005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44005" title="St. Hripsime">
St. Hripsime

St. Hripsime is a church in Ejmiadzin, Armenia. It was built in 618. It is one of the oldest churches in Armenia. St. Hripsime is also known for its fine Armenian architecture. This style of architecture was used again when they built many churches in Armenia.

</doc>
<doc id="44006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44006" title="Armenian language">
Armenian language

The Armenian language is an Indo-European language, spoken by Armenians.
It is the official language of Armenia and the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The language is also widely spoken by Armenian communities all over the world. It has its own alphabet, the Armenian alphabet. There are two standard forms of Armenian: Eastern Armenian and Western Armenian.

</doc>
<doc id="44007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44007" title="Armenian diaspora">
Armenian diaspora

The Armenian diaspora is a term used to describe the communities of Armenians living outside of Armenia. Of the total Armenian population living worldwide which was estimated to be 8,000,000 in 2004, only about 3,000,000 live in Armenia and about 120,000 in Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan.

</doc>
<doc id="44008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008" title="Aspect">
Aspect

Aspect may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="44009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44009" title="Carol Vorderman">
Carol Vorderman

Carol Jean Vorderman (born 24 December 1960) is a British television presenter. She was born in Bedford and raised in Prestatyn, North Wales. Her father was Dutch; her mother is Welsh. She studied engineering at Sidney Sussex College, University of Cambridge. She is best known for having picked the letters and numbers for the Channel 4 game show "Countdown". She is a regular panellist on ITV1 talk show "Loose Women". She was a contestant in the second series of "Strictly Come Dancing" in 2004. In 2013 she presented a series about cooking on ITV called "Food Glorious Food". She has written books about detox diets.

</doc>
<doc id="44011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44011" title="Automobiles of the 1920s">
Automobiles of the 1920s

Automobiles have changed considerably since the 1920s due to the new cars developed. The car industry was thriving in the 1920s. There were many new types of cars. In the beginning of the 1920s, many of the soldiers returning from World War I bought automobiles. People started to see that having a car would make traveling much easier. Soon almost every American family had a car. Ford was the big car maker but other companies were also big at the time. Ford cars, such as the Ford Model T, were popular because they were cheap and reliable.
The automobiles industry in Europe and the United States expanded greatly during the 1920s. There were many changes in the industry and new types of cars. Having a car allowed families and individuals to travel more easily. Famous cars of the 1920s included:

</doc>
<doc id="44015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44015" title="Norns">
Norns

The Norns are female deities in Norse mythology who govern fate. Their names are Urd (what has been), Verdandi (what is) and Skuld (what is to come). Skuld is also the name of a Valkyrie.
The Norns are at the base of the ash tree Yggdrasil (or, according to some versions, above the Bifröst bridge). They spin threads and weave the tapestry of fates. Each person's life is a thread in their loom. The length of the thread is the length of the person's life. Even the gods have their threads and are therefore not immortal, though the Norns hide the strings from the gods. So everything is set out beforehand. There is no luck, there is no randomness, everything is determined by destiny.
The Greeks called deities similar to the Norns Moirae, and the Romans called them Parcae.
The three Norns appear at the beginning of Richard Wagner's opera Götterdämmerung and foretell the downfall of the gods when a thread of fate breaks.

</doc>
<doc id="44020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44020" title="Star Trek: The Next Generation">
Star Trek: The Next Generation

Star Trek: The Next Generation was the second television series of the science fiction franchise "Star Trek". It was created by Gene Roddenberry, and was aired for seven years, from 1987 to 1994.
"The Next Generation" was set in the 24th century, eighty years after of "Star Trek", and it focused on the lives of a crew on a starship called "Enterprise". The crew's mission was to explore the universe, as was the mission of the crew in the original series.
The Starfleet officers and members in Star Trek: The Next Generation and most 24th century Star Trek based shows had to wear a jumpsuit, (except for children and some parents onboard the Enterprise) with a communicator badge (also known as a combadge) shaped in the form of an oval, with the Starfleet logo over top of it on the upper right side. The uniform colors would also represent your position.
For ranks from Petty Officer to Captain you could see on the right collar of the uniform (Seasons 3-7) or on the collar bone area of the uniform (Seasons 1-2), were gold pips, an outline, or solid, that defined the rank of the officer.
With ranks higher than Captain, including the rank of Admiral (1 to 5 star) the pips would be on both collars.
During other episodes including (TNG: Future Imperfect) the TNG crew had a different way to show rank. The ranks were shown on a different communicator badge with the Starfleet logo and four long bars behind the logo, closely separated vertically. Each bar that was lit would represent a rank. The rank of admiral was shown with the bars on the combadge being full white. Their was also another communicator (TNG: All Good Things Part I & II) with an outline of a Starfleet logo and two long vertical trapezoids, each separated horizontally. 
The U.S.S Enterprise (NCC-1701-D) is a Galaxy Class starship from the television series, Star Trek: The Next Generation. The Enterprise was set in the 24th century, with the same mission as the original U.S.S Enterprise (NCC-1701).

</doc>
<doc id="44026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44026" title="Liopleurodon">
Liopleurodon

Liopleurodon was a large species of Pliosaur. It was an apex predator in the Upper Jurassic seas, around 160–155 million years ago. It grew up to 6.39 metres (21 feet) long. It was a relative of "Pliosaurus" and "Kronosaurus". It preyed on other marine animals such as "Ophthalmosaurus".
Some fossil remains excavated from the Kimmeridge Clay formation in England indicate a much larger animal, perhaps up to long. However, these have not been put in the genus "Liopleurodon". 
"Liopleurodon"'s nose allowed it to smell underwater. It could smell prey from some distance away. Despite needing to breath air, Liopleurodon spent its entire life at sea and was unable to leave the water. Consequently, it would have given birth to its young alive and may have visited shallower water to breed.

</doc>
<doc id="44027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44027" title="Libonectes">
Libonectes

Libonectes was a plesiosaur related to "Elasmosaurus". It lived 80 to 65 million years ago. It grew up to 12 metres long. It was a predator of small fish; the fish ate plankton in the upper pelagic layers of the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="44029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44029" title="Dimetrodon">
Dimetrodon

Dimetrodon was a pelycosaur (early Synapsida) from the first part of the Permian period (about 295–272 million years ago). 
"Dimetrodon" walked on four legs and had a tall, curved skull with large teeth of different sizes set along the jaws. Most fossils have been found in the southwestern United States, from red beds in Texas and Oklahoma. The largest known species of "Dimetrodon" is "D. angelensis" at and the smallest is "D. teutonis" at .
"Dimetrodon" was a carnivore, probably the top predator in its environment. Its main feature is the large sail on its back formed by elongated spines extending upwards from the vertebrae. The spines would be joined by skin. The general opinion of palaeontologists is that it was a temperature-regulating device. The idea is that the animal could warm up in the early morning by placing itself broadside to the Sun, and later could cool off in the shade, or arrange for its body to get less sunlight. At this stage in evolution, no land animals were homoiotherms. Very likely the sail was also used for sexual or territorial signalling. In which case, the skin would be coloured. This, of course, is supposition, but it does make sense of the animal's most extraordinary feature.
In evolutionary terms, "Dimetrodon" was a synapsid, a line of land animals which eventually gave rise to the mammals. It was not on the direct line of descent, but a good example of the evolutionary grade typical of Permian synapsids.

</doc>
<doc id="44030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44030" title="Spinosaurus">
Spinosaurus

Spinosaurus (which means 'spiny lizard') was a huge semi-aquatic dinosaur from the Cretaceous, 112 to 97 million years ago. It had paddle-like feet and nostrils on top of its crocodile-like head. This would let it submerge as a crocodile does.
The same research suggests it was perhaps larger than "Tyrannosaurus rex", but more clumsy on land, moving as a quadruped. All these ideas had been suggested before. The discovery of a more complete skeleton made palaeontologists think they were correct. The fossil was found in Morocco by a private collector who let scientists examine it.
"Spinosaurus" bones were first discovered in Egypt in 1912 by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer in 1915. Two species, "S. aegyptiacus" and "S. marocannus", are recognized by many paleontologists, but there may only be one. "Spinosaurus" looked like "Baryonyx" except it was larger and more heavily built. Six specimens of "Spinosaurus" have been uncovered. Apparently, good material was destroyed in a WW2 bombing raid.
"Spinosaurus" was larger than "Tyrannosaurus". Estimates suggest that it was 12.6 to 18 metres (41 to 59 ft) in length and 7 to 20.9 tonnes (7.7 to 23.0 short tons) in weight. It had a two meter high sail on its back like "Dimetrodon". Several uses have been suggested for this sail, such as to help control its body temperature, as a way to attract a mate, and to intimidate or frighten enemies. It lived in what is now Sahara Desert, but which then was mangrove forests alongside shoreline conditions, tidal flats and channels. 
The skull of "Spinosaurus" was long and narrow like that of a modern gharial. "Spinosaurus" is known to have eaten fish. Evidence suggests that it lived both on land and in water like a modern crocodilian.
It was featured as the main dinosaur in the 2001 film Jurassic Park III. It has also apppeared on postage stamps in several countries, and many toy companies have made models of "Spinosaurus".

</doc>
<doc id="44040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44040" title="Anhanguera">
Anhanguera

Anhanguera, which means 'Old Devil', was a pterodactyl from the Upper Cretaceous. It was found in the Santana Formation of Brazil, and specimens from England are also placed in this genus. 
It ate fish and grew to 14 feet (4.5 meters) across. The species "Anhanguera piscator" is now placed in the genus "Coloborhynchus".

</doc>
<doc id="44041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44041" title="Rhamphorhynchus">
Rhamphorhynchus

Rhamphorhynchus is a genus of long-tailed pterosaurs in the Upper Jurassic. It is the best-known of the long-tailed pterosaurs, the sub-order Rhamphorynchoidea. 
"Rhamphorhynchus" had a long tail, stiffened with ligaments, which ended in a small diamond-shaped rudder on the end of its tail which helped keep it stable when it was flying.
The jaws of "Rhamphorhynchus" housed needle-like teeth, which were angled forward, with a curved, sharp, beak-like tip lacking teeth. Their diet was mainly fish and insects.
Like other pterosaurs, its body was covered with hairs, which suggests it had termperature regulation ('hot-blooded') and a high rate of metabolism. This is also found in birds and bats, and seems necessary for active flight.
The genus was quite successful: it is the most common pterosaur found in the Solnhofen limestone beds in Bavaria, Germany. These are the same strata where "Archaeopteryx" was found.
This early group flourished from the Upper Triassic to the end of the Jurassic. When we first see them in the fossil record they have developed three families, so biologists know their early evolution is not yet revealed. These three families are represented by the three genera "Rhamphorhynchus", "Dimorphodon" and "Eudimorphodon". This sub-order was the earliest kind or pterosaur, which were succeeded by the more 'derived' short-tailed pterosaurs, the Pterodactyloids, such as "Pterodactylus". In the Upper Jurassic both the two sub-orders were extant (living).
The group always has a long tail, stiffened by rod-like bony tendons to keep it straight. This indicates their flight was extremely stable, which means it kept on course, and did not dart about much. This feature is also found in "Archaeopteryx" and in early bats, and in insects like dragonflies. 
It can be interpreted like this. To dart about quickly requires special advanced brains and reflexes to keep control. Later birds and pterosaurs had extra 'control wiring' in their brains, but early ones did not. The evidence for this is the extra size of pterodactyl and bird brains compared with the reptile brains the groups started out with. That much of this increase is connected to seeing and flying is clear from how bird brains work.
The analogy would be planes. Early planes were highly stable, and so are airliners. Fighter planes are fundamentally much less stable, and have to be in order to jink about. This needs such fast reactions that the details are worked out by computer, with the pilot indicating where to go. 
It requires more 'brains' to control an unstable craft than it does a stable one. And the same principle applies to pterosaurs, birds and bats. Early birds, bats, pterosaurs and insects were all more stable, with tails or (insects) long abdomens. This helped the flying animal to keep on track, which is what we mean by 'stable'. 
All species in the group have teeth. The group died out at the end of the Jurassic, which suffered a minor extinction event.
This classification is simple, but unfortunately it is paraphyletic, because the two suborders are not sister groups. But there is not enough evidence to see which earlier group the pterodactyloids arose from. So this is the best we can do: 

</doc>
<doc id="44043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44043" title="Zhejiangopterus">
Zhejiangopterus

Zhejiangopterus is a pterosaur that was found in China. It lived in the late Cretaceous. 
At least six specimens of adults have been found. "Zhejiangopterus" was a moderately large pterosaur. Its wingspan was first estimated at five metres (16.4 feet). Later estimates reduced this to about 3.5 metres (11 feet). 
Its skull was long, low, perfectly arched, and lacked a "keel" or any other crest sometimes seen in related species. The beak was long, thin, sharply pointed, and lacked teeth. The cervical vertebrae were elongated. The first six dorsal vertebrae had fused together. This helped the chest keep stable against the forces generated by the wings.
Several pairs of belly ribs were preserved. Its upper leg bone was half the size of its upper arm bone, and strong and thin. The wings were short but robust

</doc>
<doc id="44044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44044" title="Tupuxuara">
Tupuxuara

Tupuxuara was a pterosaur that lived 112 million years ago. It was found in the Santana Formation, the remains of an inland sea. 
Some species were quite small, but the largest skull (length 130 cms) suggests a wingspan of 5.5 metres. It was an Azdarchid pterosaur, the same group as "Quetzalcoatlus".

</doc>
<doc id="44046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44046" title="Anurognathus">
Anurognathus

Anurognathus was a genus of small rhamphorhynchoid pterosaurs which lived 150 million years ago, in the Upper Jurassic period. It had a short head with pin-like teeth for catching insects. It was found in the Solnhofen limestone, the same place as "Archaeopteryx". They grew up to 35 cms wingspan.
Although it is in the long-tailed pterosaur group Rhamphorhynchoidea, its tail was comparatively short. This was an adaptation which made it more manoeuvrable in hunting. According to Döderlein the reduced tail of "Anurognathus" was similar to the pygostyle of modern birds. 
With an estimated wingspan of fifty centimetres (20 inches) and a nine centimetre long body (skull included), its weight was limited: forty grammes for a specimen with a 35 centimetre wingspan. 
Later a second, smaller, specimen was found, probably of a subadult individual. Its slab and counterslab are separated and both were sold to private collections. This second fossil is more complete and better articulated. It shows impressions of a large part of the flight membrane and under UV-light remains of the muscles of the thigh and arm become visible. It provided new information on many points of the anatomy. The skull was shown to have been very short and broad, wider than long.

</doc>
<doc id="44048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44048" title="Thirty-Nine Articles">
Thirty-Nine Articles

The Thirty-Nine Articles are the historic statements of Anglican beliefs. The Articles were not meant to be a complete statement of the Christian faith. They are a statement of the position of the Church of England against the Roman Catholic Church and against Protestants. 
The articles were made in 1563, under the direction of Archbishop Matthew Parker. They are based on the Forty-Two Articles written under the direction of Thomas Cranmer in 1552 and passed under Edward VI of England in 1553. They are printed in the Book of Common Prayer and other Anglican prayer books. Priests, deacons, and bishops of the Church of England have to take an oath that what is said in the Articles is "agreeable to the Word of God." Other Anglican churches do not make such a requirement.
The Thirty-Nine Articles was needed because at that time in English history it was not possible to find an agreement about Protestantism. Rather than have the church become divided, they needed a way to list what the church believed. John Henry Newman, before he converted to Roman Catholicism, tried to show that the Articles could be seen in a way less hostile to Catholic belief.
Outside the Church of England, Anglican opinions of the Thirty-Nine Articles vary. The Episcopal Church in the United States of America sees them as an historical document and but does not make its members follow them. Anglican priest John Wesley changed the Thirty-Nine Articles for use by American Methodists in the 18th century. These new Articles of Religion are still the official United Methodist Church doctrine.

</doc>
<doc id="44059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44059" title="Teal">
Teal

Teal can mean many things, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="44062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44062" title="Ojiya, Niigata">
Ojiya, Niigata

Ojiya (Japanese: 小千谷（おぢや）市;-shi) is a city in Niigata, Japan. As of July 16, 2003, 40,342 people lived in the city. Ojiya's total area is . The Lord Mayor of Ojiya is Yasuo Yatsui
An earthquake of magnitude 7.2 struck Ojiya on October 23, 2004 at 17:56 local time. The earthquake killed 51 people. 4,795 people were injured. 16,910 buildings and houses were destroyed. The amount of damage was 3,000,000,000 Yen ($32.5M US).
Ojiya has many types of industry. Electronics companies Sanyo electric and Panasonic are located in the city. It also has textile companies. The main agricultural crop in the city is rice. Ojiya is the largest miner of natural gas in Japan.
There are several festival each year in Ojiya.

</doc>
<doc id="44067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44067" title="Tantalus">
Tantalus

Tantalus was a mortal king in Greek mythology. He did many bad things against the gods and goddesses. At a banquet, he tried to feed people the flesh of his son Pelops. He had asked the gods and goddesses to come to this banquet. When they learn what he had planned, they punished Tantalus in not only this world (the world of the living), but the next as well (the world of the dead). Tantalus's punishment while he was alive was the ruin of his kingdom. His punishment when dead in the Tartaros of the Underworld was much worse.
He was made to stand in a pool of water up to his chin for all time. During this, he would always be hungry and . Each time Tantalus lowered his head to drink the water he was standing in, the water would lower. Over his head hung branches of trees filled with fruit. When he would try to get them, wind would blow them out of his reach. He was "tantalized" with food and drink. This is where the word tantalize comes from.
His son, Pelops, was made alive again by the gods. He went to Greece and became the ruler of the peninsula which still has his name, the Peloponesus.

</doc>
<doc id="44069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44069" title="Bushido">
Bushido

, meaning "Way of the Warrior", is a Japanese code of conduct and a way of life, more or less similar to the European code of chivalry. It comes from the samurai moral code and gives great importance to certain virtues like frugality, loyalty, martial arts mastery and honour until voluntary death, seppuku. Bushidō was created between the 11th to 14th centuries and took form as a code from the 12th to 16th centuries.
Under the Tokugawa Shogunate, Bushidō became official Japanese Feudal Law.
Honor codes are still used in modern times; for example, as part of the kamikaze beliefs... 

</doc>
<doc id="44102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44102" title="Campaign">
Campaign

Campaign is trying to do something. Some battles in wars are called campaigns. The word comes from "Campania", a region where the ancient Roman army often fought.
When someone in politics seeks election to a political office, that is called a "political campaign". Sometimes, a series of advertisements can be referred to as an "advertising campaign". A "blood drive", when the Red Cross or a hospital asks people to give blood, is also a campaign.
A campaign usually involves groups of people following a plan and working together in different ways to get what they want.

</doc>
<doc id="44103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44103" title="Manco Cápac">
Manco Cápac

Manco Cápac (died in 1107) was the first of the fourteen Inca rulers of Peru. He started the Inca empire. 
As he says it, his legend started at the waters of Lake Titicaca, when he was told by the sun god to go East to set up his empire. As they walked looking for a good place, Manco taught men to farm, hunt, and fish while Mama Ocllo, his wife taught women to work with wool and cotton. Near Cusco, as his sacred golden staff sank in the ground, Manco decided this was to be the capital city of his empire.

</doc>
<doc id="44106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44106" title="Brazzaville">
Brazzaville

Brazzaville is the capital city of the Republic of the Congo. One million people live there.
Brazzaville is on one side of the Congo river, with Kinshasa on the other side. Brazzaville and Kinshasa are the nearest country capitals in the World.

</doc>
<doc id="44107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44107" title="Yellow Sea">
Yellow Sea

The Yellow Sea is the northern part of the East China Sea. It is between Mainland China and the Korean peninsula. Its name comes from the sand particles that color its water. The particles come from the Yellow River. Smaller rivers include the Yalu and Han Rivers. 

</doc>
<doc id="44113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44113" title="East China Sea">
East China Sea

The East China Sea is a marginal sea east of China. It is a part of the Pacific Ocean and covers an area of 1,249,000 km². In China, the sea is called the "East Sea". In Korea, the sea is sometimes called ""South Sea"", but this is more often used to speak only of the area near South Korea's southern coast.
The East China Sea is bounded on the East by Kyūshū and the Ryūkyū Islands, on the South by Taiwan, and on the West by mainland China. It is connected with the South China Sea by the Taiwan Strait and with the Sea of Japan by the Korea Strait; it opens in the North to the Yellow Sea.
Territories with borders on the sea (clockwise from north) include: South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and Mainland China.
The Yangtze River (Chang Jiang) is the largest river flowing into the East China Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="44116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44116" title="Governor of California">
Governor of California

The Governor of California is the highest office in the state government in the American state of California. The office of Governor of California was created in 1849, before California became a state. Before it was a state, there had been six American military governors and numerous Mexican governors when California was part of Mexico. The current Governor of California is Edmund G. Brown, Jr.
The Governor is in charge of making yearly "State of the State" speeches to the California state government, submitting the budget, and making sure that state laws are being followed. 
Some well known former governors include Arnold Schwarzenegger, George Deukmejian, Pat Brown, and Ronald Reagan.

</doc>
<doc id="44117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44117" title="Hymn">
Hymn

A hymn is a religious song of worship in Christianity, or a sacred song. Collections of hymns are known as hymnals.
In Hinduism, a hymn is a "shloka".

</doc>
<doc id="44123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44123" title="Scarlett O'Hara">
Scarlett O'Hara

Scarlett O'Hara is the name of the protagonist in the book "Gone with the Wind" by Margaret Mitchell, the movie adaptation of it, and "Scarlett" by Alexandra Ripley. Scarlett O'Hara is from Georgia. She has histrionic personality disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="44124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44124" title="Vivien Leigh">
Vivien Leigh

Vivien Leigh (5 November 1913 – 7 July 1967) was an English actress. She is best known for playing Scarlett O'Hara in "Gone with the Wind" in 1939, and Blanche DuBois in "A Streetcar Named Desire" in 1951. Leigh won Academy Awards for both of these roles.
Leigh was born in Darjeeling, Bengal, British India. She was married to Laurence Olivier from 1940-1960 and often acted in plays and movies with him. Olivier was Leigh's second husband. The first was Leigh Holman, and Miss Leigh was still legally married to him when she came to the US to accompany Laurence Olivier who came to Hollywood to star in David O. Selznick's production of "Rebecca" directed by Alfred Hitchcock. It was lucky that Miss Leigh's agent just happened to be David O. Selznick's brother, Myron. Miss Leigh wrote long letters to her husband then during the shooting of GWTW, complaining about the script, the change of director from George Cukor to Victor Fleming. The change was made at the insistence of Clark Gable, who felt that Cukor was devoting too much time and attention to directing Miss Leigh and her co-star, Olivia de Havilland. Miss Leigh also complained in her letters of Gable's bad breath due to his dentures.
When her divorce was final, she married Olivier (she referred to him as her husband until she died, although they had been divorced for many years). Leigh believed that Olivier was the best actor of his (or any) generation, and worked very hard to be worthy of acting with him - on stage, of course. Leigh believed, as did Olivier, that the only place "real" acting took place was on the stage. Her movie career reflects her lack of enthusiasm for that medium, concentrating instead on acting with Lord Olivier in live theatre. Many critics, however, did not feel that she had the "presence" and vocal prowess that Olivier possessed and her reviews were often (perhaps unfairly) negatively compared to her husband.
Leigh was considered to be beautiful and this sometimes meant that she thought that she was not taken seriously as an actress. However her ill health was often a bigger problem. Leigh suffered from bipolar disorder and often had tuberculosis. These meant that her career went through period of decline and that she was sometimes considered difficult to work with. She died of tuberculosis in London.

</doc>
<doc id="44126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44126" title="Sacred Heart">
Sacred Heart

The prayer to the Sacred Heart of Jesus is a Roman Catholic devotion. A devotion is something that people do or say to show their love for God and Jesus. Saint Margaret Mary Alacoque wrote the prayer. When Roman Catholics pray to the "Sacred Heart of Jesus they are praying for a part of Jesus that they believe is Divine. The devotion to the "Sacred Heart of Jesus is also popular among some Anglo-Catholic Anglicans (Anglicans who use many of the same practices as Catholics).
Early Christians, for example John the Evangelist and Paul of Tarsus, wrote the first devotions or prayers to the love of God. The earliest devotions to the "Sacred Heart of Jesus" were from the Benedictine or Cistercian (Monastery plural Monasteries). St. Bernard of Clairveaux from the Cistercian religious order was possibly the first person to write a devotion to the "Sacred Heart of Jesus". But some people believe that the first person was St.Anselm.
The devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus started to be more Popular between the 13th century and the sixteenth century. Some religious orders, for example the Franciscans, Dominicans, and Carthusians practised the devotion. But, the devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus was most common with individual Christians. For many individual Christians, the devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus" was a "mystical" devotion - similar to an experience in mysticism.
In the sixteenth century, there was a change in the way people practised the devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus. The devotion started to be part of Christian Asceticism and stopped being part of Christian Mysticism. In the sixteenth century, the devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus also started to use special written prayers and exercises. For example, the devotion used the writings of Lanspergius (d. 1539) of the Carthusians of Cologne and of Louis of Blois (Blosius; 1566), who was a Benedictine and Abbot of Liessies in Hainaut. The devotion also used or followed the writing of John of Avila (d. 1569) and St. Francis de Sales, who lived in the seventeenth century.
In the seventeenth century, writers who followed Christian Asceticism wrote about the devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Christian Jesus". For example, Ascetic writers from the Society of Jesus wrote about the devotion many times. The image of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus became very common. It was popular because many people used the image in the Franciscan devotion to the "Five Wounds" (explanation needed). The image of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus also became popular because many Jesuits - members of the Society of Jesus- put the image of the 'Sacred Heart of Jesus" on the first page of their books and on the walls of their churches.
But, the devotion of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus" continued to be a private and mostly Individual devotion. Jean Eudes (1602-1680) made it a public devotion, gave it a religious Office (needs explanation), and created a Feast for it. Père Eudes was the apostle of the Heart of Mary; but in his devotion to the Immaculate Heart there was a share for the Heart of Jesus. Little by little, the devotion to the Sacred Heart became a separate one, and on August 31, 1670, the first feast of the Sacred Heart was celebrated in the Grand Seminary of Rennes. Coutances followed suit on October 20, a day with which the Eudist feast was from then on to be connected. The feast soon spread to other dioceses, and the devotion was likewise adopted in various religious communities. It gradually came into contact with the devotion begun at Paray, and resulting in a fusion of the two.
The most significant source for the devotion to the Sacred Heart in the form it is known today was a nun of the religious congregation of the Visitation of Mary Saint Margaret Mary Alacoque (1647-1690), who claimed to have received visions of Jesus Christ. There is nothing to indicate that she had known the devotion prior to the revelations, or at least that she had paid any attention to it. These alleged revelations were numerous, and the following apparitions are especially remarkable:
On December 27, probably 1673, the feast of St. John, Margaret Mary reported that Jesus permitted her, as He had formerly allowed St. Gertrude, to rest her head upon His Heart, and then disclosed to her the wonders of His love, telling her that He desired to make them known to all mankind and to diffuse the treasures of His goodness, and that He had chosen her for this work.
In probably June or July, 1674, Margaret Mary claimed that Jesus requested to be honored under the figure of His Heart of flesh, also claiming that, when He appeared radiant with love, He asked for a devotion of expiatory love: frequent reception of Communion, especially Communion on the First Friday of the month, and the observance of the Holy Hour.
During the octave of Corpus Christi, 1675, probably on June 16, the vision known as the "great apparition" reportedly took place, where Jesus said, "Behold the Heart that has so loved men ... instead of gratitude I receive from the greater part (of mankind) only ingratitude ...", and asked Margaret Mary for a feast of reparation of the Friday after the octave of Corpus Christi, bidding her consult Father de la Colombière, then superior of the small Jesuit house at Paray. Solemn homage was asked on the part of the king, and the mission of propagating the new devotion was especially confided to the religious of the Visitation and to the priests of the Society of Jesus.
A few days after the "great apparition", Margaret Mary reported everything she saw to Father de la Colombière, and he acknowledging the vision as an action of the spirit of God, consecrated himself to the Sacred Heart and directed her to write an account of the apparition. He also made use of every available opportunity to circulate this account, discreetly, through France and England.
At his death, February 15, 1682, there was found in his journal of spiritual retreats a copy in his own handwriting of the account that he had requested of Margaret Mary, together with a few reflections on the usefulness of the devotion. This journal, including the account and an "offering" to the Sacred Heart, in which the devotion was well explained, was published at Lyons in 1684. The little book was widely read, even at Paray.
Margaret Mary reported feeling "dreadful confusion" over the book's contents, but resolved to make the best of it, approving of the book for the spreading of her cherished devotion. Outside of the Visitandines, priests, religious, and laymen espoused the devotion, particularly a Capuchin, Margaret Mary's two brothers, and some Jesuits, among the latter being Fathers Croiset and Gallifet, who promoted the devotion.
The death of Margaret Mary, October 17, 1690, did not dampen the zeal of those interested; on the contrary, a short account of her life published by Father Croiset in 1691, as an appendix to his book "De la Dévotion au Sacré Cœur", served only to increase it. In spite of all sorts of obstacles, and of the slowness of the Holy See, which in 1693 imparted indulgences to the Confraternities of the Sacred Heart and, in 1697, granted the feast to the Visitandines with the Mass of the Five Wounds, but refused a feast common to all, with special Mass and Office.
The devotion spread, particularly in religious communities. The Marseilles plague, 1720, furnished perhaps the first occasion for a solemn consecration and public worship outside of religious communities. Other cities of the South followed the example of Marseilles, and thus the devotion became a popular one. In 1726 it was deemed advisable once more to importune Rome for a feast with a Mass and Office of its own, but, in 1729, Rome again refused. However, in 1765, it finally yielded and that same year, at the request of the queen, the feast was received quasi-officially by the episcopate of France. On all sides it was asked for and obtained, and finally, in 1856, at the urgent entreaties of the French bishops, Pope Pius IX extended the feast to the Catholic Church under the rite of double major. In 1889 it was raised by the Catholic Church to the double rite of first class.
On May 15, 2006, Pope Benedict XVI sent a letter to FatherPeter Hans Kolvenbach, the Superior General of the Society of Jesus, on the 50th Anniversary of the encyclical "Haurietis Aquas", about the Sacred Heart, by Pope Pius XII. In his letter to Father Kolvenbach, Pope Benedict reaffirmed the importance of the devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus.
The Catholic acts of consecration, reparation and devotion were introduced when the feast of the Sacred Heart was declared. In his Papal Bull "Auctorem Fidei", Pope Pius VI praised devotion to the Sacred Heart. Finally, by order of Leo XIII, in his encyclical "Annum Sacrum" (May 25, 1899), as well as on June 11, he consecrated every human to the Sacred Heart. The idea of this act, which Leo XIII called "the great act" of his pontificate, had been proposed to him by a religious woman of the Good Shepherd from Oporto (Portugal) who said that she had supernaturally received it from Jesus. Since c. 1850, groups, congregations, and States have consecrated themselves to the Sacred Heart.
Peter Coudrin of France founded the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary on Dec 24, 1800. A religious order of the Roman Catholic Church, the order is best known for its missionary work in Hawaii.
Worship of the Sacred Heart mainly consists of several hymns, the Salutation of the Sacred Heart, and the Litany of the Sacred Heart. It is common in Roman Catholic services and occasionally is to be found in Anglican services.
The Feast of the Sacred Heart is a holy day in the Roman Catholic liturgical calendar, and is celebrated 19 days after Pentecost. As Pentecost is always celebrated on Sunday, the Feast of the Sacred Heart always falls on a Friday.
The Enthronement of the Sacred Heart is a Catholic ceremony in which a priest or head of a household consecrates the members of the household to the Sacred Heart. A blessed image of the Sacred Heart, either a statue or a picture, is then "enthroned" in the home to serve as a constant reminder to those who dwell in the house of their consecration to the Sacred Heart. The practice of the Enthronement is based upon Pope Pius XII's declaration that devotion to the Sacred of Jesus is "the foundation on which to build the kingdom of God in the hearts of individuals, families, and nations..."[4]
Sacred Heart is still a widely used name for many Catholic institutions, including schools, colleges, and hospitals in many countries around the world. It is also the name of many Catholic parishes, religious orders, and stores selling Catholic goods.
Religious imagery depicting the Sacred Heart is frequently featured in Catholic, and sometimes Anglican homes. Sometimes images display beneath them a list of family members, indicating that the entire family is entrusted to the protection of Jesus in the Sacred Heart, from whom blessings on the home and the family members are sought. The prayer "O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I place all my trust in Thee" is often used. One particular image has been used as part of a set, along with an image of the Blessed Virgin Mary. In that image, Mary too was shown pointing to her Immaculate Heart, expressing her love for the human race and for her Son, Jesus Christ. The mirror images reflect an eternal binding of the two hearts.
Many members of the Carlist military forces of the 19th and 20th centuries in Spain wore detentes or amulets with an image of the Sacred Heart. These Catholic monarchists believed the image would protect them against wounding by the enemy firearms.
Some non-Catholics, including Charismatic Protestants, have criticized devotion to the Sacred Heart as idolatry in that worship is directed towards a body part. The response of Catholics is to contend that the Sacred Heart is a traditional symbol depicting Christ's holy blood as a fountain. Some Catholics have been critical of the overly sentimental nature of such devotion,[5] but most of these critics concede that the images essentially reflect the core Christian tenet of love.
Dates for the Feast of the Sacred Heart, 2002-2020

</doc>
<doc id="44128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44128" title="Marian Prayer">
Marian Prayer

Marian prayers or Marian devotions are acts of praying to Mary, the mother of Jesus. It is mainly something done by Roman Catholics but it is also used by Anglo-Catholics. Marian prayer is not worship. It is asking Mary to pray, or intercede for you and/or other people. When you pray through Mary, you are honouring her and not worshiping her.

</doc>
<doc id="44129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44129" title="Clark Gable">
Clark Gable

William Clark Gable (February 1, 1901 – November 16, 1960) was an American actor. He is best known for playing the part of Rhett Butler in the 1939 movie version of "Gone with the Wind". Gable won an Academy Award for playing Fletcher Christian in the 1935 movie version of "Mutiny on the Bounty". He also starred in "It Happened One Night" with Claudette Colbert and "Mogambo" with Grace Kelly and Ava Gardner.
Gable was born on February 1, 1901 in Cadiz, Ohio. He was married five times. He had two children. The last movie that Gable starred in was "The Misfits", in 1961. This movie also starred Marilyn Monroe and was written by Arthur Miller. Gable died shortly afterwards in Los Angeles, California, after having had a fourth coronary thrombosis.

</doc>
<doc id="44130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44130" title="Nyctosaurus">
Nyctosaurus

Nyctosaurus was a pterosaur from the Upper Cretaceous. It had a wing span of 1 meter and a very big crest. It was in the Pterodactyloidea and related to "Pteranodon". 

</doc>
<doc id="44131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44131" title="Marilyn Monroe">
Marilyn Monroe

Marilyn Monroe was an American movie actress. In 1999, Monroe was ranked as the sixth greatest female actress of all time by the American Film Institute. Her birth name was Norma Jean Mortenson and she was born on June 1st, 1926, in Los Angeles, California. She died of a drug overdose on the night of August 5, 1962, in Brentwood, California. She was married to baseball player Joe DiMaggio during 1954. She married Arthur Miller (a playwright) on July 1st, 1956. They divorced January 21th, 1961.
Marilyn Monroe became famous , starring in a number of hit movies during the 1950s and early 1960s. She also became famous for modeling for photographers and singing in her musical movies. One time, she sang "Happy Birthday" to the President of the United States John F. Kennedy. It turned out to be one of her last appearances.
The 16-year-old Norma Jeane married James Dougherty on 19th June 1942. After the wedding, he joined the navy. At this time, Norma met an army photographer, David Conover. She began a career as a model. She changed her name to Marilyn Monroe. She and Dougherty divorced on 13 September 1946.
Monroe married the baseball star Joe DiMaggio on 14th January 1954. The marriage lasted for nine months. She had met DiMaggio on a blind date, during the filming of the movie "Monkey Business" in 1952. The marriage was closely followed by the public. DiMaggio retired from baseball, and Marilyn became very famous. DiMaggio was sad that his career as a baseball star was ending, and was jealous of Marilyn for being admired. He spent most of his time watching television and Monroe found it boring. They separated on 31st October 1954. From 1961, they became friends again. DiMaggio said that he gave Marilyn a rose every week for 10 years.
Marilyn married Arthur Miller on 29th June 1956. She converted to Judaism. She had met him during the filming of "As Young As You Feel" in 1951. She was so happy with him and they tried to have children together. Mariyln had three miscarriages, because of her endometriosis. Miller wrote the screenplay for the movie "The Misfits". The filming caused many problems between Marilyn and Arthur and they separated on 20 January 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="44133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44133" title="Eliot, Maine">
Eliot, Maine

Eliot is an American town in the state of Maine. The population was 5,954 at the 2000 census.
The schools in Eliot are a part of MSAD35. It is around an hour away from Boston.

</doc>
<doc id="44138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44138" title="Troodon">
Troodon

Troodon (or "Troödon") is a genus of relatively small, bird-like dinosaurs, from the later part of the Cretaceous period, 75–65 million years ago. The alternate spelling "Troödon" shows that the 'o's are pronounced separately, as in 'zoology'.
They were probably carnivorous, but details of their teeth are a bit unusual. Some experts suggest they may have included plant material in their diet, but this is not a majority view at present.
Discovered in central Montana in 1855, it was among the first dinosaurs found in North America. Its species ranged widely, with fossil remains recovered from as far north as Alaska, and the Judith River formation of Alberta, and as far south as Wyoming and even possibly Texas and New Mexico.
"Troodon" had a large brain in proportion to its body weight. It had a sickle claw, an enlarged and retractable second toe claw bone. "Troodon" had 122 teeth. The size and shape of the leg bones show that the "Troodon" would have been a fast runner. 
The view that "Troodon" was a predator is supported by its sickle claw on the foot and apparently good binocular vision.
"Troodon"'s size ranged widely. In general, individuals that lived further north were larger than those that lived in more southern areas. "Troodons" in Alaska were especially large, up to 12 feet long, 5 feet tall, and weighing up to 175 pounds. Meanwhile, "Troodons" that lived in more southern locations were only around 7 feet long, 3 feet tall, and weighed up to 50 pounds, about the size of a "Velociraptor". 
Very likely "Troodon" had feathers, but no fossil evidence for feathers has yet been found. If "Troodon" did have feathers, then they probably resembled fur more than feathers. There is a modern bird, called the Kiwi, that has feathers which are very similar, in appearance, to those of extinct raptor dinosaurs, such as "Troodon". 
There has been a lot of debate about which specimens, all very incomplete, should be called "Troodon". The genus now includes specimens previously classified as "Stenonychosaurus". 
Troodon nests full of eggs have been found in Montana. When scientists CAT-scanned them, they found baby Troodon skeleton embryos inside of them. They found skeletons of a small plant-eating dinosaur named "Orodromeus" with the eggs, as well as a skeleton of an adult Troodon. At first, it was believed that the eggs had belonged to the "Orodromeus", and that the Troodon was there intending to rob the nest. 
However, it was later discovered that the eggs belonged to the "Troodon" when baby "Troodon" embryos were found inside the eggs. It is now believed that the adults had killed the "Orodromeus" and brought them back to feed their babies. "Troodon"s laid up to 24 eggs in their nests which were earth mounds. They were able to lay two eggs at a time, so large clutches would take two weeks to lay.

</doc>
<doc id="44139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44139" title="Saurornithoides">
Saurornithoides

Saurornithoides was a fast running dinosaur from 79 million years ago. It was related to "Troodon". Its fossils have been found in Mongolia and China. 
Like its cousin "Troodon", "Saurornithoides" was an intelligent predator, with large eyes and good vision. It had a retractable, sickle-shaped claw on the second claw of each foot that was used for attacking prey. "Saurornithoides" probably fed on small prey, such as lizards, frogs, insects, and small mammals. It may also have hunted in packs to bring down other dinosaurs. "Saurornithoides" was discovered in the Gobi Desert on an expedition in the 1920s. The dinosaurs "Velociraptor", "Protoceratops", and "Oviraptor" were also discovered during these expeditions to the Gobi Desert.

</doc>
<doc id="44146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44146" title="Reining">
Reining

Reining is a competitive way of riding a horse. In reining, the horse performs spins, sliding stops, rollbacks and lead changes. Reining has twelve patterns the rider normally has to follow. The rider can perform freestyle where they make up their own pattern and ride it to music. This is all done under a western saddle.
Horses have been used by humans for thousands of years, and the skills associated with riding horses have been gradually developed throughout this history. The skills used today in reining originate from tasks done with work horses like to gather cattle together.
In competition, the riders need to do many manoeuvres at a gallop. They need to guide precisely the horses with one hand through a complex pattern that includes stops, spins, rollbacks and circles. There are twelve different patterns. The rider and the horse are judged on various criteria. First, points can be given or removed for the obedience of the horse if it seemed easy and fluid for the rider to control him or if the horse showed some resistance. The show is also judged for the execution of the manoeuvres and the control of the rider. For example, if the manoeuvre was executed correctly no point are given and no point are removed, if the manoeuvre was executed badly the judge decides on how many points he removes and if the manoeuvre was executed I an excellent way, the judge can give points. The rider executing is pattern and the judge evaluating it takes about five minutes and after that, the judge gives mark on a total of seventy points for the execution of the choreography by the rider and the horse.

</doc>
<doc id="44159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44159" title="Rani Lakshmibai">
Rani Lakshmibai

Lakshmibai, the Rani of Jhansi (19 November 1828 – 17/18 June 1858) was an Indian queen and warrior.
She was one of the leaders of the Indian Rebellion of 1857 and became for Indian nationalists a symbol of resistance to the rule of the British East India Company in India.
Manikarnika was born into a Maratha family at Varanasi. She was married to Raja Gangadhar Rao, the Maharaja of Jhansi in 1842, and became the Rani of Jhansi. After her marriage Manikarnika became Lakshmibai, so named in honour of the goddess Lakshmi. Before her marriage, she was known as Chabeeli because of her jolly ways. In 1851, Rani Lakshmibai had a son, Damodar Rao. He died at the age of about four months. On the day before the raja's death in November 1853, he adopted a son. His name was Anand, but was renamed Damodar, after their actual son. The raja wrote a letter to the British government of India requesting that his widow should be recognised as the ruler of Jhansi after his death during her lifetime. After the death of her husband the head of the British government of India, Lord Dalhousie, refused to allow her adopted son to become raja and Jhansi was then ruled by the British. 
After all the British in Jhansi had been killed by mutinous Indian troops in June 1857 the Rani took over the administration provisionally until the British returned. However she had to form an army to defeat the invading forces of Orchha and Datia and the British believed she had been responsible for the earlier British deaths. In March 1858, British forces led by Sir Hugh Rose came to Jhansi to take back the city from the Rani who now wanted independence. Jhansi was besieged and finally taken after strong resistance. Many of the people of the city were killed in the fighting and many more afterwards. The Rani escaped to Kalpi and jointly with the Maratha general Tantya Tope then seized Gwalior. In the battle of Kotah ki Serai in which the British forces commanded by Sir Hugh Rose conquered Gwalior, fought on 17 and 18 June 1858, she died. 

</doc>
<doc id="44160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44160" title="Ukrainian hryvnia">
Ukrainian hryvnia

Hryvnia is the national currency of Ukraine.

</doc>
<doc id="44165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44165" title="Chronos">
Chronos

Chronos (Ancient Greek: , "time", also written as Khronos or Chronus) is the Greek God of time. He is the personification of time in philosophy before Socrates, and in later literature. Chronos controls the past, present, and future of everything. Without Chronos, the other Greek Gods would have never existed.
In the Orphic cosmogony, Chronos never ages. He gives birth to Aether and Chaos, and made a silvery egg in the divine Aether. It produced the god Phanes, who is a hermaphrodite. Phanes gave birth to the first generation of gods and is the creator of the cosmos.

</doc>
<doc id="44173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44173" title="Speyer">
Speyer

Speyer (English formerly "Spires") is a city in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate with about 50.000 inhabitants on the Rhine river. It lies south of Ludwigshafen and Mannheim. Around the year 500 the town gets the name "Spira", named after the stream "Speyerbach" which flows into the Rhine river here.
The center of Speyer is dominated by the cathedral. Here are the tombs of several of the Salian emperors: the bodies, however, are believed to have gone missing during one of the French invasions during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 

</doc>
<doc id="44192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44192" title="Goethe University Frankfurt">
Goethe University Frankfurt

The Goethe University Frankfurt (German: "Goethe-Universität Frankfurt am Main") opened in 1914. With 38.000 students it belongs to the five largest universities in Germany and has the biggest library of them. The university has more than 600 teaching and researching professors; 16 faculties offer 170 courses of study.

</doc>
<doc id="44193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44193" title="Thayer Academy">
Thayer Academy

Thayer Academy is a private school that prepares people for college. It is in Braintree, Massachusetts. People from Grades 6–12 can become students there. The school was made in 1871, at the request of General Sylvanus Thayer. Thayer Academy is one of Greater Boston's most well respected private school's.

</doc>
<doc id="44194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44194" title="Siegfried">
Siegfried

Sigurd (Old Norse: Sigurðr) is a strong hero in the "Nibelungenlied", a epic poem written about the year 1200. He killed the dragon Fafnir and took its treasure, the "Nibelungenschatz". After killing the dragon, he bathed in its blood and so changed his skin, so that he could not be wounded any more. The earliest extant representations for his legend come in pictorial form from seven runestones in Sweden and most notably the Ramsund carving (c. 1000) and the Gök Runestone (11th century).
But a leaf fell from a linden tree above while he was bathing and landed on his back, and the little patch of skin that it covered did not touch the dragon's blood, so that Siegfried remained vulnerable (he could be hurt) in that one spot. 
Siegfried wants to marry Kriemhild, the sister of Gunther, kin of the Burgundians in Worms. But before he is allowed to marry her he has to help Gunther to win against Brünhild, the queen of Iceland. He does it with the help of a cloak which lets him become invisible.
After their marriage Siegfried and Kriemhild live in Siegfried's kingdom for some years. Then they come to visit Worms and Kriemhild's family again. Brünhild, the wife of Gunther, and
Kriemhild argue about who is of higher rank. Now Kriemhild tells Brünhild that Siegfried helped Gunther in his fight against her and that he gave a proof of this victory to Kriemhild. Therefore Brünhild becomes so furious that she decides that Siegfried must be killed. This is done by Hagen, one of Gunther's men, while Siegfried is drinking from a well during a hunt in the Odenwald. Hagen also takes the treasure of Siegfried from Kriemhild and throws it into the Rhine.
The name Siegfried in German means "victory peace".
Siegfried appears in two of the four operas in Wagner's Ring cycle: the third opera is called "Siegfried" and the fourth one is called "Götterdämmerung" although originally Wagner called it "Siegfrieds Tod" ("The Death of Siegfried"). Wagner makes several changes to the story.

</doc>
<doc id="44195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44195" title="James II of England">
James II of England

James II of England/VII of Scotland (14 October 1633-16 September 1701) became King of Scots, King of England, and King of Ireland on 6 February 1685, and Duke of Normandy on 31 December 1660. He was the last Roman Catholic king of Scotland, England, or Ireland. Some of his citizens did not like his religious ideas, leading a group of them to disobey and fight against him. This was called the Glorious Revolution because no one was killed. He was not replaced by his Roman Catholic son, James Francis Edward, but by his Protestant daughter and son-in-law, Mary II and William III (William II of Scotland), who became rulers in 1689.
The belief that James, not William III or Mary II, was the one true ruler became known as Jacobitism (from Jacobus or Iacobus, Latin for James). James made one serious attempt to recover his throne when he landed in Ireland in 1689. After his defeat at the Battle of the Boyne in the summer of 1690, he returned to France, living the rest of his life under the protection of King Louis XIV. His son James Francis Edward Stuart (The Old Pretender) and his grandson Charles Edward Stuart (The Young Pretender and Bonnie Prince Charlie) attempted to restore the Jacobite line after James's death, but failed.
The issue listed are the children of James II who survived into adulthood. Illegitimate are not listed. 

</doc>
<doc id="44196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44196" title="Fichtelgebirge">
Fichtelgebirge

The Fichtelgebirge is a mountain range in northeastern Bavaria, Germany. It extends from the valley of the Red Main River to the Czech border, where it is continued by the much higher Ore Mountains.
The highest mountain is the Schneeberg (1051 m). Rivers rising from the Fichtelgebirge are the White Main (German: Weißer Main), the Saxon Saale, the Ohře (German: Eger) and the Fichtelnaab which later joins the Waldnaab. Cities on the edge of the mountains include Bayreuth and Hof.
The mountains slope gradually away to the north and the south, but there is a steep slope to the west, where the Red Main forms the boundary of the mountains.
The Fichtelgebirge attracts many tourists both during summer and winter, mainly for hiking and skiing, but also to see the large rock formations.

</doc>
<doc id="44201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44201" title="Erzgebirge">
Erzgebirge

The Ore Mountains (German "Erzgebirge", Czech "Krušné hory") are a mountain range in Germany and the Czech Republic. They form the border between both countries for 150 km, extending from the western border of Saxony to the Elbe river.
The Ore Mountains are famous for many Christmas traditions. As the ores silver and tin were not found any more in the mines, former miners had to look for new ways to feed their families. In addition to lace making and weaving, the inhabitants went into wood carving. Nutcrackers, "smoking men", "pyramids" (carousels with figures of the Christmas story or from mining) and "Schwibbogen" (wooden arcs with candles in the windows, symbolising the opening of a mine) are some of many Christmas goods made in the Ore Mountains. "Seiffen" in the East Ore Mountains was a centre of the wooden toy industry.

</doc>
<doc id="44202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44202" title="Manifest">
Manifest

A manifest or ship's manifest is a document that lists the cargo, passengers, and crew of a ship, aircraft, or vehicle. It is made for the use of customs and other officials. If the list is just a list of passengers, it is a passenger manifest or passenger list. A list of cargo is a cargo manifest or cargo list. The manifest may be used by people having in interest in the transport to insure that passengers and cargo listed as having been placed on board the transport at the beginning of its passage continue to be on board when it arrives at its destination.

</doc>
<doc id="44208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44208" title="Henry IV of England">
Henry IV of England

Henry IV (April 3 1367 – March 20 1413) was a king of England. He was born at Bolingbroke Castle in Lincolnshire, which is why he was often called "Henry Bolingbroke". 
His father, John of Gaunt, was the third son of King Edward III, and had a lot of power in the reign of King Richard II.
Henry and Thomas de Mowbray, 1st Duke of Norfolk argued in 1398. King Richard ordered Henry to live outside England for ten years (with the approval of Henry's father, John of Gaunt) but Thomas de Mowbray was exiled from England for life.
The next year John of Gaunt died, and Richard would not allow Henry to inherit Gaunt's land. Instead, Henry had to ask for the lands from Richard. 
Henry met with the exiled Thomas Arundel, former Archbishop of Canterbury. Henry and Arundel returned to England while Richard was on a military campaign in Ireland. 
With Arundel as his advisor, Henry Bolingbroke began a military campaign, took land from those who opposed him and ordering his soldiers to destroy much of Cheshire.
Henry gained enough power and support to have himself declared King Henry IV. He sent King Richard to prison (who mysteriously died in prison) and by-passing Richard’s seven-year-old heir presumptive Edmund de Mortimer. 
Henry was crowned on 13 October 1399. It was the first time since the Norman Conquest in 1066 that the monarch made a public speech in English. Henry consulted with Parliament frequently, but was sometimes at odds with them, especially over religious matters. On Arundel's advice, Henry was the first English king to allow the burning of heretics, mainly to suppress the Lollard movement.

</doc>
<doc id="44210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44210" title="Thalassodromeus">
Thalassodromeus

Thalassodromeus was a pterosaur found in northern Brazil. It was 60 cms long and had a wingspan of 1 metre and a head crest on its skull.

</doc>
<doc id="44211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44211" title="Oratorio">
Oratorio

An oratorio is a piece of music for orchestra, choir and solo singers. It usually tells a story from the Old Testament. An oratorio may be about two hours long: a whole concert. It is rather like an opera, but whereas an opera is acted out in costume on a stage, an oratorio is sung and played in a concert hall or church. The oratorio as we know it was created in the 18th century. The words were normally in the composer’s own language, not in Italian like most operas were at that time.
The word "oratorio" had been used many centuries ago for music-dramas performed in churches in western Europe. In Italy oratorios and operas were both being composed in the 17th century. In Germany composers like Heinrich Schutz and, later, Johann Sebastian Bach were writing Passions which tell the story of the crucifixion. These are not usually called “oratorios” but they are similar.
The first important composer of oratorios was George Frideric Handel. Handel, who was born in Germany, had become English. Handel had written a lot of operas, but in 1732 he started to write oratorios instead and quite suddenly people became very interested in oratorios. He used the same sort of music as in his operas: the work would start with an overture (an introduction on the orchestra) and then there would be recitative (the bits that told the story), arias (songs for the solo singers) and choruses for the choir. The chorus was very important in oratorios: they got more to sing than in most operas. This meant that choral societies became very popular, and this tradition spread from England (where Handel lived) to other countries in Europe. Handel’s most famous oratorio is "Messiah". Unlike most of his other oratorios, the story is not from the Old Testament. It tells the story of the birth, life and death of Jesus. In Britain Handel’s "Messiah" is traditionally performed around Christmas. Other oratorios by Handel include: "Deborah", "Saul", "Samson", "Judas Maccabaeus" and "Solomon". Handel composed all these oratorios to English texts.
In the 19th century the oratorio was very popular. At the turn of the century Joseph Haydn wrote some of his best music in his two oratorios: "Die Schöpfung" ("The Creation") (1798) and "Die Jahreszeiten" ("The Seasons") (1801). Mendelssohn wrote "St Paul", "Elijah" and the "Hymn of Praise". Dvořák, Berlioz and Gounod are among the most important Romantic composers of oratorio, and in the 20th century famous oratorios include Elgar’s "Dream of Gerontius" (1900), Walton’s "Belshazzar’s Feast" (1931) and Tippett’s "Child of our Time" (1941).

</doc>
<doc id="44213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44213" title="Pterodactylus">
Pterodactylus

Pterodactylus was a small pterosaur or flying reptile. It lived in the later Jurassic period, at the same time as many dinosaurs. "Pterodactylus" is typical of the short-tailed pterosaurs, a sub-order which continued to the end of the Cretaceous. The first specimens were found at Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany. These carbonate strata formed in warm lagoons also yielded the famous "Archaeopteryx". "Pterodactylus" may have lived on small islands in the lagoon, or on the coast. 

</doc>
<doc id="44217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44217" title="Rutiodon">
Rutiodon

Rutiodon was a type of phytosaur. Phytosaurs were crocodile-like animals that lived during the time of dinosaurs. Its nostrils were far back on the head, close to the eyes. It was shown in the movie "When Dinosaurs Roamed America" trying to catch a Coelophysis. It jumped out of the water. and roared without warning.

</doc>
<doc id="44234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44234" title="When Dinosaurs Roamed America">
When Dinosaurs Roamed America

When Dinosaurs Roamed America is a 2001 television movie from the Discovery Channel. The movie is narrated by John Goodman. This movie tells us about species of dinosaurs that lived in North America through the ages of the Mesozoic era. The backgrounds of the movie are real places of America.

</doc>
<doc id="44236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44236" title="Cigar">
Cigar

A cigar is a form in which tobacco is smoked. It is usually larger than a cigarette. Cigars are made of different types of tobacco which are cured in many different way to produce unique flavors and fragrances. Most quality cigars are rolled using a tobacco leaf, though more and more cigars have been rolled using different types of paper to replace the tobacco leaf. This results in a cleaner looking cigar. Commercially produced cigars are rolled and packed using machinery, and quality control and smokeability cannot be truly verified. Hand rolled cigars prove to still be the best option, but are more costly. 
Cuba is known worldwide for their cigars. Many other countries also produce cigars, most notably in the Central America and Caribbean island areas.

</doc>
<doc id="44238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44238" title="Bahá'u'lláh">
Bahá'u'lláh

Bahá'u'lláh, also spelled Bahaullah, which means "Glory of God", was a Persian nobleman who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. 
He was born in the city of Tehran, in Persia, in 1817. 
His followers consider him a messenger of God.

</doc>
<doc id="44239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44239" title="`Abdu'l-Bahá">
`Abdu'l-Bahá

`Abdu'l-Bahá was a Persian man who was born on May 23, 1844 and died on November 28, 1921. His father was Bahá'u'lláh who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. 
`Abdu'l-Bahá spent most of his adult life in prison or under arrest, because of his father's new religion. Bahá'u'lláh called him the "Expounder" of his word, meaning that only `Abdu'l-Bahá had the right to say what Bahá'u'lláh's writings mean. This was to prevent different people from splitting the religion up because they thought Bahá'u'lláh meant different things, the way many other religions have split up.

</doc>
<doc id="44240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44240" title="Shoghi Effendi">
Shoghi Effendi

Shoghi Effendi (1 March 1897-4 November 1957) was a Persian man. He was the great-grandson of Bahá'u'lláh who founded the religion known as the Bahá'í Faith. 
After Bahá'u'lláh died, Shoghi Effendi's grandfather, `Abdu'l-Bahá lead the Bahá'ís. `Abdu'l-Bahá died, he left a "will and testament" that said that Shoghi Effendi was the "Guardian", and that his job was to guard and lead the Bahá'í Faith. `Abdu'l-Bahá's will said that only Shoghi Effendi could interpret `Abdu'l-Bahá's or Bahá'u'lláh's books and letters. This was to prevent different people from splitting the religion up because they thought Bahá'u'lláh or `Abdu'l-Bahá meant different things, the way many other religions have split up.

</doc>
<doc id="44241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44241" title="Will (law)">
Will (law)

A will or testament is a legal document that explains the last wishes of someone after they die. A person writes a will and testament before they die, and usually writes what they want to happen to their money and their things after they die. It is sometimes called a "last will and testament".

</doc>
<doc id="44247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44247" title="Uhlan">
Uhlan

Uhlan is the name for a type of Polish soldier of light cavalry, armed with lance (a kind of spear). The respect for such Polish troops caused that in the beginning of the 19th century great part of European armies created similar military units. In most European armies, the units of that kind took the name of lancers. In the Russian, Austrian, and German armies, the units of Polish lancers had kept the original name of Uhlans.

</doc>
<doc id="44253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44253" title="Not">
Not

The word not negates the meaning of the word or phrase following it; see No.
Not, NOT, NOTs, or NOTS may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="44255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44255" title="Chin">
Chin

The chin is the bottom part of the face. It is under the mouth and is the forward part of the jaw. 
The chin is unique to present-day humans, our species. It is not present in the anthropoid apes, nor in any other hominin. Even Neanderthals did not have a human-type chin. In medical anatomy, the chin is called the "mental eminence". 
Its absence in "Homo floresiensis" is grounds for thinking that small hominin was not of our species.
It is thought that our chin may have become shaped like this to improve the muscle attachments of the lips and tongue. Chins can be larger or smaller, depending on the person. Even though chin sizes vary a lot, it is usually further forward than the rest of the face in normal humans.

</doc>
<doc id="44259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44259" title="Anne, Queen of Great Britain">
Anne, Queen of Great Britain

Anne of Great Britain (6 February 1665 - 1 August 1714) became Queen of England, Scotland, and Ireland on 8 March 1702. On 1 May 1707, when England and Scotland combined into a single kingdom, Anne became the first sovereign of the Kingdom of Great Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="44260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44260" title="Kind">
Kind

Kind has different meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="44261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44261" title="Knot">
Knot

A knot is a fixed looping of a piece of string or rope. Knots are often used for binding things together. While a knot is often made from rope, it can also be made from many other things. In fact, a knot is actually the condition a long flexible object is in. For example, hair can be tied in a knot. The ends of balloons are tied in a knot to prevent the air from escaping. The average person over 5 or so years of age is likely capable of tying a knot; most of these knots people tie are probably with their shoelaces. Ribbons are also tied in a knot so as to appear pretty, as when wrapped around a gift. In addition, knots are also made by sailors in many different forms and for many different purposes. There are even people who have adopted knot-making as a hobby.

</doc>
<doc id="44263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44263" title="Flensburg">
Flensburg

Flensburg (Danish: "Flensborg", Low Saxon: "Flensborg", North Frisian: "Flansborj") is a city in Germany, next to the border to Denmark. There are about 84,000 people living in Flensburg. The city has a university. A very well known part of Flensburg is Mürwik. There lies a small marine harbour. Flensburg lives on tourism, students and the German marine forces.
There was a first settlement about 1200 A.D., which became a city in 1284. In the following century, Flensburg became the economic centre of the Duchy of Schleswig. In 1409 there were battles between people of the Duchy of Holstein and the Danish crown about the control of Schleswig. In 1412 and 1500 there were bad plagues in Flensburg. In 1485, there was a big fire in the city.
Between 1460 and 1864 Flensburg was the second most important harbour in Denmark after Copenhagen. Since the 16th century Flensburg was an important place for trade. Flensburg became part of Prussia in 1864, after the Danish-Prussian War.
In 1920, there was an election in Schleswig. The vote was to decide whether people wanted to belong to Denmark or Germany. Flensburg and regions south of the city decided to stay German, while regions north of the city chose to become Danish.
In 1945, many Germans were driven out of their homes in the eastern German provinces. These people went to Flensburg. The city had more than 100,000 inhabitants for a couple of years. Nowadays Flensburg has about 85,000 inhabitants.

</doc>
<doc id="44267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44267" title="Goslar">
Goslar

Goslar is a historic city in Germany. It has about 43,000 inhabitants.
The German Emperor Henry I founded Goslar in 922. In the 11th century Goslar became seat of a Pfalz, a temporary seat of the Emperor. In 1253 Goslar became a Free City (that means without being ruled a Duke) in the Holy Roman Empire and joined the Hanseatic League.
Henry 4th a Holy Roman Emperor came from Goslar.
In the Thirty-year War Goslar belonged to the loyalists of the Emperor, although its territory belonged to a Protestant region. The Swedish King Gustav II Adolph punished Goslar for supporting the imperial forces. After 1642 Goslar came under the rule of the Welfs.
In 1803 Goslar lost its status as a Free City and belonged to Prussia. Napoleon made Goslar a part of the Kingdom of Westphalia. After the Napoleonic Wars it became part of the Kingdom of Hanover.
In the 19th century Goslar lost its economic base. Now it lives mainly on tourism.

</doc>
<doc id="44288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44288" title="Anonymous (group)">
Anonymous (group)

Anonymous is a group of anonymous online activists. They are popularly associated with various online and offline protests commonly relating to freedom of speech. They often protest against political corruption and censorship.They also use DDoS to attack various popular websites such as PayPal and the United States' Department of Justice homepage. Other common targets include organizations perceived to be limiting the freedom of speech.
Anonymous is also often associated with image boards such as 4chan and protests such as the Occupy Movement.
Some people have been arrested for involvement in Anonymous cyberattacks, in countries including the U.S., UK, Australia, the Netherlands, Spain, and Turkey. Views of the group's actions and usefulness vary widely. Supporters have called the group "freedom fighters" and digital Robin Hoods while some have judged them as "a cyber lynch-mob" or "cyber terrorists". In 2012, "Time" called Anonymous one of the "100 most influential people" in the world.

</doc>
