<doc id="54213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54213" title="Gettysburg Address">
Gettysburg Address

The Gettysburg Address is a speech by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln. It was delivered on the afternoon of Thursday, November 19, 1863. This speech was made during the American Civil War, at the dedication of the Soldiers' National Cemetery in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. This was four-and-a-half months after the Union Army had a victory over the Confederate States Army at the Battle of Gettysburg.
The address is one of the greatest speeches in the history of the United States. Lincoln spoke of how humans were equal as it said in the Declaration of Independence. He also said the Civil War was a fight not simply for the Union, but "a new birth of freedom" that would make everyone truly equal in one united nation.
The speech famously begins with "Four score and seven years ago", referring to the American Revolution in 1776. "Score" in this case is an old word meaning "twenty." Lincoln used the ceremony at Gettysburg to encourage the people to help America's democracy, so that the "government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish (be destroyed) from the earth".
The speech is very important in the popular culture of the United States. However, people are not sure about the exact words of the speech. The five known manuscripts of the Gettysburg Address are different from one another in some details. They are also different from the words of the Gettysburg Address that have been printed in modern newspapers.
About 172,000 American soldiers fought in the Battle of Gettysburg from July 1–3, 1863. The Battle of Gettysburg was an important influence on the American Civil War and on the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where only 2,400 people lived. The battlefield had more than 7,500 bodies of dead soldiers and 5,000 horses. Sarah Broadhead, a wife and mother living in the town, feared that they would "be visited with pestilence". Eliza Farnham, a nurse, called the place "one vast hospital". An army medical officer spoke similarly: " days following the battle of Gettysburg greatest amount of human suffering known in this nation since its birth".
The people of Gettysburg wanted to bury the dead properly. At first, they planned to buy land for a cemetery and ask the families of the dead to pay for the burial. However, David Willis, a rich 32-year-old lawyer, did not like this idea. He wrote to the Governor of Pennsylvania, Andrew Gregg Curtin, asking that a National Cemetery be supported by the states. Wills was allowed to buy 17 acres (69,000 m²) for a cemetery to honor the people who died in the battle. He paid $2,475.87 for the land.
At first, Wills wanted to dedicate this new cemetery on Wednesday, October 23. He asked Edward Everett to be the main speaker. Everett was a very famous orator at that time. He had also served as Secretary of State, U.S. Senator, U.S. Representative, Governor of Massachusetts, president of Harvard University, and Vice Presidential candidate. However, Everett replied that he would not be able to prepare a good speech so quickly, and wanted to move the date of the dedication. The organizing committee agreed, and the dedication was moved to Thursday, November 19.
Wills and the event committee then asked President Lincoln to join in the ceremony. Wills' letter said, "It is the desire , as Chief Executive of the nation, formally (officially) set apart these a few appropriate (proper) remarks". Lincoln was officially asked to join only 17 days before the ceremony, while Everett had received his invitation 40 days earlier. "Although there is some evidence Lincoln expected Wills's letter, its late date makes the author (writer) appear days was extraordinarily (remarkably) short notice for presidential participation even by nineteenth-century standards". Also, Wills's letter "made it equally clear to the president that he would have only a small part in the ceremonies".
Lincoln came by train to Gettysburg on November 18. He spent the night in Wills's house on the Gettysburg town square. There, he finished the speech he had written in Washington, D.C. There is a popular story that Lincoln completed his address on the train on the back of an envelope, but it is not true. There are several early copies on Executive Mansion paper, and reports of Lincoln finishing his speech while he was a guest of David Wills at Gettysburg. On the morning of November 19 at 9:30 a.m., Lincoln, riding a brown horse, joined the townspeople, and widows marching out to the grounds to be dedicated.
About 15,000 people went to the ceremony. This included the governors of six of the 24 Union states. They were Andrew Gregg Curtin of Pennsylvania, Augustus Bradford of Maryland, Oliver P. Morton of Indiana, Horatio Seymour of New York, Joel Parker of New Jersey, and David Tod of Ohio. Canadian politician William McDougall came as Lincoln's guest. Historians do not agree about the exact place where the dedication ceremony was held inside the cemetery. Moving all the bodies to the graves in the cemetery was less than half complete on the day of the ceremony.
By August 1863, millions of people had been killed or hurt because of Civil War battles. This made people in the North begin to dislike Lincoln and the war. Lincoln's 1863 drafts were not popular, and people became angriest with them around the time of the New York Draft Riots. This was just ten days after the Battle of Gettysburg. In September 1863, Pennsylvania's Governor Curtin told Lincoln that people were turning against the war effort:
If the election were to occur now, the result would be extremely doubtful (not sure), and although most of our discreet friends are sanguine of the result, my impression is, the chances would be against us. The draft is very odious in the State... the Democratic leaders have succeeded in exciting prejudice and passion, and have infused their poison into the minds of the people to a very large extent, and the changes are against us.
In the summer of 1864, Lincoln was worried that the people's bad feelings would make him lose the Presidential election. In the fall of 1863, he grew very concerned about keeping up the Union's spirits toward the war effort. That was the greatest purpose of Lincoln's Address at Gettysburg.
The program organized for that day by Wills and his committee included:
Lincoln's short speech became known in history as one of the best examples of English public speeches. Everett's two-hour oration was called the "Gettysburg address" that day, but his oration is not well-known today. It began:
It ended two hours later with:
After Everett finished his speech, Lincoln spoke for two or three minutes. Lincoln's "few appropriate remarks" summarized the war in ten sentences.
Lincoln's speech is very important in history, but modern scholars do not agree about the words of the speech. There are many different modern versions printed in newspaper accounts of the event. Among these, the Bliss version, written some time after the speech for a friend, is seen by lots of people as the most reliable text. Its text is different, however, from the written versions prepared by Lincoln before and after his speech. It is the only version Lincoln put his signature on. It is also the last he is known to have written.
In "Lincoln at Gettysburg", Garry Wills notes the similarity between Lincoln's speech and Pericles's Funeral Oration during the Peloponnesian War (James McPherson and Gore Vidal also note this). Pericles' speech begins with remembering honored people: "I shall begin with our ancestors: it is both just and proper that they should have the honour of the first mention on an occasion like the present". This is very much like the Gettysburg Address's famous beginning. In the Gettysburg Address, Lincoln had begun by speaking of how "our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation". He then praises their State's firm democracy: "If we look to the laws, they afford equal justice to all". He honors the dead's sacrifice: "Thus choosing to die resisting, rather than to live submitting, they fled only from dishonour, but met danger face to face". He also warmly encourages the living to continue to fight for true democracy: "You, their survivors, must determine to have as unfaltering a resolution in the field, though you may pray that it may have a happier issue".
But writer Adam Gopnik felt differently. In "The New Yorker", he said that Everett's Oration was openly neoclassical. For example, Everett spoke directly about Marathon and Pericles. But he said that "Lincoln’s rhetoric is, instead, deliberately Biblical". He added that it is hard to find any obviously classical references in all of his speeches. Gopnik felt that "Lincoln had mastered the sound of the King James Bible so completely that he could recast (make again) abstract issues of constitutional law in Biblical terms (words from the Bible), making the proposition (suggestion) that Texas and New Hampshire should be forever bound by a single post office sound like something right out of Genesis".
There are many theories about where Lincoln's expression of "government of the people, by the people, for the people" came from. In "The American Monthly Review of Reviews", it is suggested that the writings of William Herndon, Lincoln's law partner, much influenced Lincoln. William Herndon wrote in "Abraham Lincoln: The True Story of A Great Life" that he had brought some of the sermons of abolitionist minister Theodore Parker to Lincoln, who had been moved by them.
Craig R. Smith, In "Criticism of Political Rhetoric and Disciplinary Integrity", suggested that the Gettysburg Address was influenced by the speech of Massachusetts Senator Daniel Webster. In his "Second Reply to Hayne", Webster had famously cried out, "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable"! In this 1830 speech, Webster had also described the Federal Government as "made for the people, made by the people, and answerable to the people". This expression was very similar to Lincoln's "government of the people, by the people, for the people." Webster also said, "This the independent offspring of the popular will. It is not the creature of State the whole truth must be told, the people brought it into existence, established it, and have hitherto (until now) supported it, for the very purpose, amongst others, of imposing certain salutary restraints on State sovereignties".
Wills was interested in how Lincoln used the ideas of birth, life, and death. Lincoln had described the nation as "brought forth", "conceived", and that shall not "perish". Others, such as Allen C. Guelzo, suggested that Lincoln's expression "four score and seven" was about the King James Version of the Bible's . There, man's life is described as "threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years".
Each of the five manuscript copies of the Gettysburg Address are named for the person who received it from Lincoln. Lincoln gave a copy to each of his private secretaries, John Nicolay and John Hay. Both were written around the time of his November 19 address. The other three copies of the address (the Everett, Bancroft, and Bliss copies) were written a long time after November 19. They were written by Lincoln for charitable purposes. The Bliss copy has become the most widely accepted text of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. This is partly because Lincoln gave it a title and signed and dated it.
There has been some controversy about the two earliest drafts of the Address. Lincoln's son, Robert Todd Lincoln, made Nicolay and Hay the legal guardians of Lincoln's papers in 1874. The Nicolay Copy appeared as a copy in an article written by Nicolay in 1894. After that, it was thought to be among the papers passed to Hay by Nicolay's daughter Helen when Nicolay died in 1901. Robert Lincoln began a search for the first copy in 1908. He discovered a handwritten copy of the Gettysburg Address among the papers of John Hay—a copy now known as the "Hay Draft".
The Hay Draft was different from the Gettysburg Address printed by Nicolay in 1894 in many important ways. For example, it was written on a different kind of paper, had a different number of words on every line, had a different number of lines, and had corrections in Lincoln's handwriting. 
Both the Hay and Nicolay copies of the Address are inside the Library of Congress. They are inside specially designed, temperature-controlled, sealed containers with argon gas. This is to protect the documents from oxidation.
The Nicolay Copy is often called the "first draft". This is because it is thought to be the earliest copy that exists. Scholars are not sure if the Nicolay Copy was actually the copy Lincoln read from at Gettysburg on November 19. In an 1894 article, Nicolay wrote that Lincoln had brought to Gettysburg the first part of the speech written in ink. Nicolay also said that Lincoln had written the second page in pencil on lined paper before November 19. Matching folds can still be seen on the two pages, suggesting it could be the copy that eyewitnesses say Lincoln took from his coat pocket and read at the ceremony. But some of the words and expressions in the Nicolay Copy do not match modern transcriptions of Lincoln's speech. Because of this, some people believe that the text used at Gettysburg has been lost. The words "under God", for example, are missing in this copy from the phrase "that this nation (under God) shall have a new birth of freedom..." If the Nicolay draft was the copy Lincoln read from, either the modern transcriptions are not correct, or Lincoln spoke differently from his written text several times. John Nicolay kept this copy of the Gettysburg Address until he died in 1901. When he died, it was passed on to his friend John Hay. It is on permanent display as part of the American Treasures exhibition of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.
In 1906, it was first announced that the Hay Copy had been discovered. It had been found among the papers of John Hay when people were searching for the "original manuscript" of the Address. There are some important differences from the copy of the Address described by John Hay in his article. There are many important words taken out and added by Lincoln's own handwriting, which often changed the basic meaning of the sentence. In this copy, like in the Nicolay Copy, the words "under God" are not there.
This version has been described as "the most inexplicable" of the drafts. It is sometimes referred to as the "second draft". The "Hay Copy" was probably made on the morning of the delivery of the Address. It could also have been made shortly after Lincoln came back to Washington. The people who believe it was completed on the morning of his address note that it has some expressions that are not in the first draft but are in the reports of the address and in later copies by Lincoln. It is likely, they say, that Lincoln used this copy when he delivered the address. Lincoln later gave this copy to his other secretary, John Hay. Hay's descendants gave it and the Nicolay Copy to the Library of Congress in 1916.
The Everett Copy is also known as the "Everett-Keyes Copy". It was sent by President Lincoln to Edward Everett in early 1864. Everett, who was collecting the speeches at the Gettysburg dedication into one book to sell for hurt soldiers at New York's Sanitary Commission Fair, had asked for it. The Illinois State Historical Library in Springfield, Illinois has it on display. It is in the Treasures Gallery of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.
The Bancroft Copy of the Gettysburg Address was written by President Lincoln in February 1864. The famous historian George Bancroft, the "father of American History", who wrote "History of the United States", had asked him to write it for him. Bancroft wanted to put this copy in "Autograph Leaves of Our Country's Authors" and sell it at a Soldiers' and Sailors' Sanitary Fair in Baltimore. But Lincoln wrote on both sides of the paper, so he could not use it for this purpose. Therefore, Bancroft was allowed to keep it. This copy was kept by the Bancroft family for many years. Then, it was sold to different dealers and bought by Nicholas and Marguerite Lilly Notes. They donated it to Cornell in 1949. It is now kept by the Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections in the Carl A. Kroch Library at Cornell University. Among the five copies, it is the only one to be privately owned.
When Lincoln found that his fourth written copy could not be used, he wrote a fifth copy. The Bliss Copy was named for Colonel Alexander Bliss, Bancroft's stepson. It is not known if Lincoln made any more copies. Lincoln wrote this copy with much care. He gave it a title—"Address delivered at the dedication of the cemetery at Gettysburg"—and signed and dated this copy. In fact, it was the only copy of the Gettysburg Address he signed. Partly because of this, it has become the most well-known version of the Gettysburg Address. It is the source of most modern copies of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address.
Today, this copy hangs in the Lincoln Room of the White House. It is a present from Oscar B. Cintas, who used to be a Cuban Ambassador to the United States. Cintas liked to collect art and manuscripts. He had bought the Bliss Copy for $54,000 at a public auction in 1949. It "set a new high record for the sale of a document at public auction". The Castro government claimed Cintas' properties after it became powerful in 1959. But Cintas, who died in 1957, had willed the Gettysburg Address to the American people, if it would be kept at the White House. It was moved there in 1959, and is still there today.
Another source of the Gettysburg Address is the copy from the Associated Press. It was copied from the notes taken by reporter Joseph L. Gilbert. It is different from the drafted words in a few ways.
Eyewitnesses reports about Lincoln's performance are various. In 1931, 87-year-old Mrs. Sarah A. Cooke Myers suggested that there was a dignified silence after Lincoln finished his speech. She had been there when she was 19 years old. "I was close to the President and heard all of the Address, but it seemed short. Then there was an impressive silence like our Menallen Friends Meeting. There was no applause when he stopped speaking". Historian Shelby Foote said that the applause, which came after a long time, was "barely polite". But the governor of Pennsylvania, Curtin, said, "He pronounced (said) that speech in a voice that all the multitude (people) heard. The crowd was hushed into silence because the President stood before was so Impressive! It was the common remark of everybody. Such a speech, as they said it was!"
There is a story that Lincoln turned to his bodyguard Ward Hill Lamon and said that his speech "won't scour (wouldn't be successful)". Garry Wills argued that this story was not true. He said that Lamon was the only person who remembered this remark, and that it was not reliable. Garry Wills felt that Lincoln had done what he wanted to do at Gettysburg. 
The following day, Everett wrote a letter to Lincoln. In the letter, he praised the President for his speech, saying, "I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central (main) idea of the occasion, in two hours, as you did in two minutes". Lincoln replied that he was glad the speech was not a "total complete failure".
Other public reaction to the speech was different according to each party. The Democratic "Chicago Times" said, "The cheek of every American must tingle with shame as he reads the silly, flat and dishwatery utterances (remarks) of the man who has to be pointed out to intelligent foreigners as the President of the United States". However, the Republican "New York Times" praised the speech. The Springfield, MA. Republican newspaper printed the entire speech, calling it "a perfect gem" that was "deep in feeling, compact (simple) in thought and expression, and tasteful and elegant in every word and comma". The Republican said that Lincoln's short remarks would "repay further study as the model speech".
William R. Rathvon is the only known eyewitness of the Gettysburg Address to have left an audio recording of what he remembered. One year before he died in 1939, Rathvon's remarks were recorded on February 12, 1938. It included his reading the address itself. The title of the record was "I Heard Lincoln That Day - William R. Rathvon, TR Productions". The National Public Radio (NPR) discovered a copy during a "Quest for Sound" project in 1999. NPR allows people to hear the record around Lincoln's birthday.
The only known and confirmed photograph of Lincoln at Gettysburg was taken by David Bachrach. It was identified in the Mathew Brady collection of photographic plates in 1952. Lincoln's speech was short, but he and others sat for hours during the rest of the program. Because Everett's speech was very long, and because it took a long time for 19th century photographers to prepare for taking a picture, it is likely that photographers were not prepared for how short Lincoln's speech was. In 2006, John Richter identified two more photographs in the Library of Congress collection.
The Nicolay and Hay copies do not have the words "under God", but they appear in the three later copies (Everett, Bancroft, and Bliss). So, some skeptics suggest that Lincoln did not say "under God" at Gettysburg. Yet at least three reporters telegraphed the words of the Gettysburg Address with the words "under God" included. Historian William E. Barton says: 
The reporters who were there at that time included Joseph Gilbert, Charles Hale, John R. Young. There were also reporters from the "Cincinnati Commercial", "New York Tribune", and "New York Times". Charles Hale "had notebook and pencil in hand, [and] took down the slow-spoken words of the President". "He took down what he declared was the exact language of Lincoln's associates confirmed his testimony, which was received, as it deserved to be at its face value". Lincoln probably spoke differently from what he had prepared and added the expression when he was speaking.
The Gettysburg Address's importance in the history of the United States can be seen by the long time it has been a part of American culture. Popular works often refer to the Gettysburg Address as if expecting that the audience will know Lincoln's words. Many years have passed after the Address was delivered, but it is still one of the most famous speeches in American history. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s famous speech of "I Have a Dream" spoke of the Gettysburg Address. In August 1963, King spoke of President Lincoln and his well-known words: "Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. came as a of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames ".
The Constitution of France spoke of France as a ""gouvernement du peuple, par le peuple et pour le peuple"" ("government of the people, by the people, and for the people"). This was a direct translation of Lincoln's words.
The address has become a part of American tradition. It is studied in schools and warmly praised by writers. The Gettysburg Address shows an important interpretation of the Declaration of Independence that is still remembered and used. It is widely accepted as one of the most important documents in U.S. history, together with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. To this day, it is one of the most famous, beloved, and most quoted of modern speeches.

</doc>
<doc id="54216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54216" title="Gabriel Fauré">
Gabriel Fauré

Gabriel Urbain Fauré (born Pamiers, Ariege, Midi-Pyrénées, May 12, 1845; died Paris, November 4, 1924) was a French composer, organist, pianist, and music teacher. He was the most important French composer of his time. The way he wrote music, especially his harmonies, had a big influence on many 20th century composers. Most French composers at the time became famous by writing operas, but Faure only wrote one opera. His most important works are his French songs, chamber music and piano music. His "Requiem" (which includes a solo, "Pie Jesu", for a treble singer or soprano) is one of the most popular of all requiems and can be performed with quite a small orchestra and choir. Other very popular pieces are his "Berçeuse" from the "Dolly Suite" for piano duet, the "Sicilienne" from the music for "Pelléas et Mélisande", and the song "Après un rêve" which is sometimes also played by a solo instrument, e.g. the cello.
Fauré came from the south of France. He was born into a large family and was sent to live with a foster-nurse for four years. When he was quite small he often played the harmonium at the small chapel attached to the school where his father was director. A blind lady heard him and told his father that he ought to send him to a good music school. His father did not want to at first, but when the boy was nine he was sent to study at the École Niedermeyer in Paris. This was a school which trained young people to become church organists and choir directors. He spent eleven years there and had a good musical education. One of his teachers was the great composer Camille Saint-Saëns.
At first he held several jobs in churches, playing and accompanying the choirs. During the Franco-Prussian War Faure served in the army and did some teaching. When he returned to Paris in October of 1871 he got the job of choir accompanist at a big church in Paris called Saint-Sulpice. He often met up with Saint-Saëns and his friends who included the composers Lalo, Duparc, d’Indy and Chabrier. Several of these musicians, including Fauré himself, formed a music society called Société Nationale de Musique in 1871.
In 1874 Saint-Saëns retired from the church called the Madeleine and Fauré became choirmaster. In the same year he became engaged to Marianne Viardot, daughter of the singer Pauline, but then Marianne broke off the engagement. He travelled to Weimar to hear Richard Wagner's Der Ring des Nibelungen. Fauré liked Wagner’s music but it did not influence him.
In 1883 Fauré married Marie Fremiet. They had two sons. He had to spent a lot of time earning money by teaching to keep his family and so he did not have much time to compose except during the summer. His publishers did not pay him much money for his compositions.
In 1892 he became inspector of the music conservatories in the French provinces, which meant he no longer had to teach amateur students. In 1896 he finally became chief organist at the Église de la Madeleine. He also became professor of composition at Paris Conservatoire. Here he taught several students who became important French composers, including Maurice Ravel, Nadia Boulanger and Charles Koechlin. In 1905 he became director of the conservatoire.
As he became older he became deaf. High and low pitches sounded muddled to him. He retired from the Conservatoire in 1920 at the age of 75. In that year he received the Grand Cross of the Légion d’Honneur. It was unusual for a musician to have such a high honour. His health became poor, partly because he smoked heavily. He died in Paris from pneumonia in 1924 and was given a state funeral.
Gabriel Fauré is the greatest composer of French art song, or mélodie. He learned a great deal at the École Niedermeyer about how to write beautiful, flowing harmonies. He also studied the church modes. This can be heard in a lot of his music. He wrote several song cycles (groups of songs) including one called "La Bonne Chanson".
Fauré's piano works are mostly short works such as barcarolles, nocturnes and impromptus. They are often full of arpeggiated figures with the melody going from one hand to the other. His chamber works include piano quartets and quintets, a string quartet, a piano trio, two sonatas for violin and piano and two for cello and piano. His "Élégie" for cello and piano is especially well-known. He never showed a great deal of interest in writing for the orchestra. His orchestral works mostly consist of incidental music. His "Requiem" is popular both with amateur and professional choirs.

</doc>
<doc id="54221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54221" title="Music critic">
Music critic

A music critic is someone who writes about concerts that have taken place or new music that has been written. They write reviews about this in newspapers or journals. What they write is called musical criticism.
When people write about the history of music or compare musical styles, this is called musicology. Musical criticism is about what is going on in the musical world at the moment.
Music critics can have a lot of influence on a musician’s success. If a musician gets a bad review people may not bother to go and hear him. If he has a very good review people will think he must be good and they will all want to hear him.
Occasionally it can happen that a new piece of music has such a terrible review that everyone wants to go and hear how terrible it is. They may then find that they like it and the music might become famous. This is called a “succès de scandale” (French for “scandalous success”). Stravinsky’s "Rite of Spring" (1913) is a good example.
Music critics will spend a lot of time listening to music. They often do other jobs with music such as teaching. Some famous music critics include:
• the German composer Robert Schumann. He published a music journal called "Neue Zeitschrift für Musik". He wrote an article which has become famous called "Neue Bahnen" ("New Paths") in which he said that there was a young man called Johannes Brahms who would become a great composer. Schumann was right.
• the French composer Hector Berlioz was a good music critic. He wrote a lot of music reviews in order to earn some money.
• The Austrian musicologist Eduard Hanslick. He became famous for saying that Johannes Brahms was a good composer and Wagner, Liszt and Bruckner were bad composers.
• the Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw. He wrote some interesting musical criticisms using the pseudonym (made-up name) Corno di Bassetto. There were some musicians he did not like and he said so. This made him quite a few enemies.

</doc>
<doc id="54225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54225" title="Pete Maravich">
Pete Maravich

Pete Maravich (June 22, 1947 - January 5, 1988), also known as "Pistol Pete" Maravich, was an American basketball player. He played for Lousisana State University and averaged 44.2 points per game. That is the highest average ever in the history of college basketball. Then Maravich played for ten seasons in the NBA. He played for the Atlanta Hawks, New Orleans Jazz, Utah Jazz, and the Boston Celtics. 
He was known for his great dribbling, passing and shooting abilitites. Maravich died on January 5,1988.

</doc>
<doc id="54230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54230" title="John Batman">
John Batman

John Batman (21 January 1801 – 5 May 1839) was an Australian farmer and businessman who was one of the first white people to live in Melbourne. 
Batman was born in Rosehill, Parramatta (part of Sydney), and spent time in Tasmania (then called Van Diemen's Land). In Tasmania he started farming on land the government gave him. He brought more land. During this time, he was involved in conflicts with the Tasmanian Aborigines.
In December 1825, or early 1826, Batman captured the notorious bushranger (a kind of robber), Matthew Brady. 
Batman asked to be given land in the Westernport area of Victoria, but the government rejected him. So, in 1835, as a leading member of the Port Phillip Association he sailed for the mainland of Australia in the schooner "Rebecca" and explored much of Port Phillip Bay. Batman made an agreement, now known as Batman's Treaty, with some local Aborigines to rent their land in return for things like knives and flour every year. Probably the Wurundjeri people did not understand the agreement. In any case, the Governor of New South Wales said the agreement was not legal the land was owned by the Government rather than the Aborigines. 
Batman became very unhealthy after 1835, and he separated from his wife, convict Elizabeth Callaghan. They had had seven daughters and a son. His son drowned in the Yarra River. In his last months the local Aborigines looked after him.
Batman is remembered by some statues around Melbourne, and is buried in the Fawkner Cemetery, a cemetery named after his fellow colonist John Pascoe Fawkner. There is also a memorial in the Old Melbourne Cemetery.
Melbourne was called Batmania for a very brief time, in 1835, after John Batman.
He was also one of the first Australians to take part in the Common wealth Games 1823.
His direct descendant is Australian sprinter Daniel Batman.

</doc>
<doc id="54238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54238" title="Royal Leamington Spa">
Royal Leamington Spa

Royal Leamington Spa (or "Leamington Spa") is a town in Warwickshire, UK. In 2001 it had a population of 45,300. Until 1784 it was not a town but a village. It was in this year that two local men called Benjamin Satchwell and William Abbott discovered a spring in the village. The two men, and others from the town, began to use the water for treatment of illnesses, which was a common practice in those times. The town quickly developed into a spa town with many rich people visiting to 'take the waters'. Because of this the town grew quickly. The town soon became famous and a popular holiday resort. When spa water stopped being fashionable fewer people came on holiday to the town, but rich people still went to live there when they were old. In modern times Leamington does not treat many people with the water but it is still known as a pleasant place to live. It is also popular for shopping.
The town is built by a river called the River Leam which flows through the middle of the town from east to west. The town is now connected to another town called Warwick. Other nearby settlements include Kenilworth (about six miles away), Rugby (about sixteen miles away) and Coventry (about ten miles away).
The Parade and surrounding streets feature large Regency town houses typically with white façades, sash windows and high ceilings. Most of the buildings in the centre are listed.

</doc>
<doc id="54254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54254" title="Violence">
Violence

Violence is when someone attacks someone else, often to get them to do something they do not want to do by making them feel pain or fear. Violence can mean anything from one person hitting another to a war between many countries that causes millions of deaths. Different people may see different acts as violent. Laws are created often to control violence.
Violence can be:

</doc>
<doc id="54262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54262" title="Pegnitz">
Pegnitz

Pegnitz can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="54263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54263" title="Tap">
Tap

Tap may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="54264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54264" title="Pegnitz River">
Pegnitz River

The Pegnitz is a small river in Upper Franconia, Bavaria, Germany.
The Pegnitz has its source in the city of the same name at an altitude of 425 m and meets the Rednitz at 283 m northwest of Fürth. From that point on the river is called Regnitz.
The Pegnitz is about 115 km long.
The river is inhabited by numerous ducks, swans, and gulls.
From source to mouth:
After the big flood in February 1909 the river was shortened by four kilometers within the Nuremberg city limits. Since 1996 planning and actions are progressing trying to lengthen the course of the river between Nuremberg and Fürth again and to shape it in a nature-oriented way.

</doc>
<doc id="54271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54271" title="Palaemon">
Palaemon

Palaemon was a minor Greek sea god. He was originally named "Melikertes", son of Ino (Leukothea). He was made a god when his mother, Ino, jumped off of a cliff into the sea while holding him. Legends say that she was trying to get away from Athanas who was made insane by Hera.

</doc>
<doc id="54278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54278" title="William Wordsworth">
William Wordsworth

William Wordsworth (7 April 1770 – 23 April 1850) was an important poet of the Romantic Age in English literature.
Many people think that "The Prelude", an autobiographical poem of his early years is his masterpiece. Wordsworth was England's Poet Laureate from 1843 until his death in 1850. 
Wordsworth was born as second of five children in the Lake District. After the death of his mother in 1778, his father sent him to "Hawkshead" Grammar School. In 1783 his father, a lawyer and a solicitor, died.
Although many aspects of his boyhood were positive, he remembered times of loneliness and anxiety. It took him many years, and much writing, to recover from the death of his parents.
Wordsworth went to "St John's College", Cambridge in 1787. Three years later, in 1790, he visited Revolutionary France and supported the Republican movement, although the Reign of Terror later made him change his mind.(see Prelude book 10) The following year, he graduated from Cambridge.
In November 1791, Wordsworth returned to France and took a walking tour of Europe that included the Alps and Italy. He fell in love with a French woman, Annette Vallon, who in 1792 gave birth to their child, Caroline. Because he was poor and there were tensions between Britain and France, he returned alone to England the next year. But he supported Annette Vallon and his daughter as best he could in later life. War between France and Britain prevented him from seeing Annette and Caroline again for several years. It is likely that Wordsworth would have been depressed during the 1790s.
In 1802 Wordsworth and his sister, Dorothy, visited Annette and Caroline in France.
In 1793 Wordsworth published the poetry collections "An Evening Walk" and "Descriptive Sketches". In 1795 he met Samuel Taylor Coleridge in Somerset. The two poets quickly developed a close friendship. In 1797, Wordsworth and his sister, "Dorothy", moved to Somerset, just a few miles away from Coleridge's home in "Nether Stowey". Together, Wordsworth and Coleridge produced "Lyrical Ballads" (1798), an important work in the English Romantic movement. The to "Lyrical Ballads" is considered a central work of Romantic literary theory. In it, Wordsworth discusses what he sees as the elements of a new type of poetry, one based on the "real language of men" and which avoids the poetic diction of much eighteenth-century poetry. Here, Wordsworth also gives his famous definition of poetry as "the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings from emotions recollected in tranquility."
A fourth and final edition of "Lyrical Ballads" was published in 1805. He wrote a poem about daffodils and the Lake District.
Wordsworth, Dorothy, and Coleridge then traveled to Germany in the autumn of 1798. The main effect on Wordsworth was that he became homesick. But he began to work on the important autobiographical piece "The Prelude". He also wrote a number of famous poems, including "the Lucy poems." He and his sister moved back to England, now to "Dove Cottage" in Grasmere in the Lake District, and this time with the poet Robert Southey nearby. Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Southey came to be known as the "Lake Poets". Through this period, many of his poems speak of death, endurance, separation, and grief.
In 1802 he married a childhood friend, Mary Hutchinson. Dorothy continued to live with the couple. 
In 1807, his "Poems in Two Volumes" were published, including "Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood". 
Two of his children, Thomas and Catherine, died in 1812. In 1813 his family, including Dorothy, moved to "Rydal Mount, Ambleside" , where he spent the rest of his life.

</doc>
<doc id="54286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54286" title="Short Parliament">
Short Parliament

The Short Parliament in English history lasted from April 13 to May 5 1640. It is called "Short" because it only lasted for three weeks.
Charles I of England, who was also king of Scotland, was having problems with the Church of Scotland and war with them was breaking out again. Charles had spent the last 11 years ruling directly, without calling a Parliament even once. He did this because he had little use for elected representatives trying to decide policy. But now with the problems with the Scots, Charles needed money to pay for his war. To get more money for war meant he had to call a Parliament so they could vote on it.
The problem was that the members of Parliament were unhappy about the things he had done since 1629, when he was ruling without them. They wanted to talk about these things instead of giving the king his money. John Pym, member for Tavistock, gave fiery speeches refusing to give money unless the abuses were talked about. Charles responded by closing the Parliament and sending them home again, and he tried to fight the Scots without the money. But when this did not work and as a result of his defeat had to agree to pay the Scots, he was forced to call Parliament again. This became known as the Long Parliament, and the Constitutional crisis that followed led to the bloody English Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="54299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54299" title="Pelé">
Pelé

Pelé, Edison Arantes do Nascimento, was born 23 October, 1940 in Três Corações., 
He is a former Brazilian football player. Pelé is the most successful league goal scorer in the world, with 541 league goals. In total Pelé scored 1281 goals in 1363 games, including unofficial friendlies and tour games, for which he was listed in the Guinness World Records for most career goals scored in football.
He was given the title "Football Player of the Century" by FIFA. Many think he is the best player in history.
From 1956 to 1974 he played for Santos, had 605 appearances, and scored 589 goals. From 1975-1977 he played for New York Cosmos, when he had 64 appearances, and scored 37 goals. Then from 1978-1980 he played for XI Classic then he retired at playing football at 40 years old.
84||34
56||31
140||65
!Total||92||77

</doc>
<doc id="54302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54302" title="Rain shadow">
Rain shadow

A rain shadow is an area of land that lies behind a mountain which gets almost no rainfall. This side of a mountainous area is away from the wind. The mountains block the passage of rain-producing weather systems and cast a "shadow" of dryness behind them.
As shown by the diagram to the right, the incoming warm and moist air is drawn by the prevailing winds towards the top of the mountains. As it does so, it cools, condenses and rain falls before it crosses the top. The air, without much moisture left, goes on over the mountains creating a dry side called the "rain shadow".

</doc>
<doc id="54306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54306" title="Lesson">
Lesson

A lesson in school is a planned period of time for learning. It involves one or more students being taught by a teacher. A "lesson" may be either one section of a textbook or a short period of time during which learners are taught about a subject or taught how to perform an activity. "Lessons" are generally taught in a classroom but may instead take place in a situated learning environment.
Also, a lesson also means a learner learning something he did not know before. Such a "lesson" can be either planned or accidental, enjoyable or painful. The slang phrase "to teach someone a "lesson"", means to punish or scold a person for a mistake they have made making sure that he does not make the same mistake again.
Lessons can also be made entertaining. When the term education is combined with entertainment, it is called "edutainment".

</doc>
<doc id="54313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54313" title="Marián Hossa">
Marián Hossa

Marián Hossa (born 12 January 1979, in Stará Ľubovňa, Czechoslovakia, now Slovakia) is a Slovak professional ice hockey player.
His current club is the Chicago Blackhawks, an ice hockey team in the NHL.
He plays in attack, preferably in right-wing. He is considered as one of the fastest skating players of the sport. He wears number 81 on his jersey.
After the 2007-2008 season when his team, the Pittsburgh Penguins, lost to the Detroit Red Wings in the Stanley Cup he switched teams to the Detroit Red Wings because he felt he had a better chance of winning the Stanley Cup with them. When the Penguins again met the Red Wings in the Stanley Cup after the 2008-2009 season, Hossa was once again on the losing team as the Penguins won in 7 games.
Hossa signed a 12-year contract with the Chicago Blackhawks that's worth 62.8 million dollars.
In his career in the NHL he also played for the Pittsburgh Penguins and Ottawa Senators.
After losing two straight Stanley Cup finals with the Pittsburgh Penguins and Detroit Red Wings, He finally won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2010. On June 24, 2013, He won his second Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

</doc>
<doc id="54315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54315" title="Fashion">
Fashion

Fashion mostly refers to the style of clothing worn at a particular time. Clothing at its most basic is to keep us warm, but it serves many other functions. It needs to fit the customs and norms of society. Clothing needs to be accepted as more or less 'normal'. It needs, for instance, to preserve decency.
Fashion can also mean a style of language or behaviour. Fashions are a kind of nonverbal communication. They communicate something, but exactly what is something of a mystery. Often what they express is membership of a particular group.
Fashions are like trends. They change more quickly than the entire culture. The term 'fashion' is often used a synonym for glamour and style. Sometimes the term is used in a negative sense, to mean a 'fad'.
There are fashions in many types of human activity and ways of thinking. There are fashions in architecture (the way people build houses) and interior design (the way people decorate inside their houses). There are fashions for clothing. There are fashions for dance and music, and for the way people speak. There are fashions for ideas.
Fashion is more than just a designer's whim. Fashion is a reflection of a given time, socially, politically, economically, and artistically. The changing styles show just as much about history and the time period as any history book. It reflects on what people think, what they valued and how they lived. Fashion is a statement, a way of living. Fashion is used in different ways such as clothing, culture, religions etc. Clothes are not just for keeping warm!
Fashion is a way to express one's self. Many teenagers show their ideas and opinions by the way they look. They may want to look unique and individual, often to be a member of a group which looks unique. Fashion is superficial (on the surface) but as the outside of a person is the only bit that other people see, what they wear is meaningful. It helps people to make their first opinion of you and can influence the opinions and ideas of other people.
Fashion has changed over the years, long dresses, miniskirts, and bell bottoms are examples of clothing items that were once in style. Clothing fashions that keep coming back in style are known as classics. Khaki pants, polo shirts, and simple dresses are all examples of classics. Eye makeup, jewellery, hair styles, hats and shoes can all work together to create a fashion image, a total effect.

</doc>
<doc id="54316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54316" title="The Good Life">
The Good Life

The Good Life is the name of several television series, including

</doc>
<doc id="54327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54327" title="South West England">
South West England

South West England is one of the regions of England. It has the largest area of all regions, and reaches from Gloucestershire and Wiltshire to Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. This includes the area often known as the West Country, and much of Wessex. The size of the region is shown by the fact that the northern part of Gloucestershire, near Chipping Campden, is as close to the Scottish border as it is to the tip of Cornwall. 
Agriculture and tourism are the important industries of the region. Mining of tin and copper was also formerly very important in Devon and Cornwall. Traditionally, the South West of England has been well known for producing Cheddar cheese, named after Cheddar in the Mendip Hills, for Devon cream teas, and for Somerset cider. It is now probably equally well known as the home of the "Eden Project" (in Cornwall), "Aardman Animations", the "Glastonbury festival" (in Somerset), "trip hop" music, Cornwall's seafood restaurants, and surfing beaches. Two National Parks (Dartmoor and Exmoor) and four World Heritage Sites lie in this region.
The official region consists of the following geographic counties and local government areas:

</doc>
<doc id="54332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54332" title="Provincial and territorial capitals of Canada">
Provincial and territorial capitals of Canada

There are thirteen provincial and territorial capitals in Canada, one for each province and territory. Canada's national capital is Ottawa, Ontario.
These are the Canadian provinces and capitals

</doc>
<doc id="54334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54334" title="South East England">
South East England

South East England is one of the nine official regions of England. It was created in 1994. It includes Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, East Sussex, Hampshire, Isle of Wight, Kent, Oxfordshire, Surrey and West Sussex.
Its population as of the 2001 census was 8,000,550, making it the most populous English region. The highest point is Walbury Hill in Berkshire at 297m/974 ft. The major urban areas of the region include Brighton and Hove, Portsmouth, Southampton, and Reading. Settlements closer to London are part of the Greater London Urban Area.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:

</doc>
<doc id="54335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54335" title="North East England">
North East England

North-East England is one of the nine official regions of England and includes the combined area of Northumberland, County Durham, Tyne and Wear and a small part of North Yorkshire.
The highest point in the region is The Cheviot, in Northumberland, at 815m and the largest city is Newcastle. Sunderland is the second-largest.
The region is known for its urban centres and for its natural beauty: Northumberland National Park, the region's coastline, its section of the Pennines and Weardale. It also has great historic importance. There are two World Heritage Sites: Durham Cathedral and Hadrian's Wall.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:
Key: shire county = † | metropolitan county = *

</doc>
<doc id="54338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54338" title="Sussex">
Sussex

Sussex is a historic county in South East England. Its area is more or less the same as that of the ancient Kingdom of Sussex. It is divided for local government into West Sussex and East Sussex and the City of Brighton and Hove. The city of Brighton and Hove became a unitary authority in 1997; and got City status in 2000. Until then Chichester had been Sussex's only city.
Sussex still has a strong local identity and the county's unofficial anthem is "Sussex by the Sea". The county's motto, "We wun't be druv", shows the strong-willed nature of its people in past centuries. 
Major towns and cities of Sussex include:

</doc>
<doc id="54340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54340" title="Kingdom of Sussex">
Kingdom of Sussex

The Kingdom of Sussex, ("Suth Seaxe", i.e. the South Saxons), was one of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, its area was more or less that of the later county of Sussex. A large part of that district, however, was covered in early times by the forest called Andred. It was ruled by the kings of Sussex.
According to the traditional account given in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, it was in 477 that a certain Ælle led the invaders ashore at a place called "Cymenes ora" and defeated the inhabitants. A further battle at a place called "Mearcredes burne" is recorded under the year 485, and in the annal for 491 we read that Ælle and his son Cissa robbed Anderitum (Pevensey Castle) and killed all the inhabitants. 

</doc>
<doc id="54341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54341" title="Annals">
Annals

Annals (Latin "Annales", from "annus", a year) are a short form of historical writing which record events chronologically, year by year. 
Cicero ( in "De Oratore", ii. 12. 52) tells that from the earliest period down to the pontificate of "Publius Mucius Scaevola" (c. 131 BC), it was usual for the pontifex maximus to record on a white tablet ("album"), which was exhibited in an open place at his house, so that the people might read it. On this tablet were written down (according to Cicero) the name of the consuls and other magistrates, and then the important events of the year. 
In Cicero's time these records were called "Annales Maximi". The practice of writing annals was carried on by several unofficial writers. Cicero speaks of Cato, Pictor and Piso. 
In the Middle Ages in the Western Church there were written tables to show that date of Easter for a certain number of years or even centuries. These "Paschal tables" were thin books in which each annual date was separated from the next by a more or less considerable blank space. In these spaces some monks wrote down the important events of the year. The writing of these Annals was begun at the end of the 7th century and among the Irish – see the Annals of the Four Masters, the Annals of Ulster, the Annals of Innisfallen and the Annales Cambriae or Annals of Wales, one of the earliest sources for King Arthur. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle is also in annalistic, year-by-year form. 
In the 9th century, during the "Carolingian Renaissance", these Annals became the usual form of contemporary history. There were the "Annales Einhardi", the "Annales Laureshamenses" (or "of Lorsch"), and the "Annales S. Bertini". They were written officially in order to preserve the memory of the more interesting acts of Charlemagne, his ancestors and his successors. At this stage, the Annals now began to lose their primitive character, and became more and more Chronicles. But the term was still used for many documents, such as the Annals of Waverley.

</doc>
<doc id="54345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54345" title="Cicero">
Cicero

Marcus Tullius Cicero (IPA:Classical Latin pronunciation: , usually pronounced in English; January 3, 106 BC – December 7, 43 BC) was a Roman statesman, consul, lawyer, political theorist and philosopher. He is often thought to be one of Rome's greatest orators and prose stylists. 
His Latin is thought to be the model of Classical Latin. He introduced Greek philosophy to the Romans.

</doc>
<doc id="54346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54346" title="Heavyweight">
Heavyweight

In boxing, the term heavyweight is used for a specific group of people based on weight. A heavyweight is a boxer who weighs more than 201 lbs. At 201 pounds 91 kg and below is cruiserweight. Boxing organizations created many divisions so that fighters could fight people of the same size but mostly because more champions are created thus more profit. Most divisions only separate each other by few lbs.
The first heavyweight champion under modern rules was John L. Sullivan. Famous heavyweight champions have included Jack Dempsey, Joe Louis, Rocky Marciano, Muhammad Ali, Larry Holmes, Mike Tyson, Evander Holyfield, and Lennox Lewis.

</doc>
<doc id="54352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54352" title="Genealogy">
Genealogy

Genealogy is the study of family history. It is the study of family relationships and ancestry. It is a popular hobby in the United States and in many other countries.
Some people show their family history using a family tree. A family tree is a diagram of the members of a family. With a family tree you use lines to show how people are related, for example, people who are married or have children. 
Some people keep track of their family history data in a genealogy database on their computer. Examples of data that a person would save are dates and places of births, marriages, and deaths. Other information that might be saved are records of military service, census records which show where ancestors lived at a certain time, immigration data, education, occupations, and even photos of the ancestors. The person building the database can usually decide to save many kinds data—news articles, stories that were told in the family (oral history), information on religious ceremonies, wills or inheritances, information from family letters, customs, or how world or local events affected the family. The advantages of using a genealogy database are that it helps to keep the data organized, especially when relationships change; it can generate several types of charts or tables with the data filled in; it may make it easier to share data with others; and it takes up less room than paper and notebooks.
People study genealogy (family history) for many reasons. They may want to help someone be reunited with their family after war, natural disasters, foster care, or adoption, or find living relatives. They may want to learn about their ancestors (parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, etc.) from hundreds of years ago. They may want to track hereditary diseases that may be passed from parents to their children. (This would overlap with the study of genetics.)
Some people used to (and some still do) study genealogy to keep track of wealth, land and power because people used to argue that it belongs to their family. These people use genealogy to help it stay in the family and prevent untruthful claims to the wealth, land or power.

</doc>
<doc id="54370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54370" title="Niels Bohr">
Niels Bohr

Niels Bohr (7 October 1885 18 November 1962) was a Danish physicist who helped discover quantum physics, the structure of the atom, and the atomic bomb. Bohr was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1922 for, in short, discovering the quantization of atomic energy levels. He worked also in a project of physicists known as "Manhattan Project". He married Margrethe Nørlund in 1912. One of his sons was Aage Bohr, who was also an important physicist. Aage won in 1975 his own Nobel prize. Niels Bohr worked also with Albert Einstein. He is also considered one of the most important physicists of the 20th century. 
His full name was Niels Henrik David Bohr. He was born in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1885. His father was Christian Bohr, who was also professor of physiology at the University of Copenhagen. His mother was Ellen Adler Bohr. She was of a rich family of bankers and politicians. Niels was also the brother of Harald Bohr. He was a mathematician and he played in the National Team of Football. Niels liked football also. He played with his brother in many matches. Niels used to be the goal keeper. 
In 1903 Bohr began studies of philosophy and mathematics at the Copenhagen University. 
In 1905 the Royal Danish Academy of Science organized a competition. Niels Bohr participated with some experiments in surface tension. He used the laboratory of his father in the university, because he knew it since he was a boy. 
His work won the prize. For this reason, he decided to stop the studies of philosophy and mathematics and changed to physics. 
He received his doctorate in 1911. 
Bohr did experiments in the Trinity College in Cambridge under the direction of J.J. Thomson. After it, he went to the University of Manchester under the direction of Ernest Rutherford. On the basis of the theories of Rutherford, he published his theory of electrons. He introduces the theory of electrons traveling in orbits around the nucleus of the atom in 1913 and the chemical properties of the orbit.
He introduced the idea that an electron can drop from a higher energy orbit to a lower one. Then it can emit a photon of discrete energy. This is the basis of quantum theory. 
Niels Bohr and his wife Margrethe Nørlund Bohr had four sons. Their oldest died in a tragic boating accident and another died from childhood meningitis. The others went on to lead successful lives, including Aage Bohr, who became a very successful physicist and, like his father, won a Nobel Prize in physics, in 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="54377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54377" title="Świnoujście">
Świnoujście

Świnoujście () is a town in Pomerania, northwestern Poland, with about 42,000 people (). It is situated on the Swina river, which flows into the Baltic Sea. In Świnoujście is the largest and longest beach in Poland. Świnoujście is also a health resort and has a modern harbour.
The port can handle of dry bulk and general cargo (especially coal, ore and chemical materials).
The ferry terminal (run by the Polish Baltic Shipping Company) provides ferry berths and facilities for passenger services to Sweden and Denmark. There are lines to Malmo in Sweden, Copenhagen and Ronne (Bornholm) in Denmark.
There are also facilities for deep-sea fishing, fish processing, and ship repair services.

</doc>
<doc id="54384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54384" title="Sky Odyssey">
Sky Odyssey

Sky Odyssey is an action/adventure flight simulator (or flight videogame) for the SonyPlayStation 2. It was made by Cross and was sold in store’s in the year 2000.
The games story is a Indiana Jones-like adventure in which the person playing the game flies an airplane in a fictional (or not real) world collecting very old objects as well as pieces of a map.
The game's music was made by Kō Ōtani, who also made the music for "Shadow of the Colossus", different types of "Gamera" films, and many other anime.
It is one of the few videogames that you can fly the Japanese Shinden and Shinden Kai, the Shinden is the airplane shown on the game's box.

</doc>
<doc id="54395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54395" title="Landform">
Landform

A landform is a word that describes a form of land. Each type of landform is defined by its size, shape, location, and what it is made of.
Landforms that are related to flowing water.
Landforms made by erosion and weathering usually occur in coastal or fluvial areas, and many are listed under those headings. Some other erosion landforms that are not listed in those categories include:

</doc>
<doc id="54397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54397" title="Piri Reis map">
Piri Reis map

The Piri Reis map is a map of the world drawn on a parchment of gazelle skin by a Turk named Piri Reis (full name: Hadji Muhiddin Piri Ibn Hadji Mehmed) in 1513. This map includes Antarctica, yet it was about 200 years before Sir James Cook discovered it in 1773.

</doc>
<doc id="54414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54414" title="Shadow of the Colossus">
Shadow of the Colossus

Shadow of the Colossus is a Japanese-made action-adventure video game made and sold by Sony Computer Entertainment (SCEI) for the PlayStation 2. The game was sold in North America and Japan in October 2005, and was then sold in Europe and Oceania in February 2006. The game was made by SCEI's International Production Studio 1, the same video game makers that made the game Ico.
The game is about a person called Wander, a young man who must travel across a large area on a horse and destroy sixteen giant creatures called the colossi to bring back the life of a dead girl. The game is not a normal action-adventure type of game because there are no towns or dungeons to explore, no characters to talk to, and no enemies to destroy other than the colossi. Shadow of the Colossus has been described as a puzzle game, because each colossus has a weakness which must be found and somehow used to defeat the colossi.

</doc>
<doc id="54415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54415" title="Verbandsgemeinde">
Verbandsgemeinde

A Verbandsgemeinde (plural Verbandsgemeinden) is an administrative unit unique to the German Bundeslands (federal states) of Rhineland-Palatinate and, since 2009, Saxony-Anhalt.
There are 163 Verbandsgemeinden in Rhineland-Palatinate, which are grouped into the 24 districts and subdivided into nearly 2200 Ortsgemeinden. 
Most of these Verbandsgemeinden were established in 1969. Formerly the name of the administrative units was "Amt". Most of the functions of municipal government for several villages are consolidated and administered centrally from a larger or more central village among the group, while the individual villages (Ortsgemeinden) still maintain a limited degree of local autonomy.
The 24 districts:

</doc>
<doc id="54421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54421" title="Requiem">
Requiem

A Requiem (or Requiem Mass) is a eucharist service in the Roman Catholic church to remember someone who has died. There are special words for a requiem mass. They are in Latin. The best-known part of the requiem mass starts with the words “Requiem aeternam dona eis, Domine” (“Give them eternal rest, O Lord”). This is why it is called a “requiem”.
Many composers throughout the centuries have composed music to these words. The word “requiem” can mean a piece of music which sets the words of the requiem mass.
Celebration of the eucharist in honour of people who have died goes back at least as far as the 2nd century.
In the Middle Ages the words of the requiem mass were sung to Gregorian chant.
In the Renaissance church music was generally polyphonic. This sort of music, which has several voices weaving in and out of one another, is the kind of music used at the time for requiems. The composer Johannes Ockeghem is an example of a composer who wrote such music.
Polyphonic settings of the requiem continued during the Baroque period (17th and early 18th centuries), even although other musical forms (e.g. opera) had developed a much more modern style.
The most famous Requiem from the 18th century is the one by Mozart. Many musicians think it was one of the greatest pieces of music ever written. It was left unfinished when Mozart died.
In the 19th century many composers wrote requiems. Most of these were written for performance at concerts, not for church services, but they still used the Latin words of the Roman Catholic requiem mass.
Luigi Cherubini wrote a Requiem in C minor for the annual remembering of the execution of Louis XVI. He wrote another Requiem in D minor, which he wrote for himself. It was performed at his own funeral.
Giuseppe Verdi wrote a very exciting "Messa da Requiem" (1874) which sounds very operatic. Verdi rearranged some of the text (words) of the traditional requiem mass.
Bruckner, Saint-Saëns and Dvořák all wrote requiems.
Brahms wrote a work which he called "Ein Deutsches Requiem" ("A German Requiem"). It is unusual because, instead of setting the traditional Latin words, he took some words from the German translation of the Bible.
In 1888 Gabriel Fauré wrote a requiem which uses an orchestra without violins except for a solo violin in the movement called “Sanctus”. In 1900 he made some changes and added an important baritone solo.
In the 20th century many composers continued to write requiems. The most famous one is Britten’s "War Requiem" (1961). The message of this work is that war is cruel and pointless. Britten uses the Latin words of the requiem mass, but also some English poems by Wilfred Owen who was killed in the First World War. The baritone and tenor soloists who sing these English words represent the German and the English soldiers. The work was written for Coventry cathedral which had been rebuilt after the old cathedral had been totally destroyed in World War II.
For example Mozart's Requiem follows this. In his requiem, the Lux aeterna (written by someone else) is the same as the Introitus, with different words.
Some musical examples:
This sequence was fixed by the Council of Trent in the 16th century. It was slightly modified in the Second Vatican Council,

</doc>
<doc id="54427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54427" title="Middle C">
Middle C

Middle C is the name given to the musical note C which is in the middle of the piano keyboard. It is not actually quite the middle note of the keyboard, but very nearly, and of all the Cs on the piano it is the one nearest to the middle.
When writing Middle C in music notation it is just below the stave when using the treble clef and just above the stave when using the bass clef. This is shown in the first and last notes of the musical example below. The Middle C sits on a ledger line (an extension of the stave written just for one note).
On the piano the Middle C key is C4. 
When starting to learn the piano, most books make their easiest pieces start on Middle C. This is because the right hand can then play tunes using 5 notes (C to G) using white notes only (no sharps or flats). It is also easy to recognize Middle C in notation. It is also a help to find the correct place to sit at the piano (Middle C is opposite the player's "middle" (tummy)). One problem can be that young children learning the piano may think that all pieces start on Middle C. Pieces can start anywhere on the keyboard.
Middle C is the lowest note of the flute. It is a fairly low note for a child or woman to sing, but a fairly high note for a man to sing.
Middle C vibrates at 262Hz.

</doc>
<doc id="54441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54441" title="Principality">
Principality

A principality (sometimes also called princedom) is a country which is ruled by a prince or princess. Principalities were common in the Middle Ages. Some principalities that still remain today are Andorra, Monaco and Liechtenstein. Examples of subnational principalities are Asturias (Spain) and Wales (UK).
Some states claim to be principalities but are not recognised by other countries: Sealand (a Sea Fort off the English coast), Seborga (a small town in Italy), the Principality of Hutt River in Australia and the Principality of Minerva in the Pacific. These states are examples of micronations.
Sometimes the word is also used to mean dependent territories in Africa, Asia and India, pre-Columbian America and Oceania. For these, the word princely states is generally preferred, especially if they came under the authority of a European colonial power.
An interesting European historical example is the Principality law SAS Giovanni Natoli. In the eleventh century, as in the Kingdom of Sicily, the Principality of Sperlinga, where King Felipe IV granted to John Forti Natoli (Giovanni Natoli), for himself and his descendants, not only the title of prince, but the transformation of the barony in the Principality, and licentia populandi cum privilegium aedificandi or the privilege "to be able to take the land."

</doc>
<doc id="54444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54444" title="Vlad III the Impaler">
Vlad III the Impaler

Vlad III, Prince of Wallachia, is more commonly known as Vlad the Impaler. He was born in Sighișoara, Transylvania, Kingdom of Hungary, in 1431. He was the Prince of Wallachia and ruled there three times, in 1448, 1456–1462 and 1476. 
In the English-speaking world, Vlad is best known for the legends of his cruelty. These legends gave Bram Stoker the idea for his main character in the popular "Dracula" novel.
Wallachia was placed between the Kingdom of Hungary and the Ottoman Empire. The Turks were fighting against the Kingdom of Hungary and this made Wallachia a battle ground between Turks and Hungarians. The rulers of Wallachia were chosen by the Romanian aristocrats, called boyars. The ruler was often from a noble house, sometimes an illegitimate prince born outside of marriage. The country rulers were struggling with each other, and this was resulting in instability, family disputes and murders.
Vlad the Impaler was born in 1431. His father was Vlad II Dracul. His mother is unknown. Vlad II was married to princess Cneajna of Moldavia. He had several mistresses. Vlad III was raised by Cneajna with the help of her household. He had two brothers, Mircea born c. 1430 and Radu born 1435. He also had a half-brother, Vlad the Monk born around 1425-1430.
Vlad II went to the court of Holy Roman Emperor, Sigismund of Luxemburg as a young man. Sigismund was supporting Vlad II for the throne of Wallachia, and made Vlad II knight 1431 of the Order of the Dragon ("Societas Draconis" in Latin). 
The oldest brother, probably named Mircea, was sent by Vlad II to fight the war against the Turks in 1444. This war called the Battle of Varna was lost. Mircea and his father died in 1447. 
Vlad's half-brother. Vlad the Monk was waiting in Transylvania for a chance to rule Wallachia. Vlad the Monk was a monk until he became prince of Wallachia in 1482. 
Radu, known as Radu III the Fair or Radu the Handsome, the youngest brother, was also Vlad’s most important rival as he continuously tried to replace Vlad on the throne. 
From his first marriage, Vlad the Impaler (or Vlad III) had a son, later prince of Wallachia, as Mihnea the Evil. His first wife, whose name we do not know, died during the war 1462. Vlad III the Impaler was fighting against the Turks. The legend says that the Turkish army surrounded Vlad's castle, the Poienari Castle, led by his brother Radu the Handsome. Vlad's wife threw herself off the tower into the Argeş River below the castle. According to legend she remarked that she "would rather have her body be eaten by the fish of the Argeş than be captured by the Turks." 
Vlad had another two sons with his second wife Ilona Szilágyi a fraternal cousin of King Matthias Corvinus of Hungary. Some historian believe they may have also had a daughter named Maria.
Vlad was very likely born in the city of Sighişoara in Transylvania, then a part of the Kingdom of Hungary, during the winter of 1431. Sighişoara was a military fortress at that time. He was born as the second son to his father Vlad Dracul. He had an older brother, Mircea, and a younger brother, Radu the Handsome. Although his native country was Wallachia, the family lived in exile in Transylvania because his father had been chased away by pro-Ottoman boyars.
Vlad's father was pressured by the (Turkish) Ottoman sultan. He gave a promise to be the vassal of the Sultan and gave up his two younger sons as hostages so that he would keep his promise.
Vlad suffered much at the hands of the Ottomans, and was locked up in an underground prison; however, his younger brother, Radu, caught the eye of the sultan's son. Radu was released and converted to Islam, and he was allowed into the Ottoman royal court. 
These years had a great influence on Vlad. They shaped Vlad's character. He was often whipped and beaten by the Turks for being stubborn and rude. He developed a well-known hatred for Radu and for Mehmed, who would later become the sultan.
Vlad's father and Vlad's older brother Mircea were dead at this point. The Turks invaded Wallachia and the Sultan put Vlad III on the throne as his puppet ruler. His rule at this time was short; Hunyadi invaded Wallachia and chased him away the same year. Vlad fled to Moldavia and was put under the protection of his uncle, Bogdan II.
Bogdan was assassinated. Vlad took a chance and fled to Hungary. Impressed by Vlad's knowledge of the Ottoman Empire, Hunyadi pardoned him and took him in as an adviser. Later, Hunyadi made him the Kingdom of Hungary's candidate for the throne of Wallachia.
In 1456, Hungary invaded Serbia to chase away the Turks, and at the same time Vlad III invaded Wallachia. Both invasions were successful. Hunyadi suddenly died of the plague. Vlad became prince of Wallachia.
Vlad was spending most of his time at the court of the city of Târgovişte. He made laws, met foreign ambassadors, judged in trials. He reinforced some castles and probably enjoyed hunting with his friends. 
The constant state of war since the death of his grandfather, Mircea the Elder, in 1418, led to increased crime levels and less agricultural production. Trade had almost disappeared in Wallachia. 
Vlad tried to solve these problems with severe methods. He needed an economically stable country. 
Vlad wanted to eliminate all threats to his power, mainly the rival nobility groups, such as the boyars. This was done mainly by killing them and reducing the their economic role. The Wallachian nobility had connections with the Saxon merchants. The Saxons lived in the free towns of Transylvania, making trade flourish. Vlad cut their towns trade privileges with Wallachia, and started war against them.
Vlad gave key positions in the Prince’s Council to people of lower rank who were loyalty to him. Vlad preferred to knight men from the free peasants. 
Vlad III was always on guard against the Dăneşti clan. Some of his attacks into Transylvania may have been efforts to kill or capture Dăneşti princes. Several members of the Dăneşti clan died at Vlad's hands. Rumors say that thousands of citizens of the free towns that sheltered his rivals were impaled by Vlad. One captured Dăneşti prince was forced to read his own funeral speech while he kneeled at an open grave before his execution.
There was a war between the Ottoman Empire and the Hungarian Kingdom. Following family traditions, Vlad decided to side with the Hungarians. To the end of the 1450s there was once again talk about a war against the Turks, in which the king of Hungary, Matthias Corvinus would play the main role. Knowing this, Vlad stopped paying money to the Ottomans in 1459, and at around 1460, he made a new alliance with Corvinus. The Turks did not like this and tried to remove him from power but they failed. In the winter of 1461 Vlad attacked and devastated the area between Serbia and the Black Sea, leaving over 20,000 people dead.
In response to this, the Sultan Mehmed II headed towards Wallachia with an army of 60,000 men in the spring of 1462. With his army of 20,000-30,000 men Vlad was not able to stop the Turks from entering Wallachia. The Turks occupied the capital Târgovişte (June 4, 1462) and chased Vlad away. Vlad was hiding and made small attacks on the Turks. On the night of June 16 Vlad and some of his men entered the main Turkish camp, wearing Turkish clothing, and attempted to kill Mehmed. Later the Turkish army retired and left Vlad’s brother, Radu the Handsome, as the new ruler prince.
Radu the Handsome gathered support from the nobility and Vlad fled to Hungary.
In August 1462 Radu made a deal with the Hungarian Crown.
Vlad was living in exile because he was affraid of the boyars of Wallachia. Vlad escaped to Hungary but he was put in prison there. The exact time of Vlad's captivity is not known for sure. Apparently his imprisonment was not too dangerous. He was able to gradually win his way back into the favor of King Matthias. He was able to meet and marry a member of the royal family (the cousin of King Matthias). However, some do not believe that it was likely to happen that a prisoner was permitted to marry into the royal family.
He had two sons with his new wife. Vlad also became a member of the Roman Catholic Church. Diplomatic letters and writings from Buda during this time show that Vlad's actual period of imprisonment was short.
The openly pro-Turkish policy of Vlad's brother, Radu was probably a cause in Vlad's good treatment while in prison. It is interesting to note that the Russian texts, normally very favorable to Vlad Ţepeş, tells that even in captivity he could not give up his favorite games; he often captured birds and mice which he tortured and mutilated, and some were impaled on tiny spears.
The years before his final release in 1474 (when he began making plans for the reconquest of Wallachia), Vlad lived with his new wife in a house in the Hungarian capital. His sons were about ten years old when he reconquered Wallachia in 1476.
Around 1475 Vlad and Stefan Báthory of Transylvania invaded Wallachia with a mixed force of Transylvanians, some dissatisfied Wallachian boyars, and Moldavians sent by Prince Stephen III of Moldavia, Vlad's cousin. Vlad's brother, Radu the Handsome, died a couple of years earlier and had been replaced on the Wallachian throne by another Turkish candidate, Prince Basarab the Elder, a member of the Dăneşti clan. When Vlad's army arrived, Prince Basarabs army fled, some to the Turks, others in the mountains. After placing Vlad Ţepeş on the throne, Stephen Báthory and his forces returned to Transylvania, leaving Vlad in a very weak position. Vlad had little time to get support before a large Turkish army entered Wallachia to put back Prince Basarab on the throne. Vlad's cruelties over the years made the boyars to believe that they had a better chance to survive under Prince Basarab. Even the peasants, tired of the cruelty of Vlad, abandoned him. Vlad had to meet the Turks with the small forces at his disposal, which were made up of less than four thousand men.
There are several variants of Vlad III the Impaler's death. Some sources say he was killed in battle against the Turks near Bucharest in December of 1476. Others say he was killed by disloyal Wallachian boyars in the war against the Turks, or during a hunt. Others believe Vlad was killed in the war, surrounded by the bodies of his loyal Moldavian bodyguards. Still other reports claim that Vlad was accidentally killed by one of his own men. Vlad's body was decapitated by the Turks and his head was sent to Istanbul preserved in honey. The sultan had it displayed on a stake as proof that "Kazıklı Bey" was dead. The exact place of his grave is unknown.
Tales and legends about Vlad stayed a part of folklore among the Romanian peasants. By constant retelling they have become confused and created an ideal picture of a big national hero. Among the Romanian peasants, Vlad Ţepeş was sometimes remembered as a prince who defended his country. 
But sometimes he is remembered as a very cruel and often capricious ruler. There are several events that are common to all tales.
One tale is about foreign ambassadors whom Vlad Ţepeş was meeting at Târgovişte. All versions agree that Vlad, in response to some real or imagined insult, (perhaps because they refused to remove the hats in Vlad's presence), had their hats nailed to their heads.
A good description of Vlad Dracula survives, courtesy of Nicholas of Modrussa, who wrote: 
"He was not very tall, but very stocky and strong, with a cruel and terrible appearance, a long straight nose, distended nostrils, a thin and reddish face in which the large wide-open green eyes were enframed by bushy black eyebrows, which made them appear threatening. His face and chin were shaven but for a moustache. The swollen temples increased the bulk of his head. A bull's neck supported the head, from which black curly locks were falling to his wide-shouldered person."
His famous portrait was rediscovered in the late 1800s, in the gallery of horrors at Innsbruck's Ambras Castle.
Vlad III Ţepeş has been described as very cruel. The old Romanian word for dragon is Dracul, which in modern Romanian means "devil". The Wallachians gave Vlad III the Impaler this nickname Dracul, because of his cruelty. Impalement was Ţepeş's preferred method of torture and execution. His method of torture was a horse attached to each of the victim's legs while sharpened stake was forced into the body. Vlad often had the stakes arranged in patterns. The most common pattern was a ring outside of a city that was his target. The height of the spear indicated the rank of the victim. The corpses were often left there for months. 
One tale says 10,000 were impaled in the Transylvanian city of Sibiu (where Vlad the Impaler had once lived) in 1460. Another tale says that on Saint Bartholomew's Day (in August), Vlad the Impaler had 30,000 people of the free Transylvanian city of Braşov impaled. One of the most famous woodcuts of the period shows Vlad the Impaler feasting amongst a forest of stakes outside Braşov, while a nearby executioner cuts apart other victims. Impalement was not his only method of torture. Other methods include nails in heads, cutting off limbs, strangulation, burning, cutting off noses and ears, mutilation of sexual organs (especially in the case of women), scalping, skinning, exposure to the elements or to animals, and boiling alive. 
His victims included women, children, peasants, great lords, ambassadors from foreign powers and merchants. However, the vast majority of his European victims came from the merchants and boyars of Transylvania and Wallachia. Most of the merchants there were German-speaking Saxons who were seen as bad people because they were not Romanian. He saw the boyars as people who were not loyal (Vlad's own father and older brother were murdered by boyars). 
Almost as soon as he came to power, he gave a party for his boyars and their families to celebrate Easter. These nobles were part of the conspiracy around his father's death. Vlad, to avenge his father's death, had all the assembled nobles arrested. The older boyars were impaled on the spot. The younger nobles and their families were marched north from Târgovişte to the ruins of the Poienari Castle in the mountains above the Argeş River. The boyars and their families were forced to work for months rebuilding the old castle. According to the reports, they worked until the clothes fell off their bodies, and then were forced to continue working naked. Very few survived the building of Vlad's castle.
Vlad Ţepeş is also believed to have tortured and impaled some of the Turkish forces. It was reported that an invading Ottoman army turned back when they saw thousands of rotting corpses impaled on the banks of the river Danube. In 1462, Mehmed II returned to Constantinople after being sickened by the sight of 20,000 impaled corpses outside of Vlad's capital of Târgovişte. Many of the victims were Turkish prisoners of war.
Much of the information we have about Vlad III Ţepeş comes from texts published in the Holy Roman Empire in German texts from 1488 and books written in Russian. These were entertainment in a society where the printing press was new. The texts were reprinted over the thirty years following Vlad's death. The German texts said Vlad Ţepeş was a person who terrorized the land and killed innocents. The Russian texts said his actions were justified, because Vlad helped them. The texts agree on some details.
According to the texts, he was particularly cruel against women and wanted his people to work hard. Merchants who cheated their customers were likely to be killed because of that.
The fictional vampire in the novel "Dracula" by Bram Stoker was inspired by the legends of this Wallachian prince. The cruel person of the Impaler was a suitable character for Stoker's purposes. The events of Vlad's life happened in a region of the world that was still medieval in Stoker's time. 
Although there were vampire tales originating elsewhere, the vampire, as he became known in Europe, largely originated in Southern Slavic and Greek folklore. The vampire tale is virtually absent in Romanian culture. Vampirism became part of the popular culture in Europe beginning in the late 17th century. Philosophers in the West began to study the phenomenon. It was during this period that Dom Augustine Calmet wrote a famous text on vampirism in Hungary. It was also during this period that authors and playwrights first began to explore the vampire legend. Stoker's novel was a work in a long series of works that were inspired by the reports coming from the Balkans.

</doc>
<doc id="54446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54446" title="Fertile Crescent">
Fertile Crescent

The Fertile Crescent is a historical region in the Middle East that includes the Levant, Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt. These countries on a map together have a shape that is similar to a crescent, so archaeologist James Henry Breasted spoke of the "Fertile Crescent" because he wanted to show the similarities of the cultures of this region in ancient times.
All these lands are watered by important rivers: Nile, Jordan, Euphrates and Tigris. Together they cover some 400-500,000 square kilometers, and the region extends from the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea around the north of the Syrian Desert and through the Jazirah and Mesopotamia to the Persian Gulf. These areas are in present-day Egypt, Israel, West Bank, Gaza strip, and Lebanon and parts of Jordan, Syria, Iraq, south-eastern Turkey and south-western Iran. The population of the Nile River basin is about 70 million, the Jordan River basin about 20 million, and the Tigris and Euphrates basins about 30 million, giving the present-day Fertile Crescent a total population of around 120 million, or at least a quarter of the population of the Middle East.
The Fertile Crescent has a very long record of past human activity.

</doc>
<doc id="54447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54447" title="Crescent">
Crescent

In art and symbolism, a crescent is generally the shape produced when a circular disk has a segment of another circle removed from its edge, so that what remains is a shape enclosed by two circular arcs of different diameters which intersect at two points (usually in such a manner that the enclosed shape does not include the center of the original circle). It is used as the main symbol for the religion Islam.

</doc>
<doc id="54448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54448" title="Crescent (disambiguation)">
Crescent (disambiguation)

Crescent is a shape, form or symbol.
Crescent may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="54449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54449" title="The Levant">
The Levant

The Levant is a term in geography that refers to an area in the Middle East which includes the historic areas of Palestine, Israel and Syria. 
The Levant is bounded by the Taurus Mountains to the north, the Mediterranean Sea to the west, the northern Arabian Desert to the south and Upper Mesopotamia to the east. 
The word "Levant" entered the English language in the 16th century, together with the first English merchant adventurers in the region. English ships appeared in the Mediterranean in the 1570s and the English merchant company signed its agreement ("capitulations") with the Grand Turk in 1579 (Braudel).
Today, the word "Levant" is usually used by archaeologists and historians who are talking about the prehistory and the ancient and medieval history of the region, as when discussing the Crusades. The term is also used sometimes to refer to modern or contemporary events, peoples, states, or parts of states in the same region, such as Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and the Palestinian territories.

</doc>
<doc id="54450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450" title="Levant (disambiguation)">
Levant (disambiguation)

Levant may be:

</doc>
<doc id="54459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54459" title="Jordan River">
Jordan River

The Jordan River ( ', ') is a river in Southwest Asia that flows through the Great Rift Valley into the Dead Sea. Many people think it is one of the world's most sacred rivers.
It is long. Its tributaries are:
The four rivers join to form the Jordan in northern Israel, near kibbutz Sede Nehemya. The Jordan drops quickly in a 75 kilometer run to Lake Hula, which is a little below sea level in the Galilee sea. Then it drops much more in about 25 kilometers to the Sea of Galilee. The last section has less gradient, and the river begins to twist before it enters the Dead Sea, which is about 400 meters below sea level and has no outlet. Two major tributaries enter this last section from the east: the Yarmouk River and Jabbok River.
In 1964, Israel began operating a dam that takes water from the Sea of Galilee, a major Jordan River water provider, to the national water carrier. Also in 1964 Jordan built a channel that takes water from the Yarmouk River, a main tributary of the Jordan River. This caused great damage to the ecosystem. Syria has also built reservoirs that catch the Yarmouk's waters. 
In modern times, 70% to 90% of the waters is used for human purposes and the flow is much smaller. Because of this, and the high evaporation rate of the Dead Sea, the sea is shrinking. All the shallow waters of the southern end of the sea have been drained in modern times, and are now salt flats. 
The water from the Jordan is a very important resource to the dry lands of the area. It is a source of conflict between Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Israel and Palestine. 
In the Hebrew Bible, the Jordan is referred to as the source of fertility to a large plain ("Kikkar ha-Yarden"), called "the garden of God" (Genesis 13:10). There is no regular description of the Jordan in the Bible. 
The New Testament states that John the Baptist baptized Jesus in the Jordan (Matt. 3:13). 
The Jordan is a frequent symbol in folk, gospel, and spiritual music, or in poetic or literary works. 
Because the Israelites made a difficult journey from slavery in Egypt to freedom in "The Promised Land", the Jordan can be a symbol of freedom. The actual crossing is the final step of the journey, which is then complete. The Jordan also can mean death itself, with the crossing from life into Paradise or Heaven.

</doc>
<doc id="54460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54460" title="Jordan River (disambiguation)">
Jordan River (disambiguation)

Jordan River could mean:
Asia:
Australia:
Canada:
England:
New Zealand:
United States:

</doc>
<doc id="54461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54461" title="History of Islam">
History of Islam

Muslim history began in Arabia when Muhammad the Quran in the 7th century. The historical development of Islam has affected political, economic, and military trends both inside and outside the Islamic world.
As with Christianity, the concept of an "Islamic world" is useful when one looks at different periods of human history.
After Muhammad died, the Muslim leadership was assumed by Abu Bakr. He was followed by Umar, Uthman ibn Affan and then Ali. These four are called the "Rashidun caliphs" which means The Righteous Caliphs. The word caliph means religious and spiritual leader. Under these caliphs Islam became one of the most important religions of the middle East. Administrative offices of the Muslim nation were established. Under Umar more than two thirds of the Eastern Roman Empire was conquered by the Muslims. Umar also started the Muslim calendar.
The first civil war in Islam, also known as the "First Fitna" broke out in Islam during the rule of the fourth caliph Ali and lasted throughout his caliphate. The third caliph Uthman ibn Affan had been murdered by rebel Muslim groups who had political motives. After Ali took over, the most important problem he faced was that of punishing those responsible for murder. However many people felt that before accepting the position of the caliph, Ali should have focused his attention on finding and punishing the murderers. A group of people led by Muhammad's wife Aisha, her brothers in law Talhah and Zubair ibn al-Awam refused to recognize Ali's caliphate. They instead raised an army which met Ali's army at Basra in Iraq, originally for the purposes of negotiations. In the night, some fighting broke out, probably out of confusion or due to rebel groups who were involved in the infamous murder. This led to the "Battle of Bassorah" (also known as "Battle of the Camel") in which Ali's party emerged victorious. Aisha was escorted back to Medina honorably after the battle by Ali.
This battle however did not entirely finish the tension in the Muslim empire. Ali was soon challenged by Muawiyah, the governor of the Muslim provinces of Syria. He too raised the issue of punishing Uthman's murderers and refused to acknowledge Ali as caliph until the issue had been solved. Muawiyah was a kinsman of Uthman and his army pledged to bring to justice the murderers and those who sheltered them. This reference to people who are sheltering the murderers was towards Ali and his followers. Accordingly, the two groups met and fought a battle, called the "Battle of Siffin". This battle ended in a draw and so both groups decided on arbitration which also did not lead to any concrete decision. Another group of Muslims, "The Kharijites" who had previously been with Ali, meanwhile rejected him because they felt that he was not following true Islam and conducting business over the caliphate as if it were his own property.
In the following years Ali's governors could not prevent his losing provinces to Muawiyah who increased his strength by further expanding his army. Ali had shifted the capital of the caliphate from Medina to Kufa in 656. He was killed by a Kharijite assassin in Kufa in 661.

</doc>
<doc id="54463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54463" title="History of Christianity">
History of Christianity

The history of Christianity is the history of the Christian religion and the Christian church, from Jesus and his apostles to our times. Christianity is the monotheistic religion that is based on the life and teaching of Jesus.
Christianity began in the 1st century AD as a Jewish sect but quickly spread throughout the Greco-Roman world. Despite early persecution of Christians under the Roman Empire, it became the state religion in the end. In the Middle Ages it spread into Northern Europe and Russia. During the Age of Exploration, Christianity expanded throughout the world; it is the largest religion of the world.
The religion had schisms and theological disputes that had as result three main branches: the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox churches, and Protestant churches.
Most of the first Christians were ethnically Jewish or Jewish proselytes. An early difficulty came from non-Jewish converts. There was the question if they had to "become Jewish" before becoming Christian. The decision of St. Peter, was that they did not, and the matter was further addressed with the Council of Jerusalem.
The doctrines of the apostles brought the Early Church into conflict with some Jewish religious authorities, and this eventually led to the martyrdom of SS. Stephen and James the Great and expulsion from the synagogues. Thus, Christianity got an identity distinct from Judaism. The name "Christian" (Greek ) was first used for the disciples in Antioch, as recorded in (Acts 11:26; Acts 11:26).
The sources for the beliefs of the apostolic community include the Gospels and New Testament Epistles. The very earliest reports are in these texts: early Christian creeds and hymns and reports about the Passion, the empty tomb, and appearances of Jesus after his Resurrection. There reasons to suppose that they were written within a few years of the crucifixion of Jesus and came from the Jerusalem Church.
Christianity kept many practices from Jewish tradition. Christianity thought the Jewish scriptures to be sacred and used mostly the Septuagint edition and translation as the Old Testament, and added other texts as the New Testament canon developed. Christians professed Jesus to be the God of Israel, having taken human form, and considered Jesus to be the Messiah (Christ) who had been prophesied about in the Old Testament and so was expected by the people of Israel. Christianity also continued other Judaic practices: liturgical worship, including the use of incense, an altar, a set of scriptural readings adapted from synagogue practice, use of sacred music in hymns and prayer, and a religious calendar, as well as other typical features: an exclusively male priesthood, and practices (fasting etc.).
The time when most of the apostles had died and their jobs as leaders of the Christian communities in the cities had been taken over by bishops, is called post-apostolic period. It includes the time of persecutions until Christian worship was legalized under Constantine the Great. The earliest recorded use of the term "Christianity" (Greek ) is from this period. The term was used by Ignatius of Antioch "c." 107.
Until the late fourth century, when they became the dominant political force of the Roman Empire (and by consequence the entire Mediterranean), Christians were subject to various persecutions. This meant even death. That was the case with Stephen () and James, son of Zebedee (). Persecutions in lager scale by the authorities of the Roman Empire, began with the year 64, when the Emperor Nero blamed them for the great Fire of Rome as the Roman historian Tacitus reported.
According to Church tradition, it was under Nero's persecution that the saints Peter and Paul became martyrs in Rome. Similarly, several of the New Testament writings mention persecutions and that they had very difficult times. For 250 years there were times when Christians suffered from persecutions, because they refused to worship the Roman emperor. That was seen as treason and punished by execution. But the Christian religion continued to spread throughout the Mediterranean region.
Galerius issued an edict permitting the practice of the Christian religion under his rule in April of 311. In 313 Constantine I and Licinius announced toleration of Christianity in the Edict of Milan. Constantine became the first Christian emperor. By 391, under the reign of Theodosius I, Christianity had become the state religion of Rome.
The Emperor Constantine I had learnt about Christianity of his mother, Helena. But it is not clear if he adopted his mother's humble Christianity in his youth, or if he adopted it later on in his life.
When Christianity was legalized the Church took the same provinces for administration as the imperial government and called them dioceses.
The Bishop of Rome claimed to be the highest amongst all others and chose the title pope.
During this era, there were several Ecumenical Councils. These were mostly concerned with Christological disputes. The two Councils of Niceaea (324, 382) condemned Arianism and produced the Nicene Creed to define the faith. The Council of Ephesus condemned Nestorianism and affirmed the Blessed Virgin Mary to be Theotokos ("God-bearer" or "Mother of God"). Perhaps the most important council was the Council of Chalcedon that affirmed that Christ had two natures, fully God and fully man, at the same time. That meant that Monophysitism was condemned.
The Church in the Early Middle Ages saw a "transformation of the Roman world" rather than a "fall of the Roman Empire". With the Muslim invasions of the seventh century, the Western (Latin) and Eastern (Greek) areas of Christianity began to take on distinctive shapes, and the Bishops of Rome were more interested in barbarian kings than in the Byzantine Emperors. This led to the coronation of Charlemagne as "Emperor of the Romans" by Pope Leo III in Rome on Christmas Day, 800.
The city of Rome was affected very much by warfare in Italy during the Early Middle Ages. Emperor Justinian I tried to restore imperial dominion in Italy against the gothic aristocracy. The following campaigns were more or less successful, and the Imperial Exarchate was established in Ravenna for Italy, but imperial influence was often limited. Then came the invasion of the Lombards, and Rome had to take care of itself. Thus the popes, out of necessity, found themselves feeding the city with grain from papal estates, negotiating treaties, paying protection money to Lombard warlords, and, failing that, hiring soldiers to defend the city. Eventually, the failure of the Empire to send aid resulted in the popes turning for support from other sources, most especially the Franks.
The High Middle Ages is the period from the coronation of Charlemagne in 800 to the close of the fifteenth century, which saw the fall of Constantinople (1453), the end of the Hundred Years' War (1453), the discovery of the New World (1492), and thereafter the Protestant Reformation (1515).
The "Investiture Controversy", also known as the "lay investiture controversy", was the most important conflict between secular and religious powers in medieval Europe. It began as a dispute in the 11th century between the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV and Pope Gregory VII. The question was who would control appointments of bischops (investiture).
The end of lay investiture meant an important loss of royal power, for the benefit Church reform, as the pope intended, and for ambitious noblemen as well.
Bishops collected revenues from estates attached to their bishopric. Noblemen who held lands (fiefdoms) hereditarily passed those lands on within their family. However, because bishops had no legitimate children, when a bishop died it was the king's right to appoint a successor. So, while a king had little recourse in preventing noblemen from acquiring powerful domains via inheritance and dynastic marriages, a king could keep careful control of lands under the domain of his bishops. Kings would bestow bishoprics to members of noble families whose friendship he wished to secure. Furthermore, if a king left a bishopric vacant, then he collected the estates' revenues until a bishop was appointed, when in theory he was to repay the earnings. The infrequence of this repayment was an obvious source of dispute. The Church wanted to end this lay investiture because of the potential corruption, not only from vacant sees but also from other practices such as simony. Thus, the Investiture Contest was part of the Church's attempt to reform the episcopate and provide better pastoral care.
Pope Gregory VII issued the "Dictatus Papae", which declared that the pope alone could appoint or depose bishops, or translate them to other sees. Henry VI's rejection of the decree lead to his excommunication and a ducal revolt; eventually Henry received absolution after dramatic public penance barefoot in Alpine snow and cloaked in a hairshirt (see Walk to Canossa), though the revolt and conflict of investiture continued. Likewise, a similar controversy occurred in England between King Henry I and St. Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury, over investiture and ecclesiastical revenues collected by the king during an episcopal vacancy. The English dispute was resolved by the Concordat of London, 1107, where the king renounced his claim to invest bishops but continued to require an oath of fealty from them upon their election. This was a partial model for the Concordat of Worms ("Pactum Calixtinum"), which resolved the Imperial investiture controversy with a compromise that allowed secular authorities some measure of control but granted the selection of bishops to their cathedral canons. As a symbol of the compromise, lay authorities invested bishops with their secular authority symbolized by the lance, and ecclesiastical authorities invested bishops with their spiritual authority symbolized by the ring and the staff.
The Crusades were a military conflicts conducted by Christian knights for the defense of Christians and for the expansion of Christian domains. Generally, the crusades refer to the campaigns in the Holy Land against Muslim forces sponsored by the Papacy. There were other crusades against Islamic forces in southern Spain, southern Italy, and Sicily, as well as the campaigns of Teutonic knights against pagan strongholds in Eastern Europe, and (to a much lesser extent) crusades against Catharism or other Christian heresies.
The Holy Land had been part of the Roman Empire, and thus Byzantine Empire, until the Islamic conquests of the seventh and eighth centuries. Thereafter, Christians had generally been permitted to visit the sacred places in the Holy Land until 1071, when the Seljuk Turks closed Christian pilgrimages and assailed the Byzantines, defeating them at the Battle of Manzikert. Emperor Alexius I asked for aid from Pope Urban II (1088-1099) for help against Islamic aggression. Instead of sending money, Urban II called upon the knights of Christendom in a speech made at the Council of Clermont on 27 November 1095, combining the idea of pilgrimage to the Holy Land with that of waging a holy war against infidels.
The East-West Schism, or Great Schism, separated the Church into Western (Latin) and Eastern (Greek) branches, i.e. Western Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy. It was the first major division since certain groups in the East rejected the decrees of the Council of Chalcedon (see Oriental Orthodoxy), and was far more significant. Though normally dated to 1054, the East-West Schism was actually the result of an extended period of estrangement between Latin and Greek Christendom over the nature of papal primacy and certain doctrinal matters like the "filioque", but intensified by cultural and linguistic differences.
The "official" schism in 1054 was the excommunication of Patriarch Michael Cerularius of Constantinople, followed by his excommunication of papal legates. Attempts at reconciliation were made in 1274 (by the Second Council of Lyon) and in 1439 (by the Council of Basel), but in each case the eastern hierarchs who consented to the unions were repudiated by the Orthodox as a whole, though reconciliation was achieved between the West and what are now called the "Eastern Rite Catholic Churches". More recently, in 1965 the mutual excommunications were rescinded by the Pope and the Patriarch of Constantinople, though schism remains.
Both groups are descended from the Early Church, both acknowledge the apostolic succession of each other's bishops, and the validity of each other's sacraments. Though both acknowledge the primacy of the Bishop of Rome, Eastern Orthodoxy understands this as a primacy of honor with limited or no ecclesiastical authority in other dioceses.
The Western Schism, or Papal Schism, was a prolonged period of crisis in Latin Christendom from 1378 to 1416, when there were two or more claimants to the See of Rome and thus it was difficult to discern who the true Pope was. The conflict was political, rather than doctrinal, in nature.
The Renaissance was a period of great cultural change and achievement, marked in Italy by a classical orientation and an increase of wealth through mercantile trade. The City of Rome, the Papacy, and the Papal States were all affected by the Renaissance. On the one hand, it was a time of great artistic patronage and architectural magnificence, where the Church patroned such artists as Michelangelo, Brunelleschi, Bramante, Raphael, Fra Angelico, Donatello, and da Vinci. On the other hand, wealthy Italian families often secured episcopal offices, including the papacy, for their own members, some of whom were known for immorality, such as Alexander VI and Sixtus IV.
In the early 16th century, movements were begun by two theologians, Martin Luther and Ulrich Zwingli, that aimed to reform the Church; these reformers are distinguished from previous ones in that they considered the root of corruptions to be doctrinal (rather than simply a matter of moral weakness or lack of ecclesiastical discipline) and thus they aimed to change contemporary doctrines to accord with what they perceived to be the "true gospel". The Protestant Reformation is so called because the movement's leaders "protested" against the ecclesiastical hierarchy and the pope, essentially electing to institute their reforms separately from it. The term "Protestant", however, was not originally used by these leaders; instead, they called themselves "evangelical", emphasizing the "return to the true gospel (Greek: "euangelion")".
The beginning of the Protestant Reformation is generally identified with Martin Luther and the posting of the 95 Theses on the castle church in Wittenburg, Germany. Early protest was against corruptions such as simony, episcopal vacancies, and the sale of indulgences. The Protestant position, however, would come to incorporate doctrinal changes such as sola scriptura and sola fide. The three most important traditions to emerge directly from the Protestant Reformation were the Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist, Presbyterian, etc.), and Anglican traditions, though the latter group identifies as both "Reformed" and "Catholic", and some subgroups reject the classification as "Protestant".
The Protestant Reformation may be divided into two distinct but basically simultaneous movements, the Magisterial Reformation and the Radical Reformation. The Magisterial Reformation involved the alliance of certain theological teachers (Latin: "magistri") such as Luther, Huldrych Zwingli, John Calvin, Cranmer, etc. with secular magistrates who cooperated in the reformation of Christendom. Radical Reformers, besides forming communities outside state sanction, often employed more extreme doctrinal change, such as the rejection of tenants of the Councils of Nicaea and Chalcedon. Often the division between magisterial and radical reformers was as or more violent than the general Catholic and Protestant hostilities.
The Protestant Reformation spread almost entirely within the confines of Northern Europe, but did not take hold in certain northern areas such as Ireland and parts of Germany. By far the magisterial reformers were more successful and their changes more widespread than the radical reformers. The Catholic response to the Protestant Reformation is known as the Counter Reformation, or Catholic Reformation, which resulted in a reassertion of traditional doctrines and the emergence of new religious orders aimed at both moral reform and new missionary activity. The Counter Reformation reconvered approximately 33% of Northern Europe to Catholicism and initiated missions in South and Central America, Africa, Asia, and even China and Japan. Protestant expansion outside of Europe occurred on a smaller scale through colonization of North America and areas of Africa.
Martin Luther was an Augustinian friar and professor at the University of Wittenberg. In 1517, he published a list of 95 Theses, or points to be debated, concerning the illicitness of selling indulgences. Luther had a particular disdain for Aristotelian philosophy, and as he began developing his own theology, he increasingly came into conflict with Thomistic scholars, most notably Cardinal Cajetan. Soon, Luther had begun to develop his theology of justification, or process by which one is "made right" (righteous) in the eyes of God. In Catholic theology, one is made righteous by a progressive infusion of grace accepted through faith and cooperated with through good works. Luther's doctrine of justification differed from Catholic theology in that justification rather meant "the declaring of one to be righteous", where God imputes the merits of Christ upon one who remains without inherent merit. In this process, good works are more of an unessential byproduct that contribute nothing to one's own state of righteousness. Conflict between Luther and leading theologians lead to his gradual rejection of authority of the Church hierarchy. In 1520, he was condemned for heresy by the papal bull "Exsurge Domine", which he burned at Wittenburg along with books of canon law.
John Calvin was a French cleric and doctor of law turned Protestant reformer. He belonged to the second generation of the Reformation, publishing his theological tome, the "Institutes of the Christian Religion", in 1536 (later revised), and establishing himself as a leader of the Reformed church in Geneva, which became an "unofficial capital" of Reformed Christianity in the second half of the sixteenth century. He exerted a remarkable amount of authority in the city and over the city council, such that he has (rather ignominiously) been called a "Protestant pope". Calvin established an eldership together with a "consistory", where pastors and the elders established matters of religious discipline for the Genevan population. Calvin's theology is best known for his doctrine of (double) predestination, which held that God had, from all eternity, providentially foreordained who would be saved (the elect) and likewise who would be damned (the reprobate). Predestination was not the dominant idea in Calvin's works, but it would seemingly become so for many of his Reformed successors.
Unlike other reform movements, the English Reformation began by royal influence. Henry VIII considered himself a thoroughly Catholic King, and in 1521 he defended the papacy against Luther in a book he commissioned entitled, "The Defense of the Seven Sacraments", for which Pope Leo X awarded him the title "Fidei Defensor" (Defender of the Faith). However, the king came into conflict with the papacy when he wished to annul his marriage with Catherine of Aragon, for which he needed papal sanction. Catherine, among many other noble relations, was the aunt of Emperor Charles V, the papacy's most significant secular supporter. The ensuing dispute eventually lead to a break from Rome and the declaration of the King of England as head of the English (Anglican) Church. England then experienced a period of frenetic and eclectic reforms, some more radical and others more traditional, under monarchs such as Edward VI and Elizabeth I, and Archbishops of Canterbury such as Thomas Cranmer and William Laud. What emerged was a state church that considered itself both "Reformed" and "Catholic" but not "Roman" (and hesitated from the title "Protestant"), and other "unofficial" more radical movements such as the Puritans.
The Counter-Reformation, or Catholic Reformation, was the response of the Catholic Church to the Protestant Reformation. The essence of the Counter-Reformation was a renewed conviction in traditional practices and the upholding of Catholic doctrine as the source of ecclesiastic and moral reform, and the answer to halting the spread of Protestantism. Thus it experienced the founding of new religious orders, such as the Jesuits, the establishment of seminaries for the proper training of priests, renewed worldwide missionary activity, and the development of new yet orthodox forms of spirituality, such as that of the Spanish mystics and the French school of spirituality. The entire process was spearheaded by the Council of Trent, which clarified and reasserted doctrine, issued dogmatic definitions, and produced the "Roman Catechism".
Though Ireland, Spain, France, and elsewhere featured significantly in the Counter-Reformation, its heart was Italy and the various popes of the time, who established the "Index Librorum Prohibitorum" (the list of prohibited books) and the Roman Inquisition, a system of juridical tribunals that prosecuted heresy and related offences. The Papacy of St. Pius V (1566-1572) was known not only for its focus on halting heresy and worldly abuses within the Church, but also for its focus on improving popular piety in a determined effort to stem the appeal of Protestantism. Pius began his pontificate by giving large alms to the poor, charity, and hospitals, and the pontiff was known for consoling the poor and sick, and supporting missionaries. The activities of these pontiffs coincided with a rediscovery of the ancient Christian catacombs in Rome. As Diarmaid MacCulloch stated, "Just as these ancient martyrs were revealed once more, Catholics were beginning to be martyred afresh, both in mission fields overseas and in the struggle to win back Protestant northern Europe: the catacombs proved to be an inspiration for many to action and to heroism."
The First Great Awakening was a wave of religious enthusiasm among Protestants in the American colonies "c". 1730-1740, emphasizing the traditional Reformed virtues of Godly preaching, rudimentary liturgy, and a deep sense of personal guilt and redemption by Christ Jesus. Historian Sydney E. Ahlstrom saw it as part of a "great international Protestant upheaval" that also created Pietism in Germany, the Evangelical Revival, and Methodism in England. It centered on reviving the spirituality of established congregations, and mostly affected Congregational, Presbyterian, Dutch Reformed, German Reformed, Baptist, and Methodist churches, while also spreading within the slave population. The Second Great Awakening (1800–1830s), unlike the first, focused on the unchurched and sought to instill in them a deep sense of personal salvation as experienced in revival meetings. It also sparked the beginnings of Restorationist groups such as the Mormons and the Holiness movement. The Third Great Awakening began from 1857 and was most notable for taking the movement throughout the world, especially in English speaking countries. The final group to emerge from the "great awakenings" in North America was Pentecostalism, which had its roots in the Methodist, Wesleyan, and Holiness movements, and began in 1906 on Azusa Street, in Los Angeles. Pentecostalism would later lead to the Charismatic movement.
Restorationism refers to various unaffiliated movements that considered contemporary Christianity, in all its forms, to be a deviation from the true, original Christianity, which these groups then attempted to "Reconstruct", often using the Book of Acts as a "guidebook" or sorts. Restorationism developed out of the Second Great Awakening and is historically connected to the Protestant Reformation, but differs in that Restorationists do not usually describe themselves as "reforming" a Christian church continuously existing from the time of Jesus, but as "restoring" the Church that they believe was lost at some point. The name Restoration is also used to describe the Latter-day Saints (Mormons) and the Jehovah's Witness Movement.
Fascism describes certain related political regimes in 20th century Europe, especially the Nazi Germany of Hitler. In his encyclical "", Pope Pius XI declared that Fascist governments had hidden "pagan intentions" and expressed the irreconcilability of the Catholic position and Fascism, which placed the nation above God and fundamental human rights and dignity. Many Catholic priests and monastics were persecuted under the Nazi regime, most notable the concentration camp victims Maximilian Kolbe and Edith Stein (Saint Teresa Benedicta of the Cross). Furthermore, many Catholic laypeople and clergy played notable roles in sheltering Jews during the Holocaust, including Pope Pius XII. Various incidents, such as giving aid to downed Allied airmen, nearly caused Nazi Germany to invade the Vatican before the liberation of Rome in 1944.
The relationship between Nazism and Protestantism, especially the German Lutheran Church, is complex. Though the majority of Protestant church leaders in Germany made little comment on the Nazis' growing anti-Jewish activities, some, such as Dietrich Bonhoeffer (a Lutheran pastor) were strongly opposed to the Nazis. Bonhoeffer was later found guilty in the conspiracy to assassinate Hitler and executed.
Fundamentalist Christianity, is a movement that arose mainly within British and American Protestantism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in reaction to modernism and certain liberal Protestant groups that denied doctrines considered fundamental to Christianity yet still called themselves "Christian". Thus, fundamentalism sought to reestablish tenants that could not be denied without relinquishing a Christian identity, the "fundamentals": the Bible as God`s word, viewed as the sole source of authority, the virgin birth of Christ, the doctrine of atonement through Jesus, the bodily resurrection of Jesus, and the imminent return of Christ.
Ecumenism broadly refers to movements between Christian groups to establish a degree of unity through dialogue. ""Ecumenism"" is derived from Greek "" (oikoumene), which means "the inhabited world", but more figuratively something like "universal oneness". The movement can be distinguished into Catholic and Protestant movements, with the latter characterized by a redefined ecclesiology of "denominationalism" (which the Catholic Church, among others, rejects).
Concerning the Greek Orthodox Church, steady movement was made to reconcile the East-West Schism. On 30 November 1894, Pope Leo XIII publishes the Apostolic Letter "Orientalium Dignitas" (On the Churches of the East) safeguarding the importance and continuance of the Eastern traditions for the whole Church. On 7 December 1965, a Joint Catholic-Orthodox Declaration of His Holiness Pope Paul VI and the Ecumenical Patriarch Athenagoras I was issued lifting the mutual excommunications of 1054.
Concerning Catholic relations with Protestant communities, certain commissions were established to foster dialogue and documents have been produced aimed at identifying points of doctrinal unity, such as the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification produced with the Lutheran World Federation in 1999.
Ecumenical movements within Protestantism have focused on determining a list of doctrines and practices essential to being Christian and thus extending to all groups which fulfill these basic criteria a (more or less) equal status, with perhaps one's own group still retaining a "first among equal" standing. This process involved a redefinition of the idea of "the Church" from traditional theology. This ecclesiology, known as denominationalism, contends that each group (which fulfills the essential criteria of "being Christian") is a sub-group of a greater "Christian Church", itself a purely abstract concept with no direct representation, i.e. no group, or "denomination", claims to be "the Church". Obviously, this ecclesiology it at variance with other groups that indeed consider themselves to be "the Church". But moreover, because the "essential criteria" generally consist of belief in the holy Trinity, it has resulted in strife between these Protestant ecumenical movements and non-Trinitarian groups such as Latter-day Saints (Mormons) and Jehovah's Witnesses, which are not often not regarded as Christian by these ecumenical groups.
The following links give an overview of the history of Christianity:
The following link provides quantitative data related to Christianity and other major religions, including rates of adherence at different points in time:

</doc>
<doc id="54465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54465" title="Timeline of Christianity">
Timeline of Christianity

This timeline is to show the history of Christianity from the beginning to the present. Question marks on dates mean that dates are not exact. 
Western culture and Christian churches use the Gregorian calendar. The Gregorian calendar has been in use since 1582 when it replaced the Julian Calendar. The Julian calendar did not calculate (work out by mathematics) the length of the year accurately. The Gregorian Calendar added leap years to make this more correct. The Gregorian calendar began in Europe, in the reign of Pope Gregory XIII. The Gregorian calendar is now used almost everywhere in the world (except for calculating the holy days of other religions). 
The Gregorian calendar dates years from before or after the birth of Jesus. Years that are before the birth of Jesus have the initials BC (before Christ) and years that are after (traditionally) have the initials AD (anno Domini – "in the year of our Lord"). Nowadays these are often written BCE ("before the Common Era") and CE ("Common Era").
The "year one" is the first year in "anno Domini" (the Common Era). There is no year zero. When the Gregorian calendar was calculated, the scholars tried to work out exactly when the birth of Jesus happened. The exact date is not certain, but most agree that it was between 6 BC and 4 BC.
This list tells only about the things that happened in the part of the world where Jesus was born. This region is now called Israel and Palestine. In the time of Jesus, it was under the rule of the Romans.
Jesus began his ministry after his baptism by John and during the rule of Pilate, preaching: "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near" (). While the historicity of the gospel accounts is questioned to some extent by most critical scholars and non-Christians, the traditional view states the following chronology for his ministry: Temptation, Sermon on the Mount, Appointment of the Twelve, Miracles, Temple Money Changers, Last Supper, Arrest, Trial, Passion, Crucifixion on Good Friday (, ), Nisan 14th (, , Gospel of Peter) or Nisan 15th (Synoptic Gospels), (7 Apr 30, 3 Apr 33, 30 Mar 36, possible Fri-14-Nisan dates – Meier), entombment by Pharisees Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus of the Sanhedrin, Resurrection by God on Easter Sunday, appearances to Paul of Tarsus (), Simon Peter (), Mary Magdalene (, ), and others, Great Commission, Ascension, Second Coming Prophecy to fulfill the rest of Messianic prophecy such as the Resurrection of the dead, the Last Judgment, and establishment of the Kingdom of God and the Messianic Age. See also Chronology of Jesus.
Shortly after the Crucifixion of Jesus (Nisan 14 or 15), the Jerusalem church was founded as the first Christian church with about 120 Jews and Jewish proselytes (), followed by Pentecost, the Ananias and Sapphira incident, Pharisee Gamaliel's defense of the Apostles (), the stoning of Saint Stephen (see also Persecution of Christians) and the subsequent dispersal of the church () which led to the baptism of Simon Magus in Samaria (), and also an Ethiopian eunuch (). Paul's conversion to "Apostle to the Gentiles" is first recorded in (, cf. ). Peter baptized the Centurion Cornelius, who is traditionally considered the first Gentile convert to Christianity (). The Antioch church was founded. It was there that the term Christian was first used (). Saint James was executed by Agrippa I (ruled 39–44) during a Passover (Nisan 15) ().
Constantine called the First Council of Nicaea in 325 to unify Christology, also called the first great Christian council by Jerome, the first ecumenical, decreed the Original Nicene Creed, but rejected by Nontrinitarianism such as Arius, Theonas, Secundus, Eusebius of Nicomedia, and Theognis who were excommunicated, also addressed Easter controversy and passed 20 Canon laws.

</doc>
<doc id="54472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54472" title="List of coats of arms of the districts in Rhineland-Palatinate">
List of coats of arms of the districts in Rhineland-Palatinate

List of coats of arms of the 24 districts and the 12 urban districts in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany

</doc>
<doc id="54475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54475" title="Schism (religion)">
Schism (religion)

The word schism ('sɪzəm or ), from the Greek σχίσμα, "skhísma" (from σχίζω, "skhízō", "to tear, to split"), means a division or a split, usually in an organization or a movement. 
A schismatic is a person who creates schism in an organization or who is a member of a splinter group. "Schismatic" as an adjective means belonging to a schism or schisms, or to those ideas, policies, etc. that are thought to lead towards schism. 
The words "schism" and "schismatic" have found perhaps their heaviest usage in the history of Christianity, to speak of splits within a church. 
Within Christianity the word "schism" may refer to:
Though it is very important to note the difference between schism and heresy. Heresy is to reject or doubt the beliefs of the Church after having been baptised. Schism means that the opposing parties have a disagreement within the establishment. Both groups have to accept that they are in schism. In the canon law of the Catholic Church, an act of schism, apostasy or heresy brings the penalty of excommunication.
There are divisions between Sunni, Shia, and Kharijite Islam in CE 632 regarding the rightful successor to the prophet Muhammad. In 661 and 680 there were divisions regarding the rightful claimant to the Caliphate. 
In Buddhism, the first schism was set up by Devadatta, during Buddha's life. After Buddha's passing away, the early Buddhist schools developed various schisms. In the old texts, 18 or 20 early schools are mentioned. Later, there were the Mahayana and Vajrayana movements, which can be regarded as being schismatic in origin. There are now perhaps thousands of different Buddhist sects.
Throughout the Jewish history, Judaism survived many schisms. Today, major Jewish denominations are Orthodox Judaism and non-Orthodox: Reform, Conservative and Reconstructionist.

</doc>
<doc id="54477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54477" title="Proselyte">
Proselyte

Proselyte, from Greek "/proselytos", is used in the Septuagint for "stranger", i.e. a newcomer to Israel; a sojourner in the land, and in the New Testament (Strong's G4339) for a convert to Judaism from Paganism. It is a translation of the Hebrew word "/ger" (Strong's H1616).
There are two kinds of proselyte:
A righteous proselyte was a Gentile who had converted to Judaism, was bound to all the doctrines and precepts of the Jewish economy, and was considered a full member of the Jewish people.
A gate proselyte was a "resident alien" who lived in the Land of Israel and followed some of the customs.
The "religious proselytes" spoken of in Early Christian writings were righteous proselytes, as distinguished from gate proselytes.

</doc>
<doc id="54481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54481" title="Twelve Apostles">
Twelve Apostles

The Twelve Apostles ("", "apostolos", Liddell & Scott, Strong's G652, someone sent forth/sent out) were men that according to the Synoptic Gospels and Christian tradition, were chosen from among the disciples (students) of Jesus for a mission. According to the Bauer lexicon, Walter Bauer's "Greek-English Lexicon of the NT": "...Judaism had an office known as apostle (שליח)". 
The Gospel of Mark states that Jesus initially sent out these twelve in pairs (, cf. ,), to towns in Galilee. 
According to the list occurring in each of the Synoptic Gospels (, , ), the Twelve chosen by Jesus near the beginning of his ministry, those whom "also He named Apostles", were:
The identity of the other apostle of the twelve, traditionally called St. Jude, varies between the Synoptic Gospels and also between ancient manuscripts of each gospel:
The Gospel of John, unlike the Synoptic Gospels, does not offer a formal list of apostles, but does refer to the "Twelve" in , , and . The following nine apostles are identified by name:
The individual that the Gospel of John names as Nathanael is traditionally identified as the same person that the Synoptic Gospels call Bartholomew, and most would agree that the "sons of Zebedee" is likely to be a reference to James the Great and John, while "Judas (not Iscariot)" probably refers to Thaddaeus, also known as St. Jude. Noticeably missing from the Gospel of John are James, son of Alphaeus, Matthew, and Simon the Canaanite/Zealot. James the Just was, according to Acts, the leader of the Jerusalem church, and Matthew is noticeably the most Jewish of the Gospels, and it may be the case that the author of John deliberately left out these two figures for a motive opposed to Jewish Christianity. By the second century, the presence of two Simons in the list of the Synoptic Gospels allowed a case to be made for Simon Magus being the other of the Simons, and hence one of the twelve apostles; and it may have been for this reason that John left the other Simon out. The second Simon may also have been Simeon of Jerusalem, the second leader of the Jerusalem church, after James.

</doc>
<doc id="54483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54483" title="Oriental Orthodoxy">
Oriental Orthodoxy

Oriental Orthodoxy means the group of Eastern Christian Churches that accept only the first three ecumenical councils — the First Council of Nicaea, the First Council of Constantinople and the Council of Ephesus — and do not accept the dogmatic definitions of the Council of Chalcedon. These Churches are also called Old Oriental Churches. Oriental Orthodox churches are different from the churches that call themselves Eastern Orthodoxy.
The Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria is the spiritual leader of the Oriental Orthodox Churches. This is because the Pope of Alexandria is also Patriarch of all Africa on the Holy See of St. Mark the Apostle.
The spiritual leadership is not understood in the same sense as among the Eastern Orthodox Churches to the Church of Constantinople. It is in the spirit of respect and honour for the Apostolic Throne of Alexandria. It does not give any special rights to the Church of Alexandria.
The schism (division) between "Great Church Orthodox and Catholic" and the "Oriental Orthodox Churches" happened in the 5th century after the Council of Chalcedon.

</doc>
<doc id="54489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54489" title="Dogma">
Dogma

A dogma is something that should not be disputed or doubted. Most often, this means the basic beliefs and doctrines of a religion. What a majority of followers of an ideology or any kind of organization believe in can also be a dogma. 
In the context of religion, the term has a neutral meaning. Outside of religion for most people the term means something negative, because it accepts only a particular point of view. If someone disputes a religious dogma, they can be accused of heresy.
In Christianity, the Resurrection of Jesus is a basic dogma.

</doc>
<doc id="54490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54490" title="Dogma (disambiguation)">
Dogma (disambiguation)

Dogma is belief accepted by a religion or ideology as the only correct one.
Dogma could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="54491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54491" title="State religion">
State religion

A state religion (also called an official religion, established church or state church) is a religious group or creed officially accepted by the state. The term "state church" is used in context with Christianity, and is sometimes used for a specific national branch of Christianity.
The following states recognize some form of Christianity as their state or official religion (by denomination):
Jurisdictions which recognize Roman Catholicism as their state or official religion:
Jurisdictions which recognize an Old Catholic church as their state religion:
Jurisdictions which recognize one of the Eastern Orthodox Churches as their state religion:
Jurisdictions which recognize a Lutheran church as their state religion:
Jurisdictions which recognize a Reformed church as their state religion:
Countries which recognize Islam as their official religion:
Governments which recognize Buddhism as their official religion:
The concept of state religions was known as long ago as the empires of Egypt and Sumer, when every city state or people had its own god or gods.
Zoroastrianism was the state religion of the Sassanid dynasty which lasted from (226 - 651).
Many of the Greek city-states also had a 'god' or 'goddess' associated with that city.
When in Rome, the office of "Pontifex Maximus" was reserved for the emperor, failure to worship him as a god was sometimes punished by death, as the Roman government sought to link emperor worship with loyalty to the Empire. Many Christians and Jews were persecuted, because it was against their beliefs to worship the emperor.
Catholic Christianity, as opposed to Arianism and other heretical and schismatic groups, was declared to be the state religion of the Roman Empire on February 27 380 by the decree "De Fide Catolica" of Emperor Theodosius I.
In China, the Han Dynasty (206 BC -- 220 AD) advocated Confucianism as the de facto state religion, establishing tests based on Confucian texts as an entrance requirement into government service.
These states do not profess any state religion. Countries which officially decline to establish any religion include:
In 1967, the Albanian government made atheism the "state religion". This designation remained in effect until 1991.
Finland's State Church was the Church of Sweden until 1809.
In France the Concordat of 1801 made the Roman Catholic, Calvinist and Lutheran churches state-sponsored religions, as well as Judaism.
In Hungary the constitutional laws of 1848 declared five established churches on equal status: the Roman Catholic, Calvinist, Lutheran, Eastern Orthodox and Unitarian Church. In 1868 the law was ratified again after the Ausgleich. In 1895 Judaism was also recognized as the sixth established church. In 1948 every distinction between the different denominations were abolished.
The Church in Wales was split from the Church of England in 1920 by Welsh Church Act 1914; at the same time becoming disestablished.
In several colonies, the establishment ceased to exist in practice at the Revolution, about 1776; this is the date of legal abolition.
in 1789 the Georgia Constitution was amended as follows:
"Article IV. Section 10. No person within this state shall, upon any pretense, be deprived of the inestimable privilege of worshipping God in any manner agreeable to his own conscience, nor be compelled to attend any place of worship contrary to his own faith and judgment; nor shall he ever be obliged to pay tithes, taxes, or any other rate, for the building or repairing any place of worship, or for the maintenance of any minister or ministry, contrary to what he believes to be right, or hath voluntarily engaged. To do. No one religious society shall ever be established in this state, in preference to another; nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of any civil right merely on account of his religious principles."
From 1780 Massachusetts had a system which required every man to belong to a church, and permitted each church to tax its members, and did not require that it be a Congregational church. This was objected to, as in practice establishing the Congregational Church, and was abolished in 1833.
Until 1877 the New Hampshire Constitution required members of the State legislature to be of the Protestant religion.
The North Carolina Constitution of 1776 disestablished the Anglican church, but until 1835 the NC Constitution allowed only Protestants to hold public office. From 1835-1876 it allowed allowed only Christians (including Catholics) to hold public office. Article VI, Section 8 of the current NC Constitution forbids only atheists from holding public office. Such clauses were held by the United States Supreme Court to be unenforceable in the 1961 case of Torcaso v. Watkins, when the court ruled unanimously that such clauses constituted a religious test incompatible with First and Fourteenth Amendment protections.
Religious Tolerance for Catholics with an Established Church of England were policy in the former Spanish Colonies of East and West Florida while under British rule. East Florida was lost to Spain in 1781.
Religious tolerance for Catholics with an established Church of England were policy in the former Spanish Colonies of East and West Florida while under British rule. East Florida was returned to Spain in 1783.
The State of Deseret was a provisional state of the United States, proposed in 1849 by Mormon settlers in Salt Lake City. The provisional state existed for slightly over two years.

</doc>
<doc id="54501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54501" title="Mass (disambiguation)">
Mass (disambiguation)

The term Mass is used for different concepts, in different fields of study:
In the plural form, the masses, can mean: 
An adjective describing a large amount of something, as in: 

</doc>
<doc id="54502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54502" title="Mass (music)">
Mass (music)

In music the word mass is used for a piece of music, to be sung by a choir. The Roman Catholic, Anglican and Lutheran churches use this. There are two very broad kinds of masses: Those using the Ordinary are not linked to the Church calendar, they use the same pieces (and words) throughout the year. The Proper covers the parts of the mass that vary through the year. At the start, masses were sung in Latin or Greek. Examples of masses not in English include the Deutsche Messe by Franz Schubert, and A German Requiem by Johannes Brahms. 
The usual words that are set to music are known as the Ordinary. These are the words of the service which are the same every day. The Ordinary consists of five parts: Kyrie (Lord have mercy upon us….), Gloria (Glory be to thee….), Credo (I believe in God the Father….), Sanctus (Holy, Holy, Holy….) and Agnus Dei (O Lamb of God…).
The words of the mass that are not from the Ordinary are called the Proper. These are words that may change in the service from day to day. The Proper consists of the Introit, Gradual, Alleluia, Tract, Offertory and Communion. There are also some words which are special for particular feast days.
In the Renaissance period church composers set the words of the Ordinary mass to music. This music was normally polyphonic: the different sections of the choir (soprano, alto, tenor and bass) all had musical lines which shared the melody and were of equal importance. The words of the Proper were not composed to special music. They were sung to plainchant.
During the last two centuries many composers have written masses which were not meant to be sung in a church service: they are written as concert pieces. Some of them are quite long and fill a whole concert programme. Some of the most famous masses are those by Bach, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Berlioz, Dvořák, Verdi, Bruckner, Fauré and Vaughan Williams.

</doc>
<doc id="54504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54504" title="Ecumenical council">
Ecumenical council

An Ecumenical Council (also sometimes Oecumenical Council) or general council is a meeting of the bishops of the church of the whole world who have come together to discuss matters of Church doctrine and practice. 
The word is from the Greek language "", which means "inhabited", and was originally an other name for the territory of the Roman Empire, because the earliest councils were all called in by Roman Emperors. In later times it was used in the sense of "world-wide" or "general."
The period of Christianity from the First Council of Nicaea (325) to the Second Council of Nicaea (787) is called the period of the Seven Ecumenical Councils. 

</doc>
<doc id="54507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54507" title="Camille Saint-Saëns">
Camille Saint-Saëns

Camille Saint-Saens (French: Camille Saint-Saëns) (born Paris 9 October 1835; died Algiers, 16 December 1921) was a French composer, pianist and organist. He was one of the greatest composers of his day. He composed lots of music of different kinds. Among his best works are his "Symphony no 3 (with organ) ", "Piano Concerto no 2", "Violin Concerto no 3", "Cello Concerto no 1", the opera "Samson and Delilah" and the "Danse Macabre". His most popular work, however, is the "Carnival of the Animals". Saint-Saens hated being thought of as “the composer of the "Carnival of the Animals"". He said he had only written it for a bit of fun and he did not want anyone to perform it. Today it still remains one of the most popular pieces for children.
Three months after Camille was born his father died. Camille was often ill with tuberculosis when he was very small. He was brought up by his mother and his aunt. His aunt taught him the piano from when he was two. When he was ten he played piano concertos by Beethoven and Mozart at a public concert, playing everything from memory. He was very good at school and was interested in lots of subjects including science and philosophy. In 1858 he published some duets for harmonium and piano and he used the money to buy a telescope.
He studied music at the Paris Conservatoire and was a brilliant student, although he did not win the Prix de Rome. He soon became known as a composer, pianist and organist and he made many friends, among them Gounod, Berlioz and Rossini. Liszt thought he was the greatest organist in the world. Like Liszt, Saint-Saëns was often very kind to other composers and helped them to become known by playing and conducting their music. He was the first person to conduct Liszt’s symphonic poems in France. He himself wrote symphonic poems such as "Le Rouet d’Omphale" (1871) and "Danse Macabre" (1874). The idea of music which describes a story was quite a new idea at that time. He also helped people to like Bach whose music had been forgotten for a long time.
In the 1860s his fame spread and he also did some teaching at the École Niedermeyer which educated young musicians for church music. His pupils included Faure, Messager and Gigout who all became lifelong friends. He also founded the Société Nationale de Musique which helped new music to be performed. Faure, Cesar Franck and Lalo were all members. The society gave first performances of works by Saint-Saens, Chabrier, Debussy, Dukas and Ravel and others.
Saint-Saens married a 19-year-old girl. The marriage was not a success. They had two sons who died within six weeks of one another: the baby from an illness and the two-year-old from falling out of a fourth floor window. Saint-Saens blamed his wife and they eventually divorced.
For many years Saint-Saens travelled all over the world as a famous musician. Eventually he became less popular in France, but in England and the United States he was still very much admired. He played for Queen Victoria and spent some time studying original manuscripts of Handel in the library of Buckingham Palace. He was awarded the title of Doctor by the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge and was made a Commander of the Victorian Order because he had composed a march for the coronation of King Edward VII in 1902. He died in Algiers in 1921. His funeral was in the cathedral there, and his body was then taken back to Paris where he was given a state funeral at the church of Madeleine.
Saint-Saens was more famous in the concert hall than he was in the theatre. He wrote 13 operas, but only one of them is still regularly performed: "Samson et Dalila" ("Samson and Delilah"). One of the arias from this opera, "Mon cœur s’ouvre à ta voix", is especially famous.
Saint-Saens wrote many concertos, symphonies, sonatas and chamber music. He often uses the style of dance music and creates a happy atmosphere by repeating certain patterns. His music is late Romantic, but based on the classical traditions rather than following the style of Wagner like many other French composers were doing at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="54510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54510" title="Fly to the Sky">
Fly to the Sky

Fly to the Sky (hangul:플라이 투 더 스카이) is a South Korean R&B duo. Its members are Korean American Brian Joo and South Korean Fany (also known as Hwanhee; Korean: 환희 Chinese: 歡喜; meaning "delight"). Since their 1999 debut single "Day by Day," they released six albums. Although they were marketed as teen idols, the duo later changed their image and style with their third album "Sea of Love" in 2002. With their future albums, the duo became known as R&B artists and are known as the first R&B duo of South Korea.
The duo started in late 1998 by Korean record company SM Entertainment. A friend of Brian Joo signed him up for auditions with Brothers Entertainment without his knowledge. while he was going to Holy Spirit High School, a Roman Catholic school in New Jersey. As for Fany, a staff member working for the company recommended him to audition at a school festival. 
Their first appeared on television on December 9, 1999. Their first album "Day by Day" sold over 250,000 copies.
Their second album "The Promise" was released in 2001. The album hit #2 on the charts, but it quickly slipped from the charts. In the same year, they had their first concert with singer Kim Jo-Han.
The duo released two albums during this time. Their third album "Sea of Love" was released while Joo was at New Jersey going to Rutgers University, so Fany performed the songs by himself. The album featured "Condition of My Heart" which was written by American singer Brian McKnight.
Their fourth album "Missing You" was came out around the time when his manager died in a car crash. Fany was especially shocked by his death, because he was in the same car with his manager just hours before the incident.
"Gravity" was their fifth and last album came out by SM Entertainment. Their contract to the company ended soon after the release.
Fly to the Sky signed on with PFull Entertainment after their first contract ended in 2004. They wanted a smaller label that cared less about money. Fly to the Sky recorded their sixth studio album "Transition" in January 2006.
The duo started their first tour in Korea called "Fly To The Sky: 2006 The Twice Tour". Starting from Jamsil Arena in Seoul in May 2006, they had concerts in major Korean cities like Busan, Daegu, Junju, and Kwangju.
When "Transition" became popular, Fly to the Sky made a special edition, which had more music videos, deleted scenes and the more songs titled "Hwan Sang (Illusion)," "Hot and Cold," and "When I Say."
In 2004 and 2005, there was a rumor that they would break up. Brian denied to rumours and said that Fly to the Sky was not disbanding. He said the two had hard time getting along for first few years of their career on the show "Yah Shim Man Man," which aired on July 10. He said that he felt envy towards Fany, because he received more attention and praise than him. Brian felt that he was not given his due as Fany. Eventually he found this difficult to bear, and suggested to Fany that they pursue their separate paths. Fany responded angrily and the led to a fight that nearly led to the duo breaking up. The two was on good terms again soon after, understanding each other better. After the fight, the two decided to try to better understand each other in order to solve their problems together and to support each other. Brian's eyes were filled with tears when he was talking about the rumour.
Since 2006, the duo has appeared many times in variety shows. Fany appeared on Korean television drama "Over the Rainbow" during summer of 2006, and Brian released his solo album "The Brian" in December 2006. They became more popular but some critics and fans said they were compromising their image as artists.
The websites are in Korean.

</doc>
<doc id="54516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54516" title="Bram Stoker">
Bram Stoker

Abraham "Bram" Stoker (8 November 1847– 20 April 1912) was an Irish writer, best remembered as the author of the influential vampire novel "Dracula".
He was born on 8 November 1847 at 15 Marino Crescent—then as now called "The Crescent"—in Clontarf, a coastal suburb of Dublin, Ireland. His parents were Abraham Stoker (born in 1799; married Stoker's mother in 1844; died on 10 October 1876) and the feminist Charlotte Mathilda Blake Thornley (born in 1818; died in 1901). Stoker was the third of seven children. Abraham and Charlotte were members of the Church of Ireland and attended the Clontarf parish church (St. John the Baptist) with their children where both were baptised. Until he started school at the age of seven—when he made a complete, astounding recovery—Stoker was an invalid. Of this time, Stoker wrote, "I was naturally thoughtful, and the leisure of long illness gave opportunity for many thoughts which were fruitful according to their kind in later years."
After his recovery, he became a normal young man even excelling as an athlete at Trinity College, Dublin (1864–70), from which he was graduated with honors in mathematics. He was auditor of the College Historical Society and president of the University Philosophical Society, where his first paper was on "Sensationalism in Fiction and Society". In 1876, while employed as a civil servant in Dublin, he wrote theater reviews for "The Dublin Mail", a newspaper partly owned by fellow horror writer J. Sheridan Le Fanu. His interest in theatre led to a lifelong friendship with the English actor Henry Irving. In 1878 Stoker married Florence Balcombe, a celebrated beauty whose former suitor was Oscar Wilde. The couple moved to London, where Stoker became business manager of Irving's Lyceum Theatre, a post he held for 27 years. The collaboration with Irving was very important for Stoker. Through him he became involved in London's high society, where he met, among other notables, James McNeil Whistler and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. In the course of Irving's tours he got the chance to travel around the world.
They had one son, Irving Noel Stoker, who was born 31 December 1879.
He supplemented his income by writing a large number of sensational novels, his most famous being the vampire tale "Dracula" which he published in 1897. Before writing "Dracula", Stoker spent eight years researching European folklore and stories of vampires. "Dracula" is an epistolary novel, written as collection of diary entries, telegrams, and letters from the characters, as well as fictional clippings from the Whitby and London newspapers. Stoker's inspiration for the story was a visit to Slains Castle near Aberdeen. The bleak spot provided an excellent backdrop for his creation. 
"Dracula" has been the basis for countless movies and plays. The first was "Nosferatu" directed by Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau and starring Max Schreck as Count Orlock. "Nosferatu" was produced while Florence Stoker, Bram Stoker's widow and literary executrix, was still alive. Represented by the attorneys of the British Incorporated Society of Authors, she eventually sued the filmmakers. Her chief legal complaint was that she had been neither asked for permission for the adaptation nor paid any royalty. The case dragged on for some years, with Mrs Stoker demanding the destruction of the negative and all prints of the movie. The suit was finally resolved in the widow's favour in July 1925. Some copies of the movie survived, however, and "Nosferatu" is now widely regarded as an innovative classic. The most famous movie version of "Dracula" is the 1931 production starring Bela Lugosi and which spawned several sequels that had little to do with Stoker's novel.
Stoker wrote several other novels dealing with horror and supernatural themes, but none of them achieved the lasting fame or success of "Dracula". His other novels include "The Snake's Pass" (1890), "The Jewel of Seven Stars" (1903), and "The Lair of the White Worm" (1911).

</doc>
<doc id="54517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54517" title="Criss Angel">
Criss Angel

Criss Angel (born Christopher Nicholas Sarantakos, December 19, 1967) is an American illusionist, stuntperformer, and musician. He has done many illusions. Examples of these include walking on water, making an Asian elephant vanish and then reappear several episodes later, and floating between two buildings. Angel has had a television program on the American network A&E called "Criss Angel Mindfreak". The program has stunts and street magic, as well as public service announcements about scams that are popular around the United States. 
Angel was the guest host of the March 8, 2010 version of WWE Monday Night Raw. 

</doc>
<doc id="54523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54523" title="TVXQ">
TVXQ

TVXQ (Tong Vfang Xien Qi) is a five-member K-pop boy band active in South Korea and Japan. Its members are U-know Yunho, Hero Jaejoong, Micky Yoochun, Xiah Junsu and Max Changmin. The group is popular in East Asian countries including Taiwan and China. They debuted in 2004 and belong to Korean record company SM Entertainment. They are known by different names. They are known as Dong Bang Shin Ki (abbreviated DBSK, 동방신기, 東方神起) in Korea and Tohoshinki in Japan.
The group has released three Japanese and six Korean albums. Their fourth Korean album, "Mirotic" was released in 2008. It has sold over 550,000 copies. It is their most successful album. Before that, the 2006 album "O-Jung.Ban.Hap." continued to chart in 2007 along with the group's 2005 album "Rising Sun". Their first Japanese album "Heart, Mind, and Soul" performed modestly. It peaked at #25 on the Oricon Chart. The album sold less than 20,000 copies. Their second album "Five in the Black" did better. The album peaked at #2 and sold over 26,000 copies in its first week of release. The third album "T" also peaked at #2 and sold 30,003 copies on the first day of its release.
TVXQ has an official fan club, called "cassiopeia", in Korea. The number of people of this fan club makes it the biggest in the world. There is also a big fan club in Japan.
1st Single - Stay With Me Tonight 2005/4/27
2nd Single - Somebody To Love 2005/7/13
3rd Single - My Destiny 2005/11/2
4th Single - 明日は来るから 2006/3/8
5th Single - Rising Sun / Heart, Mind and Soul 2006/4/26
6th Single - Begin 2006/6/21
7th Single - Sky 2006/8/16
8th Single - miss you /O-Jung.Ban.Hap. 2006/11/08
9th Single - Step by Step 2007/1/24
10th Single - Choosey Lover 2007/3/7
11th Single - Lovin' you 2007/6/8
12th Single - SUNMER~Summer Dream/Song for you/Love In The Ice~ 2007/8/1
13th Single - Shine/Ride On 2007/9/19
14th Single - Forever Love 2007/11/14
15th Single - Together 2007./12/19
16th Single - Purple Line 2008.01.16
17th Single - Two hearts / WILD SOUL（CHANGMIN） 2008/2/6
18th Single - Runaway / My Girlfriend（YUCHUN） 2008/02/13
19th Single - If...!? / Rainy Night（JUNSU） 2008/02/27
20th Single - Close to you / Crazy Life（YUNHO） 2008/03/05
21st Single - Keyword / Maze（JEJUNG） 2008/03/12
22nd single - Beautiful you/千年恋歌 2008/04/23
23rd single—どうして君を好きになってしまったんだろう？ 2008/07/16
24th Single - 呪文-MIROTIC 2008/10/17
25th Single - Bolero / Kiss The Baby Sky / 忘れないで 2009/01/21
26th Single - Survivor 2009/03/11
27th Single - Share The World / ウィーアー！ 2009/04/22
28th Single - Stand by U 2009/07/01
Special Single - COLORS ～Melody and Harmony～ / Shelter JEJUNG & YUCHUN 2009/09/30
29th Single - BREAK OUT! 2010/01/27
30th Single - 时ヲ止メテ 2010/03/24
31st Single - Why?[Keep Your Head Down] 2011/01/26
32nd Single - Catch Me [If You Wanna] 2013/01/16
In 2008, TVXQ made the Guinness World Records for having the world's largest official fan club. Cassiopeia, the band's official fan club, is claimed to have more than 800,000 official members just in South Korea, more than 200,000 official members in Japan (BigEast) and more than 200,000 international fans (iCassies). They also made Guinness a second time in 2009. Aside from having the world's largest fan club, the group was also listed as the most photographed celebrities in the world. From the day of their debut to March 19, 2009, the five members are estimated to have been photographed about 500 million times in magazines, albums jackets, and commercials, etc. The total figure includes individual photos as well as group pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="54524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54524" title="Ayumi Hamasaki">
Ayumi Hamasaki

Ayumi Hamasaki ( "Hamasaki Ayumi"; born October 2, 1978) is a Japanese singer, songwriter, and former actress. She is also called Ayu by her fans, and called the "Empress of Pop" because her music is very popular in Japan. She was born and raised in Fukuoka. When she was fourteen, she moved to Tokyo and began her career as an actress in 1993. In 1998, she was signed to the label Avex Trax and released a number of singles that were successful. In 1999, she released her first studio album "A Song for XX" which was very successful and made her popular in Japan.
Because she changes her appearance and artistry very often, she is popular in other parts of Asia like China, Singapore, and Taiwan. Many of her songs are used in commercials and advertisements. She often appears in some of these.
Before she joined Avex Trax, she released a single and an album both called "Nothing From Nothing". But these did not become popular. Since she debuted in 1998 with "Poker Face," Hamasaki sold more than 50 records in Japan. This puts her as one of the highest ranking singers in the country. She holds many records as a female singers. These include the most number-one hits and highest sales.
Hamasaki dated Tomoya Nagase (a singer and actor) since her short acting career. They announced they were dating in 2001. Six years later, there were rumors that Hamasaki and Nagase were going to get married. But on July 13, 2007 Hamasaki said that they had broken up. She did not say why, but she said that they will stay as friends.
In 2008, Hamasaki revealed that she had become deaf in her left ear. This was because of tinnitus or Ménière's disease. She said that she had the condition in 2006 and that problems with her ear started in 2000. Hamasaki stated that she wants to continue singing. She said that she would "not give up" on her fans and that "as a professional", she wanted to "deliver the best performance for everyone".
January 1,2011, to marry a fan club site Ayumi Hamasaki 'TeamAyu' reported the fan.

</doc>
<doc id="54525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54525" title="Love Generation">
Love Generation

Love Generation () was a dramatic Japanese television series on Fuji Television. It first aired in Japan from October 13 1997 to December 22, 1997 every Monday. It had a very high rating of 30.8%. It features music by Cagnet.
The show revolves around the relationship of the two leading characters, Katagiri Teppei and Uesugi Riko, who begin their relationship as squabbling colleagues before falling in love. Katagiri Teppei is a talented designer and very popular among women. Unfortunately, Teppei, who despises anything boring and repetitive, is forced to move to the sales department for his egocentric behavior. Throughout the series, he is forced to adapt to the new working environment, which includes cutting his precious locks of hair to create a neater and more professional image. As he struggles to adapt, he meets Uesugi Riko. While she does not like him at first, she eventually falls for him. However, Teppei runs into his highschool sweetheart Mizuhara Sanae, and discovers that his ex-girlfriend is now engaged to his brother Soichiro. Fortunately, Riko is there to console him, and this eventually blooms into a romance. Not long after, however, Sanae realizes she still has feelings for Teppei, and thus creates a love triangle. To make the matter even more complicated, Soichiro starts to have an affair with his past girlfriend.
Teppei's apartment has many unusual items such as Thai artifact, a 30-year-old refrigerator, and a crystal apple. The meaning behind the apple is that there is only one true love, between Adam and Eve, that is. A crystal can be broken easily, and when one would look in it, it appears upside down. The apple is seen upside down for the 10 of the 11 episodes. At the last episode, however, the apple is no longer upside down. The apple is on the album cover of the soundtrack for "Love Generation".
The advertising poster appears over and over again. The model is holding a crystal apple, and reads "True love never runs smooth" symbolizing the relationship between Riko and Teppei, which constantly faces struggles from when they meet for the very first time to the love triangle. This advertisement is visible everywhere from the park to Teppei's 30-year-old refrigerator, as "True love never runs smooth" is the unofficial tagline of this television series.

</doc>
<doc id="54526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54526" title="Psyche (mythology)">
Psyche (mythology)

Psyche (pronounce: SY-kee) is a former mortal woman and goddess of the soul in Greek mythology. She is the wife of Eros (Cupid) and the mother of Hedone. She is always pictured with butterfly wings. Today, Psyche is known from a story called "The Golden Ass", written by Lucius Apuleius in the 2nd century.

</doc>
<doc id="54549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54549" title="Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet">
Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet

Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet (December 10, 1787 - September 10, 1851) was an American teacher and the founder of the American School for the Deaf. He founded the school in 1817.
Gallaudet was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He went to Yale University. He got his bachelor's degree in 1805 and master's degree in 1808. He wanted to do many things for example, study law or study religion. In 1814, Gallaudet became a preacher. 
Gallaudet chose not to become a preacher when he met Alice Cogswell, the nine-year-old deaf daughter of a neighbor, Dr. Mason Cogswell. He taught her many words by writing them in the dirt. Cogswell asked Gallaudet to go to Europe to learn ways for teaching deaf people. 
While in Great Britain, he met Abbé Sicard, head of a school for deaf people in Paris, and two of its deaf teachers, Laurent Clerc and Jean Massieu. Sicard asked Gallaudet to go to Paris to study the school's ways of teaching the deaf. Gallaudet studied with Sicard. He learned sign language from Massieu and Clerc, who were both graduates of the school.
Gallaudet asked Clerc to go back to America with him. The two men toured New England and got money to create a school for deaf students in Hartford, Connecticut which later became known as the American School for the Deaf. Young Alice was one of the first seven students in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="54550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54550" title="Annelid">
Annelid

Annelids are a phylum of invertebrate worms. They are the segmented worms, with over 17,0000 known species. 
Well known species are earthworms and leeches. Annelids can be found in most wet environments. Some of these species are parasitic or mutualistic. This means they live together with (or inside) another organism. A mutualistic relationship is beneficial to both organisms. Their size varies from under a millimetre to about 3 metres. The largest known species is the seep tube worm (Lamellibrachia lymnesi), which is related to the giant tube worm.
Annelids are made of one or more body segments. Each segment has one or more rings. These rings are called "annuli" (singular: 'annulus' = 'little ring'). Annelids reproduce sexually by hermaphroditic cross-fertilization. They can regenerate cut off pieces of their body. Unlike sponges, which can come back together if ripped apart. They have a hydrostatic skeleton, a one-way digestion system, and bilateral symmetry.
Annelid worms have a nervous system. The brain forms a ring round the pharynx (throat), consisting of a pair of ganglia (local control centers) above and in front of the pharynx, linked by nerve cords either side of the pharynx to another pair of ganglia just below and behind it. In some very mobile and active polychaetes the brain is enlarged and more complex, with visible hindbrain, midbrain and forebrain sections.
The rest of the central nervous system is usually 'ladder-like', with a pair of nerve cords that run along the bottom part of the body cavity. In each segment there are paired ganglia linked by a cross-connection. From each segmental ganglion a branching system of local nerves runs into the body wall and then encircles the body.

</doc>
<doc id="54559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54559" title="Polychaete">
Polychaete

Polychaetes, or "bristle worms", are a class of annelid worms. 
They are generally found in a marine environment. There are more than 10,000 known species in this class. They are ancient animals, dating back to 518 million years ago. They are first found in the early Cambrian fossil beds of Sirius Passet in Greenland.
Each of their body segments has some fleshy protrusions that stand out. These 'parapodia' have many bristles, which are made of chitin. This is different from the Oligochaeta, which are similar in form, but only have a few bristles. 
Common species are the lugworm, and the clam worm "Nereis" (which is sometimes also called a 'sandworm').
Polychaetes are segmented worms, generally less than in length, although ranging at the extremes from to . They are often brightly coloured, and may be iridescent or even luminescent. 
Each segment bears a pair of paddle-like parapodia, which are used for movement. In many species, the parapodia, well supplied with blood vessels, act as the worm's primary respiratory surfaces. Bundles of bristles stick out from the parapodia.
Some bristle worms have poison bristles. The bristles will break off in the skin of a predator that tries to pick up the animal and sting the predator painfully.
The head, or prostomium, is relatively well developed, compared with other annelids. It is forward over the mouth, which lies on the animal's underside. The head normally includes two to four pair of eyes, although there are some blind species. These eyes are fairly simple structures, capable of distinguishing between light and dark. Some species have large eyes with lenses that may be capable of real vision.
The head also includes a pair of antennae, tentacle-like palps, and a pair of pits lined with cilia, known as "nuchal organs". These latter appear to be chemoreceptors which help the worm seek out food.
Polychaetes are vary in form and lifestyle. Most burrow or build tubes in the sediment, some swim among the plankton, and some live as commensals. A few are parasitic. 
The mobile forms tend to have well-developed sense organs and jaws, while the stationary forms lack them, but may have specialized gills or tentacles used for respiration and deposit or filter feeding, e.g., fanworms.
A few groups have evolved to live in terrestrial environments, but are restricted to humid areas. Some have even evolved tubes that open inwards from the skin which work like simple lungs, absorbing oxygen from the air and allowing release of waste gases.
Most bristle worms are scavengers, but some are good predators, eating fishes and coral. Others like to eat algae. They are usually found hiding in reefs and rocky places. They crawl along the sea floor or the bottom of a tide pool, looking for something to eat.

</doc>
<doc id="54560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54560" title="Lugworm">
Lugworm

The lugworm, or sandworm, is a large worm of the phylum Annelida. Lugworms make the coiled tubes of sand that are a familiar sight on a beach at low tide but the lugworm itself is not seen except by people who dig them up from curiosity or to use as fishing bait.
The lugworm can grow to a size of about 9 inches (22 cm). Its body is segmented, like that of an earthworm. It has bristles in the middle of its body. It is a polychaete. It also has well-developed blood-vessels, and gills to breathe in the water. 

</doc>
<doc id="54563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54563" title="Common clam worm">
Common clam worm

The Common clam worm ("Nereis succinea") is a widely distributed polychaete worm. It is often referred to as a ragworm or sandworm, or simply as the "clam worm", but these terms can all refer to any one of a number of other species of the genus "Nereis" (or indeed to other polychaetes). The name "common clam worm" is less ambiguous, but is also sometimes used for other "Nereis" species such as "N. virens" and "N. limbata". It is similar to a millipede.
The common clam worm can reach up to 15 centimeters (6 inches) in length, but most specimens are smaller than this. It is brown coloured at the rear, and reddish-brown on the rest of its body. It has an identifiable head with four eyes, two sensory feelers or palps, and eight tentacles. 
It is a freeswimming polychaete, scavenging on the bottom of shallow marine waters. It feeds on other worms and algae. To feed, it uses a proboscis, which has two hooks at the end, to grasp prey and draw it into its mouth. Clamworms are an important food source for bottom-feeding fish and crustaceans, though they can protect themselves by secreting a mucus substance that hardens to form a sheath around them.
During lunar phases in the spring and early summer, the clam worm undergoes "heterogenesis". Their parapodia enlarge so they can swim. The clamworms are then capable of releasing eggs and sperm. After they have released their egg or sperm, they die.
Planktonic larvae develop, grow into annelids and eventually sink to the bottom of the water.

</doc>
<doc id="54564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54564" title="Protozoa">
Protozoa

Protozoa are small (but not simple) organisms. They are single-celled heterotrophic eukaryotes, which eat bacteria and other food sources. 
It is an old term, and the wider term protist is generally preferred today. However, 'protozoa' is often used for convenience, especially in junior education. It is a rather convenient hold-all term, but actually 'protozoa' are classified in a number of different phyla. 
The term is problematic because modern biochemical and genetic techniques show that it includes several quite different kinds of cells. They are found only in moist or aquatic habitats. Many protozoan species are symbionts, some are parasites, and some are predators of soil bacteria and algae. There are about 30,000 protozoan species.

</doc>
<doc id="54567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54567" title="Sandworm">
Sandworm

The name Sandworm' can refer to different species:
It can also stand for huge worms in the book Dune by Frank Herbert, see Sandworm (Dune)

</doc>
<doc id="54573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54573" title="Hematophagy">
Hematophagy

Hematophagy is the habit of certain animals to feed on blood. Blood is rich in proteins. Examples of animals that feed on blood are mosquitoes, vampire bats and leeches.

</doc>
<doc id="54576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54576" title="Crinoidea">
Crinoidea

The Crinoids are a class of Echinoderms. They have two forms, the sea lilies, stalked forms attached to the sea floor, and the feather stars, which are free-living.
All crinoids are marine, and live both in shallow water and in depths as great as 6000 meters. The basic echinoderm pattern of fivefold symmetry can be recognized, but most crinoids have many more than five arms. Crinoids have a mouth on the top surface that is surrounded by feeding arms.
The crinoids have a long history. They were the first echinoderms to appear in the fossil record, and have kept their early structure throughout their long career. They were extremely common in the Palaeozoic, and some rocks from the Carboniferous consist almost entirely of fossil crinoids. 
Crinoids' mouths faces up towards the surface of the ocean, and the stalked forms feed on the detritus which comes down to the bottom. The mouth is surrounded by many feathery tentacles. They have a U-shaped gut, and their anus is located next to the mouth.
The crinoids were almost wiped out by the extinction event at the end of the Palaeozoic era. Four whole classes became extinct, and the few that survived became the only living class, the Articulata. The stalked members of the class sufered from heavy predation in the Mesozoic. and now all the remaining sea lilies are in deep water, where the competition is less fierce. The feather stars have been much more successful.
In 2005, a stalked crinoid was recorded pulling itself along the sea floor off the Grand Bahama Island. The recording showed a crinoid moving at much faster speeds than was thought possible.
The free-living feather stars first appear in the Upper Triassic. They are related to starfish. As juveniles, they are attached to the sea bottom by a stalk, as their ancestors were. In the adult stage they break away from the stalk and can move about. Some can swim by undulating movements of the arms. Usually, feather stars creep about by using projections at the bottom of the crown, called cirri. They are the only crinoids in shallow water, and are all in the Order Comatulidae. Their flexible arms and ability to choose their feeding grounds was undoubtedly important in their success and survival.
During the day, they roll into a ball. But at night, they spread out their arms to catch plankton.
Feather stars arrange themselves so the fan faces the flow of the current. The posture serves to present the maximum area of food-collecting surfaces to the incoming water flow, so that more particles will settle on them. They are found mostly in shallow water.

</doc>
<doc id="54579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54579" title="Yorkshire Dales">
Yorkshire Dales

The Yorkshire Dales (also known as the "Dales") is the name given to an upland area, mostly in Yorkshire, in Northern England. Most of the area falls within the Yorkshire Dales District National Park, created in 1954. The "Dales" is one of the twelve National parks of England and Wales. The area is so called because it is a collection of river valleys ("dale" comes from a Danish word for valley), and the hills in between them. The area is mainly in the historic county of Yorkshire, but today is partly in three modern counties : North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire, and Cumbria.

</doc>
<doc id="54591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54591" title="Suwanee, Georgia">
Suwanee, Georgia

Suwanee is a city in the American state of Georgia. It is in Gwinnett County. In 2005, about 12,500 people lived in Suwanee. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 25.6 km² (9.9 mi²). 25.4 km² (9.8 mi²) of it is land and 0.2 km² (0.1 mi²) of it (0.71%) is water.

</doc>
<doc id="54592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54592" title="Cumming, Georgia">
Cumming, Georgia

Cumming is a city in the American state of Georgia. The city is the county seat of Forsyth County. About 5,800 people live in Cumming. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 15.3 km² (5.9 mi²). 15.3 km² (5.9 mi²) of it is land and 0.1 km² (0.04 mi²) of it (0.34%) is water.

</doc>
<doc id="54593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54593" title="Athens, Georgia">
Athens, Georgia

Athens is a city in the American state of Georgia.
It is the county seat of Clarke County.
The University of Georgia is in Athens.

</doc>
<doc id="54605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54605" title="Anaerobic digestion">
Anaerobic digestion

Anaerobic digestion is the way microorganisms break down organic matter without oxygen. This process can happen naturally, but it is called anaerobic digestion only if it is supported and contained. An anaerobic digester is an industrial system that supports these natural process to treat waste, produce biogas that can be used to power electricity generators, provide heat and produce soil improving material. 

</doc>
<doc id="54612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54612" title="Clarke County, Georgia">
Clarke County, Georgia

Clarke County is a county in the American state of Georgia. The county seat of Clarke County is Athens, Georgia. Clarke county was formed on December 5, 1801 and named after Revolutionary War hero Elijah Clarke. The University of Georgia is in Clarke County. Clarke county has 104,439 people.

</doc>
<doc id="54616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54616" title="Forsyth County, Georgia">
Forsyth County, Georgia

Forsyth County is a county in the American state of Georgia. The county seat of Forsyth County is Cumming, Georgia. Forsyth County has one of the fastest growing populations of any county in the United States. The number of people has grown from 98,407 to 140,393 between 2000 and 2005. The county was made in 1832 and is named after John Forsyth.

</doc>
<doc id="54617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54617" title="Johns Creek, Georgia">
Johns Creek, Georgia

Johns Creek is a city in the American state of Georgia. It was only made a city on December 1, 2006. It is a suburb in the northeast of Atlanta. Johns Creek has about 75,000 people living in it. It is a part of Fulton County. Johns Creek is the 10th largest city in Georgia.

</doc>
<doc id="54626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54626" title="The Black Parade">
The Black Parade

The Black Parade is a 2006 album by the band My Chemical Romance. It is the third album from the band. The album is a concept album. The songs on this album follow the life of The Patient, a man dying of cancer. The album takes the listener into The Patient's mind, fears, regrets, and accomplishments. 
Much like their first two albums, "The Black Parade" offers a message of hope. 
"The Black Parade" is: Ray Toro, Mikey Way, Gerard Way, Frank Iero, and Bob Bryar.

</doc>
<doc id="54629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54629" title="Biogas">
Biogas

Biogas means a gas produced by the anaerobic digestion or fermentation of organic matter. The organic matter can be manure, sewage sludge, municipal solid waste, biodegradable waste or any other biodegradable feedstock. Biogas is mainly methane and carbon dioxide.
Depending on where it is produced, biogas is also called:
Biogas can be used as a vehicle fuel or for generating electricity. It can also be burned directly for cooking, heating, lighting, process heat and absorption refrigeration.
Biogas production by anaerobic digestion is popular for treating biodegradable waste because valuable fuel can be produced while destroying disease-causing pathogens and reducing the volume of disposed waste products. The methane in biogas burns more cleanly than coal, and produces more energy with less emissions of carbon dioxide. The harvesting of biogas is an important role of waste management because methane is a greenhouse gas with a greater global warming potential than carbon dioxide. The carbon in biogas was generally recently extracted from the atmosphere by photosynthetic plants, so releasing it back into the atmosphere adds less total atmospheric carbon than the burning of fossil fuels.
The composition of biogas varies depending upon the origin of the anaerobic digestion process. Landfill gas typically has methane concentrations around 50%. Advanced waste treatment technologies can produce biogas with 55-75%CH.

</doc>
<doc id="54633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54633" title="Liturgy">
Liturgy

A liturgy is a ceremony, according to the traditions of a particular group or event. In religion, it may mean an elaborate formal ritual (such as the Catholic Mass), or a daily activity such as the Muslim Salats. Anglican, Orthodox, Lutheran, or other groups, when using the words "the Liturgy", normally mean a standardized order of events observed during a religious service, often including the Eucharist. The "open" or "waiting" worship of Quakers is an example of a non-liturgical service because there is no minister or structured order of events.
In the Christian church, liturgical churches are those that use a well-defined liturgy dating to the second century and earlier, in which many of the words and music used follow basic patterns each time the service is conducted. Most Orthodox, Catholic, Anglican, and Lutheran churches are liturgical, most other churches to a far lesser extent. So-called non-liturgical churches usually follow a common worship sequence from one service to the next, with several elements common to many such services. These elements often include readings from the Bible, hymns, a sermon, offerings of money, and at certain times, Holy Communion.

</doc>
<doc id="54636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54636" title="Mass (liturgy)">
Mass (liturgy)

"This article is about mass as a ceremony, for other uses see: Mass (disambiguation)"
Mass is the term used to describe celebration of the Eucharist in the Western liturgical rites of the Roman Catholic Church, Old Catholic Churches, in the Anglo-Catholic tradition of Anglicanism, and in some largely High Church Lutheran regions: in Scandinavian and Baltic countries the Lutheran Eucharistic service is also known as "the Mass".
The term comes from the late-Latin word "missa" (dismissal), a word used in the concluding formula of Mass in Latin: ""Ite, missa est"" ("Go, it is the dismissal").
Roman Catholic doctrine
Present form of the Roman rite of the Mass
Tridentine form of the Roman rite of the Mass
Anglican Doctrine and practice
Lutheran doctrine

</doc>
<doc id="54640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54640" title="Woodpecker">
Woodpecker

The woodpeckers and its near relatives the piculets, wrynecks and sapsuckers are the family Picidae. They are near-passerine birds. Members of the Picidae are found worldwide, except for the parts of old Gondwana which they did not get to: Australia, New Zealand, Madagascar and Antarctica. Most species live in forests or woodland habitats.
The Picidae are just one of the eight living families in the order Piciformes. DNA sequence analyses have shown they are a clade.
There are about 200 species and about 30 genera in this family. Many species are threatened or endangered due to loss of habitat or habitat fragmentation.
All the special features (traits) of the woodpeckers are adaptations to their mode of life.
Members of the family Picidae have strong bills for drilling and drumming on trees and long sticky tongues for extracting food. The bills of piculets and wrynecks are shorter, and less strong and sharp than those of woodpeckers, but their morphology is very similar. 
Woodpeckers operate mainly on tree trunks, staying in place propped up by their stiff tail feathers. Piculets and wrynecks live mainly on the branches, and they lack the stiffened tail feathers.
The woodpecker bill's chisel-like tip is kept sharp by the pecking action on wood. With their smaller bill size, many piculets and wrynecks will forage in decaying wood more often than woodpeckers. The long sticky tongues, which have bristles, help the birds grab and extracting insects from deep in a hole of a tree. Detailed studies published in 2004 showed that the tongue wraps around the prey before being pulled out.
Many of the foraging, breeding and signalling behaviours of woodpeckers involve drumming and hammering using the bill. To prevent brain damage from the rapid and repeated decelerations, woodpeckers have evolved a number of adaptations which protect the brain. These include small brain size, the orientation of the brain within the skull (which spreads the area of contact between the brain and the skull) and the short duration of contact. 
The unequal length of the upper and lower parts of their beaks (the lower being longer), serves to steer the impact force downwards, away from the brain. Also, the woodpecker’s brain is held in a skull with uneven, spongy plates that absorb shock. Third, woodpeckers have a special hyoid bone, which reaches from their beak, loops over top of the skull to completely surround their brains. This acts to keep the brain in place. It is the movement of the brain inside the skull during impact, more than the blow itself, that causes concussions. If the brain is held in place, injury risks are greatly reduced.
The millisecond before contact with wood a thickened nictitating membrane closes, protecting the eye from flying debris. The nostrils are also protected; they are often slit-like and have special feathers to cover them.
Woodpeckers, piculets and wrynecks all have zygodactyl feet. These feet have four toes, the first and the fourth face backward, and the second and third face forward. This foot arrangement is good for grasping the limbs and trunks of trees. Members of this family can walk vertically up a tree trunk. In addition to the strong claws and feet, woodpeckers have short strong legs. This is typical of birds that regularly forage on trunks. The tails of all woodpeckers except the piculets and wrynecks are stiffened, and when the bird perches on vertical surfaces, the tail and feet work together to support it.
The wrynecks (genus "Jynx") are two species of small Old World woodpeckers.
They are very similar to true woodpeckers, but lack the stiff tail feathers that woodpeckers use when climbing trees. They are more likely to perch on a branch rather than an upright trunk. Their bills are shorter and less dagger-like than in the true woodpeckers. Their chief prey is ants and other insects, which they find in decaying wood or almost bare soil. They re-use woodpecker holes for nesting, rather than making their own holes. The eggs are white, as with many hole nesters.
These birds can turn their heads almost 180 degrees. When disturbed at the nest, they use this snake-like head twisting and hissing as a threat display. This odd behaviour led to their use in witchcraft, hence to put a "jinx" on someone.

</doc>
<doc id="54645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54645" title="Piri Reis">
Piri Reis

Piri Reis (full name Hadji Muhiddin Piri Ibn Hadji Mehmed) (about 1465 – 1554 or 1555) was an Ottoman-Turkish admiral and cartographer born between 1465 and 1470 in Gallipoli on the Aegean coast of Turkey. Today, people remember him because of the maps he made. He made the first Ottoman map to show parts of the Americas, the Piri Reis map, in 1513. He drew a second map in 1528. Only a fragment of that map survives today. That fragment however, shows parts of North America, including Greenland. It goes from the coast of Labrador and Newfoundland in the north, to Florida,Cuba and parts of Central America in the south. Therefore, some people believe he drew a map of the Arctic about 200 years before it was discovered.

</doc>
<doc id="54654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54654" title="Walter Sutton">
Walter Sutton

Walter Stanborough Sutton (5 April 1877 – 10 November 1916) was an American biologist and surgeon. Sutton was born in Utica, New York and raised in Russell, Kansas. He got Bachelors and Masters degres from the University of Kansas. Sutton then went to Columbia University and got his doctorate in medicine in 1907.
In 1903 Sutton suggested that chromosomes, which segregate in a Mendelian fashion, are hereditary units. Edmund B. Wilson (1856–1939), Sutton's teacher, and the author of one of the most famous text-books in biology, called this the "Sutton–Boveri hypothesis".

</doc>
<doc id="54668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54668" title="Star Wars: Clone Wars (TV series)">
Star Wars: Clone Wars (TV series)

Star Wars: The Clone Wars is an American computer-animated television series created by George Lucas and by Lucasfilm and Lucasfilm Animation set during from Three Months after the Battle of Geonosis and before Revenge of the Sith when Anakin turns evil. The series became very popular around the world on Cartoon Network as U.S Cartoon Network owned rights for season 1-5 but as season 6 was relicenced to Netflix in U.S and Canada. Disney had cancelled the show due to want more of Star Wars Episode 7 and Star Wars Rebels but in September 7 2014 on star wars.com a story arc with rough animation reel was the unreleased episodes due to cancellation and Star Wars Son of Dathomir was turned in to a comic book and another one will come with Asajj Ventress in June 2015.
The Clone Wars has begin as the Jedi Knights struggle to maintain peace in the galaxy and are forced to lead the Clone army of the republic against the evil droids army of the Sith lead by Count Dooku, General Grievous and other villians.
The series was spinoff the 2D cartoon series made to a 3D series. George Lucas (executive producer) had first the idea as wanting to make a series based on the clone wars. George Lucas intended to make 100 episodes in five seasons.
Lucasfilm had Originally produced 100 episodes divided in 5 seasons but Dave Filoni had confirmed on his facebook a sixth season coming in Early 2014 on Netflix and a sixith season came with 11 episodes but there were still unfinished episodes and story arcs so the Clone Wars Legacy had a unreleased rought animatic story arc on starwars.com and turned in to comic books and novels. 
The series airs on Cartoon Network U.S and Cartoon Network Worldwide. First in U.S in 2008. Netflix had obtained rights for season six.
The seasons of the show was made in DVD released in volumes as Season Two Volume titled Commando Commanders. DVD called Return of Darth Maul containing Darth Maul return story arc and Asajj Ventress new life. After Season Six came on Netflix the season came on DVD titled "The Lost Missions' 

</doc>
<doc id="54673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54673" title="Darth Maul">
Darth Maul

Darth Maul is a fictional character from the "Star Wars" universe. The character first appeared in the movie "" in 1999. Darth Maul has also been in many books set in the time period just before the Clone Wars. Darth Maul was played by Ray Parks in the movie.
Darth Maul is the first known apprentice of Darth Sidious. Maul is a Sith lord who uses the Dark Side of the Force. Darth Maul has black and red tattoos covering his head and face, a crown of small horns, and evil yellow eyes. He uses a red, double bladed lightsaber as a weapon. He flies the starship "The Sith Infiltrator".
After Nute Gunray, the viceroy of the Trade Federation, loses Queen Amidala, Darth Sidious sends Darth Maul to track her down. Darth Maul follows her to Tatooine, where he sends out probe droids to find her. As Anakin, the Queen and the Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn get ready to leave the planet, Darth Maul attacks on his speeder and Maul and Qui-Gon battle. After losing the Queen, Darth Sidious sends Darth Maul to Naboo to watch over the planet. When the Queen launches an attack, Darth Maul shows himself again. This time Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi start to battle with him. Darth Maul kills Qui-Gon and almost pushes Obi-Wan down a pit. In the end, Obi-Wan uses Qui-Gon's lightsaber to cut Darth Maul in half. Darth Maul fell down the pit, but somehow survived, as shown when he turns up again in the 2008 animated TV series, "".

</doc>
<doc id="54674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54674" title="Probe droid">
Probe droid

Probe droids are robots in the "Star Wars" movies. They are used for spying and finding people. Darth Maul used probe droids to find Queen Amidala and the Jedi in "The Phantom Menace". In "The Empire Strikes Back", the Imperials use the probe droids to find the Rebel base.

</doc>
<doc id="54676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54676" title="Count Dooku">
Count Dooku

Count Dooku of Serenno (also known as Darth Tyranus) is a character from the "Star Wars" universe. Dooku is one of the major characters in "". He was played by late Christopher Lee. 
He is the second known student of Darth Sidious. Dooku is also the leader of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars.

</doc>
<doc id="54677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54677" title="Clone Wars">
Clone Wars

The Clone Wars was a period in the "Star Wars" movies. They had the Jedi and the clone troopers vs. the Sith and the Battle Droids.

</doc>
<doc id="54681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54681" title="Prokaryote">
Prokaryote

Prokaryotes (or "monera") are the simplest living things: bacteria and archaea. They generally do not have a cell nucleus, nor cell organelles, however a small number of exceptions have been found. Prokaryotes are unicellular. They are either "bacteria" or "archaea". 
Prokaryotes are cells which do not have a cell nucleus, and lack other things eukaryotes (cells with a true nucleus) have. Prokaryotes do not have membranes inside the cell. This means that there are no vacuoles, Golgi apparatus, endoplasmic reticula or other organelles inside the cell. However, they do have ribosomes, though of a simpler kind than eukaryotes. Eukaryote cells include organelles which were once free-living prokaryotes.
In 1977, Carl Woese proposed dividing prokaryotes into the Bacteria and Archaea (originally Eubacteria and Archaebacteria) because of the major differences in the structure and genetics between the two groups of organisms. This arrangement of Eukaryota (also called "Eukarya"), Bacteria, and Archaea is called the three-domain system, replacing the traditional two-empire system.
The Archaea include simple organisms which were first discovered in extreme environments. Most of them can survive at very high or very low temperatures. Some of them can also survive in highly salty, acidic or alkaline water. Some have been found in geysers, black smokers or oil wells. 

</doc>
<doc id="54687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54687" title="Cuttlebone">
Cuttlebone

Cuttlebone is a hard brittle structure found inside cuttlefish. It is made mainly of calcium carbonate. The cuttlefish use it to control floating. Cuttlebones have been used to make polishing powder. This was then added to toothpaste. Today, cuttlebone is mainly used for caged birds and turtles, so they get their calcium.

</doc>
<doc id="54690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54690" title="Decapodiformes">
Decapodiformes

Decapodiformes is a superorder of Cephalopoda. It includes cephalopods with ten feet. These are usually 8 arms and two tentacles. Well-known members are the cuttlefish and the squid.

</doc>
<doc id="54704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54704" title="Octopodiformes">
Octopodiformes

Octopodiformes is a group of cephalopods with eight arms and no skeletal structure. They include Octopods and the Vampire squid. 

</doc>
<doc id="54705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54705" title="Octopoda">
Octopoda

Octopods are the order which contains the common octopus and some other types. Fossila are rare, but they do have a fossil record starting in the later Carboniferous.
Octopods are put into two suborders. One, the Incirrina, is composed of the well-known "Octopus" of rocky shores and coral reefs and its relatives. The other suborder, the Cirrina, contains octopods whose tentacles are linked by an umbrella-like mantle, so their activity is rather different from the common octopus.

</doc>
<doc id="54706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54706" title="Vampyromorphida">
Vampyromorphida

Vampyromorphida is an order of cephalopods. There are one extant species ("Vampyroteuthis infernalis") and several extinct taxa in it.

</doc>
<doc id="54708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54708" title="Diana Burrell">
Diana Burrell

Diana Burrell (born 25 October 1948) is an English composer. She was born in Norwich, Norfolk. She went to Norwich High School for Girls and then studied music at the University of Cambridge. She started her career as a viola player, but soon became well known for her compositions was able to be a full-time composer.
Her first big orchestral piece was called "Landscape" (1988). It describes the wild, windswept countryside. It won an Encore Award from the Royal Philharmonic Society and BBC Radio 3. Another orchestral work has a long title in German: "Das Meer so gross und weit ist da wimmelts ohne Zahlgrosse kleine Tiere" ("The sea is so big and wide and swarming with numerous little animals"). It describes the sounds and the atmosphere of the sea.
Burrell has written other orchestral works including concertos for viola, flute and clarinet, an opera "The Albatross" (1997), lots of choral works and chamber music. She likes modern architecture and her music sometimes shows this in the way it is shaped. She has also written music for young people such as "Lights and Shadows" (1989) which includes children’s choir, recorder group and lots of percussion.
Burrell teaches at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama and is Artistic Director of Spitalfields Festival in London. She lives in East London.

</doc>
<doc id="54725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54725" title="James (son of Zebedee)">
James (son of Zebedee)

Saint James, son of Zebedee (death 44 AD) was one of the disciples (learners) of Jesus. He was the son of "Zebedee" and "Salome" and brother of John the Evangelist. He is called Saint James the Greater to distinguish (mark as different) him from the other apostle named James 
(James, son of Alphaeus). James is described as one of the first disciples who joined Jesus. The Synoptic Gospels tell that James and John were with their father by the seashore when Jesus called them to begin traveling (Mt.4:21–22, Mk.1:19–20). According to Mark, James and John were called "Boanerges", or the "Sons of Thunder" (3:17). Acts of the Apostles 12:1–2 records that King Herod had James executed by sword (Ac.12:1–2). He was likely the first of the apostles martyred for his faith.
According to ancient local tradition, on 2 January of the year AD 40, the Virgin Mary appeared to James on the bank of the Ebro River at Caesaraugusta, while he was preaching the Gospel in Spain. She supposedly appeared upon a pillar, Nuestra Señora del Pilar, and that pillar is conserved and venerated within the present Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar, in Zaragoza, Spain. Following that apparition, St James returned to Judea, where he was beheaded by King Herod Agrippa I in the year 44. 
The translation of his relics from Judea to Galicia in the northwest of Iberia was effected, in legend, by a series of miraculous happenings: decapitated in Jerusalem with a sword by Herod Agrippa himself, his body was taken up by angels, and sailed in a rudderless, unattended boat to Iria Flavia in Spain, where a massive rock closed around his relics, which were later removed to Compostela. The 12th-century "Historia Compostellana" gives a summary of the legend of St James as it was believed at Compostela. Two ideas are central to it: first, that St James preached the gospel in Spain as well as in the Holy Land; second, that after his martyrdom at the hands of Herod Agrippa I his disciples carried his body by sea to Spain, where they landed at Padrón on the coast of Galicia, and took it inland for burial at Santiago de Compostela. 
The authenticity of the sacred relics of Compostela was asserted in the Bull of Pope Leo XIII, "Omnipotens Deus," of 1 November 1884. 
The tradition at Compostela placed the discovery of the relics of the saint in the time of king Alfonso II (791–842) and of bishop Theodemir of Iria. These traditions were the basis for the pilgrimage route that began to be established in the 9th century, and the shrine dedicated to James at Santiago de Compostela, in Galicia in Spain, became the most famous pilgrimage site in the Christian world. St James's Way is a tree of routes that cross Western Europe and arrive at Santiago through Northern Spain. Eventually James became the patron saint of Spain.
The name "James" in English comes from "Iacobus" (Jacob) in Latin. In eastern Spain, Jacobus became "Jacome" or "Jaime"; in Catalunya, it became Jaume, in western Spain it became "Iago", and Portugal and Galicia it was Tiago. "Saint James" ("Sanctus Jacobus") became "Sant' Iago", which was abbreviated to "Santiago". James's emblem was the scallop shell (or "cockle shell"), and pilgrims to his shrine often wore that symbol on their hats or clothes.

</doc>
<doc id="54726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54726" title="Saint James">
Saint James

Saint James could mean any of the following:
In "transportation",
In the United States:
In the United Kingdom:
Other nations:

</doc>
<doc id="54743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54743" title="Vampire squid">
Vampire squid

The Vampire squid ("Vampyroteuthis infernalis", 'vampire squid from hell') is a small, deep-sea cephalopod. It can be found throughout the temperate and tropical oceans of the world. 
It has special filaments it can retract; because of this, it has been placed in its own order: "Vampyromorphida" (formerly "Vampyromorpha"). It is similar to both squid and octopus. It is the only surviving member of its order. It was first described and mistakenly identified as an octopus in 1903.
The vampire squid can grow to about 30 cm (1 foot) in total length. It is no threat to humans. Its 15 cm (6 inch) gelatinous body varies in color between velvety jet-black and pale reddish, depending on location and lighting conditions. A webbing of skin connects its eight arms, each lined with rows of fleshy spines or "cirri". The inside of this "cloak" is black. Only the distal half (farthest from the body) of the arms have suckers. Its limpid, globular eyes—which appear red or blue, also depending on lighting—are proportionately the largest in the animal kingdom at 2.5 cm (1 inch) in diameter.
Mature adults have a pair of ear-like fins. These fins stand out from the lateral sides of the mantle. They serve as the adult's primary means of propulsion (moving around): Vampire Squid are said to "fly" through the water by way of flapping their fins. Their powerful beak-like jaws are as white as ivory. Within the webbing are two pouches. These pouches hide the tactile "velar filaments". The filaments are analogous to a true squid's tentacles, extending well past the arms, however, they are a different arm pair than the squid's tentacles. Instead, the filaments are the same pair that were lost by the ancestral octopuses.
The Vampire Squid is covered entirely in light-producing organs called photophores. The animal has great control over the organs. It is capable of producing disorienting flashes of light for fractions of a second to several minutes in duration. The intensity and size of the photophores can also be varied. Appearing as small white discs, the photophores are larger and more complex at the tips of the arms and at the base of the two fins. They are absent from the underside of the caped arms. Two larger white areas on top of the head were initially believed to be photophores too, but have turned out to be photoreceptors.
The chromatophores (pigment organs) common to most cephalopods are poorly developed in Vampire Squid. While this means the animal is not capable of changing its skin colour in the dramatic fashion of shallow-dwelling cephalopods, such trickery is not needed at the pitch black depths in which it lives.
The Vampire Squid is an extreme example of a deep-sea cephalopod. People think it lives at aphotic (lightless) depths from 600-900 metres (2,000-3,000 feet) or more. Within this region of the world's oceans is a discrete habitat known as the oxygen minimum zone (OMZ). Within the OMZ oxygen saturation is too low to support aerobic metabolism in most higher organisms. Nonetheless, the Vampire Squid is able to live normally in the OMZ at oxygen saturations as low as 3%; something no other cephalopod—and few other animals—can do.
In order to cope with life in this habitat, vampire squid have developed several radical adaptations. Of all deep-sea cephalopods, their metabolic rate is the lowest. Their blue blood hemocyanin binds and transports oxygen most efficiently, aided by gills with especially large surface area. The animals have weak musculature but maintain agility and buoyancy with little effort thanks to sophisticated statocysts (balancing organs akin to a human's inner ear) and ammonium-rich gelatinous tissues closely matching the density of the surrounding seawater.
At the shallower end of the Vampire Squid's vertical range, the view from below is like the sky at twilight: The highly sensitive eyes of deepwater dwellers are able to distinguish the silhouettes of other animals moving overhead. To combat this, the vampire squid generates its own bluish light (bioluminescence) in a strategy called counterillumination: The light diffuses the animal's silhouette, effectively "cloaking" its presence from the watchful eyes below. Its own large eyes detect even the faintest of gleams. A pair of photoreceptors are located on top of its head, perhaps alerting the animal to movements above.
Like other deep-sea cephalopods, Vampire Squid have no ink sacs. If threatened, instead of ink, a sticky cloud of bioluminescent mucus containing innumerable orbs of blue light is ejected from the arm tips. This luminous barrage, which may last nearly 10 minutes, is presumably meant to daze would-be predators and allow the Vampire Squid to disappear into the blackness without the need to swim far. The display is made only if the animal is very agitated.
Their development goes through three forms: the very young animals have a single pair of fins, an intermediate form has two pairs, and the mature form again has one. As the animals grow and their surface area to volume ratio drops, the fins are resized and repositioned in order to maximize gait efficiency. Whereas the young propel themselves primarily by jet propulsion, mature adults find flapping their fins to be the most efficient means. This unique ontogeny caused confusion in the past, with the varying forms identified as several species in distinct families (Young 2002).
The Vampire Squid likely reproduces slowly by way of a small number of large eggs. Growth is slow as food is not abundant at depths where the animals live. The vastness of their habitat and its sparse population make procreative encounters a fortuitous event. The female may store a male's hydraulically implanted spermatophore (a sort of tapered, cylindrical satchel of sperm) for long periods before she is ready to fertilize her eggs. Once she does, she may need to brood over them for up to 400 days before they hatch. The female will not eat towards this culmination and dies shortly thereafter.
Hatchlings are about 8 mm in length and are well-developed miniatures of the adults, with some differences. Their arms lack webbing, their eyes are smaller and their velar filaments are not fully formed. The hatchlings are transparent and survive on a generous internal yolk for an unknown period before they begin to actively feed. The smaller animals frequent much deeper waters, perhaps feeding on marine snow (falling organic detritus).
What behavioral data known has been gleaned from ephemeral encounters with ROVs; animals are often damaged during capture and survive for no more than about two months in aquaria. An artificial environment makes reliable observation of non-defensive behavior difficult.
With their long velar filaments deployed, Vampire Squid have been observed drifting along in the deep, black ocean currents. If the filaments contact an entity, or if vibrations impinge upon them, the animals investigate with rapid acrobatic movements. They are capable of swimming at speeds equivalent to two body lengths per second, with an acceleration time of five seconds. However, their weak muscles limit stamina considerably.
Unlike their relatives living in more hospitable depths, deep-sea cephalopods cannot afford to spend energy in protracted flight. Given their low metabolic rate and the low density of prey at such depths, Vampire Squid must use innovative predator avoidance tactics in order to save energy. Their aforementioned bioluminescent "fireworks" are combined with the writhing of glowing arms, erratic movements and escape trajectories. These features make it difficult for a predator to home in. 
In a threat response called "pumpkin" or "pineapple posture", the Vampire Squid inverts its caped arms back over the body, presenting an ostensibly larger form covered in fearsome-looking though harmless spines (called cirri). The underside of the cape is heavily pigmented, masking most of the body's photophores. The glowing arm tips are clustered together far above the animal's head, diverting attack away from critical areas. If a predator were to bite off an arm tip, the Vampire Squid can regenerate it.
Copepods, prawns and cnidarians have all been reported as prey of Vampire Squid. Little else is known regarding their feeding habits. Considering their environment,they are unlikely to be picky about food. Vampire Squid have been found among the stomach contents of large deepwater fish, deep diving whales and pinnipeds such as sea lions.
The Vampyromorphida are characterized by the possession of photophores, a peculiar type of uncalcified endoskeleton called "gladius", 8 webbed arms and the 2 velar filaments. Until fairly recently known only from the modern species and some fossil remains tentatively allocated to this group, a batch of Middle Jurassic c.165-164 million years ago (mya) specimens found at La Voulte-sur-Rhône demonstrated that clearly vampyromorphid cephalopods were in existence for far longer than has been hitherto believed. These were described as "Vampyronassa rhodanica". 
The supposed vampyromorphids from Solnhofen limestone (156-146 mya), "Plesioteuthis prisca", "Leptoteuthis gigas", and "Trachyteutis hastiformis", are large species, and show features not found in vampyromorphids. They are similar to the true squids, Teuthida (Fischer & Riou 2002).

</doc>
<doc id="54746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54746" title="Classical Greece">
Classical Greece

Classical Greece was the period from about 500–323 BC. It had a civilisation and style which was considered by later observers to be outstanding. Politically, the classical period was dominated by Athens and the Delian League during the 5th century, or from the beginning of the Greco-Persian Wars to the Peloponnesian War in 404 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="54774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54774" title="Gwinnett County, Georgia">
Gwinnett County, Georgia

Gwinnett County is a county in the American state of Georgia. The county seat of Gwinnett County is Lawrenceville. The county was created on December 15, 1818. The Census bureau says there were 754,104 people living in Gwinnett County in 2006.
The county was named for Button Gwinnett, one of the people who signed the United States Declaration of Independence for Georgia.

</doc>
<doc id="54775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54775" title="University of Georgia">
University of Georgia

The University of Georgia (UGA) is a university that is in and around Athens, Georgia. The university was created January 27, 1785 and was the first state university in the United States. However, it was not the first state university to hold classes or to graduate students. That honor belongs to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
About 34,000 students go to the school. The University's mascot is a bulldog named "Uga".
Only white male students studied at UGA during the first century of its history. UGA began educating female students during the summer of 1903. Women were not admitted as full-time undergraduates until 1918. Before official admission of women to the University, several women were able to complete graduate degrees through credit earned during the summer sessions. The first woman to earn such a degree was Mary Lyndon. She received a Master of Arts degree in 1914. Mary Creswell earned the first undergraduate degree in June 1919, a B.S. in Home Economics. Two UGA dormitories are named after these graduates: Creswell Hall and Mary Lyndon Hall.
Racial integration started in 1961 , with the admission of Hamilton E. Holmes and Charlayne Hunter after notable tension with the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. In 2001, on the fortieth anniversary of their having first registered for classes, the University renamed a prominent campus building in their honor: Holmes-Hunter Academic Building. Although Hunter and Holmes were the first African-American students to matriculate at UGA, Mary Frances Early became the first African-American graduate by earning her master’s (MMEd) in music education in 1962. In 1963, Chester Davenport became the first African-American admitted to the UGA School of Law and its first African-American graduate (LL.B. 1966). A decade later, Sharon Tucker was the first female African-American law graduate, earning her J.D. in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="54779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54779" title="Gerhard Armauer Hansen">
Gerhard Armauer Hansen

Gerhard Hendrik Armauer Hansen (July 29, 1841 - February 12, 1912) was a Norwegian doctor. He is famous for discovering the bacteria that causes leprosy in 1873. That disease is also called "Hansen's disease" in his honour. 

</doc>
<doc id="54781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54781" title="Fire station">
Fire station

A fire station is a building where firefighters and firetrucks are. Fire stations often have poles that firefighters can slide down to get to their fire engines faster.

</doc>
<doc id="54784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54784" title="Fence">
Fence

"This is about a fence. You may be looking for the sport of fencing."
A fence is something built like a low wall, often made of metal or wood, to keep something in or to keep something out. They are always outside. Fences can be painted many colors.

</doc>
<doc id="54786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54786" title="Princeton University">
Princeton University

Princeton University is a private university in Princeton, New Jersey in the United States. It opened in 1746 with the name "The College of New Jersey". It was eventually named "Princeton University" in 1896. In conversation, it is simply called, "Princeton".
Princeton is one of the 8 Ivy League colleges. It was the fourth official college in the United States.
Princeton's main library, Firestone Library, is one of the biggest university libraries in the world.
In 2013 Forbes put Princeton at number three in their list of "America's Top Colleges".
Princeton works with Coursera.

</doc>
<doc id="54789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54789" title="Dill">
Dill

Dill ("Anethum graveolens") is a short-lived annual herb that is often used as a spice, to make food taste better. 
Fresh and dried dill leaves (sometimes called "dill weed" to distinguish it from dill seed) are used as herbs.
Like caraway, its fernlike leaves are aromatic, and are used to flavor many foods, such as gravlax (pickled salmon), borscht and other soups, cream cheese and pickles. Dill is said to be best when used fresh, as it lose its flavor rapidly if dried; however, freeze-dried dill leaves preserve their flavor relatively well for a few months.
Dill seed is used as a spice, with a flavor similar to caraway.
Dill oil can be extracted from the leaves, stems and seeds of the plant.

</doc>
<doc id="54790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54790" title="Turk">
Turk

Turk or Turks most often refers to:

</doc>
<doc id="54794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54794" title="Mummification">
Mummification

Mummification is a process in which the skin and flesh of a corpse can be preserved. The process can occur either naturally, or it can be intentional. If it occurs naturally, it is the result of cold (as can be found in a glacier), acid (as can be found in a bog) or dryness.
Mummies of humans and other animals have been found on every continent, both as a result of natural preservation through unusual conditions, and as cultural artifacts. Over one million animal mummies have been found in Egypt, many of which are cats. They used a hook to remove the brain and they use a knife to take out the organs.
Intentional mummification was common in ancient Egypt, especially for burying Egyptian pharaohs. Osiris was probably the first mummy in Egypt. 
It takes about 70 days to completely mummify a dead body. The first step is to push a sharp rod up the nose and into the brain. From there, the brain is broken up into tiny pieces and removed through the nose then fill the nose with saw dust. Next, they make a hole in the body to remove all the organs except for the heart. Jars which had the heads of gods on top were used to store the organs. The hole was then filled with linen and spices and the body was left under a salt to become dry. Later, after 40 days the body was wrapped in linen bandages. Priests surrounded the body while it was being wrapped and said spells. After the mummifying process was complete, a mask was placed over the head so it can be known in the afterlife.
There were no restrictions on who could be mummified. Any Egyptian who could afford to pay for the expensive process of preserving their bodies for the afterlife. The Egyptians believed in life after death. They believed that they had to preserve their bodies so they could lead a new life. The Egyptians believed that when they died they would make a journey to another world where they would lead a new life. They would need all the things they had used when they were alive so their family would put those things in their grave. Egyptians paid vast amounts of money to have their bodies properly preserved. It took a very long time from start to finish it took them 70 days to embalm a body. Canopic jars were used by Egyptians to hold the internal organs. It was very important to Egyptians religion believed that the human body was preserved. Anubis was a god of mummification, he had a human body and a head of a jackal. His job was to prepare of the dead to be received by Orisis. 
Mummies were ground up into a powder, called Mumia which was used as a drug.

</doc>
<doc id="54795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54795" title="Bandage">
Bandage

A bandage is strip of cloth or other material that is used to stop and absorb blood from wounds.
In common speech, the word "bandage" is often used to mean a dressing, though technically the two are different things.
See these links:

</doc>
<doc id="54797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54797" title="Xenophobia">
Xenophobia

Xenophobia is the fear or dislike of strangers or unknown things. Xenophobia can also mean the fear of trying new things. It is the fear of foreign things or people. It may increase because of immigration. But the Vienna Declaration by United Nations
prohibits such fear or dislike for human rights and toleration. Sometimes xenophobia overlaps with other types of phobias such as Islamophobia.

</doc>
<doc id="54803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54803" title="Confederacy of Independent Systems">
Confederacy of Independent Systems

The Confederacy of Independent Systems (also known as the CIS or Separatists) was an organization that appeared in the "Star Wars" movies. The CIS was led by the fallen Jedi Count Dooku. The armies of the Separatists had thousands of battle droids. The CIS launched attacks against the Galactic Republic. The Separatists stayed a strong power until the rise of the Empire.
The Confederacy of Independent Systems was first shown in Attack of the Clones. Count Dooku, a former Jedi, left the Jedi order and began a Separatist movement. This movement gained support and soon had support from thousands of solar systems. The Galactic Republic feared that a war would begin. Count Dooku and the Separatist leaders were getting ready for a war. Nute Gunray, leader of the Trade Federation, gave thousands of battle droids to the Separatist army. Other leaders, such as Poggle the Lesser and San Hill, gave money and droids to the Separatist cause. On the planet Geonosis, Count Dooku met with the leaders of powerful companies. Count Dooku gave his offer and the Confederacy of Independent Systems was formed. The Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi overheard the meeting and sent a warning to the Republic. The Republic sent a newly created clone army to fight the battle droids. This battle on Geonosis began the Clone Wars. The Geonosian Archduke Poggle the Lesser gives the plans of a new weapon to Count Dooku. Count Dooku leaves the planet and goes to Coruscant. He gives the plans to Darth Sidious as well as telling him that the war has begun.
During the Clone Wars, fighting between the Republic and the Separatists continued. Jedi were sent to help the clone armies overcome their enemies. The droid armies fought to hold more planets in its grip. For three years the fighting took place across the Galaxy. The Separatists gained several new allies during the Clone Wars. After the death of Jango Fett on Geonosis, a new bounty hunter, named Durge took his place. Count Dooku found a woman named Asajj Ventress who was powerful in the Force. Asajj Ventress proved to be a powerful commander in the Separatist army. A new leader of the Separatists rose at this time. General Grievous was half droid and half alien. He was trained in lightsaber combat by Count Dooku and became feared by Jedi throughout the Galaxy. One of the final and most daring attacks on the Republic came when General Grievous led a large fleet of starships to Coruscant to capture Supreme Chancellor Palpatine.
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine is taken from Coruscant and put on the starship "The Invisible Hand". The Battle of Coruscant is fought both on the ground and in space. Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker get on "The Invisible Hand" and rescue Palpatine. During this rescue, Anakin kills Count Dooku. General Grievous escapes and the Separatist forces are defeated. General Grievous, now the leader of the CIS, goes to Utapau to talk to the leaders of the businesses. Grievous is told by Darth Sidious to move the leaders to Mustafar. Droid armies' attack on Kashyyyk and Utapau. Obi-Wan Kenobi kills General Grievous on Utapau. Nute Gunray becomes the leader after both the deaths of Count Dooku and General Grievous. The new Sith apprentice, Darth Vader, was sent to Mustafar to kill the leaders. After he finished this job, all droid forces were stopped. This marked the end of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the beginning of the Galactic Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="54825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54825" title="Hedone">
Hedone

Hedone in Greek mythology (which the Romans called Voluptas) was the daughter of Eros and Psyche. She was seen as the personification of lust.

</doc>
<doc id="54827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54827" title="Psyche (psychology)">
Psyche (psychology)

The psyche is the human mind, conscious and unconscious. The word has a long history, going back to the ancient Greek philosophers such as Heraclitus and Plato.
It was used in older psychology and philosophy as meaning the source or cause of human nature. It is not a scientific term, but the word "psychology" is derived from it. The English word soul was sometimes used synonymously in older texts.
In modern times the word is used as a synonym of mind. 

</doc>
<doc id="54842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54842" title="Lamellibrachia">
Lamellibrachia

Lamellibrachia is a genus of "cold seep tube worms". These are related to giant tube worms. They live on the floor of the oceans, near cold seeps. There crude oil and methane leak out of the ocean floor. 
The worm forms a symbiosis with certain bacteria which can oxidise sulphides. The worm provides the bacteria with hydrogen sulphide and oxygen. It does this by taking them up from the environment and binding them to a haemoglobin molecule. In return, the bacteria feed the worm. The worms can grow to a length of about 3 metres.
Together, they form a 'biogenic habitat' by creating groups of hundreds or thousands of individuals. Living in these aggregations are over a hundred different species of organism, many of which are found only at these seeps.
Cold seeps and hydrothermal vents are the only known communities that do not rely on photosynthesis for food and energy production. Unlike hydrothermal vents, which are short-lived environments, cold seeps leak oil and gas slowly. Probably because of the cooler temperatures and stability, many cold seep organisms are much longer-lived than those inhabiting hydrothermal vents. These worm grow very slowly, but can reach lengths of over 10 feet (3 metres). This means individuals may live over 250 years.

</doc>
<doc id="54845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54845" title="Giant tube worm">
Giant tube worm

Giant tube worms are annelids. They live on the floor of the oceans (Mainly Pacific Ocean), usually near Black Smokers or hydrothermal vents (which also means Black Smoker). They can tolerate extremely high temperatures and levels of sulfur. They live in symbiosis with certain bacteria. The bacteria enter the mouth of a young tube worm, but when the worm gets older its mouth and gut seal up, trapping the bacteria forever. These bacteria are fed with sulfur compounds and oxygen. The bacteria then turn these compounds into organic molecules on which the host worms feed. 

</doc>
<doc id="54849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54849" title="Trans-Siberian railway">
Trans-Siberian railway

The Trans-Siberian Railway or Trans-Siberian Railroad is a set of railways that goes from Moscow and European Russia to the Russian Far East provinces, Mongolia, China and the Sea of Japan.
Because Russia is such a big country, travel from one end and the other is an important problem. In the 1890s, the Russians began building the longest railway in the world to connect Moscow to the Pacific Ocean. Before the railway was built, the trip took about a year along very rough roads. One reason for building the "Trans-Sib" was military: to transport troops to the East in order to protect the country against Japan and China. Another reason was to transport food from the farming areas of south-western Siberia to the people in the European part of Russia. Many cities and industries are built up along the route of the Trans-Siberian Railway.

</doc>
<doc id="54857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54857" title="Nuclear reaction">
Nuclear reaction

A nuclear reaction is a process involving an atomic nucleus or more than one nucleus. The most common kinds are
In the case of radioactivity the reaction is . Fission and fusion can be done on purpose, to release energy. This energy can then be used for different things, for example to make steam (as in a nuclear power plant). It can also be used as energy for a bomb.
In the example figure Li fuses with deuterium. This makes Beryllium which then decays into two alpha particles. 
Nuclear reactions occur in the sun, in nuclear reactors, in particle accelerators, and in outer space. Other than radioactive decay, very few nuclear reactions occur on earth except in these special places. Nuclear reactors use nuclear reactions to make heat and electricity. Accelerators sometimes cause nuclear reactions to make radioactive materials. Particles from outer space cause nuclear reactions in earth's atmosphere that make air slightly radioactive.
Nuclear Reactions differ from Chemical Reactions in that they do not need a catalyst. They also cannot be stopped, sped up or slowed down.

</doc>
<doc id="54860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54860" title="St. Paul's Cathedral">
St. Paul's Cathedral

St. Paul's Cathedral is an Anglican church in Central London, England. It was started in 604. The man who built it was called Mellitas, Bishop of the East Saxons. In 962 and 1087 the cathedral burnt down and was built again. Before today's version of the cathedral there were four others but they also burnt down. Today's cathedral is made of limestone and it was built after the Great Fire Of London in 1666. Its architect was Sir Christopher Wren, who designed a further 50 churches, Almost all in the City of London. It has 3 floors: The Whispering Hall and 2 outside(you can see it on the picture). 
Actually, the cathedral nave has 1 floor level, but Wren built a screen wall to hide the gothic-like supports that were needed to hold up the wall, to create the illusion of a 2 floored, classical cathedral.
St Paul's is a popular tourist attraction and is still used as a church today.

</doc>
<doc id="54879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54879" title="Greenhouse">
Greenhouse

A greenhouse (also called a glasshouse or hothouse) is a building where plants such as flowers and vegetables are grown. It usually has a glass or translucent plastic roof. Many greenhouses also have glass or plastic walls. Greenhouses warm up during the day via penetration of the sun's rays which heat the plants, soil and structure. This heat is given up gradually throughout the night. 
Greenhouses come in many shapes and sizes, with different functions. Some people have small greenhouses in their backyard, or as a lean-to attached to their home, called mini greenhouses or tomato houses. They want to start off their seeds and seedlings in a protected environment as well as those growing plants that need warmer conditions. Others, wishing to extend their living space, have house extensions in the form of mini-conservatories. Commercial companies usually have larger greenhouses for horticultural purposes, but have more substantial structures for plant displays where the public is admitted. For the same reason, botanic gardens usually have a high proportion of greenhouses with substantial structures
Many vegetables and flowers are grown in greenhouses in late winter and early spring, when it is still too cold to grow plants outside. Then these plants are moved to the soil outside as the weather warms up. Greenhouses are used to grow crops in cold countries such as Canada. The largest group of greenhouses in the world is in Leamington, Ontario (in Canada), where about 200 acres (0.8 km²) of tomatoes are grown in glass greenhouses.so the greenhouse is very helpful.
Gardening and growing plants in greenhouses is different from growing plants outside. No rain can get inside a greenhouse, so gardeners have to put water on the plants. As well, greenhouses can get very hot from the sun's heat, so gardeners have to make sure that it does not get too hot for the plants. Greenhouses usually have vents that can be opened to let excess heat out. Some greenhouses have electric exhaust fans that automatically turn on if it gets too hot in the greenhouse.
In ancient Rome, Roman gardeners grew cucumbers in frames covered with oiled cloth or with sheets of mica. In the 1500s, Italian gardeners built structures for the tropical plants that explorers brought back to Italy. Jules Charles built the first modern greenhouse in Holland. In the 1800s, large greenhouses were built in England. They are also very warm.

</doc>
<doc id="54880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54880" title="Apprenticeship">
Apprenticeship

Apprenticeship is a system of training people who are learning how to do a job which needs special skill. Someone who is learning in this way is called an "apprentice". An apprentice will learn by working with someone who is already skilled at a job. They are like a teacher and pupil.
The system of apprenticeship has been used for many hundreds of years. In the late Middle Ages the craft guilds and town governments used to watch and control the system. A master craftsman had the right to employ young people to work for them and pay them a small salary. In return the apprentice would be learning the trade. Most apprentices were males, but female apprentices are more common nowadays, especially in crafts such as embroidery, silk-weaving etc..

</doc>
<doc id="54887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54887" title="Battle droid">
Battle droid

In the "Star Wars" fictional universe, battle droids are robots that are made for fighting. They are seen in the prequel trilogy of the "Star Wars" movies. Battle droids are used by the Confederacy of Independent Systems to fight the Galactic Republic.Clones of the Republic could easily overcome these droids.The battle droids are controlled by a central droid control ship. If the control ship is destroyed, the droids shut off. 

</doc>
<doc id="54889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54889" title="Western Long-beaked Echidna">
Western Long-beaked Echidna

The Western Long-beaked Echidna ("Zaglossus bruijni") is one of the four living echidnas and one of three species of "Zaglossus" that live in New Guinea. Fossils of this species have also been found in Australia. As "Tachyglossus bruijni", this is the type species of "Zaglossus".
The Western Long-beaked Echidna lives above 1300m and up to 4000m above sea level. It lives in alpine meadow and humid forests in the mountains. Unlike the Short-beaked Echidna which eats ants and termites the Long-beaked species eats earthworms. The Long-beaked Echidna is also larger that the Short-beaked species. It reached up to 16.5 kilograms, the snout is longer and turns downward. It is difficult to see the spines in the long fur. It can be told apart from the other "Zaglossus" species by the number of claws on the front and back feet. It has three (rarely four) claws.
The IUCN has listed it as an endangered species. Its population has been decreased by reduced habitat because of human activities and hunting. The Long-beaked Echidna is a delicacy. Although hunting the species has been banned by the Indonesian and Papua New Guinean governments, traditional hunting is permitted. 
In February of 2006, an expedition led by Conservation International found a population of the mammals as part of what they described as a "Lost world" of wildlife in the Foja Mountains of Papua Province, Indonesia.
Platypuses and echidnas are the only known mammal species to lay eggs.

</doc>
<doc id="54893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54893" title="Short-beaked Echidna">
Short-beaked Echidna

The Short-beaked Echidna ("Tachyglossus aculeatus") is one of four living species of echidna. They are known as the Spiny anteaters because they eat ants and termites. 
This species is the only member of the genus Tachyglossus. The Short-beaked Echidna is covered in fur and spines. It has a special nose (snout) and a special tongue that lets the echidna catch its prey at a great speed. Like the other monotremes, the Short-beaked Echidna lays eggs. The monotremes are the only mammals that lay eggs.
The echidna lives throughout Australia, and in coastal and highland regions of southwestern New Guinea. In Australia, it is the most widespread native mammal. It is not threatened with extinction, but human activities, such as hunting, habitat destruction, and the introduction of foreign predators and parasites, have reduced the places where it lives.
The Short-beaked Echidna, first described in 1792, is called
"Tachyglossus aculeatus". The name "Tachyglossus" means "quick tongue". This is about the speed with which the echidna uses its tongue to catch ants and termites. The word "aculeatus" means "spiny" or "having spines".
The Short-beaked Echidna is the only member of its genus, sharing the family Tachyglossidae with the surviving three species of the genus "Zaglossus" that live in New Guinea. The "Zaglossus" species includes the:
These are all bigger than "T. aculeatus". They eat mostly worms and grubs, rather than ants and termites. Species of the Tachyglossidae are egg-laying mammals; together with the related family Ornithorhynchidae, the Platypuses, they are the only living monotremes.
There are five subspecies of the Short-beaked Echidna, each live in different areas. The subspecies are also different from each other as to hairiness, spine length and width, and the size of the claws on their back feet.
Short-beaked Echidnas are usually 30 to 45 centimetres in length. They have a 75-millimetre beak, and weigh between two and five kilograms. The Tasmanian subspecies, "T. a. setosus", is larger than the Australian mainland species. 
Because the neck cannot be seen, the head and body appear to join together. The earholes are on either side of the head, with no external pinnae. The eyes are small and at the base of the wedge-shaped beak. The nostrils and the mouth are at the far end of the beak. 
The body of the Short-beaked Echidna is, except for the underside, face and legs, covered with cream-coloured spines. The spines, which may be up to 50 mm long, are modified hairs, mostly made of keratin. They have fur between the spines, which ranges in colour from honey to a dark reddish-brown and even black. The underside and short tail are also covered in fur. Fur colour changes with geographic location. The Echidna's fur may be infested with what is said to be the world's largest flea, "Bradiopsylla echidnae", which is about 4 mm long.
The legs of the Short-beaked Echidna are designed for rapid digging. Their legs are short and have strong claws. The claws on the back feet are longer and curve backwards to help cleaning and grooming between the spines. Like the platypus it has a low body temperature — between 30 and 32 °C. Unlike the platypus, which shows no evidence of torpor or hibernation, the body temperature of the echidna may fall as low as 5 °C. The Echidna does not pant or sweat and normally seeks shelter in hot conditions. In autumn and winter the Echidna shows periods of torpor or deep hibernation. Because of the low body temperature of the Short-beaked Echidna, it becomes sluggish in very hot and very cold weather.
The muscles of the Short-beaked Echidna have a number of unusual features. There is an enormous muscle that is just beneath the skin and covers the entire body. By contraction of various parts of this muscle the Short-beaked Echidna can change shape. The most common shape change is achieved by rolling itself into a ball when threatened, protecting its belly and presenting a defensive array of sharp spines. It has one of the shortest spinal cords of any mammal, extending only as far as the thorax.
The mouth of the Short-beaked Echidna cannot open wider than 5 mm. 
The tongue of the Short-beaked Echidna is the animal's only way of catching prey. It can stick out up to 180 mm outside the snout. The tongue is sticky because of the presence of glycoprotein-rich mucous. This mucus both lubricates movement in and out of the snout and helps to catch ants and termites, which stick to it. Sticking out the tongue is achieved by contracting the circular muscles that change the shape of the tongue and force it forward, and contraction of two muscles attached to the caudal end of the tongue and to the mandible. The protruded tongue is stiffened by the rapid flow of blood, allowing it to penetrate wood and soil. Retraction requires the contraction of two internal muscles. When the tongue is retracted, the prey is caught on backward-facing keratinous "teeth" along the roof of the buccal cavity. This allows the animal to both capture and grind food. The tongue moves with great speed, and has been measured to move in and out of the snout 100 times a minute.
Many physiological adaptations fit the lifestyle of the Short-beaked Echidna. The animal burrows, and it can tolerate very high levels of carbon dioxide in inspired air. It will voluntarily remain in situations where carbon dioxide concentrations are high. Its ear is sensitive to low-frequency sound, which may be ideal for detecting sounds emitted by termites and ants underground. The leathery snout is covered in mechano- and thermoreceptors. These receptors provide information about the surrounding environment. The Short-beaked Echidna has a well-developed olfactory system, which may be used to detect mates and prey, and its other senses perform well. The brain and central nervous system of the Short-beaked Echidna have been extensively studied for evolutionary comparison with placental mammals. 
The Short-beaked Echidna has the largest prefrontal cortex with respect to body size of any mammal. It shows rapid eye movement during sleep, and its brain has been shown to contain a claustrum that is similar to placental mammals, linking this structure to their common ancestor.
Like all monotremes, the echidna has only one orifice for the passage of faeces, urine and reproductive products, which is known as the cloaca. The male has internal testes, no external scrotum and a highly unusual penis with four knobs on the tip. The gestating female has a pouch on its underside, where it raises its young.
The laying of eggs and the cloaca are basal traits which are present in all early amniotes, including reptiles, birds and early mammals.
The solitary Short-beaked Echidna looks for a mate between May and September; the precise timing of the mating season varies with geographic location. Both males and females give off a strong odour during the mating season. During courtship — observed for the first time in 1989 — males locate and pursue females. Trains of up to ten males may follow a single female in a courtship ritual that may last for up to four weeks; the duration of the courtship period varies with location. In cooler parts of their range, such as Tasmania, females may mate within a few hours of arousal from hibernation. 
Before mating, the male smells the female, paying particular attention to the cloaca. The male is often observed to roll the female onto her side and then assumes a similar position so that the two animals are abdomen to abdomen. Each mating results in the production of a single egg, and females are known to mate only once during the breeding season; each mating is successful.
Fertilisation occurs in the oviduct. Gestation takes between 21 and 28 days, during which time the female constructs a nursery burrow. Following the gestation period, a single rubbery-skinned egg between 13 and 17 millimetres in diameter is laid directly into a small, backward-facing pouch that has developed on her abdomen. Ten days after it is laid, the egg hatches within the pouch. The embryo develops an "egg tooth" during incubation, which it uses to tear open the egg; the tooth disappears soon after hatching. 
Hatchlings are about 1.5 cm long and weigh between 0.3 and 0.4 grams. After hatching, young Echidnas are known as "puggles". Hatchlings attach themselves to their mothers' milk areolae, a specialised patch on the skin that secretes milk (monotremes have no nipples). The way in which puggles drink the milk is not yet known, but they have been observed drinking large amounts during each feeding period, since mothers may leave them unattended in the burrow for between five and ten days. The principal components of the milk are types of lactose. The milk has a high iron content, which gives it a pink colour. 
Juveniles are eventually ejected from the pouch at around two to three months of age, because of the continuing growth in the length of their spines. Suckling gradually decreases until juveniles are weaned at about six months of age. The duration of lactation is about 200 days, and the young leave the burrow between 180 and 240 days.
The age of sexual maturity is uncertain, but may be four to five years. A twelve-year field study, published in 2003, found that the Short-beaked Echidna reached sexual maturity between five and 12 years of age, and that the frequency of reproduction varies from once every two years to once every six years. The Short-beaked Echidna can live as long as 45 years in the wild.
No systematic study of the ecology of the Short-beak Echidna has been published. There have been studies of several aspects of their ecological behaviour. Short-beaked Echidnas live alone and apart from the burrow created for rearing young; they have no fixed shelter or nest site. They do not have a home territory, but range over a wide area. Short-beaked Echidnas are usually active in the daytime; however, they have problems in hot weather, because they have no sweat glands and do not pant. Therefore, in warm weather they change their pattern of activity, becoming crepuscular (active at dawn or dusk) or nocturnal (active in the night). They can tolerate cold temperatures, and hibernate during the winter in very cold regions.
Short-beaked Echidnas can live anywhere where there is a good supply of food. Short-beaked Echidnas find food by smell, using sensors in the tip of their beak, and regularly feast on ants and termites. They are powerful diggers, using their clawed front paws to dig out prey and dig burrows for shelter. They may rapidly dig themselves into the ground if they cannot find cover when in danger.
In Australia they are most common in forested areas where there are many termite-filled fallen logs. In agricultural areas, they are most likely to be in uncleared scrub; they may be in grassland, arid areas, and in the outer suburbs of the capital cities. Little is known about their distribution in New Guinea. They have been found in southern New Guinea between Merauke in the west, to the Kelp Welsh River, east of Port Moresby, where they may be in open woodland.
The Short-beaked Echidna is common in most of temperate Australia and lowland New Guinea, and is not listed as endangered. In Australia, the number of Short-beaked Echidnas has been less affected by land clearing than have some other species, since Short-beaked Echidnas do not require a specialised habitat beyond a good supply of ants and termites. Despite their spines, they are eaten by birds, the Tasmanian Devil, cats, foxes and dogs. They were also eaten by indigenous Australians and the early Europen settlers of Australia. The most common threats to the animal in Australia are cars and habitat destruction. These have led to localised extinction. Infection with the introduced parasite "Spirometra erinaceieuropaei" is fatal for the Echidna. The Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland runs an Australia-wide survey called "Echidna Watch" to monitor the species in Australia.
Captive breeding is difficult, partly because of the relatively infrequent breeding cycle. Only five zoos have managed to breed a captive Short-beaked Echidna, but no captive-bred young have survived to be adults. This has conservation implications for the endangered species of echidna from the genus "Zaglossus", and to a lesser extent for the Short-beaked Echidna.
Short-beaked Echidnas feature in the animistic culture of Indigenous Australians, including their visual arts and stories. The species was a totem for some groups, including the Noongar people from Western Australia, who called the animal the "Nyingarn". Many groups have myths about the animal; one myth explains that it was created when a group of hungry, young men went hunting at night and stumbled across a wombat. They threw spears at the wombat, but lost sight of it in the darkness. The wombat adapted the spears as its own defense and turned into an Echidna. Another story tells of a greedy man that kept food from his tribe; warriors speared him and he crawled away into the bushes, where he was turned into an Echidna, the spears becoming his spines.
The Short-beaked Echidna is an iconic animal in modern Australia. It appears on the Australian five-cent piece (the smallest denomination) and on a $200 commemorative coin released in 1992. The Short-beaked Echidna has been included in several postal issues: it was one of four native species to appear on Australian postage stamps in 1974, where it was the 25 cent stamp; it appeared on a 37 cent stamp in 1987, and again in 1992 when it was on the 35 cent stamp. The anthropomorphic Echidna "Millie" was a mascot for the 2000 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="54894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54894" title="Columbia">
Columbia

Columbia is the original name for the United States and inspired the names of many things. For the original Columbia, see "Historical Columbia". 
U.S. cities or towns:

</doc>
<doc id="54896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54896" title="Eastern Long-beaked Echidna">
Eastern Long-beaked Echidna

The Eastern Long-beaked Echidna ("Zaglossus bartoni"), also known as Barton's Long-beaked Echidna, is one of three species from the genus "Zaglossus". All of them occur in New Guinea. It is found mainly in Papua New Guinea between 2000 and 3000 meters above sea level. 
It can be distinguished from other members of the genus by the number of claws on the fore and hind feet. It has five claws on its fore feet and four on its hind feet. The adult animal weights between 5 kg (11 lb) and 10 kg (22 lb). Its body length ranges from 60–100 cm (23.5-39 inches). It has no tail. It has dense black fur. The species is the largest monotreme and is slow moving. It rolls into a spiny ball for defense.
There are four recognised subspecies:
The population of each subspecies is geographically isolated and they can be distinguished primarily by differences in body size.

</doc>
<doc id="54899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54899" title="Long-beaked echidna">
Long-beaked echidna

The long-beaked echidnas make up one of the two genera (Genus Zaglossus) of echidna. Echidna is a spiny monotreme that lives in New Guinea. There are three living species, and two extinct ones.
Echidnas are one of the two types of mammals that lay eggs. 
Remarks: Species described from one sample only. May be endangered, or locally extinct. See Sir David's Long-beaked Echidna
Remarks: see Eastern Long-beaked Echidna
Remarks: see Western Long-beaked Echidna
Remarks: This species is known only from a few bones. At a metre long, it was huge for an echidna and for monotremes in general.
Remarks: This species is known from a fossil skull about 65 cm long.

</doc>
<doc id="54903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54903" title="Sir David's Long-beaked Echidna">
Sir David's Long-beaked Echidna

Sir David's Long-beaked Echidna ("Zaglossus attenboroughi"), also known as the Cyclops Long-beaked Echidna, is one of three species from the genus "Zaglossus". All of them are found in New Guinea. It is named after Sir David Attenborough. It lives in the Cyclops mountains in Papua province of Indonesia near the cities of Sentani, Jayapura. 
The species was described from a single damaged animal, which was collected in the Dutch colonial era (c. 1961). It has not been collected since that time. The Cyclops mountain forest habitat has been disturbed recently. This has raised concern that "Z. attenboroughi" populations may already be endangered or even locally extinct. However, many parts of the mountains are covered in thick jungle and have not been searched since 1961. It is possible that the animal still exists there or in nearby mountain ranges. In 2007 scientists found holes which they believe were made by the echidna poking its nose into the dirt while looking for earthworms. 
It is the smallest member of the genus. It is closer in size to the Short-beaked Echidna than other members of the genus. It has five claws on its fore and hind feet. It has dense short fur.

</doc>
<doc id="54913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54913" title="Bioluminescence">
Bioluminescence

Bioluminescence is the capacity of living things to produce light. Often this is done by symbiosis. In this, the larger organism contains, often in a special organ, microorganisms which make the light. Eukaryote protists have special organelles, and some bacteria also produce light. Bioluminescence is the result of chemical processes, where the energy produced is released as visible light. Bioluminescence has appeared many times during evolution.
ATP (adenosine tri-phosphate), the biological energy source, reacts with luciferin with the aid of the enzyme luciferase to yield an intermediate complex. This complex combines with oxygen to produce a highly chemiluminescent (brightly shining) compound.
The role of Gamma Proteobacteria in producing light is discussed in detail in reference works. The capacity to produce light is an extension of normal metabolism: all chemical reactions produce a few photons. Visible light is produced when the photon production increases. In the case of bacteria, the original function of the reaction was probably to detoxify excessive oxygen.
Bioluminescence is mainly a marine phenomenon. 
Bioluminescence is found in the sea at all levels.: planktonic, pelagic and benthic organisms. Some planktonic groups, such as dinoflagellates and ctenophores (comb jellies) use it in most species. Most deep-sea marine life use bioluminescence in one form or another. Usually, marine light-emission belongs in the blue and green light spectrum, the wavelengths that can transmit through seawater most easily.
For a list, see Biolum web page.
In some squid species bacterial bioluminescence is used for counterillumination so the animal matches the overhead environmental light seen from below. In these animals, light organs control the contrast of this illumination to create optiminal matching. Usually these light organs are separate from the tissue containing the bioluminescent bacteria. 
Bioluminescence is used as a lure to attract prey by several deep sea fish such as the anglerfish. A dangling lure on the head of the fish attracts small animals to it within striking distance. Some fish, however, use a non-bioluminescent lure.
The cookiecutter shark uses bioluminescence for camouflage, but a small patch on its underbelly remains dark and appears as a small fish to large predatory fish like tuna and mackerel swimming beneath it. When these fish try to consume the "small fish", they are bitten by the shark, which gouges out small circular "cookie cutter" shaped chunks of flesh from its hosts.
Dinoflagellates have an interesting twist on this mechanism. When a predator of plankton is sensed through motion in the water, the dinoflagellate luminesces. This in turn attracts even larger predators which will consume the would-be predator of the dinoflagellate.
Attracting mates is an important function of bioluminescence. This is seen in fireflies, which use periodic flashing in their abdomens to attract mates in the mating season. In the marine environment this has only been well-documented in certain small ostracod crustaceans, but may be quite common.
Certain squid and small crustaceans use bioluminescence as many squid use ink. A cloud of luminescence is expelled, confusing or repelling a potential predator while the squid or crustacean escapes to safety. Every species of firefly has larvae that glow to repel predators.
Bioluminescent organisms are a target for many areas of research. Luciferase systems are widely used in the field of genetic engineering. They have also been used in biomedical research, to give some cells visible labels. Luciferin can be added to molecules and cells to make them visible under the microscope. "This market is now worth about £20bn. If you go into a hospital and have a blood test which measures viral proteins, cancer proteins, hormones, vitamins, bacterial proteins, drugs, it will almost certainly use this technique".
The structure of photophores, the light producing organs in bioluminescent organisms, are being investigated by industrial designers.
This is a list of organisms that have visible bioluminescence:
Animals:
Despite their name, fireflies are actually beetles which use an enzymatic reaction involving a chemical compound called luciferin to produce their typical greenish flashing light. As well as possibly warning predators about their toxicity, it is thought the main purpose of their flashing abdomen is to attract mates.

</doc>
<doc id="54921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54921" title="Whittier, Alaska">
Whittier, Alaska

Whittier is a small town in Alaska on the Kenai Peninsula. Whittier has 182 people always living in it. The Whittier Glacier near Whittier was named for the American poet John Greenleaf Whittier in the year 1915.
During World War II the United States Army built a port and railroad near the glacier and named the port Whittier. The two big buildings that are very easy to notice in Whittier were built after World War II. The Hodge Building (now called Begich Towers) was built for housing soldiers and the Buckner Building, finish being built in 1953, was called the "city under one roof". It was once the biggest building in Alaska. The Begich Building is now a condominium (or houst that has many rooms that people live in), and almost all of the people that live in Whittier's live here. 
The town was badly damaged by tsunamis (or very big waves) started by the 1964 Good Friday Earthquake; thirteen people died because of the waves that were 13 m (43 ft) tall.
Whittier is a popular port of for cruise ships, because it people can go to Anchorage and the inside of Alaska by both car and train. Whittier is also popular with visitors and fishermen.

</doc>
<doc id="54923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54923" title="Kate Winslet">
Kate Winslet

Kate Elizabeth Winslet (born 5 October 1975, in Reading, Berkshire, England) is an English actress. She made her movie debut as Juliet Hulme in Peter Jackson's "Heavenly Creatures" (1994). She is best known for her starring role in the American movie, "Titanic". Winslet is the second of four children, her sisters are the actresses Anna and Beth Winslet and her brother is Joss Winslet, her mother Sally Anne is a barmaid and her father Roger John Winslet is a swimming pool contractor. Her maternal grandparents Linda and Oliver Bridges founded the Reading Repertory Theatre and her uncle is the actor Robert Bridges, Her maternal great-grandmother Florence Theodelinda Lidman, was the daughter of a Swedish immigrant.
Kate Winslet was married to director Jim Threapleton; they had a daughter, Mia. She married director Sam Mendes; they had a son, Joe. In 2012, she married Ned Rocknroll, nephew of billionaire Richard Branson. She had his first son in December of 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="54924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54924" title="Joe DiMaggio">
Joe DiMaggio

Joseph Paul DiMaggio (November 25, 1914 - March 8, 1999) was a Major League Baseball center fielder who played his whole career for the New York Yankees. He played from 1936 to 1942 and then joined the army in 1943 because of World War II. He came back and began playing again in 1946 until his retirement in 1951 at the age of 36. By the time he retired he had hit 361 home runs. DiMaggio died on the 8th of March, 1999, of lung cancer. He is widely regarded as one of the best baseball players of all time.

</doc>
<doc id="54936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54936" title="Mongol Empire">
Mongol Empire

The Mongol Empire, an area ruled by the great Mongol khans in the 13th and 14th centuries, was one of the largest land empires in history. 
The original homeland of the Mongols, was bounded by the Khingan Mountains on the east, the Altai and Tian mountains on the west, the Shilka River and the mountain ranges by Lake Baikal on the north, and the Great Wall of China on the south. 
It was founded by Genghis Khan in 1206 AD when he brought together the Mongol and Turkic tribes. When he died in 1227 AD, he had conquered Central Asia, North China and parts of eastern Persia. Later his grandson Kublai Khan would go on to expand the empire and found the Mongol-ruled Yuan Dynasty, ruling whole China. The Mongol Empire stretched from Eastern Europe to Western Asia, including Central Asia and the Middle East. Its power did not last long, though. By the 1360s it had broken into several empires, all of which were later destroyed.

</doc>
<doc id="54938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54938" title="Parthia">
Parthia

Parthia is an ancient country of Asia, now Iran and regions of Armenia, Iraq, Georgia, eastern Turkey, eastern Syria,Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Pakistan, Kuwait, the Persian Gulf coast of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, and UAE.
Parthians were excellent horsemen and archers. In battle, mounted Parthians often discharged their arrows back towards the enemy while pretending to flee.
In 250 BC, the Parthians succeeded in founding an independent kingdom that in the 1st century BC it grew into an empire extending from the Euphrates to the Indus and from the Amu Darya to the Indian Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="54939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54939" title="238 BC">
238 BC


</doc>
<doc id="54940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54940" title="1312">
1312


</doc>
<doc id="54941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54941" title="1422">
1422


</doc>
<doc id="54951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54951" title="Hydrolysis">
Hydrolysis

Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction or process in which a chemical compound reacts with water. This is the type of reaction that is used to break down polymers into many smaller units. In this reaction, water is always added to the chemical compound.
(As noted above, hydrolysis of metal salts is more commonly known as hydration.) Many metal ions are strong Lewis acids, and in water they may undergo hydrolysis to form "basic salts". Such salts contain a hydroxyl group that is directly bound to the metal ion in place of a water ligand. The positive charge on metal ions creates an attraction to water, a Lewis base with a non-binding electron pair on the oxygen atom, and alters the water molecule's electron density. This in turn increases the polarity of the O-H bond, which now acts as a proton donor under Brønsted-Lowry acid-base theory to release the hydrogen as a H+ ion, increasing the acidity of the solution. For example, aluminium chloride undergoes extensive hydrolysis in water with the solution being very acidic.
This implies that hydrogen chloride is lost in the evaporation of AlCl solutions and the residue is a basic salt (in this case an "oxychloride") in place of AlCl. This type of reaction is also seen with other metal chlorides such as ZnCl, SnCl, FeCl and lanthanide halides such as DyCl. With some compounds such as TiCl, the hydrolysis may go to completion and form the pure hydroxide or oxide, in this case TiO.

</doc>
<doc id="54953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54953" title="Water (molecule)">
Water (molecule)

Water (HO, HOH) covers 70-75% of the Earth's surface in its liquid and solid (ice) states, and is present in the atmosphere as a vapor. It is the most abundant molecule on the Earth's surface.
At room temperature, it is a nearly colorless, flavorless, and odorless liquid. Many substances dissolve in water and it is commonly seen as "the universal solvent"; because of this, water in nature and in use is rarely clean, and may have some properties different than those in the laboratory. But there are many compounds that are essentially, if not completely, insoluble in water. Water is the only common, pure substance found naturally in all three states of matter—for other substances, see Chemical properties.
Pure water is tasteless. It is the other chemicals in the water which may give water a flavour.
Generally, the volume of a liquid increases when heated, however the volume of water "decreases" when heated within the temperature range of 0°C to 4°C. Its volume increases only when heated above 4°C. Such behavior is one of a number of water's anomalous properties. 
This property of volume decrease allows fish and other aquatic animals to survive in a body of water when ice has frozen on the surface. In cold climates, when the temperature of a body of water reaches at 4°C, the layers of water near the top in contact with cold air continue to lose heat energy and their temperature falls below 4°C. On cooling below 4°C, these layers rise rather than sink, as water has maximum density at 4°C. Thus the layer of water with a temperature of 4°C remains at the bottom, while layers of water 3°C, 2°C, 1°C and 0°C are formed above. Because ice is poor conductor of heat, it does not allow heat energy transfer from the liquid water beneath the layers of ice, which prevents the liquid water from freezing. Hence, aquatic creatures survive in such places.

</doc>
<doc id="54954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54954" title="Lymphatic system">
Lymphatic system

In mammals, the lymphatic system is a network of thin vessels that branch, like blood vessels, into tissues throughout the body. It is part of the immune system. It is a one-way system which carries cells and fluid back to the blood system.
Lymphatic vessels carry lymph, a colorless, watery fluid and white blood cells. It comes from interstitial fluid in the tissues which is squeezed out of the blood vessels. The lymphatic system transports infection-fighting cells called lymphocytes, and is involved in the removal of foreign matter and cell debris by phagocytes. A second function is to transport fats from the small intestine to the blood. 
Lymphatic fluid gathers from the tissues and enters the valved lymphatic ducts. It is the valves which make sure the lymph flows the right way. On its way back to the blood system, the lymph passes through glands called lymph nodes, in places like the back of the neck, the armpits and the groin. Lymph nodes swell in the region of an infected body part. This acts to keep the infection from spreading. It prevents or reduces the pathogens getting into the general blood circulation and reaching other parts of the body.
Lymph ends up back in the blood system. In mammals under normal conditions most of the lymph is returned to the blood stream through lymph-vein communications at the base of the neck.

</doc>
<doc id="54955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54955" title="Chastity">
Chastity

Chastity is the sexual behavior of a man or woman which is right and proper according to the moral rules of a culture or religion. It has recently begun to mean sexual abstinence (not having sex at all), especially before marriage. However, it can also be used for all kinds of people (even married people) with more meaning than simply not having sex. The word chastity came from the Latin word "castitatem", meaning "purity".

</doc>
<doc id="54960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54960" title="Metallic bond">
Metallic bond

Metallic bonding is the force of attraction between valence electrons and the metal ions. It is the sharing of many detached electrons between many positive ions, where the electrons act as a "glue" giving the substance a definite structure. It is unlike covalent or ionic bonding 
The electrons and the positive ions in the metal have a strong attractive force between them. Therefore, metals often have high melting or boiling points. The principle is similar to that of ionic bonds.
The metallic bond causes many of the traits of metals, such as strength, malleability, ductility, luster, conduction of heat and electricity.
Because the electrons move freely, the metal has some electrical conductivity. It allows the energy to pass quickly through the electrons, generating a current. Metals conduct heat for the same reason: the free electrons can transfer the energy at a faster rate than other substances with electrons that are fixed into position. There also are few non-metals which conduct electricity: graphite (because, like metals, it has free electrons), and ionic compounds that are molten or dissolved in water, which have free moving ions.
Metal bonds have at least one valence electron which they do not share with neighboring atoms, and they do not lose electrons to form ions. Instead the outer energy levels (atomic orbitals) of the metal atoms overlap. They are similar to covalent bonds. Not all metals exhibit metallic bonding. For example, the mercurous ion () forms covalent metal-metal bonds.
An alloy is a solution of metals.

</doc>
<doc id="54964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54964" title="Heat conduction">
Heat conduction

Heat conduction (or thermal conduction) is the movement of heat from one solid to another one that has different temperature when they are touching each other. For example, we can warm our hands by touching hot-water bottles. When the cold hands touch the hot-water bottle, heat flows from the hotter object (hot-water bottle) to the colder one (hand).
Other ways to transfer heat are by thermal radiation and/or convection. Usually more than one of these processes happen at the same time.
In the atomic theory solids, liquids and gases are made of tiny particles called "atoms". The temperature of the material measures how fast the atoms are moving and the heat measures the total amount of energy due to the vibration of the atoms.
You might imagine conduction to take place when one part of a material is heated. The atoms in this part vibrate faster and are more likely to hit their neighbours. When collisions take place, the energy is passed on to the neighbouring atoms allowing the energy to travel through the solid. (Rather like the way energy passes along a set of tumbling dominos).
The atomic picture also helps explain why conduction is more important in solids: in solids the atoms are close together and unable to move around. In liquids and gases the particles can move past each other, so the collisions are less common.
The law of heat conduction, also known as Fourier's law, means that the rate, in time, of heat transfer through a material is proportional to the negative gradient in the temperature and to the area at right angles, to that gradient, through which the heat is flowing:
where:
Thermal conductivity usually varies with temperature, but the variation can be small, over a significant range of temperatures, for some common materials.

</doc>
<doc id="54965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54965" title="Judith Weir">
Judith Weir

Judith Weir (born 11 May 1954) is a British composer. She is well known for her theatre works, choral music, orchestral music and chamber music.
Weir was born in Cambridge, England to Scottish parents. While she was still at school she trained with the composer John Tavener. She played the oboe in the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain. She then studied at the University of Cambridge where her teacher was Robin Holloway.
Judith Weir’s music has harmonies which are very exciting and original. Her Christmas carol "Illuminare" has become very popular, but it is quite difficult and needs a good choir to pitch the notes of the dissonant chords. She often uses medieval history as inspiration for her music, as well as music from her native Scotland, e.g. piobaireachd, which is a kind of variation form using small intervals. Her music often tells stories. Her operas include "A Night at the Chinese Opera", "The Vanishing Bridegroom", "Blond Eckbert", and "Armida", an opera for television.
From 1995 to 2000, she was the Artistic Director of the Spitalfields Festival in London. She has composed works for the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra. She has received many honours, including the CBE in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="54968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54968" title="Chorus">
Chorus

Chorus can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="54977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54977" title="Vassal">
Vassal

A vassal during the feudalism of medieval Europe, was someone who had shared duties with a lord. Usually the vassal provided soldiers to the lord. The lord used his army of soldiers from all of his vassals to protect those vassals. The lord also gave him the piece of land that he held as a fief. By analogy the term "vassal" is used also for similar systems in other feudal societies.
The development of the "vassal", in a society that was increasingly organised around the concept of "lordship"– in French the "seigneur"– is one sign that Antiquity ended and the Early Middle Ages began. Lordship is the basic social institution as Tacitus described them in his book "Germania". The Roman West experienced them for the first time in the Migration Period.
As the system developed in the seventh century, the vassals were gangs of freemen who subjected themselves, in some degree of formality, to the authority of a leader, from whom they could expect to be fed, clothed and armed. The quality of a vassal was only in his fighting ability and the strength of his loyalty. The etymology (where the word came from) of "vassal" is from a Celtic word "gwas" "boy" that meant a young male slave, with a Latinised form, "vassus" that appeared in Salic Law (Rouche 1987 p 429), like the way "knight" came from the from Old English word "cniht" and similar words in Frisian and Dutch, all meaning "lad" .

</doc>
<doc id="54979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54979" title="Migration period">
Migration period

The migration period, or barbarian invasions or Völkerwanderung, is a name for the period of roughly AD 300–700 in Europe. That was the period at the end of Ancient history and the beginning of the Middle Ages.
The migration included the Goths, Vandals, and Franks, among other Germanic, Bulgar and Slavic tribes. The migration may have been influenced by attacks of the Huns in the east and connected to the Turkic migration in Central Asia, population pressures, or climate changes. The migration period also included groups of Angles, Saxons, Frisians and some Jutes to Britain.
Migrations would continue well beyond 1000 AD, successive waves of Slavs, Alans, Avars, Bulgars, Hungarians, Pechenegs, Cumans, and Tatars changed the ethnic makeup of Eastern Europe. Western European historians, however, tend to stress the migrations most relevant to Western Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="54983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54983" title="San Francisco Bay Area">
San Francisco Bay Area

The San Francisco Bay Area, also known as the Bay Area, is a metropolitan area that goes around the San Francisco Bay in Northern California. It includes the cities of San Francisco, San José, and Oakland, and their many suburbs. It also includes the smaller urban and rural areas of the North Bay. Over seven million people live in the San Francisco Bay Area. The San Francisco Bay Area is the 43rd largest metropolitan area in the world in population.
The Bay Area includes cities, towns, military bases, airports, and related regional, state, and national parks.
San José is the largest city in the Bay Area since 1990 and the tenth largest city in America. But for most of its history, San Francisco was the city with the most people. San Francisco is still the city people pay the most attention to, and it is the major cultural center in the region.
Bay Area Rapid Transit connects the different parts of the Bay Area.
The region north of the Golden Gate Bridge is known locally as the North Bay. This area includes Marin County and continues north into Sonoma and Napa counties and east to Solano County. With some exceptions, this region is quite rich: Marin County is listed as the wealthiest in the nation.
The City and County of San Francisco is generally placed in a category by itself in terms of geography and culture. It is separated by water from the north, west and east, and by a county line from its neighbor cities to the South. San Francisco has been the cultural, financial and urban center of the region for a long time. For most of the Bay Area's history, it has also been the main population center. But because the size of the county is limited, the growth of the city was limited as well. As a result, other cities and counties have had more population growth.
The area between the South Bay and the City and County of San Francisco is the San Francisco Peninsula, known locally as "The Peninsula". This area includes many small cities and suburban communities in San Mateo County and the northwestern part of Santa Clara County, as well as several towns along the Pacific coast, such as Pacifica and Half Moon Bay.
The eastern side of the bay, consisting of Alameda and Contra Costa counties, is known locally as the East Bay. The East Bay is split into two regions, the inner East Bay, which is on the coast of the Bay, and the outer East Bay, including the inland valleys separated from the inner East Bay by hills and mountains.
The communities along the southern edge of the Bay are known as the South Bay, Santa Clara Valley, and Silicon Valley. 
This region is home to a large number of major technology companies. Some tech companies in the South Bay are Intel, AMD, Cisco Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Apple, Google, and Yahoo!, Microsoft and much much more.
The San Francisco Bay Area is one of the wealthiest regions in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="54987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54987" title="San Francisco Bay">
San Francisco Bay

San Francisco Bay is a shallow, productive estuary through which water draining about forty percent of California, flowing in the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers from the Sierra Nevada mountains and Central Valley, enters the Pacific Ocean. Technically, both rivers flow into Suisun Bay, which help flows through the Carquinez Strait to meet with the Napa River at the entrance to San Pablo Bay, which connects at its south end to San Francisco Bay, although the entire group of interconnected bays are often referred to as "the San Francisco Bay."
San Francisco Bay lies in the US state of California and is surrounded by a region known as the San Francisco Bay Area, that is near the big cities of San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose.
The Bay covers somewhere between 400 and 1,600 square miles (1,040 to 4,160 square kilometres), depending on which sub-bays (such as San Pablo Bay), estuaries, wetlands, and so on are included in the measurement.

</doc>
<doc id="54988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54988" title="Ahmed Yassin">
Ahmed Yassin

Ahmed Yassin (January 1, 1937 – March 22, 2004) was a spiritual leader of the militant Palestinian group Hamas. Yassin's birth date is in dispute. He claimed he was born 1/1/1938, however, his passport indicated 1/1/1937. To some he was a hero, to some he was a notorious member of a terrorist organization. He was also a symbolic figure for Palestinians to fight against Israel. 
Yassin was born in al-Jura, British Mandate of Palestine. He helped create Hamas and became its spiritual leader in 1987. To other members of Hamas he was a hero but he was blamed by the Israeli government for planning suicide bombings and other attacks against Israel. He claimed that was the only way of fighting occupation. He was confined to a wheelchair because he was paralyzed since age 12, he was also nearly blind and could barely hear. He was very powerful and influential. He was assassinated in an airstrike in Gaza City by the Israeli Army after he left a mosque in Gaza in the early morning hours.

</doc>
<doc id="54989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54989" title="Field strength">
Field strength

In physics, the field strength of a field is the magnitude (size) of its (vector) value. This means that the force exerted by the field on a given object is proportional to the field strength.
In differential geometry, the field strength is another name for the curvature form. For the electromagnetic field, the curvature form is an antisymmetric matrix whose elements are the electric field and magnetic field: the electromagnetic tensor.
In radio engineering, field strength is the strength of radio waves in a particular location. 

</doc>
<doc id="54992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54992" title="Field (physics)">
Field (physics)

In physics, a field means that a physical quantity is assigned to every point in space (or, more generally, spacetime). A field is seen as extending throughout a large region of space so that it influences everything. The strength of a field usually varies over a region. Michael Faraday became the first to coin the term "field", in 1849.
For some fields, there is a number for each point in space. They are called "scalar fields". For more complicated fields, there are more than one number for each point in space. They are called "vector fields" or "tensor fields". For example, one can model a gravitational field by a vector field where a vector indicates the acceleration a mass would experience at each point in space. Other examples are temperature fields or air pressure fields, which are often illustrated on weather reports by isotherms and isobars by joining up the points of equal temperature or pressure respectively.
It is now believed that quantum mechanics should underlie all physical phenomena.
A field theory is a physical theory that describes how one or more physical fields interact with matter.

</doc>
<doc id="54993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54993" title="Gradient">
Gradient

In vector calculus, the gradient of a scalar field is a vector field which points in the direction of the greatest rate of increase of the scalar field, and whose magnitude is the greatest rate of change.
A generalization of the gradient, for functions which have vectorial values, is the Jacobian. 
Consider a room in which the temperature is given by a scalar field formula_1, so at each point formula_2 the temperature is formula_3. We will assume that the temperature does not change in time. Then, at each point in the room, the gradient at that point will show the direction in which the temperature rises most quickly. The magnitude of the gradient will determine how fast the temperature rises in that direction.
Consider a hill whose height above sea level at a point formula_4 is formula_5. The gradient of formula_6 at a point is a vector pointing in the direction of the steepest slope or grade at that point. The steepness of the slope at that point is given by the magnitude of the gradient vector. 
The gradient can also be used to measure how a scalar field changes in other directions, rather than just the direction of greatest change, by taking a dot product. Consider again the example with the hill and suppose that the steepest slope on the hill is 40%. If a road goes directly up the hill, then the steepest slope on the road will also be 40%. If instead, the road goes around the hill at an angle with the uphill direction (the gradient vector), then it will have a shallower slope. For example, if the angle between the road and the uphill direction, projected onto the horizontal plane, is 60°, then the steepest slope along the road will be 20% which is 40% times the cosine of 60°.

</doc>
<doc id="54995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54995" title="Trigonometric function">
Trigonometric function

In mathematics, the trigonometric functions are a set of functions which relate angles to the sides of a right triangle. There are many trigonometric functions, the 3 most common being sine, cosine, tangent, followed by cotangent, secant and cosecant. The last three are called reciprocal trigonometric functions because they act as the reciprocals of other functions. Secant and cosecant are rarely used.
The trigonometric functions sometimes are also called circular functions. They are functions of an angle; they are important when studying triangles, among many other applications. Trigonometric functions are commonly defined as ratios of two sides of a right triangle containing the angle, and can equivalently be defined as the lengths of various line segments from a unit circle (a circle that has a radius of one).
In order to define the trigonometric functions for the angle "A", start with a right triangle that contains the angle "A":
We use the following names for the sides of the triangle:
All triangles are taken to exist in Euclidean geometry so that the inside angles of each triangle sum to π radians (or 180°); therefore, for a right triangle the two non-right angles are between zero and π/2 radians. The reader should note that the following definitions, strictly speaking, only define the trigonometric functions for angles in this range. We extend them to the full set of real arguments by using the unit circle, or by requiring certain symmetries and that they be periodic functions.
1) The sine of an angle is the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the hypotenuse. In our case
Note that this ratio does not depend on the particular right triangle chosen, as long as it contains the angle "A", since all those triangles are similar.
The set of zeroes of sine (i.e., the values of formula_2 for which formula_3) is
2) The cosine of an angle is the ratio of the length of the adjacent side to the length of the hypotenuse. In our case
The set of zeroes of cosine is
3) The tangent of an angle is the ratio of the length of the opposite side to the length of the adjacent side. In our case
The set of zeroes of tangent is
The same set of the sine function since
The remaining three functions are best defined using the above three functions.
4) The cosecant csc("A") is the multiplicative inverse of sin("A"), i.e. the ratio of the length of the hypotenuse to the length of the opposite side:
5) The secant sec("A") is the multiplicative inverse of cos("A"), i.e. the ratio of the length of the hypotenuse to the length of the adjacent side:
6) The cotangent cot("A") is the multiplicative inverse of tan("A"), i.e. the ratio of the length of the adjacent side to the length of the opposite side:
One can define the trigonometric functions also by using power series:
and define tangent, cotangent, secant and cosecant using identities, see below.
Some important identities:

</doc>
<doc id="54996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54996" title="Gradient (disambiguation)">
Gradient (disambiguation)

Gradient could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="54999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54999" title="Archer">
Archer

An archer is someone who practices archery (shooting with bows and arrows). 
Archer can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55000" title="Archery">
Archery

Archery is the practice of using a bow to shoot arrows. Archery has historically been used in hunting and combat and has become a precision sport. A person practicing archery is called an "archer", and one who enjoys or is an expert at archery is sometimes called an toxophilite.
The earliest evidence of archery dates back more than 9,001 years. The bow probably was used in hunting first and was then adopted as a tool of warfare. It was one of the earliest forms of artillery. 
Classical civilizations, notably the Persians, Macedonians, Nubians, Greeks, Parthians, Indians, Japanese, Chinese, and Koreans, had large numbers of archers in their armies. Arrows were very destructive against massed formations, and the use of archers helped win battles.

</doc>
<doc id="55015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55015" title="John Cena">
John Cena

John Felix Anthony Cena, Jr. (born April 23, 1977) is an American professional wrestler, hip hop musician and actor. He currently works for the WWE. Cena has won the WWE Championship/WWE World Heavyweight Championship twelve times, the World Heavyweight Championship twice, the United States Championship five times and the World Tag Team Championship twice. Also, Cena won the Royal Rumble in 2008 and 2013. As for his musical career, Cena has released an album called "You Can't See Me". Cena has also been featured in the movies "The Marine", "12 Rounds" and "Legendary". In Baseball, he is a Red Sox fan turned Rays fan.
Cena was signed by then Person in charge of Talent Relations, Jim Ross on behalf on WWF. According to Ross, when he returned to Connecticut after signing Cena he walked into Vince McMahon's office and told him "I just signed your main event for WrestleMania in 5 years." Cena would eventually make his WrestleMania debut 3 years later at WrestleMania XX winning the WWE United States Championship from The Big Show, and his Main event WrestleMania debut 4 years later winning the WWE Championship, from John "Bradshaw" Layfield.
During the match between Barrett and Orton, Orton won so Cena was forced to retire (Kayfabe). He was rehired by Wade Barrett and defeated him at TLC: Tables, Ladders and Chairs Pay Per View.
He was drafted to SmackDown as the first pick in the 2011 WWE Draft, but before the end of the night, he was drafted back to Raw.
He was defeated by The Rock at WrestleMania XXVIII. He won his second Royal Rumble in January 2013. Thus he got another match at WrestleMania XXIX against The Rock for WWE Championship. He won that match and became the WWE Champion.
John Cena has been turned into a popular meme by the MLG community, You can find many videos on YouTube & Vine, many including his theme song.

</doc>
<doc id="55023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55023" title="Signal transduction">
Signal transduction

A signal transduction in biology is a cellular mechanism. It converts a stimulus into a response in the cell. There are two stages in this process:
So, signal transduction starts with a signal to a cell receptor, and ends with a change in cell function. In either step, the signal can be amplified. Thus, one signalling molecule can cause many responses.
Receptors are in the cell membrane, with part of the receptor outside and part inside the cell.  The chemical signal binds to the outer portion of the receptor, changing its shape. This causes another signal inside the cell.  Some chemical messengers, such as testosterone, can pass through the cell membrane, and bind directly to receptors in the cytoplasm or nucleus.
Sometimes there is a cascade of signals within the cell. With each step of the cascade, the signal can be amplified, so a small signal can result in a large response. Eventually, the signal creates a change in the cell, either in the expression of the DNA in the nucleus or in the activity of enzymes in the cytoplasm. 
Most often, ordered sequences of biochemical reactions inside the cell are involved. These are carried out by enzymes and linked through second messengers. So a "second messenger pathway" is produced. These things usually happen quickly, sometimes very quickly. They may last from milliseconds (in the case of ion flux) to days for gene expression. 
The number of proteins and other molecules that take part increases during the process. So a 'signal cascade' develops and "a relatively small stimulus may cause a large response".
In bacteria and other single-cell organisms, the transduction processes a cell has limits the number of ways it can respond to its environment. In multicellular organisms, lots of different signal transduction processes are used to coordinate the behavior of individual cells. By this means the function of the organism as a whole is organized. The more complex the organism, the more complex the repertoire of signal transduction processes the organism must possess. 
Thus, sensing of both the external and internal environment at the cellular level, relies on signal transduction. Many disease processes such as diabetes, heart disease, autoimmunity and cancer arise from defects in signal transduction pathways. This highlights the critical importance of signal transduction to biology and medicine.
These systems of communication between cells are extremely ancient, and are found in all metazoa.

</doc>
<doc id="55024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55024" title="Flux">
Flux

Flux is a term in physics and mathematics. It is broadly defined as "How much stuff goes through your thing."
For instance, imagine a butterfly net. The amount of air passing through the net is the flux.
In the study of transport phenomena (heat transfer, mass transfer and fluid dynamics), flux is defined as flow per unit area, where flow is the movement of some quantity per time. Flux, in this definition, is a vector.
There are many fluxes used in the study of transport phenomena. Each type of flux has its own distinct unit of measurement along with distinct physical constants. Six of the most common forms of flux from the transport literature are defined as:
In the field of electromagnetism, flux is usually the integral of a vector quantity over a finite surface. The result of this integration is a scalar quantity. The magnetic flux is thus the integral of the magnetic vector field over a surface, and the electric flux is defined similarly. Using this definition, the flux of the Poynting vector over a specified surface is the rate at which electromagnetic energy flows through that surface. Confusingly, the Poynting vector is sometimes called the "power flux", which is an example of the first usage of flux, above. It has units of watts per square metre (W/m).

</doc>
<doc id="55027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55027" title="Flux (disambiguation)">
Flux (disambiguation)

Flux comes from Latin and means "flow"; it may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55030" title="Neuroscience">
Neuroscience

Neuroscience is the scientific study of the human neurological action and inaction of thought, design and purpose with the identification of brain, cord and sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. Experts who study neuroscience study both brain, cord and automation of design because both brain and cord are of the upper anatomy and connected in a way that benefits the entire body, but brain and cord are established within the framework of anatomy and medicine in a complete way. Neuroscience is biology, chemistry, computer science, engineering, linguistics, mathematics, medicine, philosophy, physics, psychology, genetics, biochemistry, physiology, and pathology. 
The basic neuronal design matches both anatomical abnormality and normality within a certain reference of creation because while it is both natural and unnatural it is also broken, dimished, small and complex and as so it is immense in its way of operating within the skull, brain membranes and brain itself. The brain is a structure made up of billions of neurons that work together to form a matrix within a complex of organs termed by their anatomical structure: corpus callosum, basal ganglia, lower anatomical brain region and upper anatomical brain region. 
Molecular biology, electrophysiology, and computational neuroscience involves neurology is a way that was not used in the past and because of this both computational neurology and endrobiology are addressed by concern and design and almost all forms of neurobiology are and can be given a full compliment of understanding by all forms of science because that is how science is meant to be is interrelated and not to stand alone. Neurons are basic to neurology as medicine is to doctors and 
pharmacuticals are to disease and help within that framework neurons are diseased and so neuroscience turns from referencing design to medical intervention and design.
Neuroscience research from different areas can also be seen as focusing on a set of specific themes and questions. (Some of these are taken from http://www.northwestern.edu/nuin/fac/index.htm)

</doc>
<doc id="55032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55032" title="Conversation analysis">
Conversation analysis

Conversation analysis (commonly abbreviated as CA) is the study of talk in social interaction. CA tries to describe the structure and patterns of interaction, whether this is institutional (in the school, doctor's surgery, courts or elsewhere) or casual conversation. 
The term “conversation” to label this disciplinary movement is misleading if read in a colloquial sense, as many have. 

</doc>
<doc id="55033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55033" title="Mark-Anthony Turnage">
Mark-Anthony Turnage

Mark-Anthony Turnage (born Grays, Essex, 10 June 1960) is an English composer. He is one of the most original composers in his country today. 
Turnage studied at the Royal College of Music and won all the major prizes. He became famous when he wrote an opera called "Greek". It is typical of his musical style: quite lyrical but also very dramatic and aggressive. His music is often inspired by jazz. Other works include "Kai", "Rockaby", "Blood on the Floor", "Dispelling the Fears", "Drowned Out" and "Three Screaming Popes". He has written music for the English National Opera, City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. 

</doc>
<doc id="55034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55034" title="Hydrothermal vent">
Hydrothermal vent

A hydrothermal vent (which is also called a black smoker) is an opening in the surface of the Earth. There are gases that rise through it, which heat the water around it. There are many such vents on Earth. If they are on land, they are usually hot springs, geysers, or fumaroles. Many archaea and bacteria live near hydrothermal vents, which are underwater. They support giant tube worms, clams and shrimp, and many other eukaryotes.
Deep sea organisms have no access to sunlight, so they must depend on nutrients in the chemical deposits and hydrothermal fluids in which they live. Compared to the surrounding sea floor, however, hydrothermal vent zones have a density of organisms 10,000 to 100,000 times greater.
Hydrothermal vent communities are able to sustain such vast amounts of life because vent organisms depend on chemosynthetic bacteria for food. These bacteria use sulfur compounds, particularly hydrogen sulfide, a chemical highly toxic to most known organisms, to produce organic material through the process of chemosynthesis.
The chemosynthetic bacteria grow into a thick mat which attracts other organisms such as amphipods and copepods which graze upon the bacteria directly. Larger organisms such as snails, shrimp, crabs, giant tube worms, fish, and octopus form a food chain of predator and prey relationships above the primary consumers. 
The main groups of organisms around seafloor vents are worms, gastropods, and crustaceans, with large bivalves, and 'eyeless' shrimp making up the bulk of non-microbial organisms.
Tube worms form an important part of the community around a hydrothermal vent. They absorb nutrients directly into their tissues. There are approximately 285 billion bacteria per ounce of tubeworm tissue.
Tubeworms have red plumes which contain haemoglobin. Haemoglobin combines hydrogen sulfide and transfers it to the bacteria living inside the worm. In return the bacteria nourish the worm with carbon compounds. 
Other examples of the unique fauna who inhabit this ecosystem are the gastropod "Crysomallon squamiferum", a species of snail with a foot reinforced by scales made of iron and organic materials, and the 'Pompeii Worm' "Alvinella pompejana", which is capable of withstanding temperatures up to 80°C (176°F).
Over 300 new species have been discovered at hydrothermal vents, many of them "sister species" to others in geographically separated vent areas. It has been proposed that before the North American plate overrode the mid-ocean ridge, there was a single biogeographic vent region found in the eastern Pacific. The subsequent barrier to travel began the evolutionary divergence of species in different locations. The examples of convergent evolution seen between distinct hydrothermal vents is seen as major support for the theory of natural selection and evolution as a whole.
A species of phototrophic bacterium has been found living near a black smoker off the coast of Mexico at a depth of . No sunlight penetrates that far into the waters. Instead, the bacteria, part of the Chlorobiaceae family, use the faint glow from the black smoker for photosynthesis. This is the first organism discovered in nature to exclusively use a light other than sunlight for photosynthesis.

</doc>
<doc id="55036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55036" title="Guava">
Guava

Guavas are plants in the genus "Psidium" of the family Myrtaceae. There are about 100 species of tropical shrubs and small trees in the genus.
They are native to Mexico, the Caribbean, Central America and the northern part of South America. Now they are found in all the tropical, and in some subtropical, regions because they are edible fruits.
Guava are also a kind of berry fruit on those plants. There are many kinds of guavas. The most common guava is the apple guava ("Psidium guajava"): it is so common that the word 'guava' usually refers to this species. Red guavas are called maroonguava. In 100 g of guava are 200 mg of vitamin C, which means that guavas have five times more vitamin C than oranges.

</doc>
<doc id="55037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55037" title="Resting potential">
Resting potential

The resting potential of a cell is the membrane potential that would be maintained if there were no action potentials, synaptic potentials, or other active changes in the membrane potential. In most cells the resting potential has a negative value, which by convention means that there is excess negative charge inside compared to outside. The resting potential is mostly determined by the concentrations of the ions in the fluids on both sides of the cell membrane and the ion transport proteins that are in the cell membrane. How the concentrations of ions and the membrane transport proteins influence the value of the resting potential is outlined below.

</doc>
<doc id="55038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55038" title="Thrust">
Thrust

Thrust is a force or a push. When a system pushes or accelerates mass in one direction, there is a thrust (force) just as large in the opposite direction. In math and physics, this is described by Isaac Newton’s second and third laws. Thrust is used to describe how well a type of engine runs. It can be used for many kinds of engines like rocket engines, plane (propeller) engines, and jet engines.
Thrust is measured in “pounds of thrust” in the U.S. and in Newtons in the metric system. 4.45 Newtons of thrust equals 1 pound of thrust. A pound of thrust is how much thrust it would take to keep a one pound object unmoving against the force of gravity on earth. 
A very common question is how to compare the thrust number of an airplane engine with the power number of a piston engine (the kind of engine in cars and in airplanes with propellers). It is hard to compare these two. This is because they are not measuring the same exact thing. A piston engine does not move the plane. It just delivers power to the propeller, which turns and moves the plane. Because of this, piston engines are rated by how much power they give to the propeller. 
Now, a jet engine has no propeller – it pushes the aircraft by moving hot air behind it. A useful way to measure the power of a jet engine is to how much power the jet engine gives to the aircraft through its thrust force. This is called the “propulsive power of the jet engine”. Power is how much force it takes to move something over a distance, divided by the time it takes to move that distance:
Where P is power, F is force, d is distance, and t is time. For a rocket or jet engine, the force is the same as thrust produced by the engine. Distance divided by time is also called speed. So power is the same as thrust times speed
Where T is thrust and "v" is speed. This is the power being delivered by the engine at a certain thrust or velocity. The propulsive power of a jet engine increases with its speed. If the speed is zero, then the propulsive power is zero.
When the thrust of a rocket or an engine is compared to the weight of the engine, it is called the Thrust-to-weight ratio. The number that comes from this comparison does not have any units, because it is a ratio. A ratio in this case means that the thrust of the engine (in Newtons) is divided by the weight (in Newtons) of the engine. The purpose of this comparison is to show how well the engine or vehicle performs. It is a number that can be used to compare various types of motors like airplane motors, jet engines, rocket engines, or car engines. 
This comparison number can change while the engine is running. This is because the weight of the engine gets lighter as fuel is used. The thrust-to-weight ratio is and used to actually compare engines is the number found when the engine is first running.
Thrust is measured in “pounds of thrust” in the U.S. and in Newtons in the metric system. 4.45 Newtons of thrust equals 1 pound of thrust. A pound of thrust is how much thrust it would take to keep a one pound object unmoving against the force of gravity on earth.
An airplane makes forward thrust when air is pushed in the direction opposite to flight. The thrust is made by the spinning blades of a propeller. Thrust can also be made by a rotating fan pushing air out from the back of a jet engine. Another way is by ejecting hot gases from a rocket engine. 
Reverse thrust is the opposite of forward thrust. In this way air is pushed in the same way as the motion of the body. Reverse thrust can be used to help braking after landing. This can be done by changing the direction that a propeller turns. 
Birds normally achieve thrust during flight by flapping their wings.
A potassium nitrate and sugar rocket makes up to 1600 lbs of thrust.
A boat with a motor makes thrust or reverse thrust when the propellers are turned to push water backwards (or forwards). The thrust that this makes pushes the boat in the opposite direction than the water is being pushed. 
A rocket is pushed forward by a thrust force as large as the force the exhaust gas makes when going out of the rocket nozzle. The force the exhaust gas makes is called the exhaust velocity. The velocity is measured compared to the rocket. For vertical launch of a rocket to work, the starting thrust must be more force than the weight of the rocket.

</doc>
<doc id="55039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55039" title="Thrust (disambiguation)">
Thrust (disambiguation)

Thrust is a reaction force described by Newton's Second and Third Law. For this meaning, see Thrust.
This word has other uses:

</doc>
<doc id="55040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55040" title="Robert A. Heinlein">
Robert A. Heinlein

Robert Anson Heinlein (July 7, 1907 - May 8, 1988) was an American writer. He mostly wrote science fiction books. He won the Hugo Award four times. Probably his best-known novels are Starship Troopers (1959, Hugo Award, was made into a film), and Stranger in a Strange Land (1961, Hugo Award). Two other Hugo awards were for Double Star (1956) and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress (1966). Together with Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke he is seen as one of the "Big Three of Science Fiction".

</doc>
<doc id="55043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55043" title="List of video game genres">
List of video game genres

There are many computer and video game genres. Here is a list of some of them.

</doc>
<doc id="55045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55045" title="Fable">
Fable

A fable is a type of story which shows something in life or has a meaning to a word. A fable is a funny story but may teach a lesson or suggest a moral from it. A fable starts in the middle of the story, that means, jumps into the main event without detailed introduction of characters. The characters of a fable may be people, animals, gods, or anything else. When animals and objects are used in fables, they think and talk like people, even though they act like animals or objects. For example, in a fable a clay pot might say that it is frightened of being broken.
The stories told by fables are usually very simple. To understand a fable, the reader or listener does not need to know all about the characters, only one important thing. For this reason animals are often used in fables in a way that is easily understood because it is always the same. They keep the same "characteristics" from story to story.
The most famous fables are those attributed to Aesop (6th century B.C.). Many fables are so well-known that their morals have become English sayings.
For example:

</doc>
<doc id="55046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55046" title="Drainage">
Drainage

Drainage is the natural or artificial removal of surface and sub-surface water from a given area. Many agricultural soils need drainage to improve production or to manage water supplies.
The earliest archaeological record of an advanced system of drainage comes from the Indus Valley Civilization from around 3100 BC in what is now Pakistan and North India. The ancient Indus systems of sewerage and drainage that were developed and used in cities throughout the civilization were far more advanced than any found in contemporary urban sites in the Middle East and even more efficient than those in some areas of modern Pakistan and India today. All houses in the major cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro had access to water and drainage facilities. Waste water was directed to covered drains, which lined the major streets.
Wetland soils may need drainage to be used for agriculture. In the northern USA and Europe, glaciation created numerous small lakes which gradually filled with humus to make marshes. Some of these were drained using open ditches and trenches.
The largest project of this type in the world has been in process for centuries in the Netherlands. The area between Amsterdam, Haarlem and Leiden was, in prehistoric times swampland and small lakes. Turf cutting (Peat mining), subsidence and shoreline erosion gradually caused the formation of one large lake, the Haarlemmermeer, or lake of Haarlem. The invention of wind powered pumping engines in the 15th century permitted drainage of some of the marginal land, but the final drainage of the lake had to await the design of large, steam powered pumps and agreements between regional authorities. The elimination of the lake occurred between 1849 and 1852, creating thousands of km of new land.

</doc>
<doc id="55047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55047" title="Polder">
Polder

Empoldering is a method of reclaiming land from the sea. Empoldering involves the use of polders, and is also a way to control floods. A polder is a piece of land in a low-lying area that has been reclaimed from a body of water by building dikes and drainage canals.
Although empoldering is usually carried out in low-lying coastal areas, it can be also carried out in inland areas such as lakes and rivers. It is commonly carried out in countries like the Netherlands, where much of the country is below sea level and subject to flooding. About one-fifth of the land in the Netherlands has been reclaimed from the sea. Their largest and most successful project is the Zuider Zee project.
Polders have 2 distinct features. Firstly, they are enclosed by dikes to keep the water out. The dikes also serve to protect the polder from erosion. Secondly, polders are continually maintained by systems of drainage canals and pumps which prevent them from becoming waterlogged and hence, suitable for cultivation.
Stage 1: Dike constructed around the area to be reclaimed to keep water from coming in.
Stage 2: The area is drained using pumps and drainage canals.
Stage 3: "Reeds"(a type of salt tolerant plant) are sown by aircraft to help the soil form.
Stage 4: After 3 years, reeds are burnt and the ash is used as fertilisers for the soil.
Stage 5: After a period of up to 15 years, the polder is ready for growing crops, building houses and constructing roads.
1. Cost of reclaiming from deeper waters 
2. Availability of sand 
3. Dispute over territorial boundaries

</doc>
<doc id="55051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55051" title="Resistor">
Resistor

A resistor limits the electrical current that flows through a circuit. Resistance is the restriction of current. In a resistor the energy of the electrons that pass through the resistor are changed to heat and/or light. For example, in a light bulb there is a resistor made of tungsten which converts the electrons into light.
Resistors can be linked in various combinations to help make a circuit:
There are many different types of resistors. Resistors have different ratings to tell electricians how much power they can handle before they break and how accurately they can slow the flow of electricity. Connecting two resistors in series results in a higher resistance than when you connect the same two resistors in parallel. To prevent the resistor from reaching its capacity, place the resistors in parallel to keep the total resistance lower. 
Nowadays the electrical industry in many cases uses so called surface-mount technology based resistors which can be very small.
Where R is the resistor's value 
The formula for Ohm’s law, V=I*R, states that the voltage drop across a component is equal to the product of the current flowing in the component multiplied by the resistance of the component. When using Ohm’s law, you are able to switch the formula around if needed to find a different outcome: I=V/R or R=V/I 
Resistor's values are rated by the colors that are listed on the side of the resistor. The colored bands that are used on the sides of a resistor are black, brown, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, gray, and white. Each color represents a different number. The black band represents the number 0, brown band represents the number 1, red is 2 and so on all the way to white which is the number 9. These numbers are very important in the electronic field.
A resistor can have multiple bands of color on its side. The most common have four but they can range all the way up to 6 per resistor. On a four band resistor, the last band is gold or silver. The gold band represents a positive or negative 5% tolerance. The silver band on a resistor represents a positive or negative 10% tolerance. Hold this band on the right side, and read the colors from left to right. The first two bands are read as the numbers that they represent in the color code. The third band acts as a multiplier for the other bands, so for example, if the third band was a orange band which is a 3, it would mean you multiply the two numbers by 1000. In short you add the value of the color in zeros at the end, so add three zeros.
Resistors are used in many different ways. First of all, they are put in circuits to protect components from damage such as LEDs.
They also control the amount of current flowing in a circuit, for example, if you want the current to be slowed you would add more resistors to create more resistance in the circuit. Resistors can also split voltage between different parts of a circuit and control time delay.
There are many different types of resistors you can find. They are all made with a resistance material encased in a non-conductive material casing, such as plastic. Fixed resistors are usually made of carbon encased in a plastic cylinder, with a connecting wire on either end. Most resistors used in electronics today are carbon resistors. Older resistors were made of a poorly conducting metal, in order to restrict the flow of electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="55056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55056" title="Death Star">
Death Star

The Death Star is a fictional moon-sized space station and superweapon. It was invented for the "Star Wars" movies. It was a huge spherical space station which fired a ray of energy which could destroy a planet.
The details of the Death Star changed between different models during production of "". These changes include the position of the superlaser. The idea of the Death Star as a large, spherical space station was the same in all the models. The sound of the Death Star counting down until it fires comes from the "Flash Gordon" movies. Making a Death Star that was only partly built (but was still powerful) was a problem for Industrial Light & Magic's modelmakers for "". Only the front side of the 137-centimeter model was finished. The image was flipped horizontally for the final movie. Both Death Stars were created in the movies by using a full models, models of sections of the space station and matte paintings.
The first Death Star was shown in its finished form in "". It was commanded by Grand Moff Tarkin (Peter Cushing). The Death Star was the Galactic Empire's "ultimate weapon". The movie begins with Leia Organa (Carrie Fisher) taking the station's plans to the Rebel Alliance. She is trying to help them destroy the Death Star. Tarkin has the Death Star destroy Leia's home world of Alderaan. He does this to try to make her tell him here the secret Rebel base is. She tells them a location but not the real one. Tarkin has her planet destroyed anyway. Later, Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) goes to the station with his friends. They save Leia. In the movie's main battle scene, Skywalker uses his power in the "Force" to help him destroy the station.
"Return of the Jedi" takes place four years later. At this time, the Empire is building a new Death Star. It is half-finished in the movie. Emperor Palpatine (Ian McDiarmid) and Darth Vader (David Prowse/James Earl Jones) send the Rebels false information. This information says that the station's weapons systems are not working yet. They do this to trap the Rebels. They also want to get Skywalker on board so they can turn him to the dark side of the Force. In the movie's climax, Vader throws Palpatine down the station's reactor core. This kills him. Vader is badly hurt doing this and soon dies. Skywalker takes Vader's body and leaves the Death Star just before it is destroyed.
The first Death Star is also dealt with in the "Star Wars" prequel trilogy. Its schematics are shown in "". At the end of "", the Death Star is shown starting to be built.

</doc>
<doc id="55059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55059" title="Doctor of Philosophy">
Doctor of Philosophy

The Doctor of Philosophy, (PhD, Ph.D., DPhil or D.Phil.) is a degree a person gets from a university by finishing a doctorate program. In many areas of study, the PhD/DPhil is the highest degree that a person can earn (this is called the "terminal degree"). There are PhD/DPhil degrees for many different fields, such as PhDs/DPhils in literature, philosophy, history, science, mathematics, and engineering. Some PhD/DPhil degrees have existed for hundreds of years, such as the PhD/DPhil in Canon Law. Other PhD/DPhil degrees were developed in the 1970s and 1980s, such as the PhD/DPhil in Computer Science.
To be admitted to a PhD/DPhil program, a person usually has to have completed their Bachelor's degree or Master's degree that is related to the PhD/DPhil degree. For example, a person applying to be admitted to a PhD/DPhil degree in Theater would normally have to have a Master's degree such as a Master of Arts (MA) degree in Theater, English Literature, or a related area.
The PhD/DPhil degree usually takes between three to six years of full time study to complete. They may or may not require a master's degree beforehand. Many PhD/DPhil degrees begin with a period of graduate courses. After the PhD/DPhil student has taken these courses, they take examinations to test what the student knows about their area of study. After the student passes the exams, they begin to do original research. The product is a long research report called a dissertation (or a "thesis"). Some PhD/DPhil degrees also require students to pass exams in languages (such as French, German, or other languages). Many PhD/DPhil students teach undergraduate students or assist professors with research during their PhD/DPhil studies.
Requirements for university teaching vary in different subjects and in different countries. A PhD/DPhil is necessary or usual to become a university professor in many fields, especially in science. However, many famous professors have not had higher degrees, though that is less common today. In some fields, there is no PhD/DPhil, and so another degree is required to become a university professor. For example, the highest degree in Fine Arts fields such as printmaking or graphic design is the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree. A person with an MFA degree can become a university professor in some Fine Arts fields.

</doc>
<doc id="55070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55070" title="Global 200">
Global 200

The Global 200 is the list of ecoregions identified by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) as priorities for conservation. According to the WWF, an ecoregion is defined as a "relatively large unit of land or water containing a characteristic set of natural communities that share a large majority of their species, dynamics, and environmental conditions (Dinerstein et al. 1995, TNC 1997)."
The WWF assigns a conservation status to each ecoregion in the Global 200: critical or endangered; vulnerable; and relatively stable or intact. Over half of the ecoregions in the Global 200 are rated endangered.

</doc>
<doc id="55071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55071" title="Ecoregion">
Ecoregion

An ecoregion (ecological region), sometimes called a bioregion, is the next smallest ecologically and geographically defined area beneath "realm" or "ecozone". Ecoregions cover relatively large area of land or water, and contain characteristic, geographically distinct natural communities and species. When defined by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the boundaries of an ecoregion approximate the original extent of the natural communities prior to any major recent disruptions or changes. The WWF has identified 825 terrestrial ecoregions, and approximately 450 freshwater ecoregions across the Earth.
World Wide Fund for Nature's full definition of an ecoregion, which is widely accepted and used, is the following:
The "Global 200" is the list of ecoregions identified by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) as priorities for conservation.
A terrestrial ecoregion is a certain area of land which is different from the area near it. It has a distinct climate, geology, type of soil, water availability, and distinct living species (the animals and plants that live in the ecoregion).
For example, one ecoregion can be a desert. It would have sand, very little water, very hot temperatures during the day and very cold at night. The plants could be just bushes, small trees, cactii. The animals could be scorpions, little mammals, spiders.
Or for example, an ecoregion could be a tropical forest It would have warm temperatures all day, a lot of rainfall all year, a huge river crossing, and a very organic soil. The plants could be huge trees or ferns. The animals could be insects, birds, fish and apes.
Marine ecoregions are regions of the world's oceans, that are defined by the WWF, to help activities for saving marine ecosystems.
The scheme used to find out these ecoregions is more or less the same as that for terrestrial ecoregions. Major habitat types are identified: polar, temperate shelfs and seas, temperate upwelling, tropical upwelling, tropical coral, pelagic, abyssal, and hadal (ocean trench) — which correspond to the terrestrial biomes. Major biogeographic realms, analogous to the seven terrestrial ecozones, represent large regions of the ocean basins: North Temperate Atlantic, Eastern Tropical Atlantic, Western Tropical Atlantic, South Temperate Atlantic, North Temperate Indo-Pacific, Central Indo-Pacific, Eastern Indo-Pacific, Western Indo-Pacific, South Temperate Indo-Pacific, Southern Ocean, Antarctic, Arctic, and Mediterranean.
The classification of Marine ecoregions is not developed to the same level of detail and comprehensiveness as that of the terrestrial ecoregions; only the priority conservation areas of the Global 200 are listed.
See Global 200 Marine ecoregions for a full list of marine ecoregions (World Wide Fund for Nature).
Freshwater ecoregions are the freshwater habitats of a particular geographic area, including rivers, streams, lakes, and wetlands. Freshwater ecoregions are distinct from terrestrial ecoregions, which have biotic communities of the land, and marine ecoregions, which are biotic communities of the oceans.
The WWF speaks of seven major habitat types of freshwater ecoregions: Large rivers, large river headwaters, large river deltas, small rivers, large lakes, small lakes, and xeric basins.
Several freshwater ecoregions are listed in the Global 200, the WWF's priority ecoregions for conservation of biodiversity.

</doc>
<doc id="55073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55073" title="Wetland">
Wetland

In physical geography, a wetland is an environment that combines the properties of land and water. That means wetlands are ecosystems. 
The combination of wet and dry areas means that many more different kinds of plants, animals and insects may live in a wetland than compared to other types of habitat. Because of this great biodiversity, several important wetlands are among the Global 200 ecoregions that the World Wide Fund for Nature listed for conservation to try to get people to protect them.

</doc>
<doc id="55074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55074" title="Marsh">
Marsh

In geography, a marsh is a type of wetland. It has grasses, rushes, reeds, typhas, sedges, and other herbaceous plants (possibly with low-growing woody plants) in a context of shallow water. A marsh is different from a swamp, which has a greater proportion of open water surface, which is generally deeper than a marsh. In the USA, the term 'swamp' is used for wetland dominated by trees rather than grasses and low herbs.
The water of a marsh can be fresh, brackish or saline. Coastal marshes may be associated with estuaries and along waterways between coastal barrier islands and the inner coast. Estuarine marshes often are based on soils consisting of sandy bottoms or bay muds.
Marshes are critically important wildlife habitat, often serving as breeding grounds for a wide variety of animal life.

</doc>
<doc id="55083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55083" title="Ulan-Ude">
Ulan-Ude

Ulan-Ude (Russian:Ула́н-Удэ́; Buryat: Улаан-Үдэ), formerly Verkhneudinsk (), the capital city of the Buryat Republic, Russia. The city is located about 100 km south-east of Lake Baikal. It sits at the foot of the Khamar-Daban and Khrebet Ulan-Burgasy mountain ranges, next to the confluence of the Selenga River and its tributary, the Uda. The city is divided into two parts by the Uda. Population 359,391 (2002 Census); 352,530 (1989 Census). It is the third largest city in East Siberia. It is served by Ulan-Ude Airport (Mukhino) as well as the smaller Ulan-Ude Vostochny Airport.
Ulan-Ude was founded in 1666 by the Russian Cossacks. Due to its geographical position, the city grew rapidly and became a large trade centre which connected Russia with China and Mongolia. There are old merchants' mansions richly decorated with wood and stone carving in the historical center of Ulan-Ude, along the river banks. They represent beautiful examples of Russian classicism. There is also a large and highly unusual head of Lenin in the central square.

</doc>
<doc id="55087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55087" title="Pelagic zone">
Pelagic zone

The pelagic zone is the part of the open sea or ocean that is not near the coast or sea floor. The name comes from the Greek πέλαγος ("pélagos"), which might be roughly translated as "sea" but is more accurately translated as "open sea." 
The pelagic (or open-ocean) zone is divided into a number of sub-zones:
The last three zones are similar in character, and some marine biologists count them as a single zone or consider the latter two to be the one zone. Some define the hadopelagic as waters below 6000 meters, whether in a trench or not.

</doc>
<doc id="55088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55088" title="Vitamin A">
Vitamin A

Vitamin A is a vitamin. Vitamin A cannot be made by the body itself, and must be taken in from food. Carrots and liver are both rich in vitamin A. 
Many parts of the body need vitamin A. For example, vitamin A helps sight and is good for the immune system. It is also important for a growing embryo. 
Too little vitamin A is dangerous to health. People who do not get enough of the vitamin may lose the ability to see in poor light and suffer from a weakened immune system. They may also have problems with memory, because vitamin A is important for the brain. People with malnutrition often have too little vitamin A. This is common in poor countries. 
Too much vitamin A is also dangerous to one's health. This is because, vitamin A is not soluble in water, and the human body can not get rid of the excess vitamin A easily through urination. Too much vitamin A can make someone very sick. People may get too much vitamin A from taking too many vitamin pills or from eating too much rich food like liver. 
If a pregnant woman has too little or too much vitamin A it may cause birth defects in the unborn baby.
vitamin A (retinol ) contain nine conjugated hydrocarbon chain.

</doc>
<doc id="55090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55090" title="Vitamin D">
Vitamin D

Vitamin D is not actually a vitamin. It is a steroid hormone, which is made in the body under the right conditions. However, if the body does not make enough, it can also be obtained from food sources.
As a hormone, Vitamin D does many things in the body. It was first discovered as the substance which could prevent and cure rickets. It controls the levels of calcium ions and phosphates in the blood, as well as calcium and magnesium absorption in the intestines. It helps bones grow and form. It is also good for the immune system.
In total, there are 5 different forms, D to D. The most common ones are D and D (see images).
D (also called cholecalciferol) is the kind produced by the body. It is also found naturally in marine oils and in lanolin (oil from sheep's wool), the most common source for supplements.
D (also called ergocalciferol) is produced by fungi. It is similar to D, but not exactly the same.
D is made in the skin from cholesterol, and changed into a more active form by the liver. However, the skin will not make it unless enough ultraviolet light shines on it. As sunlight contains ultraviolet light, getting enough sun is one way of getting enough D.
Many things can keep the skin from making enough D. Winter sunlight may be too weak. Melanin, which protects skin from damage, also keeps it from making D, which is why people with darker skin are more prone to deficiency. Older people are also prone, because aging skin makes less D, even with enough sunlight. Clothing, glass, sunscreens and sunblocks also shield the skin from getting enough ultraviolet light to make D.
It is hard to know how much supplemental Vitamin D, if any, is needed. Some current recommendations from health organizations (such as the Institute of Medicine) have recently increased. They are still typically less than 25 micrograms (1000 IU) per day, but up to 100 mcg (4000 IU) per day is considered safe. A recent panel of Vitamin D researchers concluded that "at least" 20-25 mcg (800-1000 IU) per day would be beneficial for most adults.
Very few foods naturally contain much D. Fish do, especially oily ones, such as salmon, sardine and mackerel. Many kinds of edible mushrooms contain some D, like shiitake. Mushrooms grown in full sunlight tend to have more.
D supplements can be easily found for sale in most developed countries.
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble nutrient. This means that any portion not used immediately is stored in fat tissue for future use.
Some people may get all the vitamin D they need from their diet and the sun. However, if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or elderly it would be safest to take at least 15-20 micrograms (600-800 IU) of vitamin D each day.
The treatment of vitamin D is use sunblock or sunscreen to prevent us from getting sunlight to our skin.

</doc>
<doc id="55091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55091" title="Biome">
Biome

In ecology, a biome is a major regional group of distinctive plant and animal
communities best adapted to the region's physical natural environment,
latitude, elevation, and terrain.
A biome is made up of ecoregions or communities at stable steady state and all associated transitional, disturbed, or degraded, vegetation, fauna and soils, but can often be identified by the climax vegetation type.
The biodiversity characteristic of each biome, especially the diversity of fauna and subdominant plant forms, is a function of abiotic factors and the biomass productivity of the dominant vegetation. Terrestrial biomes with higher net primary productivity, moisture availability, and temperature.
A fundamental classification of biomes is into:
Biomes are often given local names. For example, a temperate grassland or shrubland biome is known commonly as "steppe" in central Asia, "savanna" or veld in southern Africa, "prairie" in North America, "pampa" in South America and "outback" or "scrub" in Australia.
Sometimes an entire biome may be targeted for protection, especially under an individual nation's "Biodiversity Action Plan".
Climate is a major factor determining the distribution of terrestrial biomes. Among the important climatic factors are:
Biodiversity generally increases away from the poles towards the equator, and increases with humidity.
The most widely used systems of classifying biomes correspond to latitude (or temperature zoning) and humidity.
In 1975, Miklos Udvardy published a system of biogeographic provinces that were divided into 12 terrestrial biomes.
Robert G. Bailey developed a biogeographical classification system for the United States in a map published in 1975. Bailey subsequently expanded the system to include the rest of North America in 1981, and the world in 1989. The Bailey system is based on climate, and is divided into four domains (Polar, Humid Temperate, Dry, and Humid Tropical), with further divisions based on other climate characteristics (subarctic, warm temperate, hot temperate, and subtropical, marine and continental, lowland and mountain).
A team of biologists developed an ecological land classification system for the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) that identified 14 biomes, called major habitat types, and further divided the world's land area into 867 terrestrial ecoregions. This classification is used to define the Global 200 list of ecoregions identified by the (WWF) as priorities for conservation. The WWF major habitat types are as follows:
The Endolithic biome, consisting entirely of microscopic life in rock pores and cracks, kilometers beneath the surface, has only recently been discovered and does not fit well into most classification schemes.

</doc>
<doc id="55093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55093" title="Vitamin E">
Vitamin E

Vitamin E (which is also called Tocopherol or Tocotrienol, E307, E308,E309) is a vitamin. There are eight forms of it, E to E. It can be found in vegetable oils. Very often it is also added to lotions and creams for the skin. It is supposed to help the healing of the skin, after burns and injuries, and lower the risk of heart disease and cancer.
Some research suggests that vitamin E has anti-gging benefits.

</doc>
<doc id="55094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55094" title="Vitamin K">
Vitamin K

Vitamin K is a vitamin which is soluble in fat. It is probably best known for its role in the coagulation (clotting) of blood. However, it also serves other important functions in the body.
Vitamin K was discovered by a Danish chemist named Henrik Dam. He won the 1943 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for discovering its key role in the coagulation of blood. Since that time, Vitamin K's role in other physiologic functions has become known. One of the most important is its role in controlling where calcium goes in the body.
Without Vitamin K, there would be a loss of blood when a person bleeds, which can lead to unconsciousness or even death. Vitamin K can be found in green vegetables, such as spinach, lettuce, broccoli or cabbage.

</doc>
<doc id="55098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55098" title="B vitamins">
B vitamins

The B vitamin complex (also called B vitamins) are a group of 8 vitamins. They have an important job in the metabolism of cells. Each B vitamin is a cofactor (a coenzyme) for some key metabolic processes or it is a precursor needed to make one.
Originally, people thought they were just different forms of one vitamin (as with Vitamin D, for example). Later it turned out that they are separate vitamins that often can be found together. They are Vitamin B1/Thiamine, Vitamin B2/Riboflavin, Vitamin B3/Vitamin P/Vitamin PP/Niacin,Vitamin B5/Pantothenic acid, Vitamin B6, Vitamin B7/Vitamin H/Biotin, Vitamin B9/Vitamin M/Vitamin B-c/Folic acid and Vitamin B12/Cyanocobalamin. They are required for growth, and proper functioning of nerves ans muscles. B vitamins are found in meat, milk, whole grains and fresh vegetables. 
Vitamin B deficiencies may cause: 
Well-known medical syndromes caused by thiamine deficiency are beri-beri, Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome (WKS), and optic neuropathy. 

</doc>
<doc id="55100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55100" title="Subarctic climate">
Subarctic climate

Places with a subarctic climate (also called boreal climate) have long, usually very cold winters, and short, warm summers. It is found on large landmasses, away from oceans, usually at latitudes from 50° to 70°N. Because there are no large landmasses at such latitudes, it is only found in the Southern Hemisphere at high "altitudes "(heights) in the Andes and the mountains of Australia and New Zealand's South Island. These climates are in groups "Dfc", "Dwc", "Dfd" and "Dwd" in the Köppen climate classification
This type of climate has very big changes in temperature throughout the year. In winter, temperatures can drop to -40 °C (also -40 °F) and in summer, the temperature may go above 30 °C (86 °F). But the summers are short; subarctic climates have no more than three months of the year (but at least one month) and must have a 24-hour average temperature of at least 10 °C (50 °F). The subarctic climate is part of the continental climate. The subarctic climate is found in the these places:
With 5–7 months in a row where the average temperature is below freezing, all water in the soil and subsoil freezes several feet deep. Summer warmth is not enough to "thaw" (unfreeze) more than a few feet on the top of the soil, so there is a lot of "permafrost "(soil that is frozen forever). When the ice melts in the summer, 2 to 14 ft (0.6 to 4 m) of soil can thaw, depending on the latitude and the type of soil. Some subarctic climates near oceans (such as southern Alaska and the northern edge of Europe), have milder winters and no permafrost, so people can farm there.
Summer is very short; it has about 45 to 100 days at most, and in a lot of places, the temperatures can go below freezing (32 °F or 0 °C) at any time of the year, even in the summer. Vegetation (plants) in a subarctic climate usually has low diversity (only a few different types of plants grow), because only "hardy" (very tough) species can survive the long winters and make use of the short summers. Trees are mostly ferns and evergreen conifers, because few "broadleaved" (big leaves) trees can survive the very low temperatures in winter. This type of forest is also known as taiga. The word "taiga" can also be a name for the climate itself. A lot of plants grow in the taiga (even if there are only a few different kinds of plants), so the taiga (boreal) forest is the largest forest biome on the planet, with most of the forests in Russia and Canada.
Is it usually very hard to farm in subarctic climates, because the soil is "infertile" (it doesn't have the nutrients that many plants need to grow) and because of the many swamps and lakes that ice sheets make, and only very, very tough "crops" (plants that grow on a farm) can survive the short growing seasons. (Even with the short season, the long summer days at these latitudes do allow some farming.)
There is very little precipitation (rain, snow, sleet, or hail); no more than 15 to 20 inches over an entire year. Away from the coasts, precipitation only happens in warm months. This means that the precipitation can soak into the ground and make it very wet and muddy.
Close to the Earth's poles and the water around the poles, the warmest month has an average temperature of less than 10 °C (50 °F), and the subarctic climate turns into a tundra climate, which is even worse for trees.
Here are some places with subarctic climates:
Some places in the climate group "Dfd" (a very, very cold subarctic climate) are:

</doc>
<doc id="55102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55102" title="ONS coding system">
ONS coding system

The ONS coding system is a system used in the United Kingdom for dealing with census and other statistical data. It is used by the Office for National Statistics as a way to label each area of England and Wales. It is also used for parts of Northern Ireland. The system uses a code for the larger census areas, counties and districts. It then breaks those areas down into smaller areas within the larger areas. Each of the smaller areas get a code that is based on the larger area. Areas are divided in this way until they get to the smallest size used for census data. An area must have at least 40 households, but they try to not divide an area into a size smaller than 100 households. 

</doc>
<doc id="55103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55103" title="Michael Tippett">
Michael Tippett

Sir Michael Kemp Tippett OM CH CBE (2 January 1905 – 8 January 1998) was an English composer. He is one of the greatest and most original composers of the 20th century. He did not start to study music seriously until he was nearly grown up, and only become famous when he was about 40. The rhythms in his music and the tonality are very original. He is remembered for many kinds of music: opera, oratorio, orchestral music, chamber music and piano music. His oratorio "A Child of our Time" is especially well-known and often performed by choirs.
Tippett was born in Eastcote, Middlesex and spent his childhood in a small village in Suffolk. His father had retired and had bought a hotel in Cannes, France. Michael and his brother learned to speak French when they were very young. He was sent to school in Edinburgh when he was 13 but did not like it there so he went to the local Stamford Grammar School in Lincolnshire.
The only musical training he had as a child were his piano lessons. When he had finished his school years he decided he wanted to be a composer, but neither he nor his parents knew the best way to become a composer. He started having more piano lessons. Then someone said he should go to the Royal College of Music. He went there at the beginning of the summer term, 1923 and spent five years there studying music. He then moved to Oxted in Surrey and for six years he taught French at a school. He composed in his free time.
In Oxted there was a small choir. Tippett had sung with them while he was a student. Now he became their conductor and he learned a lot about music by getting the choir to sing English madrigals and other music including operatic music. He took some more lessons in composition from R.O.Morris at the RCM. He went to music camps where he learned more ideas about politics than about music. He agreed with a lot of the ideas of Trotsky. He became a pacifist and in 1940 he registered as a conscientious objector. In 1943 he spent three months in prison because he refused to help with the war effort.
Meanwhile Tippett had become director of music at Morley College. He made the choir there into one of the best choirs in England. He played a lot of music by Henry Purcell whose music was not as well known then as it is now. He also worked with young musicians who later became famous: the tenor Peter Pears, the countertenor Alfred Deller and the Amadeus String Quartet.
In 1951 he became a broadcaster with the BBC. Some of the talks he gave on the radio were published in his book "Moving into Aquarius". He continued a brilliant career as composer, conductor and broadcaster. He was director of the Bath Festival which he helped to improve a lot. He became internationally famous, especially in America. His "Symphony no 4" and his oratorio "Mask of Time" were written for performances in America. His last opera "New Year" was written jointly for the Houston Grand Opera, Glyndebourne and the BBC. He was made a CBE in 1959, knighted in 1966, made a Companion of Honour in 1979 and received an Order of Merit in 1983. He received many honours from universities.
Tippett died from pneumonia in London in 1998 after travelling to Stockholm for a festival which included all his works except his stage works. Although he was able to return home he died shortly afterwards.
It is unusual for a great musician to begin studying music properly at the age of 18. However, he was old enough to realize that he had a lot to learn. He studied counterpoint and was influenced by the way Classical composers had shaped their music. Beethoven especially was an inspiration for him. One of his best-known works is the "Concerto for Double String Orchestra" (1938-1939). It shows his love of folk music as well as interest in English music of the Renaissance. This music is exciting because of its beats, which keep changing, and its dance-like character.
"A Child of Our Time" was an oratorio which used negro spirituals. He combined these with his own style of music. It is about something that really happened in 1938. A 17-year-old Jewish Polish boy killed a Nazi diplomat because the Nazis had taken away his parents. The Nazis were angry and killed lots of Jews in return. It was something which helped to lead to the World War II. Tippett’s music is about the cruelty that humans show towards one another.
Tippett’s operas include "A Midsummer Marriage" (started 1946, first performed 1955), "King Priam" (1958-61), "The Knot Garden" (1966-69) and "The Ice Break" (1973-76) and "New Year" (1989). He wrote several choral works. His orchestral works include 4 symphonies, a "Fantasia concertante on a Theme of Corelli" for strings (1953), a "Piano Concerto" (1953-55) and a "Concerto for violin, viola and cello" (1979). His chamber music includes piano sonatas and string quartets.
Tippett published many of his writings. "Moving into Aquarius" consists of talks given on the BBC. In his autobiography "Those Twentieth Century Blues" he discusses many of his problems, including his homosexuality, which in his earlier years he could not talk about because it was illegal at that time.

</doc>
<doc id="55105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55105" title="Claw">
Claw

A claw is a sharp object. It is found at the end of a toe or finger in many mammals, birds, and some reptiles. The word "claw" is also used in reference to an invertebrate. For example, the chelae of crabs and lobsters are often called claws or pincers. 
A claw is made of hard protein called keratin. They are used by some meat eating mammals such as cats to catch and hold prey, but they may also be used for other things such as digging, climbing trees, and so on, in those and other species.
Similar appendages that are flat and do not come to a sharp point are called nails instead.
The correct name for an arthropod's 'claw' is chela (plural "chelae"). Legs that have a chela are called chelipeds. Chelae are also called pincers.
In tetrapods, claws are made of keratin and have of two layers. The unguis is the outside hard layer, which has keratin fibers arranged perpendicular to the direction of growth and in layers at an angle. The subunguis is the soft, flaky layer, and the grain is parallel to the direction of growth. The claw grows outward from the nail matrix at the base of the unguis and the subunguis grows thicker while traveling across the nail bed. The unguis grows outward faster than the subunguis to make a curve and the thinner sides of the claw wear away faster than their thicker middle, making a more or less sharp point. Tetrapods use their claws in many ways, such as grasping or killing prey, digging, climbing, and hanging.
A talon is the claw of a bird of prey,which it uses to hunt. The talons are very important, and if they did not have them, those birds would not be able to catch their food.
A nail is similar to a claw but it is flatter and has a curved edge instead of a point. A nail that is big enough to hold weight is called a 'hoof'. 
Every so often, the growth of claws stops and restarts, just like the growth of hair. In hair, this causes the hair to fall out and it is replaced by a new one. In claws, this results in an old layer, and it breaks off. This takes several months for human thumbnails. Cats are often seen working old layers off on wood or on boards made for the purpose. Ungulates' hooves trim themselves when they walk on the ground. Domesticated equids (horses, donkeys and mules) usually need regular trimming by a farrier.
Many predatory mammals have claws that can hide inside the animal's paw, especially animals such as the cat.
A primate's nail only has the unguis; the subunguis has disappeared. Similar to the tail, the claw in apes is not needed. However, in some primates the subunguis has redeveloped to make a claw-like structure. These certain animals do not have actual claws, instead the unguis appears normal along with a thick growth of subunguis. Some lemurs have a toilet-claw.

</doc>
<doc id="55106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55106" title="Max and Moritz">
Max and Moritz

Max and Moritz (German: Max und Moritz) are two naughty little boys in a story by Wilhelm Busch. The stories were written in 1865 and are still extremely popular in Germany.
Wilhelm Busch was an artist as well as a writer. He wrote a lot of stories in rhyme and made drawings to go with them. "Max and Moritz" are stories like these. The two boys get up to lots of naughty pranks. There are seven stories (seven pranks). In the final prank they are caught and come to a sad end. In the 19th century writers had to show that bad behaviour would be punished in the end. The seven stories are stories with a moral.
In the first story the boys tie pieces of bread onto pieces of string and put it down where an old woman, Widow Bolte, keeps her hens. The hens each try to swallow a piece of bread, which sticks in their throats and they end up hanging in the tree and die.
In the second story Widow Bolte, who is still crying, decides she might as well roast the hens. The boys take fishing rods, climb onto the roof and pull the frying chickens up with their rods. Widow Bolte finds the chickens gone, thinks her little dog has eaten them, and gives the poor dog a beating.
In the third story they take a saw and make a hole in the tiny wooden bridge outside the tailor’s house. They shout at the tailor, calling him names. He is furious and comes running out, the bridge breaks and he falls into the stream. Two flying geese save him. He has a terrible tummy ache but his wife puts a hot iron on his tummy and he feels better.
In the fourth story the boys put gunpowder in the pipe of the schoolmaster while he is in church. When he lights his pipe there is an explosion.
In the fifth story the boys collect beetles and put them under the mattress in their uncle’s bed. In the middle of the night, when the uncle is asleep, the beetles creep up on him. He wakes up and fights with them until he has killed them all.
In the sixth story the boys try to steal some pretzels (German rolls) from the bakery, but they fall into the tub of dough. The baker comes in and finds them. He bakes them in the oven, but when they are taken out they eat their way through the dough and escape.
In the seventh story the boys cut a hole in the farmer’s sacks. When the miller picks one of these sacks up he realizes the grain is spilling. He sees the boys, puts them in the sack and takes them to the mill, where the miller grinds them into corn and feeds them to his ducks.

</doc>
<doc id="55119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55119" title="Abstinence">
Abstinence

Abstinence is a voluntary restraint from following a desire or appetite for certain bodily activities that are widely experienced as giving pleasure. Most frequently, the term refers to abstention from sexual intercourse, alcohol or food. The practice can arise from religious prohibitions or practical considerations.
In India, Buddhists, Jains, and some Hindus abstain from eating meat on the grounds both of health and of reverence for all sentient forms of life. Total abstinence from feeding on the flesh of cows is a hallmark of Hinduism.

</doc>
<doc id="55122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55122" title="Sexual abstinence">
Sexual abstinence

Sexual abstinence is the practice of not having sex. It is a choice that some people make. As well as sex itself, they may also choose to abstain from other sexual activities. Sexual abstinence has been debated since ancient history, both in terms of same-sex and opposite-sex relationships.
Abstaining from sex before marriage is usually called chastity. In some countries, it is illegal to have sex before marriage. Many religious and ethical systems proscribe sexual activities between a person and anyone other than a spouse of that person, including most denominational variations of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, as have, historically, many legal systems and societal norms. People who are abstinent even though they do not want to be are sometimes called incels.
People may choose to do this for any reason. A common reason is because of the person's religious or philosophical beliefs. When done for religious reasons, it is called celibacy. Other people may choose abstinence in order to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases. When someone is abstinent from sex but they don't want to be, its sometimes called "incel", short for "involuntary celibacy".

</doc>
<doc id="55128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55128" title="Council of Jerusalem">
Council of Jerusalem

"Council of Jerusalem" is a common name for a meeting of early Christian leaders reported in the "Acts of the Apostles" chapter . The meeting must have happened about the year 50, at the latest some time before the death of James the Just in 62.
A common interpretation is that the council came together because there was disagreement within the Early Christian community between those who believed the church must observe the rules of traditional Judaism, and Paul of Tarsus, who believed there was no such necessity. The "rules of traditional Judaism," the Halakha of Rabbinic Judaism, were not finished at this time
The central issue was circumcision, as the author of "Acts" relates the initial confrontation in Antioch, where Paul had been preaching:

</doc>
<doc id="55129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55129" title="Ironing">
Ironing

Ironing means getting the creases out of clothes after they have been washed and dried. Ironing is done with a tool called an "iron". It is called an iron because in past centuries it was made of iron, a type of metal. The iron is heated before it is used. This used to be done by putting the iron on a fire. Nowadays electricity is used to warm the iron. The user can put water inside, which becomes steam. 
Ironing clothes is usually easiest when the clothes are still very slightly damp, but it depends on the material of the clothes. There is normally a label on the clothes which shows whether it can be ironed, and at what temperature. The clothes to be ironed are put on an ironing board and the iron is pushed carefully along the clothing to get all the wrinkles out. Ironing is usually done with an ironing board. 

</doc>
<doc id="55132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55132" title="Central European Time">
Central European Time

Central European Time is a time zone. It is one hour ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (what used to be called Greenwich Mean Time). Most countries in the central part of Europe and some countries in Africa follow it. 
In Europe, the countries of Ireland, Great Britain, Iceland and Portugal use Western European Time. All the other countries, up to Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia use Central European Time. 

</doc>
<doc id="55134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55134" title="Central European Summer Time">
Central European Summer Time

Central European Summer Time is the name for a time zone. Some of the countries that have Central European Time shift their clocks forward one hour, during the summer months. And shift it one hour backwards during winter months.

</doc>
<doc id="55135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55135" title="James the Just">
James the Just

James the Just, also called James Adelphotheos, James, 1st Bishop of Jerusalem, or James, the Brother of the Lord and sometimes identified with James the Less, (died AD 62) was an important figure in Early Christianity. 
According to tradition, he was the first formal leader or bishop of Jerusalem, the author of the James in the New Testament, and the first of the Seventy of Luke 10:1-20. Paul of Tarsus in Galatians 2:9 (KJV) characterized James as such: "... James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars..." He is described in the New Testament as a "brother of Jesus" and in the Liturgy of St James as "the brother of God" ("Adelphotheos") 
James was called "the Just" because of his ascetic practices, which involved taking Nazarite vows. The name also helps distinguish him from other important figures in early Christianity, such as James, son of Zebedee. 
He is sometimes called "James Adelphotheos", (literally "James the Brother of God" - Greek : Iάκωβος ο Αδελφόθεος ), based on New Testament descriptions.
James' name was important in the genealogy of Jesus because he always appears first when someone lists Jesus' brothers and sisters, this means that James was the eldest brother of Jesus.
The canonical writings of the New Testament, as well as other written sources from the early church, provide some insights into Saint James' life and his role in the early church. The Synoptics mention his name, but nothing else about him, whereas the Gospel of John and early chapters of the Acts of the Apostles do not even mention James.
"Acts of the Apostles", in later chapters, provides evidence that James was an important figure in the Christian community of Jerusalem. When Peter, having miraculously escaped from prison, must flee Jerusalem, he asks that James be informed (12:17). When the Christians of Antioch are concerned over whether Gentile Christians need be circumcised to be saved, and they send Paul and Barnabas to confer with the Jerusalem church there, James played a prominent role in the formulation of the council's decision (15:13ff). Indeed, after Peter and Paul have made their case, it is James who finally delivers what he calls his "judgement"-- the original sense is close to "my ruling"-- and afterwards, all accept it. James, in other words, is shown in charge of the Jerusalem group, which conflicts with later claims of Peter's primacy there. And when Paul arrives in Jerusalem to deliver the money he raised for the faithful there, it is to James that he speaks, and who insists that Paul ritually cleanse himself at Herod's Temple to prove his faith and deny rumors of teaching rebellion against the Torah (21:18ff) (a charge of antinomianism).
Paul further describes James as being one of the persons the risen Christ showed himself to (1 Corinthians 15:3-8); then later in 1 Corinthians, mentions James in a way that suggests James had been married (9:5); and in Galatians, Paul lists James with Cephas (better known as Peter) and John, as the three "pillars" of the Church, and who will minister to the "circumcised" (in general Jews and Jewish Proselytes) in Jerusalem, while Paul and his fellows will minister to the "uncircumcised" (in general Gentiles). (2:9, 2:12). These terms (circumcised/uncircumcised) are generally interpreted to mean Jews and Greeks, who were predominant, however it is an oversimplification as 1st century Iudaea Province also had some Jews who no longer circumcised, and some Greeks (called Proselytes or Judaizers) and others such as Egyptians, Ethiopians, and Arabs who did.

</doc>
<doc id="55138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55138" title="Disciple (Christianity)">
Disciple (Christianity)

In Christianity, the disciples were the students of Jesus during his ministry, which means only the Twelve Apostles, but the gospels speaks of different numbers of disciples. In the Book of Acts, the Apostles themselves have disciples. The word "disciple" is used today as a way of self-identification for those who seek to learn from Christianity.
The term disciple comes from the New Testament Greek word
coming to English by way of the Latin "discipulus". "Disciple" should not be confused with "apostle", meaning 
"" While a disciple is one who learns from a teacher, a student, an apostle is sent to deliver those teachings to others.
Both the gospels of Mark () and Matthew () include passages where Jesus initially calls four fishermen from among those at the Sea of Galilee. These are Simon (later called "Rock" or Peter) and his brother Andrew, and the brothers James and John (later called the "Sons of Thunder" or Boanerges). A very similar report in the Gospel of Luke does not speak of Andrew. also includes an initial calling of disciples, but these are: an unnamed disciple, Andrew, Simon, Philip and Nathanael.
Since the Gospel of Luke does not include Andrew, and through various passages in the four gospels where Simon Peter, James and John are called to meet with Jesus separately from the twelve, they are commonly termed "the three." The usage of "the four" over "the three" is still a point which some Christians debate, but never as an essential doctrinal point.
Most of the attention in the gospels is given to a specific group of disciples called by Jesus on the top of a mountain and commissioned by him as the Twelve Apostles. These men are:
The Gospel of John refers to one disciple as the one whom Jesus loved. Since the apostle John, unlike the other twelve, is never named in that gospel, the "beloved disciple" is assumed to be him.
The number of or persons among Jesus' disciples is not always given in the gospel accounts. A much larger group of people is identified as disciples in the opening of the passage of the Sermon on the Plain that begins in Luke .
Additionally, seventy (or seventy-two, depending on the source used) people are sent out in pairs to prepare the way for Jesus (Luke 10). They are sometimes referred to as "the Seventy" or "the Seventy Disciples". They are to eat any food offered, heal the sick and spread the word; that God's reign is coming, that whoever hears them hears Jesus, whoever rejects them rejects Jesus and whoever rejects Jesus rejects the One who sent him. In addition they are granted great powers over the enemy and their names are written in heaven.
Cleopas is one of the two disciples to whom the risen Lord appeared at Emmaus (Luke 24:18). Cleopas, with an unnamed disciple of Jesus' are walking from Jerusalem to Emmaus on the day of Jesus' resurrection. Cleopas and his friend were discussing the events of the past few days when a stranger asked them what they spoke of. The stranger asked to join Cleopas and his friend for the evening meal. There the stranger revealed himself, after blessing and breaking the bread, as the resurrected Jesus and then disappeared. Cleopas and his friend hastened to Jerusalem to carry the news to the other disciples, where Jesus subsequently appeared to them as well. The incident is without parallel in Matthew, Mark, or John.
In Luke (10:38–42), Mary, sister of Lazarus is contrasted with her sister Martha, who was "cumbered about many things" while Jesus was their guest, while Mary had chosen "the better part," that of listening to the master's discourse. John names her as the "one who had anointed the Lord with perfumed oil and dried his feet with her hair" (11:2). In Luke, an unidentified "sinner" in the house of a Pharisee anoints Jesus' feet. Any pre-existing relationship between Jesus and Lazarus himself, prior to the miracle, is unspecified by John. In Catholic folklore, Mary, the sister of Lazarus, is seen as the same as Mary Madgalene.
Luke refers to a number of people accompanying Jesus and the twelve. From among them he names three women: "Mary, called Magdalene, ... and Joanna the wife of Herod's steward Chuza, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their resources" (Luke 8:2-3). Mary Magdalene and Joanna are among the women who went to prepare Jesus' body in Luke's account of the resurrection, and who later told the apostles and other disciples about the empty tomb and words of the "two men in dazzling clothes". Mary Magdalene is the most well-known of the disciples outside of the Twelve. More is written in the gospels about her than the other female followers. There is also a large body of lore and literature covering her.
Other gospel writers differ as to which women witness the crucifixion and witness to the resurrection. Mark includes Mary, the mother of James and Salome (not to be confused with Salomé the daughter of Herodias) at the crucifixion and Salome at the tomb. John includes Mary the wife of Clopas at the crucifixion.

</doc>
<doc id="55141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55141" title="Ahmed Jibril">
Ahmed Jibril

Ahmed Jabril (or Jibril), born in 1938, is the founder and co-leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command. He founded it in 1968. His son Jihad Jabril was to take over, but was killed by a car bomb in Beirut in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="55144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55144" title="Jihad Jabril">
Jihad Jabril

Jihad Jabril (March 3 1961 - May 20 2002) was the son of Ahmed Jibril, founder of the PFLP-G. He was killed by a car bomb. He was assassinated on May 20, 2002. Jihad Ahmed Jibril was the leader of the military wing of the PFLP-GC and was the heir apparent of the organization before he was killed in a car bombing in Beirut in 2002. The assassination was blamed on Israel, although Jibril had many other enemies, including the Lebanese Christian militia and other Palestinian nationalist organizations. 
Ahmed Jabril was co-leader of the militant Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command. Israeli radio reports said that the son, Jihad Jabril, was involved in smuggling arms and explosives to Palestinian militants in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
But there was no evidence to directly link him with terrorist attacks.
Ahmed Jabril accused the Israeli intelligence agency, Mossad, of responsibility for the killing, but a spokesman for Defense Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer said Israel was not involved.
In mid-June 2006, Lebanon authorities arrested a group of alleged spies who reportedly confessed to working for Israel and carrying out the attacks.

</doc>
<doc id="55145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55145" title="Topkapı Palace">
Topkapı Palace

The Topkapı Palace is a palace in Istanbul (Constantinople), Turkey. Topkapı Sarayı in Turkish means the "Cannongate Palace". It was built in 1465. The palace was the administrative center of the Ottoman Empire. It was turned into a museum at the request of Turkey's first President, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk in 1924. It was built on the acropolis, the site of the first settlement in Istanbul. The palace has an very good view of the Golden Horn, the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara. The palace is surrounded by 5km of walls. It has an area of 700,000 sq. m at the tip of the historical peninsula.
The First Court (or "Alay Meydanı") spans over the entire Seraglio Point and is surrounded by high walls. This court was also known as the Court of the Janissaries or the Parade Court.
The main gate is called Bab-ı Hümayun, simply the Imperial Gate. Apart from the Topkapı Palace, the First Court also contains the old imperial mint (constructed in 1727), the church of Hagia Eirene, the Archeology Museum (constructed during the 19th century) and various fountains, pavilions (for example, the Çinili Pavilion, or Tiled Pavilion) and gardens (including the Gülhane Park, the old imperial rose garden). 
The Çinili Pavilion (1472) has many superb examples of Iznik tiles. It now houses the Museum of Islamic Art.
The Fountain of the Executioner is where the executioner washed his hands and sword after a beheading. The Fountain of Ahmed III is an example of Rococo work. 
The huge Gate of Greeting ("Bab-üs Selam") leads into the palace and the Second Court ("Divan Meydanı").
The second court is a park surrounded by the palace hospital, bakery, Janissary quarters, stables, the imperial Harem and Divan to the north and the kitchens to the south. The kitchens today contain one of the world's largest collections of Chinese blue-and-white and celadon porcelain, valued by the sultans because it was supposed to change color if the food or drink it contained was poisoned. 
The Divan Salonu, or Imperial Council Chamber, was where the sultan's counselors and functionaries met to discuss the empire's affairs. The Sultan could overhear from a concealed grille.
Beyond the Gate of Felicity ("Bab-üs Saadet") is the Third Court which is the heart of the palace, a lush garden surrounded by the Hall of the Privy Chamber ("Has Oda") occupied by the palace officials, the treasury (which contains some of the finest treasures of the Ottoman age, including the Sacred Trusts), the Harem and some pavilions, with the library of Ahmed III in the center. 
The Treasury holds some of the most famous and spectacular jewels in the world, including the famous Topkapı Dagger. In 1747, the Sultan had this dagger made for Nadir Shah of Persia, but the Shah was assassinated before the emissary had left the Ottoman Empire's boundaries and so the Sultan retained it. There are three large emeralds in the hilt and the sheath is worked with diamonds and enamel. This dagger was the subject of the famous film "Topkapi". 
The Harem was home to the Sultan's mother, the Valide sultan; the concubines and wives of the Sultan; and the rest of his family, including children; and their servants. There are approximately 300 rooms (though only about twenty are open to the public), and the Harem housed as many as 500 people, which sometimes amounted up to 300 women, their children, and the eunuchs. 
Many of the rooms and features in the Harem were designed by Sinan, a famous architect of the Ottoman Empire. 
The Pavilion of the Holy Mantle holds the cloak of Mohammed, his sword, his teeth, his beard, and other relics which are known as the Sacred Trusts. Even the Sultan and his family were permitted entrance only once a year, on the 15th day of Ramadan, during the time when the Palace was a residence. Now any visitor can see these items and many Muslims come on pilgrimage for this purpose.

</doc>
<doc id="55146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55146" title="Acts of the Apostles">
Acts of the Apostles

The Acts of the Apostles (Greek "Praxeis Apostolon") is a book of the Bible, which now is the fifth in the New Testament. It is often simply called Acts.
Acts tells the story of the Early Christian church, with particular interest for the ministry of the Twelve Apostles and of Paul of Tarsus. The early chapters in Jerusalem, report Jesus's Resurrection, his Ascension, the Day of Pentecost, and the start of the Twelve Apostles' ministry. The later chapters report Paul's conversion, his ministry, and finally his arrest and imprisonment and trip to Rome.
Most people think that the author of Acts also wrote the Gospel of Luke, as Acts 1:1 refers to 'the former treatise have I made, Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach'. The traditional view is that both the two books were written "c." 60 by a companion of Paul named Luke. Many theologians still think so. But some think the books were written by an unknown author at a later date, sometime between 80 and 150. 

</doc>
<doc id="55154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55154" title="Firebreak">
Firebreak

A Firebreak is a way to fight fires. In a firebreak, there is no vegetation, or other material that can burn. This makes it hard for a fire to jump across the break. Therefore, the spread of a possible fire is delayed.

</doc>
<doc id="55155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55155" title="Slum">
Slum

A slum is a part of a city or a town where many poor people live. It is a place where people may not have basic needs. Some of these people may also have social disadvantages. There are slums in most of the big cities of the world. They may not be called "slum", however; see shanty town.
Charles Dickens was a great author of Victorian London. His account of the St Giles rookery was:
Dickens, "Sketches by Boz", 1839.

</doc>
<doc id="55161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55161" title="Montauban">
Montauban

Montauban () is a "commune" in the Tarn-et-Garonne department in the Midi-Pyrénées region in southern France. It is the "préfecture" (capital) of the department.
The town, built mainly with reddish bricks, is on the right bank of the Tarn river at its confluence with the Tescou. It was one of the first bastides in history.
Together with Mont-de-Marsan, Montauban is one of the oldest towns with walls (a bastide) in southern France. It was founded in 1144 by Alphonse Jourdain, Count of Toulouse. Most of the inhabitants came from Montauriol, a village which had grown up around the neighbouring monastery of St Théodard.
In the 13th century the town suffered much during the Albigensian Crusade and from the Inquisition, but by 1317 it had recovered sufficiently to be chosen by the Pope John XXII as the head of a diocese of which the basilica of St Théodard became the cathedral.
In 1360, under the Treaty of Brétigny, the town was given to the English; they were expelled by the inhabitants in 1414. In 1560 the bishops became Protestants; ten years later it became one of the four Huguenot strongholds under the Peace of Saint-Germain, and formed a small independent republic.
In 1790, Montauban was in the Lot department as the capital of a district; with the creation of the "arrondissements" in 1800, Montauban became a "sous-préfecture" in the Lot deparment. When Napoleon created the Tarn-et-Garonne department in 1809, Montauban became the préfecture (capital) of the new department.
Montauban is at about to the north of Toulouse, on the confluence of the Tescou and the Tarn rivers, and at from Agen ("préfecture" of the Lot-et-Garonne), from Albi ("préfecture" of the Tarn) and at about from Cahors ("préfecture" of the Lot).
It has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is .
Montauban is surrounded by the "communes" Villemade, Piquecos, Lamothe-Capdeville, Albias, Saint-Étienne-de-Tulmont, Léojac, Saint-Nauphary,Corbarieu,Bressols, Lacourt-Saint-Pierre, Montbeton and Albefeuille-Lagarde.
The climate of Montauban, in the Köppen climate classification, is Cfb - Oceanic climate with template summers.
With a population of 56,887, Montauban has a population density of inhabitants/km.
The inhabitants of Montauban are known, in French, as "Montalbanais" (women: "Montalbanaises").
Montauban is the préfecture of the Tarn-et-Garonne department since 1809. It is also the capital of six "Cantons":
Some interesting places in Montauban are:
Montauban is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="55162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55162" title="Layyah">
Layyah

Layyah is a city in the Punjab province of Pakistan and is the capital of Layyah District. Layyah gets its name from the wild short shrub commonly known as Layyan. Layyah is located between the rivers Indus and Chenab in central Pakistan. 

</doc>
<doc id="55181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55181" title="Leo III">
Leo III

Leo III (or the Greek form Leon III) refers to:

</doc>
<doc id="55182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55182" title="Pope Leo III">
Pope Leo III

Leo III (died June 12, 816) was Pope from 795 to 816. He is famous for the coronation of Charlemagne as emperor in 800.
Leo was born in Rome.
Leo reported his election to Charlemagne, sent him the keys of Saint Peter's tomb and the banner of Rome. Charlemagne replied that it was his function to defend the church and the Pope's to pray for the kingdom and for victory of the army.
Charlemagne went to Rome in November 800, and on December 1 held a council there with representatives of both sides. Leo, on December 23, took an oath of purgation concerning the charges brought against him, and his opponents were exiled. Two days later Leo crowned Charlemagne at St. Peter's tomb. Charlemagne did intervene in church affairs, not always successfully.
The reasons for the coronation, the involvement beforehand of the Frankish court, and the relationship to the Byzantine Empire are all matters of debate among historians. 

</doc>
<doc id="55186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55186" title="Khanda">
Khanda

Khanda is a symbol of Sikhism. It is in the shape of three weapons and a circle.

</doc>
<doc id="55189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55189" title="Judi Dench">
Judi Dench

Dame Judith Olivia "Judi" Dench, CH, DBE, FRSA (born 9 December 1934) is an English movie, stage and television actress.
Judi Dench has appeared in James Bond movies since 1995 as the character M. She has also appeared in other large budget movies such as "Mrs. Henderson Presents" and "Ladies in Lavender".
Dench was born in Heworth, York, England. She is the daughter of Eleanora Olave (née Jones), a native of Dublin, and Reginald Arthur Dench, a doctor. Dench attended the Mount School, a Quaker independent secondary school in York. She became a Quaker. 
In 1971, Dench married British actor Michael Williams. Their only child is Tara Cressida Frances Williams. She was born on 24 September 1972. She is known professionally as Finty Williams. Dench and her husband starred together several times. Michael Williams died from lung cancer in 2001, aged 65.
In early 2012, Dench said she had macular degeneration. Because of this, she needed someone to read scripts to her.
Dench's brother, Jeffery Dench, died on 27 March 2014 at the age of 85.

</doc>
<doc id="55190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55190" title="Arendal">
Arendal

Arendal is a city and municipality in the county of Aust-Agder, Norway. It is the administrative center of Aust-Agder county, and belongs to the geographical region of Sørlandet. The municipality is bordered in the southwest by Grimstad, in the northwest by Froland, and in the northeast by Tvedestrand municipalities.
The Norse form of the name was probably ""Arnardalr"". The first element is then the genitive case of "orn" m 'eagle', the last element is "dalr" m 'valley, dale'.

</doc>
<doc id="55193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55193" title="S.S. Lazio">
S.S. Lazio

S.S. Lazio is an Italian football club based in Formello (Via di Santa Cornelia 1000, 00060 Formello). 
They play in light blue shirts, white shorts and socks. The name Lazio was chosen as the original founders wanted to name the club after something which was greater and encompassed more than just the city that they were from - Lazio is the name of the region where Rome is. The sky blue and white team colors were inspired by the Greek flag and more specifically the country which gave birth to Olympic tradition; the eagle as an acknowledgement by its founders. SS Lazio is, at present, one of the biggest clubs in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="55199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55199" title="Satire">
Satire

Satire is a form in art or writing which ridicules either a person, government, or an institution, often through the use of humour. Satire can either be in paintings, plays, books, songs, TV or movies. It also is used to stereotype people.
Satire was used long ago, even as long ago as the Ancient Greeks. It was widely known in Elizabethan times. Swift used satire in his book "Gulliver's Travels" to make fun of people’s stupidity. Works like "The Beggar’s Opera" (1728) used satire to show how silly the politicians of the time were. The German playwright Bertolt Brecht used a lot of satire, as did Peter Cook. More recently Jon Stewart and other comedians use it frequently.
Satire often points out ironic or bad things that powerful people are doing. Its adjective is satirical.

</doc>
<doc id="55203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55203" title="Iron Cross">
Iron Cross

The Iron Cross was a medal given to German soldiers for bravery during wartime. The award was created by King Frederick William III of Prussia. It was first given out on 10 March 1813. The Iron Cross was awarded during the Napoleonic Wars, the Franco-Prussian War, the First World War, and the Second World War. This medal was received by Adolf Hitler after World War I.
The medal is only given in wartime, so no Iron Crosses have been given out since the end of the Second World War in 1945.
During the Second World War an extra type of Iron Cross medal was given. It was the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross and was given for acts of extreme battlefield bravery or successful leadership. The Knight's Cross was divided into five grades:

</doc>
<doc id="55210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55210" title="Manowar">
Manowar

Manowar is an American heavy metal band from Auburn, New York, which formed in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="55217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55217" title="Power series">
Power series

In mathematics, a power series (in one variable) is an infinite series of the form
where "a" represents the coefficient of the nth term, "c" is a constant, and "x" varies around "c" (for this reason one sometimes speaks of the series as being "centered" at "c"). This series usually arises as the Taylor series of some known function; the Taylor series article contains many examples.
In many situations "c" is equal to zero, for instance when considering a Maclaurin series. 
In such cases, the power series takes the simpler form
These power series arise primarily in analysis, but also occur in combinatorics (under the name of generating functions) and in electrical engineering (under the name of the Z-transform). The familiar decimal notation for integers can also be viewed as an example of a power series, but with the argument "x" fixed at 10. In number theory, the concept of p-adic numbers is also closely related to that of a power series.

</doc>
<doc id="55220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55220" title="Classical guitar">
Classical guitar

A classical guitar, also called a Spanish guitar, is a musical instrument from the family of musical instruments called chordophones. This instrument is most commonly used by classical guitarists playing classical music, but it is also used in other music genres. It was first recognized 4 - 5 thousand years ago. 

</doc>
<doc id="55223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55223" title="Vålerenga Fotball">
Vålerenga Fotball

Vålerenga Fotball is a Norwegian football club from Oslo. It was founded in 1913. They are named after the neighbourhood of Vålerenga. They finished as runners-up in the 2010 Norwegian Premier League, the last time they won was in 2005. Vålerenga's home ground is Ullevaal Stadion, the national stadium for Norway. Their current coach is Martin Andresen.
"As of January 15th 2010"

</doc>
<doc id="55225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55225" title="Volga River">
Volga River

The Volga is the longest river of Europe. In Russian it is called Волга, in the Tatar language its name is İdel. Many people see it as the national river of Russia. It flows through the western part of the country. It is Europe's longest river, with a length of 3,688 kilometres, and forms the core of the largest river system in Europe. It rises in the Valdai Hills of Russia, 225m above sea level north-west of Moscow. The Kama, Oka, Vetluga and the Sura are its main tributaries. The Volga and its tributaries form the Volga river system, which drains an area of about 1.35 million square kilometres in Russia. The Volga Delta has a length of about 160 kilometres. It includes 
555 channels and small streams. It is the largest estuary in Europe. It is the only place in Russia where pelicans, flamingoes, and lotuses may be found. The Volga freezes for most of its length for three months each year. Some of the biggest reservoirs in the world can be found along the river.

</doc>
<doc id="55232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55232" title="Oi!">
Oi!

Oi! is a type of punk rock that was started in the United Kingdom in the late 1970s. The people that started it wanted to connect punk with a working class street-level following. Oi! is a mixing of the styles of early punk bands, such as The Clash, Sex Pistols and the Ramones. It is also influenced by early British rock bands (such as The Rolling Stones and The Who), football chants, pub rock and glam rock bands. The music is often very simple, and the lyrics are blunt (brutally honest, without tact).
Punk rock began to become popular in the 1970s. Some perceived that it was becoming more and more commercialised. This was the kind of thing that punks were against. Oi! began partly as a response to this perception. It was also partly a response to stereotyping that others made about punks. One stereotype was that many people in the early punk rock scene were young people using big words and trying to be artistic, but failing.
Early Oi! bands such as Sham 69 were around for years before the word "Oi!" was used to describe their style of music. The word was first used as a name for the new genre in 1980, by journalist Garry Bushell. He took the name from the way the Cockney Rejects used "Oi!" during live shows to introduce their songs. "Oi! Oi! Oi!" was the title of the third track on their second album. The word is an old Cockney expression, meaning "hey" or "hello". Other bands that were labelled as Oi! bands in the early days of the genre included Angelic Upstarts, The 4-Skins, The Business, Blitz, The Blood, and Combat 84. More recent punk bands such as Rancid and Dropkick Murphys have credited Oi! as a source of inspiration.

</doc>
<doc id="55235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55235" title="Brothers Grimm">
Brothers Grimm

The Brothers Grimm (German: "Die Brüder Grimm", also "Gebrüder Grimm") were the brothers Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm. They were German academics and most famous for their collections of folktales and fairy tales, and for their work in linguistics.
The Grimm brothers both became linguists. They are the inventors of German philology. They also did other language-related work, like publishing one of the first grammar books for the German language.
They also wrote fairy tales, and collected the tales which people told them. They published a collection of fairy tales known as "Grimms' Fairy Tales" ("Grimms Märchen").

</doc>
<doc id="55236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55236" title="Heavy metal">
Heavy metal

Heavy metal may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55237" title="Bryozoa">
Bryozoa

Bryozoans, or Ectoprocta, are a phylum of small aquatic animals living in colonies. The colonies usually have a skeleton of calcium carbonate. Bryozoans have a long fossil history, starting in the Ordovician. In their life-style they resemble the polyps which form coral. Bryozoa are known informally as moss animals or sea mats. They generally like warm, tropical waters but live all over the world. There are about 5,000 living species, and 15,000 fossil species are known. 
The colonies are formed by tiny (~0.2mm) members called zooids. They secrete tubes, usually of lime (CaCO), sometimes of chitin, an organic compound. The zooids in a colony are all clones, produced by asexual reproduction. Despite this, most species produce different morphs: zooids with different functions. 
All bryozoa have a lophophore. This is a ring of ten tentacles surrounding the mouth, each tentacle covered with cilia. When feeding, the zooid extends the lophophore outwards; when resting it is withdrawn into the mouth to protect it from predators.
Bryozoan skeletons grow in a variety of shapes and patterns: mound-shaped, lacy fans, branching twigs, and even corkscrew-shaped. Their skeletons have many tiny openings. Each opening is the home of "zooid". They have a body with a U-shaped gut, opening at the mouth and at the anus. They feed with their lophophore. The tentacles of the bryozoans are ciliated. The beating of the cilia creates a current of water which drives food (mainly phytoplankton) towards the mouth. In some groups, notably some ctenostomes, a gizzard may be formed. 
Bryozoans do not have a respiratory, or a blood system, because their small size allows diffusion of gases and nutrients. However, they do have a simple nervous system, and muscles, which together can quickly take the zooid down into its shelter.
One species of bryozoan, "Bugula neritina", is of interest as a source of chemicals, bryostatins, which are under investigation as anti-cancer agents.
Bryozoans can reproduce both sexually and asexually. All Bryozoans, as far as is known, are hermaphrodite (meaning they are both male and female).
All members of a colony are clones: they are genetically identical, produced by asexual reproduction. This occurs by budding off new zooids from the first zooid. So the colony grows; this is the way a colony expands in size. If a piece of a bryozoan colony breaks off, the piece can continue to grow and will form a new colony.
All zooids in a colony are linked by strands of epithelial cells. The individual members of a colony, the zooids, are in some species generalised: they feed, and they can reproduce on occasion. But in most species the zooids are specialised to diffent functions. In this case the feeding zooids are called "autozooids", and the non-feeding members are called "heterozooids". Functions done by heterozooids include sexual reproduction, protection, locomotion, plumbing, structural support. The functions of some heterozooids is still unknown. The commonest function is that eggs are developed in brooding chambers ("ovicells") on female or hermaphrodite heterozooids. There are variations in the details: sometimes a little complex of heterozooids produce larvae in a cooperative effort.
Another way to describe the bryozoa which develop heterozooids is to say they are polymorphic. This term is used in biology to describe the way a genetically unified population develops into clearly distinct forms. The polymorphism is usually controlled by genetic switching mechanisms, but in bryozoa there is little knowledge of their genetics.
Most species of Bryozoan live in marine environments. There are about 50 species which inhabit freshwater. In their aquatic habitats, bryozoans live on all types of hard substrates: sand grains, rocks, shells, wood, blades of kelp, pipes and ships may be heavily encrusted with bryozoans. Some bryozoan colonies, however, do not grow on solid substrates, but form colonies on sediment. While some species live at depths of 8,200 m, most bryozoans live in much shallower water. Most bryozoans are sessile and immobile, but a few colonies are able to creep about, and a few species of non-colonial bryozoans live and move about in the spaces between sand grains. One remarkable species makes its living while floating in the Southern Ocean. Several bryozoan species live in the Midwestern United States, especially in Ohio, Indiana, and Kentucky which was once a part of a large ocean, the Western Interior Seaway.
Their diet consists of small microorganisms, including diatoms and other unicellular algae. In turn, bryozoans are preyed on by grazing organisms such as sea urchins and fish. 
Bryozoans are almost entirely colony-forming animals. Many millions of individuals can form one colony. The colonies range from millimeters to meters in size, but the individuals that make up the colonies are tiny, usually less than a millimeter long. In each colony, different individuals have different functions. Some individuals gather up the food for the colony (autozooids), others depend on them (heterozooids). Some individuals are devoted to strengthening the colony (kenozooids), and still others to cleaning the colony (vibracula). There is only a single known solitary species, "Monobryozoon ambulans", which does not form colonies.
Fossil bryozoans first appear in the early Ordovician and had a huge adaptive radiation. They were abundant throughout the Palaeozoic era: they were one of the most dominant groups of Palaeozoic fossils. They were major components of seabed communities and, like modern-day bryozoans, played an important role in sediment stabilization and binding. They were food sources for many other benthic organisms. During the Lower Carboniferous (Mississippian) 354 to 323 million years ago, bryozoans were so common that their broken skeletons form entire limestone beds. 
After a crash at the Permian/Triassic boundary, when almost all species went extinct, bryozoans recovered in the later Mesozoic to become as successful as before. The bryozoan fossil record has more than 15,000 species. 
Most fossil bryozoans have mineralized skeletons. The skeletons of individual zooids vary from tubular to box-shaped and contain a terminal aperture from which the lophophore is protruded to feed. No pores are present in the great majority of Ordovician bryozoans, but skeletal evidence shows that epithelia were continuous from one zooid to the next.
One of the most important events during bryozoan evolution was the acquisition of a calcareous skeleton and the mechanism of tentacle protrusion. The rigidity of the outer body walls gave protection against predators, a greater degree of zooid connection, and the evolution of massive colony forms.

</doc>
<doc id="55250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55250" title="Placebo">
Placebo

A placebo is a treatment for a disease or condition which is deliberately ineffective. The motive usually is that if a person believes that a medicine, diet, or other treatment is good for himself or herself, then it is good for the person.
Sometimes sick people who receive a placebo feel like they are getting better, and sometimes their bodies actually do get better. When patients have that response, it is called the "placebo effect". The term "placebo effect" (or "placebo response") was introduced in 1920. It is the response of the subject which causes the observed effect, not the substance.
John Haygarth tested a placebo effect in the 18th century. It showed ""to a degree which has never been suspected, what powerful influence upon diseases is produced by mere imagination"".
Émile Coué, a French apothecary (pharmacist), working between 1882 and 1910, discovered what later came to be known as the "Placebo effect". He reassured his clients by praising each remedy's efficiency and leaving a small positive notice with each medication. In 1901 Coué began to study under hypnosis. In 1913, Coué and his wife founded "La Société Lorraine de Psychologie appliquée". His book "Self-mastery through conscious autosuggestion" was published in England (1920) and in the United States (1922).
Placebos are used as part of blind trials. Blind trials work like this: Some people are given the medicine or treatment being tested, and others are given the placebo. No one knows who gets the real treatment and who gets the placebo. They are "blind" to their treatment.
If researchers notice that the "treatment group" is different from the "placebo group" they will know that the difference is because of the treatment. Without a "placebo group" then researchers cannot know if those changes would have happened anyway, no matter which medicine people had taken.
Placebos can have real effects on patients: that is what "placebo effect" means. Since a landmark paper in 1955 the placebo effect has been recognised and accepted by some, and denied by others. However, there is no doubt that for certain conditions, the placebo effect does exist. Examples are:

</doc>
<doc id="55257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55257" title="Identity (mathematics)">
Identity (mathematics)

In mathematics, the term identity has several important uses:
An equality in mathematical sense is only true under more particular conditions. For this, the symbol ≡ is sometimes used. (However, this can lead to misunderstandings since the same symbol can also be used for a congruence relation.)
A common example of the first meaning is the trigonometric identity
which is true for all real values of formula_5 (since the real numbers formula_6 are the domain of sin and cos), as opposed to
which is true only for values of formula_5 in a subset of the domain.
The concepts of "additive identity" and "multiplicative identity" are central to the Peano axioms.
The number 0 is the "additive identity" for integers, real numbers, and complex numbers. For the real numbers, for all formula_9
Similarly, The number 1 is the "multiplicative identity" for integers, real numbers, and complex numbers. For the real numbers, for all formula_9
A common example of an identity function is the identity permutation, which sends each element of the set formula_17 to itself.
These meanings are not mutually exclusive; for instance, the identity permutation is the identity element in the set of permutations of formula_17 under composition.

</doc>
<doc id="55258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55258" title="Equality">
Equality

Equality can mean several things:
In sciences:
In humanities:
People and places:

</doc>
<doc id="55259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55259" title="Identity">
Identity

Identity could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55260" title="Equality (mathematics)">
Equality (mathematics)

In mathematics, two things are equal if and only if they are exactly the same in every way. That is, they have the same (mathematical) value, and the same mathematical properties. Mathematicians use the equals sign (=) to say this. This defines a binary relation, equality. The statement ""x" = "y"" means that "x" and "y" are equal.
Equivalence in a more general sense is provided by the construction of an equivalence relation between two sets, that is, the two sets have exactly the same elements. The sets do not need to be finite to be equal. A statement that two expressions denote equal quantities is an equation. Equations are equal. Inequalities are unequal.
Since a predicate is a way of describing something that is true, another way to say this is that if you can find something that is true about one variable but not true about the other variable, then they are not "equal", as far as mathematical logic is concerned.
Here is a simple way of saying that: if two things are equal, anything that is true about one of them has to be true about the other one. 
In geometry, the word congruence is often preferred. Numbers are equal, geometrical objects are congruent. Two shapes are congruent if one can be moved or rotated so that it fits exactly where the other one is. If you have to shrink or enlarge one of the two objects, they are not congruent. They are called "similar"
In computer science, usually, the mathematical definition is used. Very often, the comparison is written "==" (and the assignment, i.e. giving a value, is written "=", or ":="). In object-oriented languages, or languages which have pointers, there is an additional problem. Those languages contain references (which are in fact pointers). If two such references do not reference exactly the same object, they are different. "a == b" will be false, for this case.
For this reason, many such languages have introduced another operator (in Java, this method is called "equals"). This operator compares the actual values of the objects, not where the variables that reference them point to.
In social sciences, two people are equal if many of the same things are true about them. Two people who have the same amount of education and money and are the same age usually think of each other as equals. Another name for a person who is equal to another person is a peer.

</doc>
<doc id="55265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55265" title="Ministry">
Ministry

The term ministry could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55266" title="Religious ministry">
Religious ministry

Ministry, in Christianity, is the activity that is done by members of the church to serve the purposes of the church. 
It can mean this activity as a whole, or specific activities, or organizations in a church that perform specific activities. 
As churches attempt to meet the needs of their congregations, they often separate their members into groups according to age categories. Age-specific groups meet for religious study including Sunday school programs, fellowship, and other activities. These age divisions may include:
Nearly all churches have some form of worship music, whether from a choir, orchestra, or worship band. 
Many churches sponsor ministries designed to reach out others on a local and global scale, usually grouped under the heading of missions. There are many organizations which perform missions on a fully-funded and organized level, such as North American Mission Board, operated by the Southern Baptist Convention.

</doc>
<doc id="55267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55267" title="Ministry (government department)">
Ministry (government department)

A ministry is a department of a government, led by a political minister. 
Ministries are usually subordinate to the cabinet, and prime minister, president or chancellor. A government will usually have several ministries, each with a specialised field of service. National ministries vary greatly between countries, but some common ones include Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Health.
Some countries such as Switzerland, the Philippines and the United States do not use the term "ministry" for their government departments, and instead simply call them departments. In Hong Kong the term "bureau" is used.
In Canada, some provincial-level government departments are called "ministries" (such as in Ontario and British Columbia) but most are called "departments." Their heads are referred to as "ministers" in both levels of government, however.

</doc>
<doc id="55269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55269" title="Galerius">
Galerius

Galerius (Gaius Galerius Valerius Maximianus, ~260 – 5 May 311), was Roman Emperor from 305 to 311.
Galerius served as a soldier with distinction. He became "Caesar" in 293 along with Constantius Chlorus, when the Tetrarchy was introduced by Diocletian. He married Diocletian's daughter Valeria, and took over the care of the Illyrian provinces.
In 296, at the beginning of the Persian War, he moved from the Danube to the Euphrates. There his first campaign ended in a defeat by Narses, near Callinicum, which caused the loss of Mesopotamia.
Diocletian came to Antioch, where the official version of events was made clear: Galerius was to take all the blame. In Antioch, Diocletian forced Galerius to walk a mile in advance of his imperial cart while still clad in the purple robes of an emperor. The message conveyed was clear: the loss at Carrhae was not due to the failings of the empire's soldiers, but due to the failings of their commander, and Galerius' failures would not be accepted.
In 298 Galerius got reinforcements from the Danube in the Spring. He led the army to attack Narseh in northern Mesopotamia, and Narseh retreated to Armenia.
The rugged Armenian terrain was favorable to Roman infantry, but unfavorable to Sassanid cavalry. Local aid gave Galerius the advantage of surprise over the Persian forces, and, in two successive battles, Galerius secured victories over Narseh.
During the second encounter, Roman forces seized Narseh's camp, his treasury, his harem, and his wife along with it. Narseh's wife would live out the remainder of the war in Daphne, a suburb of Antioch, serving to the Persians as a constant reminder of Roman victory. Galerius advanced into Media and Adiabene, winning victories, particularly near Erzurum, and securing Nisibis (Nusaybin, Turkey) before 1 October 298. He moved down the Tigris, taking Ctesiphon, and looking at the ruins of Babylon, before returning to Roman territory via the Euphrates.
Narses asked for peace. Mesopotamia was returned to Roman rule and even some territory east of the Tigris, which marks the greatest extension of the Roman Empire in the east.
In 305, on the abdication of Diocletian and Maximian, Galerius got the title of Augustus, together with Constantius, his former colleague. Two younger men were appointed as Caesars: Maximus Daia and Severus II.
His hopes were dashed when his colleague Constantius died at York in 306 and the legions elevated his son Constantine to the position of Augustus. Galerius only discovered this when he got a letter from Constantine, who told him of his father's death, modestly asserted his natural claim to the succession, and respectfully lamented that the enthusiasm of his troops had not allowed him to get the Imperial purple in a regular manner. The first emotions of Galerius were those of surprise, disappointment, and rage; and, as he could seldom restrain his passions, he threatened to burn both the letter and the messenger.
But when he had time to reconsider his position, he realised his chances of winning a war against Constantine was doubtful. Therefore, without commenting on the choice of the British army, Galerius accepted the son of his deceased colleague as the ruler of the provinces beyond the Alps; but he gave him only the title of Caesar, and the fourth rank among the Roman princes, whilst he conferred the vacant place of Augustus on his favourite, Severus II.
Suddenly Galerius had the unexpected loss of Italy to Maxentius. Galerius’ need for additional revenue led him to make a strict and rigorous examination of the property of his subjects for the purpose of taxation. A survey was taken of their estates; and, wherever there was the slightest suspicion of concealment, torture was used to obtain a sincere declaration of their personal wealth.
Italy had traditionally been exempt from any form of taxation, but Galerius ignored this. Italy began to murmur against this indignity and Maxentius used this sentiment to declare himself emperor in Italy, to the fury of Galerius. Therefore, Galerius ordered his colleague Severus to immediately march to Rome, so that, by his unexpected arrival, he would easily suppress the rebellion. Severus was quickly captured and executed by Maximian, who had once again been elevated to the rank of co-emperor, this time by his son Maxentius.
The importance of the occasion needed the presence and abilities of Galerius. At the head of a powerful army collected from Illyricum and the East, he entered Italy, determined to revenge the death of Severus and to punish the rebellious Romans But due to the skill of Maximian, Galerius found every place hostile, fortified, and inaccessible; and though he forced his way as far as Narni, within sixty miles of Rome, his control in Italy was confined to the narrow limits of his camp.
Seeing that he was facing difficulties, Galerius made the first advances towards reconciliation. and dispatched two officers to tempt the Romans by the offer of a conference. The offers of Galerius were rejected with firmness, his friendship refused. Unless he retreated, he might meet the fate of Severus. It was not a moment too soon; large monetary gifts from Maxentius to his soldiers had corrupted the fidelity of the Illyrian legions. When Galerius began his withdrawal from Italy, it was only with great difficulty that he managed to stop his veterans deserting him.
In frustration, Galerius allowed his legions to ravage the countryside as they passed northwards. Maxentius declined to make a general engagement.
With so many emperors now in existence, in 308 Galerius, together with the retired emperor Diocletian and the now active Maximian, called an imperial 'conference' at Carnuntum on the River Danube to rectify the situation and bring some order back into the imperial government. Here it was agreed that Galerius’ long-time friend and military companion Licinius, who had been entrusted by Galerius with the defense of the Danube while Galerius was in Italy, would become Augustus in the West, with Constantine as his Caesar. In the East, Galerius remained Augustus and Maximinus remained his Caesar. Maximian was to retire, and Maxentius was declared a usurper.
Galerius’ plan soon failed. The news of Licinius’ promotion was no sooner carried into the East, than Maximinus, who governed, the provinces of Egypt and Syria, rejected his position as Caesar, and, notwithstanding the prayers as well as arguments of Galerius, exacted, the equal title of Augustus. For the first, and indeed for the last time, six emperors administered the Roman world. Although the memory of a recent war divided the empire into two great hostile powers, their fears and the fading authority of Galerius produced an apparent tranquility in the imperial government.
The last years of Galerius saw him keep the position of first among equals. He spent the rest of his time enjoying himself, and ordering some important public works, such as discharging into the Danube the superfluous waters of Lake Pelso, and cutting down the immense forests around it.
Christians had lived in peace during most of the rule of Diocletian. The persecutions that began with an edict of 24 February 303, were credited by Christians to the influence of Galerius. Christian houses of assembly were destroyed, for fear of secret gatherings.
But in April 311 he issued the general edict of toleration, from Nicomedia in his own name and in those of Licinius and Constantine. Lactantius gives the text of the edict in "De Mortibus Persecutorum" ('On the Deaths of the Persecutors', chapters 34, 35). This marked the end of official persecution of Christians. Galerius died on 5 May, 311.

</doc>
<doc id="55272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55272" title="Placebo (disambiguation)">
Placebo (disambiguation)

Placebo may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55273" title="Placebo effect (disambiguation)">
Placebo effect (disambiguation)

Placebo effect may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="55275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55275" title="Square foot gardening">
Square foot gardening

Square foot gardening is a type of gardening made popular by Mel Bartholemew. It is based on the idea that the wide rows in traditional gardening are a waste of time, work, water and area. It shows that quality vegetables can be grown in less space with less work. In this method, the garden space is divided into "bed"s. Each bed is 4' x 4' (16 sq ft) (120 cm x 120 cm, 1.4m²). The beds are separated by paths. These beds are further divided into squares of about one square foot. Common spacing is one plant per square for larger plants such as broccoli and basil, four per square for medium large plants like lettuce, nine per square for medium -small plants like spinach, and sixteen per square for small plants such as onions and carrots. The weeds are removed from the beds and the plants are watered from the pathways. This stops the soil from being compacted.

</doc>
<doc id="55311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55311" title="Blender">
Blender

A blender is an electric kitchen appliance used for making drinks, mixing liquids, and puréeing (chopping up into small bits) fruits and vegetables for sauces and soups. 
A blender consists of a glass or plastic container with a mounted blade in the bottom, and a base that has an electric motor and switches to turn on the motor or change its speed.
Blenders are used to make milk shakes (a blend of ice cream and milk) and fruit smoothies (a mix of fruit and ice). 
Blenders are also used to make cold alcoholic drinks that include crushed ice or ice cream, such as margaritas and Mississippi Mudslide drinks.

</doc>
<doc id="55313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55313" title="Drinking straw">
Drinking straw

A drinking straw (or "straw") is a utensil used to consume cold drinks such as milk shakes, smoothies, cola, and fruit juice. Drinking straws are usually made from plastic that is formed into a tube. To use a drinking straw, a person places the straw in a glass that contains a liquid and then sucks the straw with their mouth. Straws are mainly plastic, but some straws are paper or cardboard to protect the environment. 

</doc>
<doc id="55315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55315" title="Whole-tone scale">
Whole-tone scale

In music, a whole tone scale is a scale in which each note is separated from the next one by an interval of a whole tone. There is always one note in between each pair of notes of the whole-tone scale (counting all the notes: white and black). There are only two combinations possible for a whole tone scale: 
When one of these scales is played on a piano, starting from a low note and moving up to high notes, while at the same time pressing the sustaining pedal (the right pedal), it makes a "dreamy" sound. It does not sound in any particular key, but floats along. It also sounds very good on a harp.
Debussy uses the whole-tone scale a lot in his music, but he was not the first to do so. Russian composers such as Glinka in his opera "Ruslan and Ludmila" and Borodin in "Prince Igor" used the whole-tone scale.
Later composers to use it include Alban Berg in his "Violin Concerto", and Béla Bartók in 
his "String Quartet No. 5". It has also been used in jazz.

</doc>
<doc id="55319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55319" title="Pentatonic scale">
Pentatonic scale

In music, a pentatonic scale is a scale with five notes in each octave. Pentatonic scales are very common and are found in folk music from all over the world.
Any scale using five notes is "pentatonic" ("penta" is Greek for "five"). However, the pentatonic scale which is used in most Western music uses notes which do not have any semitones. A pentatonic scale starting on C will use the notes C,D,E,G,A (the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 6th notes of a major scale).. An easy way to find such a pentatonic scale is by using all the black notes of a keyboard.
Using the pentatonic scale is a good way for children to make up their own tunnnnes. It does not matter too much which note is used for the start and the finish, because there is no feeling of a clear key. The notes always sound good when played together.
Many folksongs are pentatonic, or nearly pentatonic. Well-known songs such as "Land of the Silver Birch" or "Auld Lang Syne" are pentatonic tunes.
Classical composers have sometimes used pentatonic scales, especially Claude Debussy. His piano piece "La fille aux cheveux de lin" has a tune which is pentatonic except for one note. Maurice Ravel used it to write music which sounded Chinese, and in his "Mother Goose" suite ("Ma Mère l'Oye") which sounds like a fairy tale.
The pentatonic scales used in Indonesian gamelan music are called "slendro" and "pelog".
pentatonic song:
sing out your melody
sing out your song
sing a petatonic scale
starting on lah
lah
doh
ray
meh
soh
lah!
Difficult words: Octave - An octave is the distance between two musical notes that have the same letter name.
Folk music - Folk music includes both traditional music and the genre that evolved from it during the 20th century folk revival. The term originated in the 19th century but is often applied to music that is older than that. Some types of folk music are also called world music.
Semitones - A semitone, also called a half step or a half tone, is the smallest musical interval commonly used in Western tonal music, and it is considered the most dissonant when sounded harmonically. It is defined as the interval between two adjacent notes in a 12-tone scale (e.g. from C to C♯). This implies that its size is exactly or approximately equal to 100 cents, a twelfth of an octave.
Major scale - The major scale or Ionian scale is one of the most commonly used musical scales, especially in Western music. It is one of the diatonic scales. Like many musical scales it is made up of seven notes: the eighth duplicates the first at double its frequency so that it is called a higher octave of the same note (from Latin "octavus", the eighth). 

</doc>
<doc id="55320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55320" title="Major scale">
Major scale

In music theory, the major scale or Ionian scale is one of the diatonic scales. It is made up of seven separate notes, plus an eighth which is the same as the first an octave higher. In solfege these notes correspond to the syllables "Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, Ti/Si, Do". The simplest major scale to write or play on the piano is C major, the only major scale not to require sharps or flats, using only the white keys on the piano keyboard:
A major scale is a set of steps in the order "Whole:Whole:Half:Whole:Whole:Whole:Half"(tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone). Western scales do not skip any line or space on the staff, and they do not repeat any note with a different accidental. This means that the key signature of the scale will feature just sharps "or" just flats.
The Circle of Fifths was first described in 1728 by Johann David Heinichen in his book "Der General-bass". It has been used ever since as a way to show the relations between scales.
The numbers inside the circle show the number of sharps or flats in the key signature, with the sharp keys going , and the flat keys from C major (which has no sharps or flats.) The circle depends on enharmonic relationships in the circle, which is six sharps or flats for the major keys of F = G and D = E for minor keys (Drabkin 2001). Seven sharps or flats make major keys (C major and C major) that are more easy to spell with five flats or sharps (as D major or B major).
The major scale is used more often than the minor scale in Western music because of its unique harmonic properties. For example, the major third is much stronger in the harmonic series (it is the 5th, 10th and 20th harmonic – see below) than the minor third (the 19th harmonic).

</doc>
<doc id="55321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55321" title="Minor scale">
Minor scale

A minor scale in music theory is any scale that has at least three scale degrees: the tonic, the minor third above the tonic, and the perfect fifth above the tonic. Together they make the minor triad. This includes many scales and modes such as Dorian mode and the Phrygian mode.
In simple terms, a minor scale is a series of notes with a sad, somber character (exaggerated when heard back-to-back with a major scale). A minor scale begins on the sixth note of its relative major scale, and is built with the following pattern of half steps and whole steps: 
 i_whole_ii°_half_III_whole_iv_whole_v_half_VI_whole_VII_whole _i (next octave)
Usually, when people talk about minor scales, they mean natural minor, harmonic minor, or melodic minor scales, which are the most common in Western music. 
The natural minor scale is the same as the 6th mode (or Aeolian mode) of the major scale. For example, the white notes of a keyboard from one C to the next C up makes a C major scale. If the white notes are played starting from the sixth step of that C scale, (from any A to the next A), then an A natural minor scale (the "relative minor" of C) is produced.
The harmonic minor scale is the same as the natural minor but with the seventh note raised up a semitone. 
Harmonic Minor Scale: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
For example, in the key of A minor, the harmonic minor scale is:
A B C D E F G A
One way the harmonic minor is different to the natural minor is that it has two chords which have the same structure when inverted, so they do not belong to any key. These are the diminished seventh chord (2nd, 4th, 6th and 7th degrees) and the augmented chord (the 3rd, 5th and 7th degrees).
The harmonic minor is also sometimes called the Mohammedan scale because its upper tetrachord is the same as the Hijaz jins, often found in Middle Eastern music. The harmonic minor scale as a whole is sometimes called "Nahawand-Hijaz" in Arabic, or as "Bûselik Hicaz" in Turkish.
The interval between the sixth and seventh degrees of this scale (in this case F and G) is an augmented second. While some composers, like Mozart, have used this interval in melodic composition, other composers found it awkward. They thought that a whole step between these two scale degrees was better for smooth melody writing, so they used the subtonic seventh, or raised the sixth scale degree. These two options are called the ascending melodic minor scale and descending melodic minor scale. The ascending has the same upper tetrachord to the major scale, and the descending is the same as the natural minor:
A B C D E F G A' and then 
A' G F E D C B A respectively.
Many composers do not stick to the notes of only one of these scales when writing music. Using the triad of the relative major is very common, but because this is based on the third degree of the minor scale, the raised seventh degree of the harmonic scale would cause an augmented triad. In this case, composers usually use the natural minor. In jazz, usually only the ascending minor is used.
Major and minor keys that share the same key signature are called "relative"; so C major is the relative major of A minor, and C minor is the relative minor of E major. The relative major is a minor third above the tonic of the minor. For example, since the key signature of G major has one sharp (see major scales for how to find this), its relative minor, E minor, also has one sharp in its key signature.
Music may be written in an enharmonic scale (e.g. A major, which only has four flats in its key signature, compared to the eight sharps required for G major). The following are enharmonic equivalents:

</doc>
<doc id="55322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55322" title="Yeast">
Yeast

Yeast are microorganisms. They are single-celled fungi. There are about 1,500 different species of yeast. Most reproduce asexually, by budding. Some use binary fission to reproduce asexually.
A particular species of yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, has been used for a very long time. It is used for baking bread. It is also used in fermentation to make ethanol. This method makes many drinks, such as beer or wine. Ethanol is also used as fuel and as feedstock to make other organic chemicals. Yeast can be used to make electricity.
Yeast is also a model organism for studying cell biology. Some yeasts can cause infections in humans (they are pathogens). 

</doc>
<doc id="55323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55323" title="Budding">
Budding

Budding is a method of asexual reproduction. With budding, a new organism grows on another one. It stays attached, while it grows. Only when it is fully grown does it detach from the parent organism. Since the reproduction is asexual, the newly created organism is a clone and is genetically identical to the parent organism.
Budding is very common in plants and fungi. Sometimes it can also be found with animals, for example with hydras or sponges.

</doc>
<doc id="55325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55325" title="Binary fission">
Binary fission

Binary fission ("division in half") is a kind of asexual reproduction. It is the most common form of reproduction in prokaryotes and occurs in some single-celled eukaryotes. 
After replicating its genetic material, the cell divides into two nearly equal sized daughter cells. The genetic material is also equally split. The daughter cells are genetically identical (unless a mutation occurs during replication). 
Some biologists use this term for multi-cellular organisms that asexually reproduce by dividing into two (e.g., some starfish). This is also known as 'fragmentation'. Bacteria uses binary fission to reproduce quickly. They have other methods for exchanging DNA with each other.
During binary fission, the DNA molecule divides and forms two DNA molecules. Each molecule moves towards the opposite side of the bacterium. At the same time, the cell membrane divides to form 2 daughter cells. In the process of cell division (in eukaryotes), first the division of nucleus takes place after which the division of cytoplasm (cytokinesis) takes place. After division, the new cells will grow and the process repeats itself.

</doc>
<doc id="55327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55327" title="Charisma Carpenter">
Charisma Carpenter

Charisma Lee Carpenter (born July 23, 1970) is an American actress. She is best known for playing the character Cordelia Chase in the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and its spin-off "Angel".
Carpenter was born in Las Vegas, Nevada. At 15, her family moved to Rosarito B.C., Mexico. Later, they moved to Chula Vista (a suburb of San Diego). After graduating high school, she was a San Diego Chargers cheerleader in 1991 before beginning her Hollywood career. She had also sky-dived. She married Damian Hardy on October 5, 2002. She gave birth to their son Donavan Charles Hardy on March 24, 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="55345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55345" title="Paul Watzlawick">
Paul Watzlawick

Paul Watzlawick PhD (July 25, 1921 – March 31, 2007) was a theoretician in communication theory. He also commented in the fields of family therapy and general psychotherapy. He lived and worked in California until his death in 2007 in Palo Alto.
He formulated five axioms. They are:
Watzlawick is author of 18 books (in 85 foreign language editions) and more than 150 book articles and book chapters. Books he has written or on which he has collaborated include:

</doc>
<doc id="55347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55347" title="Neurotransmitter">
Neurotransmitter

Neurotransmitters are chemical messengers. They send information between neurons by crossing a synapse. Electrical signals are not able to cross the gap between most neurons. They are changed into chemical signals to cross the gap. Neurotransmitters act mostly on chemical synapses. Once they reach the next neuron they are absorbed. The neuron then changes this chemical signal back into an electrical signal called an action potential. The action potential passes across the next neuron and to the next synapse.
Many neurotransmitters are made from amino acids, which are part of your diet and it takes only a few steps to convert them. Neurotransmitters play a major role in shaping everyday life and functions. Scientists do not yet know exactly how many neurotransmitters exist, but more than 100 chemical messengers have been identified.
Each neurotransmitter has a different function. For example: dopamine is used in reward and pleasure and noradrenaline is used in an animal's "fight or flight" response. Neurotransmitters also regulate the passing of messages. This is because an action potential must be a certain strength before the neurotransmitters are released. The strength required to release the neurotransmitter is called a threshold.
The most common transmitter is glutamate, which is excitatory at well over 90% of the synapses in the human brain. The next most prevalent is called GABA, which inhibits at more than 90% of the synapses that do not use glutamate. 
Neurotransmitters are transported within neurons by small "sacks" called vesicles. When these vesciles come into contact with the neuron's cell membrane, it opens. This releases the neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft.
Until the early 20th century, scientists assumed that the majority of synaptic communication in the brain was electrical. However, through the careful histological examinations by Ramón y Cajal (1852–1934), a 20 to 40 nm gap between neurons, known today as the synaptic cleft, was discovered. The presence of the gap suggested chemical messengers moved across the synaptic cleft. In 1921 German pharmacologist Otto Loewi (1873–1961) confirmed that neurons can communicate by releasing chemicals. By experiments involving the vagus nerves of frogs, Loewi was able to slow the heart rate of frogs by controlling the amount of saline solution present around the vagus nerve. 
Loewi asserted that sympathetic regulation of cardiac function can be mediated through changes in chemical concentrations. Otto Loewi also discovered acetylcholine (ACh)—the first known neurotransmitter. Some neurons do, however, communicate by electrical synapses through the use of gap junctions, which allow specific ions to pass directly from one cell to another.

</doc>
<doc id="55348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55348" title="Hard rock">
Hard rock

Hard rock is a variation of rock music with roots in early 1960s garage rock and psychedelic rock. The term "hard rock" is often used as an umbrella term for genres such as punk rock and grunge in order to distinguish them from the more radio-friendly pop rock genre.

</doc>
<doc id="55349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55349" title="Sally Beamish">
Sally Beamish

Sally Beamish (born London, 26 August 1956) is an English composer. She has written music for orchestra, chamber music, vocal and choral music.
Sally studied the viola at the Royal Northern College of Music. Later she also studied in Germany and Italy.
Sally started her career playing the viola in a chamber group called the Raphael Ensemble. The experience of playing in small groups was important for her development as a composer. Her music often combines and contrasts solo instruments, exploring the sounds they can make.
She has written works for the Swedish and Scottish Chamber Orchestras and has had works performed at the BBC Proms. Her trumpet concerto, written for Håkan Hardenberger and the National Youth Orchestra of Scotland was performed at the Proms in 2003 with Martyn Brabbins conducting. She has also written concertos for the flute, viola, saxophone, percussion and accordion and is planning to write concertos for viola (her third), saxophone quartet and cello.
She has written a stage musical about the Scottish Highlands. She lives in Scotland with her husband and young daughter.
Sally Beamish is not a tennis player. I don't know who Sally Beamish is. Google her. This site is unreliable.

</doc>
<doc id="55350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55350" title="Nakhodka">
Nakhodka

Nakhodka (Russian "Находка") is a port city in Primorsky Krai, Russia. It is one of the most eastern cities in Russia. Nakhodka is a port on the Japan Sea. It is located around Nakhodka Bay. "Nakhodka" means "Lucky find" in Russian.
The village Amerikanka was the first permanent settlement at the location of the current city. It was founded in 1907. Nakhodka became an urban-type fishing settlement in 1941. It received city status on May 19, 1950. This date is now called "City Day".
The economy of the city is based mainly on the port and port-related businesses. This include processing and canning fish. In Soviet times, Nakhodka was the only Soviet port in the Far East open to foreign vessels. After Vladivostok started being used by foreigners in 1991, the port of Nakhodka is not used as much as before. Economic activity in the city has become much less because of this.. 
Nakhodka is still an important international port. It is the center of the coastal trade. Exports include timber, coal, fluorspar, honey, fish and seafood.

</doc>
<doc id="55351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55351" title="Sumatra">
Sumatra

Sumatra, known also as "Sumatera", is the sixth largest island in the world. It is in western Indonesia. It is to the west of the Sunda Islands, and is bordered by the Indian Ocean. Sumatra contains the provinces of Daerah Istimewa Aceh, Riau, Riau Islands, Bangka Belitung Islands, Jambi, Bengkulu, Lampung, North Sumatra, South Sumatra, and West Sumatra. Sumatra has an area of about 443,066 km².

</doc>
<doc id="55352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55352" title="Whigs">
Whigs

"For the party in the U.S. see Whig Party (United States)"
The Whigs were a political faction and then a political party in the parliaments of England, Scotland, Great Britain and the United Kingdom. Between the 1680s and 1850s, they contested power with their rivals, the Tories. The British prime minister was usually from one of the two parties.
The Whigs played a central role in the Glorious Revolution of 1688, and were the enemies of the Stuart kings and pretenders, who were Roman Catholic. The Whigs took full control of the government in 1715. They held it until King George III, coming to the throne in 1760, allowed Tories back in. 
When they held power, the Whigs purged (got rid of) the Tories from all major positions in government, the army, the Church of England, the legal profession and local officials. 
Their most famous leader was Robert Walpole, who kept control of the government from 1721 to 1742.

</doc>
<doc id="55353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55353" title="Espionage">
Espionage

Espionage or spying is a practice of getting information about an organization, society, or country that is meant to be secret or confidential, without permission. Espionage involves having access to where the needed information is stored or to the people that know the information. In wartime, espionage is a war crime. The person who does it is called a "spy" or more vaguely an "agent". A "double agent" is one who trades information to both sides, and is (without their knowledge) being employed by both sides.

</doc>
<doc id="55358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55358" title="Harrison Birtwistle">
Harrison Birtwistle

Sir Harrison Paul Birtwistle CH, (born Accrington, July 15, 1934) is one of Britain's most important composers today.
In 1952 Birtwistle entered the Royal Manchester College of Music in Manchester on a clarinet scholarship. While there he met other young composers like Peter Maxwell Davies and Alexander Goehr. Together with pianist John Ogdon and conductor Elgar Howarth, he formed the "New Music Manchester" group, which put on performances of modern music, especially music using serialism. 
Birtwistle left the college in 1955, then studied at the Royal Academy of Music and afterward made a living as a schoolteacher. In 1965 he got a Harkness Fellowship which gave him the opportunity to study composition in the United States.
In 1975 Birtwistle became musical director of the new Royal National Theatre in London, a post he held until 1983. He was given a knighthood in 1988 and was made a Companion of Honour in 2000. From 1994 to 2001 he was Henry Purcell Professor of Composition at King's College London.
His music is quite complicated and modern in style. Sometimes it reminds one of Igor Stravinsky and Olivier Messiaen. Sometimes he uses blocks of sound like Edgard Varèse. His first opera "Punch and Judy" is quite different from a traditional Punch and Judy children's entertainment. It is very serious and quite violent. He has written other operas: "The Mask of Orpheus" (1984), "Sir Gawain and the Green Knight" (1990), "The Second Mrs Kong" (1994), and "The Last Supper" (2000), .
When "Gawain" was performed in 1994 at the Royal Opera House a group of hecklers booed and whistled loudly. However, this only made the opera more famous as lots of people read about it and came to hear it. He wrote a piece called "Panic" for alto saxophone, jazz drumkit and orchestra. It was a very loud, harsh piece and it was a shock for the audience when it was first performed at the Last Night of the Proms, a concert at which people normally expect to hear music with easy, sing-along tunes.

</doc>
<doc id="55365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55365" title="Punch and Judy (disambiguation)">
Punch and Judy (disambiguation)

Punch and Judy could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55376" title="Lorsch">
Lorsch

Lorsch is a small town in southwest Germany ( south of Frankfurt am Main) in the Kreis Bergstraße district of the state of Hessen. More than 12,000 people live in the town.
It is the site of a Benedictine abbey, which used to be one of the greatest centers of Carolingian art. Several Carolingian kings of Germany were buried there. The abbey is also famous for the Lorsch Codex, which was produced there around the end of the 12th century. The abbey has been declared a World Heritage Site. The "Nibelungenlied" identifies Lorsch as the birth place of Siegfried.

</doc>
<doc id="55382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55382" title="Scottish">
Scottish

Scottish usually refers to something from or related to Scotland, a country in northern Europe.
These may include:

</doc>
<doc id="55393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55393" title="Dominic Monaghan">
Dominic Monaghan

Dominic Bernard Patrick Luke Monaghan (born 8 December 1976) is an English actor. He is well known for playing Merry Brandybuck in Peter Jackson's movie trilogy of J. R. R. Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings". He is also well known for playing Charlie Pace on the television series "Lost".
Monaghan was born in Berlin to British parents. He has a tattoo on his right arm of the English word "nine" written with the Tengwar script. It means that his character was one of the nine members of the Fellowship of the Ring in "The Lord of the Rings". Many other cast members also got similar tattoos during the making of the movie. On his left arm is a tattoo that says "Living is easy with eyes closed", a line from The Beatles' song "Strawberry Fields Forever". On "Lost", Charlie's tape/bandage finger-rings with letters spelling out words were Monaghan's idea. He thought that because Charlie is an artist, he would still want to be creative even when trapped on an island. Monaghan also actually plays the guitar on "Lost".
Dominic dated Evangeline Lilly while the two of them were on "Lost". The two broke up in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="55395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55395" title="Crazy Horse (cabaret)">
Crazy Horse (cabaret)

Le Crazy Horse Saloon or Le Crazy Horse Paris is a nightclub in Paris, founded in 1951. It is famous for its cabaret, which features nude female dancers. It was opened by Alain Bernardin, who also managed it until his suicide in 1994. Today the cabaret is run by Bernardin's children.
The franchise includes "Crazy Horse Paris" for one in Las Vegas (formerly La Femme), at the MGM Grand. 
Other cabarets with similar names are separate enterprises.

</doc>
<doc id="55398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55398" title="Umbrella term">
Umbrella term

An umbrella term is a phrase that organises a broad number of related concepts that all fall under a single common category. For example, cryptology is an umbrella term that includes cryptography and cryptanalysis, among other fields. Similarly, an is a main body that can represent a number of smaller, separate bodies.
The similar phrase blanket term is a used to describe multiple groups of related things. How similar these concepts are to each other may change and they may only have a very small relationship with each other. But the main purpose of blanket terms is that they are easy to say and remember, and so these terms may not necessarily be specific. Blanket terms may originate as slang, and eventually become a part of normal speaking.

</doc>
<doc id="55402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55402" title="Cnidaria">
Cnidaria

Cnidaria is a phylum with about 11,000 species of animals. All of them are simple and aquatic, and most of them live in the sea. Some are colonial, composed of zooids which may be clones. Cnidarian zooids may take the form of polyps or medusae at different phases of their life.
Cnidaria take their name from special cells which have organelles that sting: the nematocysts. This device is largely responsible for their success: it is their main specialised and distinctive cell type.
The word Cnidaria is spoken without the initial "C", and with a long "i". So it sounds like "Naidaria". In a similar way, the term Ctenophore is pronounced as "Teenophore". Originally, a Greek kappa was in front of the words, and it was pronounced.
There are five classes in the group. Jellyfish occur in four of the classes. 
Unranked, but now known to be cnidarians, is the parasitic group Myxozoa.
The Cnidaria often have complex life cycles, with both sexual and asexual reproduction. If this is the case, a generation that reproduces asexually will follow a generation that reproduces sexually.
Some Cnidarians, such as "Polypodium hydriforme" and the group Myxozoa are parasites. Some live in symbiosis with algae that do photosynthesis. Most of these algae are dinoflagellates, but sometimes they are green algae. The algae take the carbon dioxide and produce oxygen and carbohydrates, which the cnidarian uses as source of food.
There is a long fossil record for the corals, and soft-bodied forms appear in some exceptional strata. Some are believed to be among the Ediacaran biota.

</doc>
<doc id="55403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55403" title="Path">
Path

Path may refer to:
Physical paths:
In mathematics and computing:

</doc>
<doc id="55410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55410" title="Calvinism">
Calvinism

Calvinism belongs to the Reformed tradition of Protestantism. This tradition goes back to John Calvin and other theologians.
Important Calvinists from Europe include: Martin Bucer, Heinrich Bullinger, Peter Martyr Vermigli, and Huldrych Zwingli, and from England, reformers Thomas Cranmer and John Jewel. Because John Calvin had great influence and played an important role in the confessional and ecclesiastical debates throughout the 17th century, the tradition generally became known as Calvinism.
Today, this term also means the doctrines and practices of the Reformed churches, of which Calvin was an early leader, and the system is perhaps best known for its doctrines of predestination and total depravity.
John Calvin's international influence on the development of the doctrines of the Protestant Reformation began at the age of 25, when he started work on his first edition of the "Institutes of the Christian Religion" in 1534 (published 1536). Together with his contributions to confessional documents for use in churches it founded the direct personal influence on Protestantism of Calvin. He is only one of many to influence the doctrines of the Reformed churches, but he eventually became the most prominent.
The rising importance of the Reformed churches, and of Calvin, belongs to the second phase of the Protestant Reformation, when evangelical churches began to form after Luther was excommunicated from the Catholic Church. Calvin was a French exile in Geneva. He had signed the Lutheran Augsburg Confession in 1540, but his importance came from the Swiss Reformation. This was not Lutheran, but followed Huldrych Zwingli and then Calvin.
True Calvinism (historical Calvinism) does not teach that God chooses who will be saved and who will not be saved. It teaches that for God's own glory He recreates men with a new nature (a nature that loves God and hates sin) because with our old nature we would never seek God (Epistle to the Romans 3:10-12). If it was not for God choosing to save someone there would be no one saved.
Although much of Calvin's practice was in Geneva, his publications spread his ideas of a correctly reformed church to many parts of Europe. Calvinism became the theology of the majority in Scotland (see John Knox), the Netherlands, and parts of Germany and was influential in France, Hungary, Transylvania, and Poland. Calvinism was popular as well for some time in Scandinavia, especially Sweden, but was rejected in favor of Lutheranism after the synod of Uppsala in 1593.
Most settlers in the American Mid-Atlantic and New England were Calvinists, including the Puritans and Dutch settlers of New Amsterdam (New York). Dutch Calvinist settlers were also the first successful European colonizers of South Africa, beginning in the 17th century, who became known as Boers or Afrikaners.
Some of the largest Calvinist communions were started by 19th and 20th century missionaries; especially large are those in Korea and Nigeria.

</doc>
<doc id="55412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55412" title="John Calvin">
John Calvin

Jean Cauvin, also Jean Calvin (John Calvin in English) (July 10, 1509 – May 27, 1564), was a French Protestant theologian during the Protestant Reformation and was a central developer of the system of Christian theology called Calvinism or Reformed theology. In Geneva, he rejected Papal authority, established a new scheme of and ecclesiastical governance. He is famous for his teachings and writings and infamous for his role in the execution of Michael Servetus.
Calvin was born with the name "Jean Chauvin" (or "Cauvin", in Latin "Calvinus") in Noyon, Picardie, France, to Gérard Cauvin and Jeanne Lefranc. In 1523, Calvin's father, a lawyer, sent his fourteen-year-old son to the University of Paris to study humanities and law. By 1532, he had attained a Doctor of Law degree at Orléans. 
In 1536, he settled in Geneva, Switzerland. After being expelled from the city, he served as a pastor in Strasbourg from 1538 until 1541, before returning to Geneva, where he lived until his death in 1564.
Calvin was trained to be a lawyer. He studied under some of the best legal minds of the Renaissance in France. Part of that training involved the newer humanistic methods of trying to understand, which dealt with a text directly. His training was important for Calvin because, once convinced of Evangelicalism, he applied these methods to the Bible. He molded his thinking along biblical lines, and he labored to preach and teach what he believed the Bible taught.
While Reformers such as Jan Hus and Martin Luther may be seen as somewhat original thinkers that began a movement, Calvin was a great logician and systematizer of that movement, but not an innovator in doctrine. Calvin was very familiar with the writings of the early Church Fathers and the great Medieval schoolmen, and he was also in debt to earlier Reformers. Calvin did not reject the Scholastics of the Middle Ages outright but rather made use of them and reformed their thoughts in accordance with his understanding of the Bible.
Calvin is often associated with the doctrines of predestination and election, but he said pretty much the same things that the other magisterial Reformers said about these doctrines.
Calvin's power was very great in his last years. He was known all around the world as a reformer different from Martin Luther. Mainly, Luther and Calvin respected each other. However, Luther and a Zürich reformer Huldrych Zwingli thought differently about the eucharist. Calvin's thoughts about it made Luther believe that Calvin agreed with Zwingli. At the same time, Calvin was sad that the reformers were not all together. He tried to join them together by signing the "Consensus Tigurinus". This was an agreement between the Zürich and Geneva churches.
Calvin's greatest help to the English-speaking people was by giving Marian exiles in Geneva protection. He did this starting in 1555. With the city's protection, they could make their own reformed church under John Knox and William Whittingham. They later carried many of Calvin's ideas back to England and Scotland. However, Calvin was most interested in trying to change his homeland, France. He helped the building of churches by giving out literature and offering ministers. Between 1555 and 1562, over one hundred ministers were sent to France.
Inside Geneva, Calvin mainly wanted to make a "collège", a school for children. A place to build the school was picked on 25 March 1558. It was opened the next year on 5 June 1559. It was divided into two parts. One part was a grammar school. The grammar school was called the "collège" or "schola privata". The other part was an advanced school called the "académie" or "schola publica". In five years there were 1,200 students in the grammar school and 300 in the advanced school. The "collège" later became the Collège Calvin, one of the college preparatory schools of Geneva. The "académie" became the University of Geneva.
In autumn 1558, Calvin became ill with a fever. He was afraid he might die before finishing his last revision of the "Institutes". Because of this, he forced himself to work. The last edition became much longer, so Calvin called it a new work. It was 21 chapters in the edition before the last one. However, in the last one, it was 80. This was because of more detail in the material that was already there: more subjects were not really added. Soon after he became better, he strained his voice while preaching. This made him cough violently. He burst a blood-vessel in his lungs. His health became much worse after this. He preached his last sermon in St. Pierre on 6 February 1564. On 25 April, he made his will. In his will, he left a little money to his family and to the "collège". A few days later, the ministers of the church came to visit him. He said his last goodbye before dying of testicular cancer. This goodbye is recorded in "Discours d'adieu aux ministres". He remembered his life in Geneva. Calvin died on 27 May 1564. He was 54. On the next day, he was buried in an unmarked grave in the Cimetière de Plainpalais. People are not sure where the grave is exactly. However, a stone was added in the 19th century to mark a grave traditionally thought to be Calvin's.

</doc>
<doc id="55414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55414" title="Trebuchet">
Trebuchet

A Trebuchet was a device used in wars and sieges in the Middle Ages. It could be used to throw stones at ramparts, trying to break them down. It could also be used to throw things over the walls of a city. These could be corpses of animals or people that had died of the plague. Trebuchets were more accurate than other medieval catapults.
The trebuchet works in a simple way. The basket of the trebuchet is filled with heavy rocks. This acts as a counterweight for the other end, which is usually filled with one large rock. Several men arm the trebuchet by raising the counterweight up and the firing arm down. At this point the arm is released, the heavy basket swings down and the arm swings up, launching the rock far and fast.
The sling adds an additional 10-15 feet of arm length and gives the projectile a whip like speed then releases. The sling gives the projectile most of its speed.

</doc>
<doc id="55416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55416" title="Tarascon">
Tarascon

Tarascon, sometimes called Tarascon-sur-Rhône, is a city in the south of France. The city is about 20 km from either Arles or Avignon. The city was founded by the Romans in the year 48. Some people know the city from the book Tartarin de Tarascon by Alphonse Daudet. There is also a castle near the city. About 14.000 people lived in Tarascon in 2003. 

</doc>
<doc id="55419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55419" title="Kurdistan">
Kurdistan

Kurdistan is a mountainous area in the Middle East, that is mainly inhabited by Kurds.
The Kurdish people is estimated to be around 35-40 million people.
In Iranian Kurdistan, the cities of Piranshahr & Mahabad are the two main cities of Mokrian district.

</doc>
<doc id="55422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55422" title="Aigues-Mortes">
Aigues-Mortes

Aigues-Mortes (French for "dead waters") is a city in the south of France. It is in the Languedoc-Roussillon region. It was originally founded by the Romans in the year 102 BC. The first records mentioning it under its current name date from the 10th century. Louis IX of France rebuilt the port in the 13th century. It was the only French port of the Mediterranean at that time. The city is laid out as a bastide. It was the starting point for the Seventh Crusade (1248) and Eighth Crusade (1270). Due to changes of the coastline, the city is several miles from the sea. It is linked to the sea through a canal, nowadays. It has well-preserved city walls. In 1999, about 6.000 people lived there. Aigues-Mortes is about 35 km from Nîmes.

</doc>
<doc id="55426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55426" title="3 BC">
3 BC

Year 3 BC was a common year starting on Wednesday or Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lentulus and Messalla.

</doc>
<doc id="55427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55427" title="6 BC">
6 BC

Year 6 BC was a common year starting on Sunday or Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Balbus and Vetus.

</doc>
<doc id="55428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55428" title="Leopold II of Belgium">
Leopold II of Belgium

Leopold II (Léopold Louis Philippe Marie Victor) (9 April 1835 – 17 December 1909) was King of the Belgians. Born in Brussels the second (but oldest surviving) son of Leopold I and Louise of Orléans. He succeeded his father to the throne on 17 December 1865 and was king until his death.
Leopold is mainly remembered as the founder and sole owner of the Congo Free State. He lay claim to the Congo, an area now known as the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He treated the people badly in order to make money. His harsh rule was responsible for the death of between five to 15 million Congo people. The Congo became one of the most infamous international scandals of the early 20th century. Leopold was forced to give control of it to the government of Belgium.
Leopold II married Archduchess Marie Henriette of Austria, in Brussels on 22 August 1853.
On 15 November 1902, Italian anarchist Gennaro Rubino tried to assassinate Leopold. Rubino fired three shots at the King. The shots missed Leopold and Rubino was immediately arrested.
Leopold II had a wedding ceremony with Caroline Lacroix, a prostitute, on 14 December 1909, five days before his death. This was not legal under Belgian law.
He was succeeded as King of the Belgians by his nephew Albert, son of his brother Philippe.
 

</doc>
<doc id="55429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55429" title="George V of the United Kingdom">
George V of the United Kingdom

King George V (born George Frederick Ernest Albert; 18651936) was the first ruler of the United Kingdom with the family name Windsor.
King George V was born on June 3, 1865. He was the son of Edward VII. He was in the Royal Navy when he was twelve. He left the Royal Navy to become king. George V was crowned King and Emperor of India in the year 1911. King George was married to Princess Victoria Mary of Teck. George V was King during World War One. He and his wife visited the war front regulary. He changed the family name to “Windsor" to remove any association with a German heritage, as Germany was very unpopular at this time. Among other things, he is credited for starting the Royal Christmas Broadcast tradition. A renowed stamp collector, George was also the father of King Edward VIII and the famous King George VI. A popular monarch, many people thought he was a good King. He died January 20, 1936 aged seventy. He was king for twenty-five years, eight months, and fifteen days. He is the grandfather of current Queen- Elizabeth II. 
George was born on June 3 1865 as the second son to the Prince and princess of Wales (Later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra). George married his double second cousin once removed Mary of Teck (later Queen Mary) who they stayed married until his death. He was known as the Duke of York for many years until his grandmother, Victoria peacefully died at the age of 81. George's father Edward inherited the throne, gaining the nickname as Edward the peaceful for his hard work in maintaing stability at a time when festering tensions were increasing. His death was granted with huge sadness across the empire with George describing him as "my best friend". By the time George became King, Britain was the richest, most powerful nation in the world and throughout his reign the Empire expanded to its ever greatest extent.
George was quick to prove himself of being a decent and popular monarch. He became a symbol of British resistance during the First World War in which he,and his wife visited the war front regulary. However, at home his popularity was waining with even H.G Wells reffering to him as "an alien" because of his German background (his grandfather Prince Albert was German). Growing increasingly worried he changed the family name to “Windsor" to remove any association with a German heritage. He was seriously injured when thrown by his horse at a troop review in France.
As the war came to a close many world monarchy's were abolished or diminished, yet under the reign of George V the monarchy remained very much firmly established and as popular with the ordinary public as his late father. He worked hard as King, visitng many places and meeting many people, from world leaders to working class miners. The King also made friendly relations with socialist Labour party politicians and trade union members. The King, if anything was ahead of his ministers and understood the Empire better. He advised the government during the General Strike of 1926 not to take a hard line against the protestor stating "Try living on their wages before you judge them." Again, unlike most minister's George became concerned by the rise of Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. He warned that within ten years there would be yet another world war and told many to be suspicious of the Nazis. He was correct with war in fact breaking out just three years after his death.
Among other things, he is also credited for starting the Royal Christmas Broadcast tradition in 1932. His Silver Jubilee in 1935 was greeted with jubilations and was a very well loved king across all classes of society. Afterwards however his health suddenely declined. In was in these later years when George's relationship with his eldest son and heir, Edward, deteriorated. George was cross with Edward's failure to settle down in life and was angered and appalled by his many affairs with married women. Edward did not take royal duties seriously, and although quite popular preferred spening time partying and luxury- bringing him into direct conflict with George's sense of duty and hard work. George said of his son Edward: "After I am dead, the boy will ruin himself within 12 months", indeed he was correct as less than a year after taking the throne, Edward abdicated and caused the family great damage. George V was regarded as a very wise King with very good judgement. 
Seriously ill, on the evening of 15 January 1936, the King took to his bedroom at Sandringham House feeling unwell; he died on the 20th January. He was 70 years old. He lay in Westminster Hall before his state funeral. A night previous all his surviving sons mounted guard, known as the Vigil of the Princes as a mark of deep respect. Statues of King George V were erected across the world and 
has been portayed numerous time by actors.
It was not known until recently that he had been deliberately euthanized by his chief physician, Lord Dawson of Penn. Dawson issued a bulletin with words that became famous: "The King's life is moving peacefully towards its close". Dawson's private diary, unearthed after his death and made public in 1986, reveals that the King's last words, a mumbled "God damn you!", were addressed to his nurse when she gave him a sedative on the night of 20 January. Dawson wrote that he hastened the King's death by injecting him with a lethal combination of morphine and cocaine. Dawson noted that he acted to preserve the King's dignity, to prevent further strain on the family, and so that the King's death at 11:55 p.m. could be announced in the morning edition of "The Times" newspaper rather than "less appropriate ... evening journals".
This account, revealed in 1986, caused great astonishment. Euthanasia was completely illegal in Britain at the time of Dawson's action.
HM King George V had many titles from his birth to his death. His titles were:
He was also often reffered to as His Imperial Majesty The King within the British Empire
or His Most Gracious Majesty The King, although this was not his offical title. 

</doc>
<doc id="55430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55430" title="Candy">
Candy

Candy is a sweet kind of food that is usually made from sugar and water, with flavours and other ingredients added. 
The word "candy" comes from the Persian word for "cane sugar", and probably also from Sanskrit khanda, which means "piece (of sugar)".
Candy is found in almost any store because they are made in many companies. Candy can also be made at home. Many people like candy and think it tastes good. Other people do not like it. Candy contains lots of sugar, so it is not very healthy, but can be eaten sometimes. It is the most common snacking food, and there are hundreds of flavours, shapes, and sizes.

</doc>
<doc id="55431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55431" title="Loanword">
Loanword

A loanword is a word that is adopted by a language that comes from another language. An example is the word "jungle", which is a Hindi word that has been adopted into English.

</doc>
<doc id="55433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55433" title="Moray eel">
Moray eel

Moray eels is a family of eel. Sometimes they are also called by their Latin name Muraenidae. Moray eels can be found all over the world. There are 200 different species in 15 genera. 
Typically, moray eels grow to a length of about 1.5 metres. The largest known moray eel is the Slender giant moray, which can reach 4 metres in length. Moray eels live in coral reefs and rocky areas, at a depth of about 200m. 
These reefs are usually in tropical or subtropical waters. They spend most of their time inside deep cracks in rocks. they are very dangerous and have big teeth Morays are carnivores. They prey on other fish, cephalopods, mollusks, and crustaceans. Groupers, other moray eels, and Barracudas are amongst their predators.They have razor sharp teeth which can pierce your skin.

</doc>
<doc id="55434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55434" title="Anguilloidei">
Anguilloidei

The Anguilloidei are a sub-order of the order Anguilliformes (the eels) that contains 6 families:

</doc>
<doc id="55437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55437" title="Carcassonne">
Carcassonne

Carcassonne () is a fortified French town, in the "Aude département" in the "Languedoc". It is separated into the fortified "Cité de Carcassonne" and the more expansive lower city, the "ville basse".
This bastide, which was thoroughly restored from 1853 by the theorist and architect Eugène Viollet-le-Duc, was added to the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites in 1997.
Romans fortified the hilltop of Carcassonne around 100 BC and eventually made it the "colonia" of "Julia Carsaco", later "Carcasum". The main part of the lower courses of the northern ramparts dates from Gallo-Roman times.
In 462 the Romans officially left and the Visigothic king Theodoric II built more fortifications at Carcassonne, some of them still stand. In 760, Pippin was unable to take Carcassonne, although he was able to most of the south of France.
In 1067 Carcassonne became the property of Raimond Bernard Trencavel, viscount of Albi and Nîmes. Carcassonne became famous in its role in the Albigensian Crusades, when the city was a stronghold of occitan cathars. In August 1209 the crusading army of Simon de Montfort forced its citizens to surrender. He added to the fortifications. Carcassonne became a border citadel between France and Aragon.
The town is southeast of Toulouse in the gap between the Pyrenees and the Massif Central of France. Carcassonne is at the crossing of two major traffic routes: the route leading from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean and that from the Massif Central to Spain, skirting the Pyrenees. Both routes exist since ancient history.
The "commune" of Carcassonne has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is .
The "commune" of Carcassonne is surrounded by the "communes":
The fortifications consist of a double ring of ramparts and 53 towers. 1849 the architect Eugène Viollet-le-Duc took over restoration works.
At his death in 1879 his pupil Paul Boeswillwald, and later the architect Nodet continued the rehabilitation of Carcassonne. The restoration was strongly criticized during Viollet-le-Duc's lifetime because he made the error of using slates and restoring the roofs as pointed cones, where local practice was traditionally of tile roofing and low slopes, as in this region snow was very seldom. But today Viollet-le-Duc's work at Carcassonne is thought to be a work of genius, even if it is not exactly the same as it was.
, Carcassonne had 47,068 inhabitants for a density of persons/km.
The inhabitants of this city are known, in French, as "Carcassonnais" (women: "Carcassonnaises ").
A campus of the École nationale de l'aviation civile (French civil aviation academy) is in Carcassonne.
Carcassonne is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="55438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55438" title="Carcassonne (disambiguation)">
Carcassonne (disambiguation)

Carcassonne can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55439" title="Villeneuve-sur-Lot">
Villeneuve-sur-Lot

Villeneuve-sur-Lot (Gascon: "Vilanuèva d'Olt") is a town and commune in southwestern France, in the region of Aquitaine. It is a sub-prefecture of the Lot-et-Garonne department. The commune was formerly named "Villeneuve-d'Agen".
It is also the capital of 2 "cantons" in the department: Villeneuve-sur-Lot-Nord and Villeneuve-sur-Lot-Sud.
The region where the city is was first populated by the Romans. In the 11th century, a Benedictine abbey was constructed near where is the city now. There was a small village of potters and farmers around the abbey. Between 1254 and 1263, Alphonse of Poitiers had a bastide built. He also gave the bastide city rights. The bastide has a rectangular look, with a central square.
Because of its privileged geographical situation on the river lot, the city played an important role in wars of the region:
The "commune" has an area of , the largest in the department. Its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is .
Villeneuve-sur-Lot is surrounded by the "communes" Lédat, Castelnaud-de-Gratecambe, La Sauvetat-sur-Lède, Monflanquin, Savignac-sur-Leyze, Saint-Aubin, Trentels, Saint-Sylvestre-sur-Lot, Penne-d'Agenais, Hautefage-la-Tour, Pujols and Bias.
The Lot river flows through the city of Villeneuve-sur-Lot. The Lède river, a tributary of the Lot, flows through the northern part of the "commune".
With a population of 23,377, Villeneuve-sur-Lot has a population density of inhabitants/km.
The inhabitants of Villeneuve-sur-Lot are known, in French, as "Villeneuvois" (women: "Villeneuvoises").
Villeneuve-sur-Lot is a "sous-préfecture" in the Lot-et-Garonne department since 1800. It is also the capital of two "Cantons":
Villeneuve-sur-Lot is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="55443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55443" title="Agen">
Agen

Agen is a commune in southwestern France, in the region of Aquitaine. It is the prefecture of the Lot-et-Garonne department.
The "Agenais" is a natural region of the old province of Gascony, now in Aquitaine.
Agen is in the southeast of the Lot-et-Garonne department, on the right (eastern) side of the Garonne river and close to the Canal de Garonne. The city is at about from Toulouse and from Bordeaux.
Agen is surrounded by the "communes" Colayrac-Saint-Cirq, Foulayronnes, Pont-du-Casse, Bon-Encontre, Boé and Le Passage.
The climate of Agen is Marine West Coast Climate (Köppen climate classification "Cfb"), with mild winters and warm summers.
With a population of 33,730, Agen has a population density of inhabitants/km.
The inhabitants of Agen are known, in French, as "Agenais" (women: "Agenaises").
Agen is the "prefecture" of the Lot-et-Garonne department since 1790. It is also the capital of two "Cantons":
Agen is the "capital of the prune", a local produce sold as a sweet (stuffed with prune purée) or as an after-dinner delight (prunes soaked in Armagnac – a type of brandy). Every September, the Prune festival organizes rock concerts, circuses and prune tasting.
Agen is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="55444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55444" title="Libourne">
Libourne

Libourne (Gascon Liborna) is a commune in the Gironde department in Aquitaine in southwestern France. It is a sub-prefecture of the department.
It is the wine-making capital of northern Gironde and lies near Saint-Émilion and Pomerol, both known for their wines.
It was created as a bastide by Roger de Leybourne in 1270. The original name of "Leybourne" changed to the present "Libourne". Its original aim was to be a port to ship wine of the Dordogne valley to England.
Libourne is at the confluence of the Isle and Dordogne rivers. The city is at about from Bordeaux and from Arcachon.
It has an area of and its average altitude is ; at the city hall, the altitude is .
Libourne is surrounded by the "communes" Les Billaux, Lalande-de-Pomerol, Pomerol, Saint-Émilion, Moulon, Génissac, Arveyres, Fronsac and Saillans.
With a population of 23,736, Libourne has a population density of inhabitants/km.
The inhabitants of Libourne are known, in French, as "Libournais" (women: "Libournaises").
Libourne is a sub-prefecture of the Gironde department since 1790.
The "commune" is part of the canton Libournais-Fronsadais, formed with 24 "communes", including Libourne'.
Libourne is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="55446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55446" title="Mirepoix (Ariège)">
Mirepoix (Ariège)

Mirepoix is a city in the south of France. Today, about 3.000 people live there. It was founded as a bastide. Though it is not a bastide in the sense that it is a planned city. It was rebuilt following complete destruction after the local river overboarded. This reconstruction was done according to the 'bastide' idea. 

</doc>
<doc id="55450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55450" title="Kiss (album)">
Kiss (album)

Kiss is the self-titled first album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on February 8, 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="55452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55452" title="Hotter Than Hell">
Hotter Than Hell

Hotter Than Hell is the second album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on October 22, 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="55455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55455" title="Dressed to Kill">
Dressed to Kill

Dressed to Kill is the third studio album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on March 19, 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="55459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55459" title="Alive!">
Alive!

Alive is the fourth album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It is also their first live album. Released on September 10, 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="55460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55460" title="Destroyer (album)">
Destroyer (album)

Destroyer is the fourth studio album and fifth album overall by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on March 15, 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="55462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55462" title="12-hour clock">
12-hour clock

The 12-hour clock is a way of determining the time in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two sections called ante meridiem (a.m.) and post meridiem (p.m.). Both names are from Latin, and numbered from 12, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11. Time from midnight to noon is a.m. and from noon to midnight p.m. The table at right shows how it relates to the 24-hour clock. Most places in the world use a 12-hour clock for their normal working lives. However in Canada and the US their military uses the 24-hour system. 

</doc>
<doc id="55466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55466" title="Classic">
Classic

Classic could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471" title="Norfolk County Fair and Horse Show">
Norfolk County Fair and Horse Show

The Norfolk County Fair and Horse Show is an annual showcase of rides, country music, carnival food, expensive contraptions, and horses that takes place in Simcoe, Ontario, Canada. The fair has been held in Norfolk County since the 19th Century. Simcoe Composite School people enjoy the competitions and cheerleading that goes on in the grandstands.

</doc>
<doc id="55472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55472" title="Bootylicious">
Bootylicious

Bootylicious is a song sung by R&B girl group Destiny's Child. It is on their third album "Survivor" 2001 and was the second single from the album. It was their fourth U.S. number-one single and reached the top-five in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. The music video was directed by Matthew Rolston.
The word "bootylicious" is a combination of "booty" (buttocks) and "".

</doc>
<doc id="55475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55475" title="Rigor mortis">
Rigor mortis

Rigor mortis is a condition that affects a human body after death. Rigor mortis causes the muscles in the body to become rigid. It starts to happen three to four hours after death. Twelve hours after death, the muscles have become fully rigid. The condition usually lasts until 36 hours after death. At that time, the muscles start to relax.

</doc>
<doc id="55499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55499" title="Colosseum">
Colosseum

The Colosseum, originally known as the Flavian Amphitheatre, is a large amphitheatre in the city of Rome. The construction of the Colosseum started around 70–72 AD and was finished in 80 AD. Emperor Vespasian started the works, and Emperor Titus completed them. Emperor Domitian made some changes to the building between 81–96 AD. It had seating for 50,000 people. It was 156 metres wide, 189 metres long and 57 metres tall. It is the biggest amphitheatre built by the Roman Empire.
The Colosseum was first called the Flavian Amphitheatre or in Latin, the Amphitheatrum Flavium. This was after Vespasian and Titus who had the family name of "Flavius". It was used for gladiatorial contests, and other shows like "animal hunts", in which animals would hunt and eat prisoners; or in which gladiators would fight against animals. There were also executions of prisoners, plays, and battle scenes; sometimes it was filled with water to fight sea battles. The people of Rome could go into the Colosseum without any costs; it was free.
In the Middle Ages it was no longer used for performances. It was then used as housing, workshops, a Christian shrine, and as a supply of building stones.
It is now a ruin because of earthquakes. The Colosseum is a symbol of the Roman Empire. It is one of Rome's most popular tourist attractions. On Good Fridays, the Pope leads a torch lit "Way of the Cross" procession around the various levels of the amphitheatre.
The Colosseum appears on the Euro five cent coin.
The building of the Colosseum began under the rule of the Emperor Vespasian in around 70–72 AD. The area was flat, in a valley between the Caelian, Esquiline and Palatine Hills. There was a stream flowing through the valley, but this had been made into a canal. People had been living in this area for over 200 years, but the houses were destroyed in the Great Fire of Rome in 64 AD. The Emperor Nero took much of the land for his own use. He built a grand palace, the "Domus Aurea" which had a lake, gardens, paths covered with a roof held up by columns (porticoes), and large shelters (pavilions) to sit in. He had the "Aqua Claudia" aqueduct made longer to supply water to the area. There was also a big bronze statue of Nero, the Colossus of Nero, at the front of the Domus Aurea. In 68 AD, Nero lost control of the government. The Senate made him a public outlaw, and he killed himself soon after.
To celebrate the end of Nero's rule, the Emperor Vespasian built the Colosseum on the site of Nero's lake. This was seen as giving back the land to the people of Rome. The Roman's often built monuments to celebrate important events, and the Colosseum is a part of that tradition. 
Most of the Domus Aurea was torn down. The lake was filled in and the land used for the Colosseum. Schools for gladiators and other buildings were put up in the old gardens of the Domus Aurea. The Colossus was left in place, but Nero's head was replaced. Vespasian renamed it after the sun-god, Helios ("Colossus Solis"). Many historians say that the name of the Colosseum comes from the statue, the Colossus. Usually in Roman cities, the amphitheatres were built on the edge of the city. 
The Colosseum was built in the city centre; in effect, placing it in the real and symbolic heart of Rome.
The Colosseum had been completed up to the third story by the time of Vespasian's death in 79. The top level was finished and the building opened by his son, Titus, in 80. Cassius Dio said that over 9,000 wild animals were killed during the opening games. The building was changed by Vespasian's younger son, Emperor Domitian. He added the "hypogeum", underground tunnels used to hold the animals and slaves used in the games. He also added a fourth level at the top of the Colosseum to add more seats.
In 217, the Colosseum was badly damaged by fire. Cassius Dio said the fire was started by lightning. The fire destroyed the wooden upper levels inside the amphitheatre. It was not fully repaired until about 240 and underwent further repairs in 250 or 252 and again in 320. Theodosius II and Valentinian III (ruled 425–450), repaired damage caused by an earthquake in 443; more work followed in 484 and 508. The last record of gladiator fights is about 435, while animal hunts continued until at least 523.
The Colosseum went through big changes of use during the medieval period. At the end of the 500's, a small church had been built into a part of the building. The arena was used as a cemetery. The areas under the seating was used for houses and workshops. There are records of the space being rented as late as the 1100's. About 1200, the Frangipani family took over the Colosseum and made it into a castle. 
During the great earthquake in 1349, the outer south side fell down. Most of the fallen stones were used to build palaces, churches, hospitals and other buildings in Rome. In the middle of the 1300's, a religious group moved into the north part, and were still there in the 1800's. The inside of the Colosseum was used to supply building stones. The marble facade was burned to make quicklime. The bronze clamps which held the stonework together were ripped off the walls leaving marks that can still be seen today.
During the 16th and 17th century, Church officials looked for a use for the big and ruined building. Pope Sixtus V (1585–1590) wanted to turn the building into a wool factory to provide jobs for Rome's prostitutes, but he died and the idea given up. In 1671 Cardinal Altieri said it could be used for bullfights. Many people were upset by this idea, it was quickly dropped. 
In 1749, Pope Benedict XIV said that the Colosseum was a sacred place where early Christians had been martyred. He stopped people from taking any more building stones away. He set up the Stations of the Cross inside the building. He said the place was made sacred with the blood of the Christian martyrs who had died there. However there is no historical evidence that any Christians had been killed in the Colosseum. 
Later popes started projects to save the building from falling down. They took out the many plants which had overgrown the building and were causing more damage. The façade was made stronger with triangular brick wedges in 1807 and 1827. The inside was repaired in 1831, 1846 and in the 1930s. The underground area was partly dug out in 1810–1814 and 1874. This digging was finished by Benito Mussolini in the 1930s.
The Colosseum is a free standing building, quite different to the earlier Greek theatres which were built into the sides of hills. It is really two Roman theatres joined together. It is oval shaped, 189 meters (615 ft / 640 Roman feet) long, and 156 meters (510 ft / 528 Roman feet) wide. It covers an area of . The outer wall is 48 meters (157 ft / 165 Roman feet) high. The distance around the building was 545 meters (1,788 ft / 1,835 Roman feet). The arena is an oval long and wide, surrounded by a wall high. Around the arena were raised rows of seating. 
The outer wall was made from about of travertine stone. This was held together by 300 tons of iron clamps. There was no mortar used to hold the wall together. The outside wall has been badly damaged over the years. Large sections have fallen down after earthquakes. The north side of the outside wall is still standing. It has triangular brick wedges at each end, added in the early 1800's to hold up the wall. The rest of the outside wall that can be seen today, is in fact the original inside wall.

</doc>
<doc id="55502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55502" title="Amphitheatre">
Amphitheatre

An amphitheatre (or "amphitheater") is a type of structure. It is a flat area, surrounded by an area that ascends gradually. In the ascending area, people can be seated. Today, such structures are used for presentations, but also spectator sports. 
In Ancient Rome, these structures were used to entertain the population. Gladiator combats, athletics and executions were staged there.
A natural amphitheatre is a natural formation of rocks or cliffs, which resemble a man-made amphitheatre.

</doc>
<doc id="55504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504" title="Circus Maximus">
Circus Maximus

The Circus Maximus (translates to biggest round-course) is an ancient hippodrome in Rome. It was built by the Romans. It was used to stage horse races, but also other feasts. Today it is a park. 

</doc>
<doc id="55505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55505" title="Peter Maxwell Davies">
Peter Maxwell Davies

Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, CBE (8 September 1934 – 14 March 2016), was an English composer and conductor. He received many honours, including his appointment as Master of the Queen’s Music. His surname was "Davies"; "Maxwell" is his middle name, and his friends called him 'Max'.
Davies was born in Salford, Lancashire. He grew up in Lancashire. He learned to play the piano and started composing when he was still very young. After education at Leigh Grammar School, he studied at the University of Manchester and at the Royal Manchester College of Music (now part of the Royal Northern College of Music). He met other students there who became famous musicians: Harrison Birtwistle, Alexander Goehr, Elgar Howarth and John Ogdon. Together they formed a group which they called the “New Music Manchester”. This group performed a lot of contemporary music (music that was being composed at the time). After a short stay in Rome he got a job as Director of Music at Cirencester Grammar School from 1959 to 1962.
Davies wanted to study with other composers, so he went to the United States to study with Roger Sessions, Milton Babbitt and Earl Kim. Then he moved to Australia, where he was Composer in Residence at the University of Adelaide from 1965 to 1966. 
He then returned to the United Kingdom, and moved to the Orkney Islands. Davies, who was openly gay, lived there on the island of Sanday with his partner Colin Parkinson. In 1977 he started a big arts festival on Orkney, called the St Magnus Festival. This still takes place every year. He often uses it to give first performances of new works (often played by the local school orchestra).
Davies held several posts, including Artistic Director of the Dartington Summer School from 1979 to 1984. From 1992 to 2002 he was associate conductor/composer with the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra and he has conducted a number of other well-known orchestras.
He was given several honorary doctorates including one from the University of Oxford. He has been President of Making Music (The National Federation of Music Societies) since 1989. Davies was made a CBE in 1981 and knighted in 1987. He was appointed Master of the Queen's Music for a ten-year period from March 2004. He was also a professor of composition at the Royal Academy of Music.
Davies wrote a lot of music. Some of his first works used serial techniques, sometimes combined with ideas from Mediaeval and Renaissance music, including bits of plainsong.
Pieces from the late 1960s combine these ideas with expressionism and a violent character, for example "Eight Songs for a Mad King" which is about King George III. Written for a singer and a small group of instruments the singer has to shout and screech at times, and also act. He wrote an opera "Taverner" about the Renaissance composer John Taverner. The orchestral piece "St Thomas Wake" (1969) uses many different styles of music, including foxtrots (played by a twenties-style dance band), a pavan by John Bull and Davies's own modern style. Many works from this period were performed by the Pierrot Players which Davies founded with Harrison Birtwistle in 1967 (they were reformed as The Fires of London in 1970 and stayed together until 1987).
Mathematics played a part in Davies’ music. In his work "Ave Maris Stella" he used a magic square. "Worldes Blis" 1969 shows the beginning of his more mature style. Some people think it is similar to Jean Sibelius. 
After his move to Orkney, Davies often used Orcadian (the adjective of “Orkney”) or more generally Scottish themes in his music. He sometimes set the words of Orcadian writer George Mackay Brown. He wrote a number of other operas, "The Martyrdom of St Magnus" (1976), "The Lighthouse" (1980, his most popular opera), "Resurrection" (1987), and "The Doctor of Myddfai" (1996). Davies also became interested in classical forms, completing his first symphony in 1976. He wrote eight numbered symphonies since, a Sinfonia Concertante (1982), as well as the series of ten "Strathclyde Concertos" for various instruments (pieces he wrote when he worked with the Scottish Chamber Orchestra). In 2002, he began work on a series of string quartets for the Maggini String Quartet to record on the Naxos record label (the so-called "Naxos Quartets"). His most recent one is No.9 (2006).
Davies also wrote a number of lighter orchestral works such as "Mavis in Las Vegas" and "An Orkney Wedding, with Sunrise" which featured the bagpipes and was played at the Last Night of the Proms in 1992 (with a bottle of whisky being passed round). He also wrote music for children including the operas "A Selkie Tale", "The Great Bank Robbery" and "The Spider's Revenge", and film music for Ken Russell's films "The Devils" and "The Boy Friend".
Maxwell Davies's short piano piece "Farewell to Stromness" entered the Classic FM Hall of Fame in 2003.
Davies died on 14 March 2016 on Orkney from leukemia. He was aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="55506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55506" title="Take That">
Take That

Take That are an English boy band from Manchester. They formed in 1990, and between then and 1996, when they broke up, they sold 19 million records. 
They reformed in 2006 and went on tour, without Robbie Williams. Williams rejoined the band in 2010. However, Williams left the band for a second time in 2012 during the band's time off.
Jason Orange left Take That in September 2014 and Take That became a 3 piece band. Take That released their seventh album called III in 2014.
Current
Former
Gary Barlow, Howard Donald, Mark Owen, Jason Orange and Robbie Williams were in Take That. Williams left in 1995 after taking drugs and soon the 4 remaining members split up in 1996. Take That returned to the music buissness in 2005, released their come-back album called Beautiful World and then went on tour in 2006. 2010 saw the return of Williams and in 2011 Take That took a hiatus and Barlow become a judge on the British TV talent show "The X Factor UK" in that year. Donald then became a judge on the German version of the dancing talent show "Got To Dance" in 2013. Williams left the band in 2012. Barlow ended his time on The X Factor UK to focus on the group in 2013. In early 2014 it was announced that the band would release their seventh studio album in late 2014. In September 2014 it was announced that Orange had decided to leave the band. The group then became a 3-piece boy band without Orange or Williams. Their seventh studio album called III was released in 2014. Their first single of III called "These Days" was released in November 2014. The second single of III called "Get Ready For It" was released in January 2015 and was also featured in the 2015 film "". The third single of III called "Let in the Sun" will be released in March 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="55518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55518" title="Ambulance">
Ambulance

An ambulance is a type of vehicle made to carry sick or injured people. Normally, ambulances go to people in emergencies to take people to hospital. Examples of emergencies include serious bleeding and broken bones, chest pain, serious head injuries, trouble breathing, and people injured in situations like car crashes and falls.
The first ambulances were military horse-drawn carts which were used to carry badly wounded soldiers to field hospitals after a battle. Horse-drawn ambulances became commonplace in Europe during the era of Industrialization and as hospitals became common. Automobiles replaced horses in the early 1900s. Today all ambulances are vans which are converted into small mobile clinics. They can provide first aid, emergency care, various medicines and life support gear, and carry patients to hospital.
Ambulances normally have emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and paramedics who work on them. They are highly trained to provide emergency care and treatment before reaching a hospital. Treating someone with a medical emergency is called first aid.
They carry a lot of special equipment that can keep people alive. The ambulance carries lots of first aid supplies for bleeding, broken bones, car crashes, burns, heart and breathing problems and lots of other medical emergencies. They also carry advanced tools for delivering babies in an emergency and restarting a heart. 
Ambulances are normally called by dialing a special emergency number, which is different from country to country. In the UK, this number is 999; USA 911; Europe 112.
Ambulances are sent out by emergency medical dispatchers.
Air ambulances have been important for the last twenty years, with quick, or out-of-town medical support becoming a necessity. Both helicopters and jets are generally outfitted with the same kind equipment that you see in a typical ground ambulance. In the United States, the Coast Guard runs a public air ambulance service using helicopters. There are also privately owned air ambulance services that provide for a wider range of needs, including international transport.
Air ambulances are especially important in countries which are sparsely populated (= there are very few people living in a vast area), such as Canada, Russia, midwest USA, Sweden or Finland. They can often save a life of a patient who would otherwise die because he could not be carried fast enough to hospital by other means.

</doc>
<doc id="55520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55520" title="Gan language">
Gan language

Gan is the language of Jiangxi and some others provinces in China.
It is spoken by 20 to 50 million people in southern China.
Gan has 9 dialects, and Nangchang dialect is representative.

</doc>
<doc id="55521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55521" title="Rock and Roll Over">
Rock and Roll Over

Rock and Roll Over is the fifth studio album and sixth album overall by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on November 11, 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="55523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55523" title="Love Gun">
Love Gun

Love Gun is the sixth studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on June 30, 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="55524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55524" title="Alive II">
Alive II

Alive II is the second live album and eighth album overall by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on November 28, 1977. The last five songs are exclusive to (only on) this album.

</doc>
<doc id="55534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55534" title="Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor">
Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor

Henry IV (1050–1106) was King of Germany from 1056 and Holy Roman Emperor from 1084, till he was forced to step down in 1105. He was the third emperor of the Salian dynasty and one of the most interesting and important figures of the eleventh century. His reign was marked by the Investiture Controversy with the Papacy and several civil wars with pretenders to his throne in Italy and Germany. 
Henry was the eldest son of the Emperor Henry III, by his second wife Agnes de Poitou, and was probably born at the royal palace at Goslar. When Henry III unexpectedly died in 1056, the six-year-old Henry IV became king without problems. The Empress Agnes acted as regent, and the German pope Victor II was named as her counsellor.
Unlike Henry III, Agnes could not influence the election of the new popes, Stephen IX and Nicholas II. These popes worked together with the Normans of southern Italy.
But the first great problem started when Nicholas claimed influence in the election of Germany.
Gregory VII, a reformist monk, was elected as pope in 1073. This is when the controversy between emperor and pope began.
In the higher ranks of the German clergy, Gregory had many enemies. Therefore King Henry declared Gregory was no longer pope, and the Romans should choose a new pope. When Gregory heard of this he
excommunicated Henry IV, declared he was no longer emperor and canceled the oaths the people had sworn to King Henry. 
The excommunication of the king made a deep impression both in Germany and Italy. Thirty years before, Henry III had three popes, but when Henry IV tried to copy this procedure, he did not have the support of the people. The Saxons began a second rebellion, and the anti-royalist party grew in strength.
The situation now became extremely critical for Henry. It became clear that at any price he had to get his absolution from Gregory. At first he tried this by an embassy, but when Gregory rejected this, he went to Italy in person. 
The pope had already left Rome. Henry tried to force the pope to grant him absolution by doing penance before him at Canossa, where Gregory stayed. For a Christian it seemed impossible to deny a penitent re-entrance into the church, and therefore Gregory removed the ban. But a new conflict followed because Henry IV thought the end of excommunication meant he was king again. But Gregory did not decide that.
The rebellious German nobles used the excommunication of Henry to set up a rival king, Duke Rudolph of Swabia (Forchheim, March 1077). At first Gregory seemed to be neutral because the two parties (emperor and rebels) were of fairly equal strength. But finally he decided to support Rudolph of Swabia after his victory at "Flarchheim" (January 27, 1080) and declared the excommunication and deposition of King Henry again (March 7, 1080). 
This was widely felt to be an injustice. When Rudolph of Swabia died on October 16 of the same year, Henry began to fight to be king. In 1081 he opened the conflict against Gregory in Italy. Gregory had now become less powerful, and thirteen Cardinals stopped supporting him. Rome surrendered to the German king, and Guibert of Ravenna was enthroned as Clement III (March 24, 1084). Henry was crowned emperor by his rival, while Gregory himself had to flee from Rome in the company of his Norman "vassal," Robert Guiscard.
Henry's wife Bertha died on December 27, 1087. She was also buried at the Speyer Cathedral. Their children were:

</doc>
<doc id="55537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55537" title="Gene Simmons (album)">
Gene Simmons (album)

Gene Simmons is a solo album by Gene Simmons, the bass player of the American hard rock/heavy metal band, Kiss. It was released on September 18, 1978, as one of four solo albums released by the members of Kiss.

</doc>
<doc id="55540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55540" title="Paul Stanley (album)">
Paul Stanley (album)

Paul Stanley is a solo album from the guitarist of the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 18, 1978, as one of four solo albums released by the members of Kiss.

</doc>
<doc id="55541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55541" title="Ace Frehley (album)">
Ace Frehley (album)

Ace Frehley is the first solo album from Ace Frehley, the guitarist of the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 18, 1978, as one of four solo albums released by the members of Kiss. The album was rated 4 out of 5 stars by AllMusic. They said "Of the four Kiss solo albums released simultaneously in 1978, the best of the bunch is guitarist Ace Frehley's".

</doc>
<doc id="55542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55542" title="Tristan und Isolde">
Tristan und Isolde

Tristan und Isolde ("Tristan and Isolde") is an opera in three acts by Richard Wagner. As always, Wagner wrote the words for the opera himself. He took the famous old legend which had been told by the German poet Gottfried von Strassburg 
Wagner composed the opera between 1857 and 1859. It was first performed, with Hans von Bülow conducting, in Munich on 10 June 1865. Many musicians think it is the greatest opera of the 19th century. Wagner’s dramatic handling of the story had enormous influence on many composers of the time. His harmonies were also an extremely important development in the language of Romantic music. Not everybody liked it. In particular, the music critic Eduard Hanslick said that he could not understand it.
The story of Tristan and Isolde was one of the great romances of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. Several poets told the story, and each told it slightly differently. The themes of chivalry and courtly love are always there. 
Isolde, an Irish princess, and her maid, Brangaene are on Tristan’s ship, being taken to King Marke’s lands in Cornwall where Isolde is to be married to the King. The opera opens with a young sailor singing about a “wild Irish maid”. Isolde thinks he is singing about her. She is furious and wishes the sea would rise up and sink the ship, killing all on board. She is particularly furious with Tristan, the knight who is taking her to the king. She asks her maid to get Tristan, but he will not come because his is steering the ship. His henchman, Kurwenal, speaks crossly to Brangaene, reminding her that Isolde’s previous fiancé, Morold, had been killed by Tristan and his head sent back to Ireland.
Brangaene returns to Isolde to tell her about what was said. Isolde sadly tells her how, after Morold had died, a man called Tantris had been brought to her because he was seriously injured, and that she had made him better using her powers of healing. However, she then found out that his real name was Tristan. He was Ireland’s worst enemy, and he was the man who had killed Morold. Isolde had tried to kill him with a sword, but when Tristan had looked into her eyes her heart had become full of love and she had dropped the sword. Tristan had been allowed to go back to Cornwall. However, it seemed now he had told his uncle, King Marke, all about the beautiful Isolde and had come to get her so that his uncle could marry her. Brangaene tries to make Isolde see that Tristan is doing an honourable thing to make her Queen of Ireland, but Isolde will not listen. She is furious, and wants him to drink a potion which had been intended by her mother for King Marke and Isolde as a love potion, but for Tristan it would be death. 
Kurwenal now appears and says that Tristan has agreed after all to see Isolde. When he arrives, Isolde tells him that she now knows that he was Tantris, and that he owes her his life. Tristan agrees to drink the potion, now prepared by Brangaene, even though he knows it may kill him. As he drinks, Isolde snatches the rest of the potion from him and drinks it herself. They both believe they are about to die, and they declare their love for one other. Kurwenal comes and says that King Marke is arriving. Isolde asks Brangaene which potion she prepared and is told that it was not the death poison, but a love-potion. Outside, the sailors welcome the arrival of King Marke.
A group are hunting at night. King Marke’s castle is empty except for Isolde and Brangaene who stand by a lighted torch. Isolde keeps thinking that the hunting horns are far enough away for her to put out the flames, giving the sign for Tristan to join her. Brangaene warns Isolde that one of King Marke’s knights, Melot, has seen Tristan and Isolde looking at one another lovingly. Isolde, however, thinks that Melot is Tristan’s best friend, and, desperate to see Tristan, she puts out the flames. Brangaene goes to the castle walls to keep a look-out as Tristan arrives.
Tristan and Isolde can now tell one another they are madly in love. They do not notice the night is ending, and Melot leads Marke to find the two lovers in one another’s arms. Marke is desperately sad because Tristan has been betrayed and also because he himself had come to love Isolde. 
Tristan now asks Isolde if she will follow him again into the night, and she agrees. Melot and Tristan fight, but then Tristan throws his sword to the side and is seriously wounded by Melot.
Kurwenal has brought Tristan home to his castle at Kareol in Brittany. A shepherd plays a sad tune on his pipes and asks if Tristan is awake. Kurwenal says that only Isolde’s arrival can save Tristan. The shepherd says he will keep watch and pipe a happy tune to mark the arrival of any ship. Tristan now wakes up and is sad that it is daylight. His sadness turns to joy when Kurwenal tells him that Isolde is coming. He asks if her ship is in sight, but only the shepherd’s sorrowful tune is heard. 
Tristan sinks back again. He remembers that the shepherd’s tune is the one he had heard when his father and then his mother died. He collapses. The shepherd now pipes the arrival of Isolde’s ship, and as Kurwenal rushes to meet her, Tristan in his excitement tears the bandages from his wounds. As Isolde arrives at his side, Tristan dies while speaking her name. 
Isolde collapses beside him as the appearance of another ship is announced. Kurwenal sees Melot, Marke and Brangaene arrive and furiously attacks Melot because he had killed Tristan. In the fight both Melot and Kurwenal are killed. Marke and Brangaene finally reach Tristan and Isolde. Marke is terribly sad. He explains that he has heard about the love-potion from Brangaene and he had come because he had decided that Tristan and Isolde should be united. Isolde seems to wake but, in a last aria describing her vision of Tristan risen again (the “Liebestod”), dies of grief.
The very first chord in the piece is very famous. It has become known as the "Tristan chord". Although it had been used before, the way Wagner used it here was quite new. It makes the harmony very hazy, and the listener does not know for many bars what key the music is in. It creates a lot of tension. There are many other moments like this in the opera. The tension goes right through the opera. The story tells of a tension that can only come to rest through death.
The Prelude and Liebestod is a concert version of the overture and Isolde's Act 3 aria, arranged by Wagner, which was first performed in 1862, before the first performance of the opera itself in 1865. The Liebestod can be performed either in a purely orchestral version, or with a soprano singing Isolde's vision of Tristan brought back to life.

</doc>
<doc id="55543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55543" title="Peter Criss (album)">
Peter Criss (album)

Peter Criss is a solo album from the drummer of the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 18, 1978, as one of four solo albums released by the members of Kiss.

</doc>
<doc id="55560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55560" title="Pop Rocks">
Pop Rocks

Pop Rocks are a kind of candy with carbonation added to make a "popping" feeling in the mouth of the person eating them.

</doc>
<doc id="55561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55561" title="Dynasty (album)">
Dynasty (album)

Dynasty is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on May 23, 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="55562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55562" title="Master of the Queen's Music">
Master of the Queen's Music

Master of the Queen's Music (or Master of the King's Music when the United Kingdom has a king) is the title given to one chosen composer of classical music; it is a post in the Royal Household of the King or Queen of the United Kingdom. Only one person holds the title at any one time. It is very similar to the post of Poet Laureate which is for a poet.
The Master of the Queen's Music is now Sir Peter Maxwell Davies. Instead of being appointed for life, he was appointed for a ten-year term, starting March 2004. The change was to give more composers the opportunity to serve.
The Master of the Queen's Music has the job of composing music for special royal occasions such as anniversaries, marriages and funerals, and for special ceremonies.
The title was created in 1626 by Charles I. It was spelt Master of the King's Musick and was always spelt that way until the time of Sir Edward Elgar who was Master from 1924 to 1934.
Holders of the post have been:

</doc>
<doc id="55565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55565" title="Unmasked">
Unmasked

Unmasked is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on May 20, 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="55567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55567" title="Music from &quot;The Elder&quot;">
Music from &quot;The Elder&quot;

Music from "The Elder" is a concept album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on November 10, 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="55572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55572" title="Cross-platform">
Cross-platform

Cross-platform software is a type of software that can run on many different operating systems or computer architectures. Together, the combination of an operating system and computer architecture is commonly referred to as a "platform".

</doc>
<doc id="55576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55576" title="Investiture Controversy">
Investiture Controversy

The Investiture Controversy, also known as the lay investiture controversy, was the most important conflict between secular and religious powers in medieval Europe. It began as a dispute in the 11th century between the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV and Pope Gregory VII. The question was who would control appointments of bishops (investiture). 
The controversy led to nearly fifty years of civil war in Germany. This war ended with the triumph of the great dukes and abbots, and the falling apart of the German empire in the end. 
When Gregory VII, a reformist monk, was elected as pope in 1073, the controversy between emperor and pope began.
In the higher ranks of the German clergy, Gregory had many enemies. Therefore King Henry declared Gregory was no longer pope and the Romans should choose a new pope . When Gregory heard of this he
excommunicated Henry IV, declared he was no longer emperor and absolved his subjects from the oaths they had sworn to him. 
The excommunication of the king made a deep impression both in Germany and Italy. Thirty years before, Henry III had three popes, but when Henry IV tried to copy this procedure he did not have the support of the people. The Saxons began a second rebellion, and the anti-royalist party grew in strength from month to month.
The situation now became extremely critical for Henry. It became clear that at any price he had to get his absolution from Gregory. At first he tried this by an embassy, but when Gregory rejected this, he went to Italy in person. 
The pope had already left Rome. Henry tried to force the pope to grant him forgiveness by doing penance before him at Canossa, where Gregory stayed. For a Christian it seemed impossible to deny a penitent re-entrance into the church, and therefore Gregory removed the ban. But a new conflict followed because Henry IV thought the end of excommunication meant he was king again. But Gregory did not decide that.
The opposition of the rebellious German nobles used the excommunication of Henry to set up a rival king Duke Rudolph of Swabia (Forchheim, March 1077). At first Gregory seemed to be neutral because the two parties (emperor and rebels) were of fairly equal strength. But finally he decided for Rudolph of Swabia after his victory at "Flarchheim" (27 January 1080) and declared the excommunication and deposition of King Henry again (7 March 1080). 
This was widely felt to be an injustice. When Rudolph of Swabia died on 16 October of the same year, Henry, now more experienced, took up the struggle. In 1081 he opened the conflict against Gregory in Italy. Gregory had now become less powerful, and thirteen cardinals deserted him. Rome surrendered to the German king, and Guibert of Ravenna enthroned as Clement III (24 March 1084). Henry was crowned emperor by his rival, while Gregory himself had to flee from Rome in the company of his Norman "vassal," Robert Guiscard.

</doc>
<doc id="55578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55578" title="Palm">
Palm

The word palm can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55579" title="Cycas">
Cycas

Cycas is a genus of plants. It is the only genus currently known in the Cycadaceae family. About 95 species are currently known. 
Probably the best-known of these is marketed as Sago Palm or King Sago Palm. The plant is not a true palm, however. The generic name comes from Greek "kykas" and means "palm tree".
The genus is native to the Old World, with most species around the equatorial regions. It is native to eastern and southeastern Asia including the Philippines with 6 species (4 of which are endemic), eastern Africa (including Madagascar), northern Australia, Polynesia, and Micronesia. Australia has 26 species, while the Indo-Chinese area has about 30. The northernmost species ("C. revoluta") is found at 31°N in southern Japan. The southernmost ("C. megacarpa") is found at 26°S in southeast Queensland, Australia.
The plants have often been considered to be a living fossil. The earliest fossils of the genus "Cycas" appear in the Cainozoic, but "Cycas"-like fossils occur well into the Mesozoic. "Cycas" is not closely related to other genera of cycads. Phylogenetic studies have shown that Cycadaceae is the sister-group to all other extant cycads.

</doc>
<doc id="55581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55581" title="Heliconia">
Heliconia

Heliconia is a genus of flowering plants. They are native tropical South America, as well as the Pacific Ocean Islands west to Indonesia. There are between 100 and 200 species in the genus. Other common names include lobster-claw, wild plantain and false bird-of-paradise. 
The plants have very decorative flowers. For this reason they are often sold decorative plants.

</doc>
<doc id="55597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55597" title="Screenplay">
Screenplay

A screenplay or script is the written instruction about what happens in a play, movie or television program. The screenplay for a movie has everything that happens in the movie. It includes the plot, the dialogue and actions of the characters, and instructions for editing. The person who writes the screenplay is called a screenwriter. A screenplay for television is called a teleplay. The script is usually slightly changed or things will be added or subtracted as the directors decide. 

</doc>
<doc id="55607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55607" title="Pope Gregory VII">
Pope Gregory VII

Pope Gregory VII (; 1020–May 25, 1085), born Hildebrand (Italian: "Ildebrando di Soana"), was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 158th Pope from April 22, 1073 until he died in 1085.
Hildebrand was born in Sovana in Tuscany. As a youth, he became a Benedictine monk. 
In Rome, Hildebrand became the chaplain of Pope Gregory VI. When Gregory VI abdicated and went into in exile in Germany, Hildebrand went with him.
Pope Leo IX raised Hildebrand to the rank of Cardinal in 1049.
Cardinal Hildebrand was elected pope on April 22, 1073; and he chose to be called Gregory. 
Pope Gregory was involved in Italian and European political disputes.
Pope Gregory died an exile in Salerno. His last words were: "I have loved justice and hated iniquity; therefore, I [now] die in exile." (""Dilexi iustitiam et odivi iniquitatem propterea morior in exilio"").. 
Gregory was recognized as a saint in 1728..

</doc>
<doc id="55608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55608" title="Excommunication">
Excommunication

Excommunication is a religious act used to take off or suspend membership in a religious community. 
The word literally means "out of communion", or "no longer in communion". In some churches, excommunication includes the belief that the person who was exocommunicated is going to Hell. Sometimes punishment "follow" excommunication; these include being banned, shunning, and shaming, depending on the group's religion or religious community. 

</doc>
<doc id="55610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55610" title="Helen Clark">
Helen Clark

Helen Elizabeth Clark (born February 26, 1950) was the Prime Minister of New Zealand from December 1999 to November 2008. She is now the head of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). In 2006, she was ranked by "Forbes" magazine as the 20th most powerful woman in the world.
Clark is a member of the of Global Commission for the Economy and Climate.
Clark grew up the eldest of four daughters from a Waikato farming family. Her mother, Margaret, worked as a primary school teacher and her father, George, was a farmer who supported the National Party during the 1981 election.
Clark studied at the University of Auckland, where she graduated with a MA (Honours) in 1974. Her thesis research focused on rural political behaviour and representation.

</doc>
<doc id="55614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55614" title="Scalable Vector Graphics">
Scalable Vector Graphics

Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) are a type of two dimensional picture that work on vectors, rather than pixels. This means that they can be easily be made bigger or smaller without losing any quality or becoming blurry. SVG is based on XML and created by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).
The W3C published SVG in September 2001. Most browsers can show these graphics but Internet Explorer cannot. It needs a plugin to show them.
The normal Filename extension is ".svg" and the MIME-Type is codice_1.
SVG uses Extensible Markup Language (XML). So it has a definition of the document type.
This image shows the difference between bitmap and vector
images. The vector image can be scaled forever, while the bitmap can not.

</doc>
<doc id="55616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55616" title="Creatures of the Night">
Creatures of the Night

Creatures of the Night is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on October 13, 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="55626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55626" title="Full communion">
Full communion

Full communion is a term used in Christian ecclesiology to describe relations between two distinct Christian communities or Churches that recognise that each other shares the same communion and the same essential doctrines. That does not mean that there would be no differences at all between them. 
The meaning of full communion is different in, on the one hand, Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christian theology, and, on the other hand, in the theology of other Western Christians. 

</doc>
<doc id="55632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55632" title="Queue">
Queue

A queue is a line of people standing behind one another who are waiting for something. The person at the front of the queue will have his turn next, then the next person and so on. When someone comes to join the queue they have to go to the back of the queue and wait until it is their turn. Sometimes people try to "jump the queue" or "push in". They are usually told off and have to go to the back of the queue.
The word "queue" comes from the French word for "tail", but when talking about a queue of people in English it is pronounced "kyoo" (like "Kew" in "Kew Gardens"). The word "queue" can be a noun ("Please stand in the queue") or a verb ("Please queue over there").
A queue may also be a queue of vehicles waiting to get passed something or to go in somewhere.
People may queue to be served in a shop, or queue for a bus or taxi or to go into something like a museum. Queueing is much better than pushing one's way in.
Sometimes, in places where a lot of people are queueing, there may be a system of numbered tickets. When someone arrives, they take a number and wait until their number is shown on a display board. This system is often used in banks, doctor's surgeries, passport offices, etc.
People waiting in a queue are not always standing around. There may be people who, for example, are waiting to have an operation, but they have to wait "in a queue" until one day they receive a letter from the hospital telling them when to come in for their operation.
Russians often make jokes about queues because, in the days of the Soviet Union, there was not much in the shops. When a shop had a delivery there would suddenly be a long queue of people. People joined a queue even if they did not know what the queue was for. If they bought something they did not want they could always sell it.
Perhaps the most famous queue in Britain is the queue for promenade tickets (standing places) at the BBC Proms. People enjoy chatting to one another in the queue. The people who are at the front of the queue can have the first choice of where to stand for the concert. The word queue does not have any word families, however, it has many synonyms. Some of these are: Chain, line, row, and series. It only has two antonyms, and they are disorder and disorganized.

</doc>
<doc id="55636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55636" title="Ecclesiology">
Ecclesiology

In Christian theology, ecclesiology is the study of doctrine about the Church itself as a community and about the churches own view of its mission and role.
That means that ecclesiology looks at the role of the church in salvation, at its origin, its relationship to the historical Christ, its discipline, its destiny (see Eschatology) and its leadership. 
In addition to describing a broad discipline of theology, ecclesiology may be used in the specific sense of a particular church or denomination’s character, self-described or otherwise. This is the sense of the word in such phrases as "Roman Catholic ecclesiology", "Lutheran ecclesiology", and "ecumenical ecclesiology". 
Ecclesiology asks the questions:

</doc>
<doc id="55638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55638" title="Ecclesia (Church)">
Ecclesia (Church)

Ecclesia (or Ekklesia) in Christian theology means both: a particular body of faithful people, and the whole body of the faithful. Latin "ecclesia", from Greek "ekklesia" had an original meaning of "assembly, congregation, council", literally "convocation".
If one speaks of the whole body of Christian faithful, then there are included not only the members of the Church who are alive on earth but all who were members of the church before. Some churches therefore describe the Church as being composed of the "Church Militant" (Christians on Earth) and the "Church Triumphant" (Christians in Heaven). In Catholic theology, there is also the "Church Suffering" (Christians still in purgatory).
The Christian family, the most basic unit of Church life, is sometimes called the domestic Church
Finally, 'The Church' may sometimes be used, especially in Catholic theology, to speak of those who exercise the office of teaching and ruling the faithful, the "Ecclesia Docens", or again (more rarely) the governed as distinguished from their pastors, the "Ecclesia Discens".

</doc>
<doc id="55639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55639" title="Communion (Christian)">
Communion (Christian)

The term Communion comes from Latin "communio" (sharing in common). The corresponding term in Greek is κοινωνία, which is often translated as "fellowship".
In Christianity, the basic meaning of the term "communion" is an especially close relationship of Christians, as individuals or as a Church, with God and with other Christians.
But the term is also used of a group of Christian Churches that have this close relationship of communion with each other. An example is the Anglican Communion.
If the relationship between the Churches is complete, involving fulness of "those bonds of communion - faith, sacraments and pastoral governance - that permit the Faithful to receive the life of grace within the Church", it is called full communion. But the term "full communion" is often used as well in that sense that these Christian Churches are not united, but have only an arrangement where members of each Church have certain rights within the other.
If a Church recognizes that another Church, with which it lacks bonds of pastoral governance, shares with it some of the beliefs and essential practices of Christianity, it may speak of "partial communion" between it and the other Church.
The communion of saints is the relationship that, according to the belief of Christians, exists between them as people made holy by their link with Christ. This relationship is generally understood to mean not only those still in earthly life, but also to those who have gone past death to be "at home with the Lord" (2 Corinthians 5:8).
In a special way the term "communion" is applied to sharing in the Eucharist.
In the Bible, the Greek term "κοινωνία" is only used in the New Testament. It does not appear at all in the ancient Greek translation of the Old Testament known as the Septuagint. As a noun, or in its adjectival or verbal forms, it is found in 43 verses of the New Testament. In addition, the noun is found in some manuscripts (used for producing the English translation known as the King James Version, but not for more recent translations) in Ephesians 3:9.
The word is applied, according to the context, to communion, sharing or fellowship with:

</doc>
<doc id="55646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55646" title="Renewable resource">
Renewable resource

A renewable resource is a resource which can be used repeatedly because it is replaced naturally. Examples are: oxygen, fresh water, solar energy, timber, and biomass. Renewable resources may include goods or commodities such as wood, paper and leather, because their sources are renewable. 
Gasoline, coal, natural gas, diesel, plastics and other things that come from fossil fuels are not renewable. They take millions of years to be made, and cannot be renewed in our lifetime or even a nation's lifetime (they are called fossil fuels because they are as old as fossils). Ways have been developed to make biodegradable plastic and biodiesel and other fuels from renewable resources such as corn, sugar cane, soybeans and canola. 
A problem with fossil fuels is the pollution and global warming gases they produce. Renewable resources are usually much cleaner. But they can also cost more. New technology for renewable resources is helping to make them cheaper. And now even fossil fuels are becoming harder to find and more expensive. This combination means that renewable resources are making more sense than ever, and this is a growing field. From 2008 to 2012, the U.S. doubled renewable generation from wind, solar, and geothermal sources, and America is now home to some of the largest wind and solar farms in the world.
Solar power is the technology of obtaining usable energy from the light of the sun. Solar energy has come into use where other power supplies are absent, such as in places off from the national electrical grid and in space.
Solar energy is currently used in a number of applications:
Wind power is using the energy of wind to do something useful. Wind has been used since ancient times to move ships, and for hundreds of years to pump water or grind corn and grain into flour, now it is usually changed into electricity using wind turbines.
In 2008, worldwide wind farm capacity was 100,000 megawatts (MW), and wind power produced 1.3% of all the world's electricity. Wind makes about 19% of electricity use in Denmark, 9% in Spain and Portugal, and 6% in Germany and the Republic of Ireland. The United States is an important market for makers of wind mills, and it is rapidly growing. In 2007, the U.S. had enough windmills to produce 16,800 MW, enough for 4.5 million average households. In 2012 alone, the U.S. added 13,000 MWs, and in total could produce 60,000 MWs (60 gigawatts) a year.
Most modern wind power is generated in the form of electricity by converting the rotation of turbine blades into electrical current by means of an electrical generator. In windmills (a much older technology) wind energy is used to turn mechanical machinery to do physical work, like crushing grain or pumping water.
Wind power is used in large scale wind farms for national electrical grids as well as in small turbines for providing electricity to a farm house or "off-grid" locations. Wind energy is common, renewable, usable in many places, clean, and works against the greenhouse effect if used to replace fossil-fuels. 
But they have some problems. Some people do not like the tall towers that can be seen from far away, and close to houses they can make a flickering shadow and have a small amount of noise. Some of the early wind farms were built where birds migrated every year, and they had small, fast-spinning blades that often killed birds. Some people still think all wind farms do that, but newer wind turbines are much bigger, with slower-moving blades and do not have that problem.
Wind mills do not make power when the wind is stopped or just a light breeze, so back-up power is still needed, or electricity needs to be moved from a distant place where the wind is blowing. Another idea is to put the turbines on kites, and fly them very high where the wind is always blowing. 
Hydropower is changing the energy of moving water into more useful forms. Even in ancient history hydropower was used for irrigating crops and milling of grain into flour, and later for textile manufacture (making cloth) and running sawmills to cut wood.
It was used in Ancient Rome for water powered mills, and in China and the rest of the Far East for "pot wheel" pumps that raised water into irrigation canals. In the 1830s, at the peak of building canals, hydropower was used to move barge traffic up and down steep hills using inclined plane railroads.
Direct mechanical power transmission meant that industries that used water power had to be near the water, particularly a waterfall. For example, during the late 1800's, many gristmills were built at Saint Anthony Falls, using the 50 foot (15 metre) drop in the Mississippi River. The mills helped Minneapolis grow. 
Today the largest use of hydropower is for a dam that can use the falling water to make electricity. This electricity can be moved hundreds of miles through wires, so industry no longer needs to be very close to the water for power.
Geothermal energy uses the heat from deep underground to make electricity. It can be used to produce steam which goes up a pipe, which then pushes a turbine. It is best used in places where the Earth's crust is not real thick. In the United States, most of the western states have areas where this works. California makes the most geothermal energy. Iceland uses the most geothermal energy (per person) of any country in the world. 
Once it is built, it is clean energy, but it requires deep wells. These areas often have volcanoes or earthquakes in the area, and sometimes adding or removing water deep underground might be enough to cause an earthquake. Some small earthquakes may have been caused this way. 
Biomass includes sawdust and other leftover parts of trees or lumber. It can also be grease and food waste, straw, and plants grown for energy. Some of this is burned to make electricity, some is made into biogas,biofuel, like ethanol as a replacement for gasoline. Ethanol might be a big renewable resource in the future. It is already widely used in the United States and Brazil. In the U.S. it is made from corn, which uses about as much energy as it makes. But there could be ways to improve it.

</doc>
<doc id="55647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55647" title="Derek Taylor">
Derek Taylor

Derek Taylor (7 May 1932 – 8 September 1997) was an English journalist and author. He spent most of his career covering popular music and celebrity news. He had a long association with rock band The Beatles, serving at different times as their . He was also a to The Beatles manager Brian Epstein, and co-wrote a with guitarist George Harrison.
In the mid-1960s, Taylor lived with his family in Los Angeles, California, and had his own agency. His clients included The Byrds and The Beach Boys. He also gave Harry Nilsson's career a boost, when he sent copies of Nilsson's album "Pandemonium Shadow Show" to important members of the music industry, including the Beatles. Taylor died of cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="55648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55648" title="Hot chocolate">
Hot chocolate

Hot chocolate (also called hot cocoa, drinking chocolate or just cocoa) is a hot drink. It is usually made by mixing chocolate or cocoa powder and sugar with warm milk or water. Hot chocolate is usually drunk to make the drinker feel happier or warmer. Some studies have shown that hot chocolate may be healthy because of antioxidants that are in cocoa. Until the 1800s, hot chocolate was also used by doctors as a medicine against some diseases.
It is believed that the hot chocolate drink was first made by the Mayan people about 2,000 years ago. Another cocoa drink was made by the Aztecs by 1400 . The drink became popular in Europe after being brought from Mexico into the New World, and has changed a lot since then. Today, hot chocolate is used around the world. It comes in many different types such as the very thick "cioccolata densa" in Italy, and the thinner hot cocoa that is usually drunk in the United States. 
Chocolate is made from cocoa, the dried and partly fermented seeds of the cacao tree ("Theobroma cacao"). The cacao tree is a small (4–8 m (15–26 ft.) tall) pine tree found in the deep tropical areas of the Americas. New studies show that the most found type of the plant first came from the Amazon basin. It was slowly moved by humans to other places in South and Central America to farm. Early kinds of another type have also been found in what is now Venezuela. The scientific name, "theobroma", means "food of the gods". The fruit, called a cacao pod, is shaped like an oval, 15–30 cm (6–12 in.) long and 8–10 cm (3–4 in.) wide. It gets ripe from yellow to orange, and weighs about 500 g (1 lb) when ripe.
The first known use of cacao is chocolate found in jars at the site of Puerto Escondido in Honduras. It was used there around 1100 An early Classic Period (460–480 ) Mayan grave from Río Azul, Guatemala, had cups with the Mayan words for cacao on them with traces of an old chocolate drink. The Maya are usually given credit for making the first chocolate drink over 2,000 years ago. The drink would be changed even more in Europe.
To make the drink, the Maya ground cocoa seeds into a paste and mixed it with water, cornmeal, chile peppers, and spices. They then poured the drink back and forth from a cup to a pot until a foam was created. The drink was served cold. Maya of all social classes could get the drink, but the rich drank chocolate from fancy vessels or cups.
By the 1400s, the Aztecs took over a large part of Mesoamerica, and took cacao into their culture. They thought of chocolate with Xochiquetzal, the goddess of pregnancy. They also used chocolate drinks as sacrifices to gods. The Aztec kind of the drink was bitter and spicy, and was called "xocolatl". It was made a lot like the Mayan chocolate drinks. Vanilla, chile pepper, and achiote were added to the drink, and it was believed to fight tiredness, which is because of the theobromine content, a mood enhancer. Because cacao would not grow in central Mexico and had to be brought into the empire, chocolate was an important luxury good in the Aztec empire. Because of this, cocoa beans were used as money.
The first time Europeans saw chocolate was in the 16th century when Montezuma (who was ruler of the Aztec then) showed "xocolatl" to Hernán Cortés, a Spanish conquistador. What the Spanish then called "chocolatl" was said to be a drink made of a chocolate base with vanilla and other spices that was served cold. Montezuma's rulers were said to drink about 2000 cups of "xocolatl" per day, 50 of which were drank by Montezuma himself.
Because sugar had not come to the Americas, "xocolatl" was said to be something that one did not like in the beginning. The drink tasted spicy and bitter, unlike today's hot chocolate. As to when "xocolatl" was first made warm, sources are not sure about when and by whom. However, Jose de Acosta, a Spanish Jesuit missionary who lived in Peru and then Mexico in the later 16th century, described "xocolatl" as a drink with a bitter taste that the natives liked a lot.
After defeating Montezuma’s warriors and taking the Aztec's riches, Cortés went back to Spain in 1528. He brought cocoa beans and chocolate drink making equipment. At this time, chocolate still was only the bitter drink made by the Mayans. Sweet hot chocolate and bar chocolate were not made yet.
After coming to Europe, the drink slowly got popularity. The court of King Charles V soon began drinking it, and what was then only called "chocolate" became a popular drink with the Spanish upper class. Also, cocoa was given as a gift when the Spanish Royal Family married other royalty. Then, chocolate cost a lot in Europe because the cacao beans only grew in South America.
The first shipment of chocolate to Europe for sale purposes was a shipment from Veracruz to Sevilla in 1585. It was still a drink, but the Europeans added sugar to sweeten it, and took out the chili pepper. They also added vanilla, cinnamon, and other spices. Sweet hot chocolate was then made, making hot chocolate a luxury item with the European royalty in the 17th century. Even when the first Chocolate house (a store like a coffee shop now) opened in 1657, the drink still cost a lot. A pound cost 50 to 75 pence (between 50 and 75 USD now).
In the late 1600s, Hans Sloane, president of the Royal College of Physicians, went toJamaica. There, he tried chocolate and did not like it, but found it was better with milk. When he came back to England, he brought the recipe with him, bringing milk chocolate to Europe.
In 1828, Coenraad Johannes van Houten made the first cocoa powder making machine in the Netherlands. The press took apart the greasy cocoa butter from cacao seeds, leaving a chocolate powder behind. This powder — like the cocoa powder used now — was easier to stir into milk and water, and led to solid chocolate. By using cocoa powder and a little bit of cocoa butter, bar chocolate was then able to be made. The term "chocolate" then came to mean solid chocolate, instead of hot chocolate.
Today, hot chocolate is used around the world. However, there are two main types of the drink. The main difference between the two is that one is thicker than the other.
The words "hot chocolate" and "hot cocoa" are sometimes used instead of each other, but there is actually a difference between the two. "Hot cocoa" is made from a mix of cocoa, sugar and ingredients, all powdered, to make the drink thick without cocoa butter. "Hot chocolate" is made right from bars of chocolate, which has cocoa, sugar and cocoa butter in it. The biggest difference between the two is the cocoa butter, which makes hot cocoa have less fat than hot chocolate, so it is better for one's health. 
Hot chocolate can be made with dark, semisweet, or bittersweet chocolate. It is cut into small pieces and stirred into milk with sugar. American hot cocoa powder can be made with powdered milk so it can be made without milk. In the United Kingdom, "hot chocolate" is a sweet chocolate drink made with hot milk or water, and powder with chocolate, sugar, and powdered milk. "Cocoa" usually means a similar drink made with just hot milk and cocoa powder, then made sweeter with sugar.
In the United States, the drink is most popular in powdered or crushed form. It is made with hot water or milk. This is the thinner of the two main types. It is very sweet and often is served with marshmallows, whipped cream, or a piece of solid chocolate. European hot chocolate first came to the U.S. as early as the 1600s by the Dutch, but the first time colonists began selling hot chocolate was around 1755. Hot chocolate is usually drank in cold weather and winter in the United States. It is not taken with meals very often.
In Mexico, hot chocolate is still popular. Besides the instant powder form, Mexican hot chocolate uses semi-sweet chocolate, cinnamon, sugar and vanilla. Hot chocolate of this type is often sold in tablets or bars which can be put into hot milk, water or cream. It is then mixed until the drink gets a creamy foam. Mexican cinnamon hot chocolate is often served with a variety of Mexican breads or pastries called "pan dulcet" and churros.
In Europe, most kinds of hot chocolate are very thick. This is because they are made from pure chocolate. In the United Kingdom, hot chocolate is usually thinner. As Europe was where hot chocolate was first made popular, there are many different types. 
Among the thick types of hot chocolate served in Europe is the Italian "cioccolata densa". German types are also known for being very thick and heavy. Hot chocolate and churros is the normal working-man's breakfast in Spain. This style of hot chocolate can be very thick, often being like warm chocolate pudding. 
There are even more types of thick hot chocolate in Europe. Some cafes in Belgium and other areas in Europe serve a ""warme chocolade"" or ""chocolat chaud"". This is a cup of heated milk and a small bowl of bittersweet chocolate chips to put in the milk. In England, some kinds of powdered drinks are as thick as pure chocolate kinds.
Even though hot chocolate is usually drunk for enjoyment, it can also be good for the health. Hot chocolate has a lot of antioxidants that may be good for the health. From the 16th to 19th centuries, hot chocolate was used as a medicine and a drink. Explorer Francisco Hernández wrote that chocolate drinks helped fever and diseases of the liver. Another explorer, Santiago de Valverde Turices, thought that large amounts of hot chocolate were good for fixing chest problems, and small amounts could help stomach problems. When chocolate first came to France in the 17th century, it was used "to fight against fits of anger and bad moods". This may be because of a chemical that makes a person's mood better in chocolate. There are also a few bad health effects. Hot chocolate has a lot of calories, saturated fat, and sugar. Caffeine in the cocoa that is in hot chocolate may also make bad health effects.

</doc>
<doc id="55652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55652" title="Diuretic">
Diuretic

A diuretic is a chemical substance. This substance is either in a herb (such as dandelions), or it has been separated and made into a drug. Diuretics increase the amount of urine that is secreted from the body. Diuretics are used as a treatment for heart failure, liver cirrhosis, hypertension and certain problems with the kidneys. Diuretics are often abused by people suffering form bulimia nervosa as a way to lose weight. 
Well-known substances that have diuretic properties are tea,coffee and alcohol. 

</doc>
<doc id="55653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55653" title="The Byrds">
The Byrds

The Byrds were a popular folk rock band, from California. Their members included Jim McGuinn (who later changed his name to Roger), David Crosby, Gene Clark, Chris Hillman and Michael Clarke. Later band members included Gram Parsons, Clarence White, and Gene Parsons.
The Byrds pioneered folk rock, a blend of folk music with rock and roll. Many of their songs were remakes of Bob Dylan's songs, such as "Mr. Tambourine Man", which was their first hit in 1965. They recorded a bright, uplifting version of "Turn, Turn, Turn", which had been adapted by Pete Seeger from Ecclesiastes in the Bible. Other songs were written by band members.
The Byrds recorded "So You Wanna Be a Rock'N'Roll Star?" about the Monkees, not liking the star-making machinery that made the Monkees famous overnight. McGuinn later said the song was about the pop music business, not the Monkees. They softened their opinions, though, once they'd met the band and saw they had real talent. Members of the Byrds played on Monkees recording sessions, and the later band Crosby, Stills & Nash was formed partly from meetings at Peter Tork's house.
One Byrds song, "You Showed Me", became a hit for The Turtles late in 1968. The Byrds's lineup changed many times, and after the last new lineup disbanded in 1972, the original members reunited to record an album, titled "Byrds".

</doc>
<doc id="55655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55655" title="Meningitis">
Meningitis

Meningitis is an infection of certain membranes and tissues of the nervous system. Those are called meninges (singular: meninx). Their function is to protect the central nervous system. Most often, this infection is caused by microorganisms, like viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites. The most common cause of meningitis are viruses, followed by bacteria. Meningitis is a life-threatening condition. It affects all age groups.
Some kinds of meningitis are very easy to spread. For this reason, in certain countries, like Germany, doctors have to tell the authorities that someone might have meningitis. 
Some signs of meningitis can be: high fever, sometimes with chills; very strong headache; nauseas and vomiting; drowsiness or confusion; twitching; sleepiness; sore throat; delirium (especially in children); seizures; and stiff neck (in less than 50% of the cases, but may be a telltale sign).
The two main forms of meningitis are bacterial meningitis and viral meningitis. In bacterial meningitis, most patients die without treatment, whereas in viral meningitis most patients get better on their own. Herpes virus meningitis may respond to an antiviral drug.

</doc>
<doc id="55659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55659" title="Mental confusion">
Mental confusion

Mental confusion (often simply called confusion) is a symptom. People suffering from it have problems finding their way around in the world. They have troubles remembering who they are, where they are, or what time (or day of the week) it is. Additionally, they may have trouble remembering things or memorizing new things. This may be linked to problems focusing their attention. Confusion can also be a sign of someone being sick with various illnesses when it's coupled with things like fever, chills, or exhaustion.
Confusion can be caused by many different medical problems.
There are both acute and chronic causes of confusion.
Acute causes of confusion usually come on suddenly, and doctors may be able to fix some of them.
In medicine, the acronym "AEIOU-TIPS" is used to remember the most common causes of confusion that comes on suddenly (over hours or days, not years):
Confusion can also happen when the brain is not getting enough blood and oxygen. For example, this can happen because of:
Chronic causes of confusion usually come on less suddenly and last for a long time (months or years). For example:

</doc>
<doc id="55661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55661" title="Lick It Up">
Lick It Up

Lick It Up is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 18, 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="55663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55663" title="Wesleyan University">
Wesleyan University

Wesleyan University, is a private liberal arts university in Middletown, Connecticut. It was founded by Methodist leaders and the people of Middletown in 1831. The university was the first college or university to be named after John Wesley, the founder of Methodism. Wesleyan is one of the three small New England colleges that make up the "Little Three" (or the "Little Ivies"): the others are Amherst and Williams Colleges. 
Wesleyan was founded as an all-male Methodist college in 1831. In 1872 it became one of the first American colleges to let female students attend. Some of Wesleyan's male alumni did not think that letting women go to the school was a good thing. They believed that it made Wesleyan look bad. Wesleyan stopped letting women got there and from 1912 to 1970 Wesleyan operated as an all-male college. Wesleyan began letting women attend again in 1970. At that time many females had went to the all-female Connecticut College in nearby New London, Connecticut.

</doc>
<doc id="55664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55664" title="Ben 10">
Ben 10

Ben 10 is an American animated television show. The first episode was shown on December 27, 2005 on Cartoon Network. The main character, Ben Tennyson, is a ten-years old boy who can turn himself into many different aliens including 10 original aliens. Ben and his rival girl cousin named Gwen are on summer with their grandpa, Max Tennyson. The pilot aired on December 27, 2005 with the final episode, Goodbye and Good Riddance airing in April 22, 2008. The main villains are Vilgax, Kevin Levin and occasionally Charmcaster and the Forever Knights.

</doc>
<doc id="55667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55667" title="Karol Szymanowski">
Karol Szymanowski

Karol Szymanowski (6 October 1882 - 29 March 1937) was a Polish composer. Next to Frederic Chopin, Karol was Poland's most famous composer. He is thought to be one of the greatest Polish composers of the first half of the 20th century.
Szymanowski was born on his family's estate in Tymoszówka in what is today Ukraine. He studied in Berlin and Warsaw.
His music can be divided into three phases.
Early works before World War I showed his repertoire for the works of Frederic Chopin, Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss.
The second phase is influenced by the Orient and Mediterranean cultures. His music during this phase resulted in many of his best known compositions.
The third phase began in 1921. It has much what is similar to Polish folk themes. This work defined Polish themed music and is thought to include his greatest works. Initially, his music was not well accepted in Poland.
The works of Szymanowski include four symphonies, two violin concertos, the operas "Hagith" and "King Roger", the ballet-pantomime "Harnasie", the oratorio "Stabat Mater", as well as many piano, violin, vocal and choral compositions. His most popular works was his ballet "Harnasie" and opera "King Roger". "Harnasie" was first shown in Prague and later shown at the Paris Opera. It was received with acclamation and enthusiasm, both by critics and the public. Health and financial problems brought his work to an end in 1934. Szymanowski died after a short stay in a sanatorium in Lausanne, Switzerland.
He died of tuberculosis in Lausanne, Switzerland on 28 March 1937. He was buried on 7 April 1937 at the cemetery for the Polish nobles, in Pauline in Krakow.

</doc>
<doc id="55668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55668" title="Animalize">
Animalize

Animalize is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 13, 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="55670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55670" title="Eubie Blake">
Eubie Blake

Eubie Blake (February 7, 1883 or 1887 - February 12, 1983) was an American pianist and composer. There is some confusion about his birth date. During the latter part of his life he had said that he was born in 1883. However, recently released documents - the 1900 United States census, his World War 1 draft card, his Social Security registration and his passport registration - all say that he was born in 1887. People saying they were born earlier than they actually were ("back dating") was common with musicians from that time. Jelly Roll Morton is another well known example of this. Blake also said that he composed his "Charleston Rag" in 1899. If this was true, he would have been 12 years old at the time. There is no evidence he was composing at that age or at that time. People who study ragtime believe this may be another case of "backdating". Blake was born in Baltimore, Maryland.

</doc>
<doc id="55684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55684" title="Television director">
Television director

A television director directs the activities involved in making a television program. He or she is part of a television crew. A television director is different from a movie director. In television the producer usually has creative control. In movies, the director has creative control. Most television directors specialize in directing one type of television program.
A television director has a complex job that includes approving scripts, setting up camera shots, laying out scenes and deciding on lighting. The director is responsible for directing of live broadcasts, filming programs, post-production editing and mixing. A director also supervises the technical crew. 
A director's duties can be very different depending on the type of program. For example a drama recorded in a studio is different from a live event outside the studio. In a dramatic arts production, the television director's job can be similar to that of a movie director. A director gives cues to actors and directs the camera placement and movement. Often, in a television series, different directors will work on different episodes.

</doc>
<doc id="55686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55686" title="Roseanne (TV series)">
Roseanne (TV series)

Roseanne is an American television series which was shown on ABC from 1988 to 1997. It starred comedian Roseanne Barr. The series was about a working-class family living in fictional city of Lanford, Illinois. For many years, "Roseanne" was more truthful than other series of the time in how it showed family life. They dealt with tough subjects, for example poverty, alcoholism, narcotics, sex, first menstrual periods, masturbation, obesity, feminism, domestic violence, nudity and homosexuality. Another important thing in the series was Roseanne's control in raising her children. Her husband Dan (John Goodman) felt as though he had no say in their house. "Roseanne" was important for women because it was one of the first series to put an overweight, powerful, yet smart woman as the main character.
The series was very well liked from its start. It spent its first six seasons in the top five of the Nielsen ratings. During the seventh season the series dropped some in ratings, but still stayed in the top 10 of the Nielsen ratings. However, during its ninth, and final season, the show's ratings dropped much and had fallen out of the top thirty.
 

</doc>
<doc id="55688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55688" title="Veronica Mars">
Veronica Mars

Veronica Mars is an American teen drama/mystery-neo-noir series set in Southern California. It was first shown on UPN on September 22, 2004. The series was shown for its first two seasons on the UPN before moving to The CW Television Network on October 3, 2006. The show stars Kristen Bell as Veronica Mars: a student who also works as a private investigator with the help of her detective father. The series is said to be "a little bit Buffy and a little bit Bogart". The series has murder mystery, high school and college drama with sarcasm and strange humor.
The show starts with Veronica and her friends in high school. It follows them to college in later seasons of the series.

</doc>
<doc id="55690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55690" title="Sega Game Gear">
Sega Game Gear

The Sega Game Gear is a handheld video game system made by the Sega Corporation. It was released in Japan in 1990, and then released later in Europe, the United States and Australia.
The Game Gear has a colour screen, a speaker, and needs six AA batteries (for 4 hours of play-time) to run. It is bigger and costs more money than the Nintendo Game Boy. It also uses more electric power than the Game Boy, so the Game Gear's batteries must be replaced more often.
There are special add-ons for the Game Gear, such as a TV-Tuner that allows people to watch television on it.

</doc>
<doc id="55691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55691" title="God the Father">
God the Father

In many religions, the deity or God is called the Father.

</doc>
<doc id="55693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55693" title="Kevin Smith">
Kevin Smith

Kevin Patrick Smith (born August 2, 1970) is an American screenwriter, movie director and the founder of View Askew Productions. He is also known as a comic book writer and actor. Smith's movies often take place in his home state of New Jersey. The movies are filled with pop culture references. Many of the references are about comic books and the "Star Wars" movies. They often take place in the View Askewniverse.
Smith was born in Red Bank, New Jersey to Grace and Donald Smith. He has an older sister, Virginia, and an older brother, Donald Jr. Smith was raised in the Catholic religion. He went to Henry Hudson Regional High School in Highlands, The New School for Social Research New York and the Vancouver movie School. Smith studied making movies but dropped out halfway through his studies.
Smith is married to Jennifer Schwalbach Smith. They have a daughter, Harley Quinn Smith, born in 1999. He named his daughter after Harley Quinn, a comic-book character from "".

</doc>
<doc id="55694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55694" title="Nicene Creed">
Nicene Creed

The Nicene Creed, Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed or Icon/Symbol of the Faith, is the most widespread or ecumenical Christian statement of faith.
Since its original formulation it continues to be used in the Roman Catholic, Syrian Orthodox (Jacobite), Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Assyrian, Anglican, Lutheran, and most other Protestant Churches.
The following table displays side by side the earlier (325) and later (381) forms of this Creed in the English translation given in Schaff's Creeds of Christendom, which indicates by brackets the portions of the 325 text that were omitted or moved in 381, but uses no typographical mark to indicate what phrases, absent in the 325 text, were added in 381.
The following table presents in the same way the texts of the two Councils, as given in the original Greek language on the Web site Symbolum Nicaeno-Constantinopolitanum - Greek:
There were certain problems with the Nicene creed. In 529, the so-called filioque clause was added to the creed. This clause is one of the main differences between the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church. The Catholic Church has this clause, the Eastern Orthodox Church does not. The clause is about how godly the Father is, compared to the Son. Where the original Nicene Creed reads "We believe in the Holy Spirit ... who proceeds from the Father", the altered, Roman Catholic version reads "We believe in the Holy Spirit ... who proceeds from the Father "and the Son"". Roman Catholic Christians accept this change, but Eastern Orthodox Christians reject it. Many Eastern Catholic churches (Eastern in liturgy but in full communion with the pope) do not use the clause in their creed. They do think the doctrine it represents is true, though, as this is a dogma of the Roman Catholic faith. Many Protestant churches who take a position in this matter, usually accept the "filioque".
After the East-West Schism of 1054, the Eastern and Western churches attempted to reunite at two separate medieval councils, and the filioque was an issue at each. Despite Greek concessions, neither the Second Council of Lyon (1274) nor the Council of Ferrera-Florence (1438 - 1535) achieved the desired union.
The clause is most often referred to as "the "filioque"" or simply "filioque".

</doc>
<doc id="55696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55696" title="Apostles' Creed">
Apostles' Creed

The Apostles' Creed (Latin: "Symbolum Apostolorum"), sometimes titled Symbol of the Apostles, is an early statement of Christian belief, a creed or "symbol." 
It is commonly used by many Christian denominations, during religious ceremonies and as a summary of Christian beliefs. It is most commonly used during ceremonies at churches of Western tradition, including the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church, Lutheranism, the Anglican Communion, and Western Orthodoxy. It is also used by evangelical Protestant denominations such as Presbyterians, Methodists, Congregationalists, and many Baptists. 
The Creed is named the Apostles' Creed because it is made of twelve articles. People believed that after Pentecost, God inspired each of Jesus' Twelve Apostles to write one article. 
Many hypotheses exist about when and how the Apostles' Creed was created. 
Many suppose it comes from "the Old Roman Symbol" of the 1st or 2nd century, and was influenced later by the Nicene Creed (325/381).
This creed seems to have been made as an argument against Gnosticism. Gnosticism was a heresy in the early days of the Church. Gnostics believed things that were very different than what the Catholic Church taught. The Apostles' Creed, and other creeds, were made to be like examples of Catholic teachings, and to defend Catholic beliefs.This can be seen in almost every phrase. For example, the creed states that Christ was born, suffered, and died on the cross. This seems to be an argument against Gnostic beliefs, which said that Christ only seemed to become a man, and that he did not truly suffer and die, but only seemed like he did. 
Because it was written very early in history, it does not talk about some issues that later Christian creeds, like the Nicene Creed, brought up. This makes it acceptable to many Arians and Unitarians.
For more information on the origin of the Apostles' Creed, see the detailed discussion in the "Catholic Encyclopedia".
"Credo in Deum Patrem omnipotentem, Creatorem caeli et terrae. Et in Iesum Christum, Filium Eius unicum, Dominum nostrum, qui conceptus est de Spiritu Sancto, natus ex Maria Virgine, passus sub Pontio Pilato, crucifixus, mortuus, et sepultus, descendit ad ínferos, tertia die resurrexit a mortuis, ascendit ad caelos, sedet ad dexteram Dei Patris omnipotentis, inde venturus est iudicare vivos et mortuos. Credo in Spiritum Sanctum, sanctam Ecclesiam catholicam, sanctorum communionem, remissionem peccatorum, carnis resurrectionem, vitam aeternam. Amen."
 ("Triglot Concordia", St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1921, p. 12)
The English version in the "Catechism of the Catholic Church" keeps the tradition of dividing the Creed into twelve articles:
In the Church of England there are currently two authorized forms of the creed. One is in the "Book of Common Prayer" (1662). The other is in "Common Worship" (2000).
Book of Common Prayer
Common Worship
The United Methodists commonly include the Apostles' Creed in their worship services. Their version of the Creed is special because it does not have the line "he descended into hell." Except for this, it is very similar to the version in the "Book of Common Prayer". 
The "United Methodist Hymnal" also contains (at #882) what it calls the "Ecumenical Version" of the Creed. This version is identical to the one in the Episcopal Church's current "Book of Common Prayer". This form of the Apostles' Creed is included in the "Hymnal" to be used during the Eucharist and baptisms. Because of this, it is getting more popular.
The English Language Liturgical Consultation (ELLC) is an international group whose goal is to provide texts that can be used and accepted by people of any Christian denomination. In 1988, it created a translation of the Apostles' Creed. One major change in this version is that it does not use the word "his" when talking about God. The text is as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="55697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55697" title="Matcha">
Matcha

Matcha (pronounce: "MA-cha") also spelt maccha (Japanese: 抹茶), is a fine, powdered green tea. It is used in Japanese tea ceremony and for dying and flavouring foods such as mochi and soba noodles, green tea ice cream and different types of "wagashi" (Japanese confectionery). The most famous Matcha-producing regions are Uji in Kyoto (tea from this region is called "Ujicha"), Nishio in Aichi (tea from this region is called "Nishiocha") both on the main island of Honshū; Shizuoka, and Kyushu. 
Matcha costs more money than other kinds of tea. Its price depends on its quality (how good it is). It can be hard to find outside Japan, and also the special things that are used to make it and drink it.
Powdered tea, stored and traded as tea bricks, seems to have been invented in China during the Song Dynasty (960-1279). Making and drinking powdered tea was formed into a ritual (special ceremony) by the Chan Buddhists. These Buddhists use to drink from the same bowl as a sacrament.
Chan Buddhism (also known in Japanese as Zen), and powdered tea, were brought to Japan in 1191 by the monk Eisai. Powdered tea was slowly forgotten in China, but the 16th century tea master Sen no Rikyu made the rules of the Japanese tea ceremony. He said that "matcha" was the correct tea to use.
The preparation of "matcha" starts several weeks before harvest. At that time, the tea bushes are covered so that they do not get direct sunlight. This makes it grow slower and turns the leaves a darker shade of green. It also causes amino acids to be made, and these make the tea taste sweeter.
After harvesting, if the leaves are rolled out before drying as usual, the result will be "gyokuro" (jewel dew) tea. However, if the leaves are laid out flat to dry, they will crumble and become known as "tencha" (). "Tencha" can then be de-veined, de-stemmed, and ground (pressed) with a stone until it becomes the fine, bright green, talc-like powder known as "matcha".
Only ground "tencha" can be called "matcha": other powdered teas are known as "konacha" (, lit. "powdered tea"). 
Nearly all the flavour of matcha comes from the amino acids. The best matcha has more sweetness and a deeper flavour than the normal grades of tea harvested later in the year.
The way that watcha is graded depends on several things:
Leaves that are going to be made into tencha have to come from certain parts of the tree. 
The very top of the tree has developing leaves that are soft and supple. This gives a finer texture to higher grades. More developed leaves are harder, giving lower grades a sandy texture. The better flavour is due to the tree sending all its nutrients to the growing leaves. 
Chlorophyll's relationship to tannin is also important. Younger growth is greener and stronger in colour, while more developed leaves farther down the plant have had their chlorophyll changed gradually into tannin, which gives a more bitter flavour and duller brown-green colour.
Tencha leaves are traditionally dried outside in the shade and are always kept away from direct sunlight. However, these days, drying has mostly moved indoors. Quality matcha is very green because of this treatment.
Stone grinding is quite difficult to do well. Without the right tools and technique, matcha can become "burnt" and is not such good quality.
Matcha must be kept away from oxygen. Oxidation smells like hay and affects colour and texture.
Before it is served, the matcha is often forced through a sieve in order to break up clumps. There are special sieves available for this purpose. These sieves are usually made of stainless steel and combine a fine wire mesh sieve and a temporary storage container. A special wooden spatula is used to force the tea through the sieve, or a small, smooth stone may be put on top of the sieve and shaken gently. 
If the sieved matcha is to be served at a Japanese tea ceremony, then it will be put into a small tea caddy called a chaki. Otherwise, it can be poured directly from the sieve into a tea bowl.
A small amount of matcha is placed into the bowl, traditionally using a bamboo scoop called a "chashaku", and a small amount of hot (not boiling) water is added. The mixture is then whisked until it is all the same consistency (thickness). This is traditionally done with a special kind of whisk made of bamboo known as a "chasen". There must be no lumps left in the liquid. Ideally no ground tea should remain on the sides of the bowl. 
"Usucha", or thin tea, is prepared with half a teaspoon of matcha and about 75 ml (2.5 oz) of hot water. Some drinkers (and schools of tea ceremony) prefer to whip the mixture to produce a light frothy "head," while others prefer as little foam as possible. Schools also vary on the amount of water and matcha. "Usucha" makes a lighter and slightly more bitter tea.
"Koicha", or thick tea, needs much more matcha, as many as six teaspoons to 3/4 cup of water. Because the mixture is much thicker, blending it needs a slower, stirring movement which does not produce foam. Koicha produces a sweeter tea, and is almost always only served as part of Japanese tea ceremonies. Special chasen made for this purpose are often used.
Because matcha can be bitter, it is traditionally served with a small Japanese sweet.
Matcha is now a common ingredient in sweets. It is used in castella, manju, and monaka; as a topping for kakigori; mixed with milk and sugar as a drink; and mixed with salt and used to flavour tempura in a mixture known as matcha-jio. It is also used as flavouring in many Western-style chocolates, candy, and desserts, such as cakes and pastries (including Swiss rolls and cheesecake), cookies, pudding, mousse, and ice cream. Even the Japanese snack Pocky has a matcha-flavoured version.
The use of matcha in modern drinks has also spread to North American café culture. Here, as in Japan, it is put into lattés, iced drinks, milkshakes, and smoothies, as well as alcoholic drinks.
People now realize that green tea and matcha are good for the health. This is why in North America it can be found in a lot of health food products such as cereal and energy bars.
Prime Matcha education website All about Matcha tea, in depth production process details, health benefits & more
Matcha Source - Matcha tea, accessories and know-how. View preparation guidelines, health benefits and recipes.
Masterclass in Matcha -- learn about similarities between matcha and wine, its many health benefits, how to tell good matcha from bad matcha, matcha and caffeine, how to store matcha, and more. 
Matcha bowls A website about matcha tea bowls / chawan (german) 

</doc>
<doc id="55700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55700" title="Asylum (album)">
Asylum (album)

Asylum is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 16, 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="55702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55702" title="Green tea">
Green tea

The drink green tea () is a "true" tea. It comes from the plant species "Camellia sinensis". Green tea is a tea that has undergone little oxidation while it was processed. Green tea is popular in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, and the Middle East. Recently it has been drunk more widely in the West, where usually black tea is consumed.
In the Kamakura period, a Buddhist monk, Eisai (1141–1215), and his follower, Dogen, first brought tea "(maccha)" to Japan. He had learned about tea on a visit to China. Eisai taught people to grow the tea plants, and how to prepare the tea leaves. People drank tea for its benefit as a medicine rather than as a refreshment. Tea drinking gradually spread as part of Zen Buddhism. The tea ceremony was part of the training for mental discipline. Green tea kept the mind pure and relaxed, an effect caused by the caffeine in the tea. The custom of drinking tea gradually spread throughout Japan.
In the Muromachi period, tea tasting competitions were popular. People also gambled on these competitions. Zen Buddhist master, Juko Murata (1422–1502) stopped these competitions. He broke with the grand tradition, and developed a small ceremony performed around the tatami mat. The tea ceremony was perfected afterward in the Azuchimomoyama era by Jou Takeno and Sen no Rikyu (1522–1591). They removed all extra movements and unnecessary decoration and objects from the tea room. The idea, based on Zen, was to concentrate your attention on the wealth inside your mind.
In the Edo period, the tea ceremony spread out to the public and it became an artistic accomplishment. Therefore "to draw out the beauty from inside the person's heart" which was its original purpose came to be emphasized. The words "和敬清寂 (Wa Kei Sei Jaku)" meaning harmony, respect, purity and tranquility, are the basis of the tea ceremony. Wa, harmony, is shown by sharing the tea between the host and the guest. Kei, respect, is shown by accepting and sharing with others. Sei, purity, is treating yourself and others openly. Jaku, tranquility, is the feeling of stillness in the ceremony. Modern tea ceremonies, which last for four hours, are still based on these ideas.
In the Meiji period, the tea ceremony died out for while. They were restarted when it was added in a kind of education for girls. The ceremony also changed to being beautiful and gorgeous.
Nowadays, green tea is spreading all over the world, but it seems to be drunk with sugar in some countries because it tastes bitter.
Green tea seems to lower heart disease expectancy. 
The different substances contained in green tea also seem to help against cancer, low bone density, cognitive function and kidney stones.
Green tea contains ascorbic acid, and different minerals, such as chromium, manganese, selenium or zinc. It is a better antioxidant than black tea. Black tea contains certain substances which cannot be found in green tea, such as theaflavin.
Studies done on animals have shown that it can reduce cholesterol. Trials done on humans have not confirmed this effect, however. In 2003 a randomized clinical trial found that a green tea extract with added theaflavin from black tea reduced cholesterol.
In a study performed at Birmingham (UK) University, it was shown that average fat oxidation rates were 17% higher after drinking of green tea extract than after a placebo was used. 
In a recent study of the eating habits of 2,018 women, consumption of mushrooms and green tea was linked to a 90% lower occurrence of breast cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="55706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55706" title="Tatami">
Tatami

Tatami were originally a luxury item for the rich at a time when lower classes had mat-covered dirt floors. Tatami were gradually popularized. They finally reached the homes of commoners towards the end of the 17th century.
Japanese people have used "tatami" since the Nara Era (710-794). They were knitted and became thicker like modern "tatami". People who lived in the Heian Era stepped onto "tatami" to show their power and they spread the "tatami" only in a necessary part of the room.
The use of "tatami" was a little different from now. The "shoin" style of traditional Japanese residential architecture began in the Kamakura Era. During this time, people stopped spreading "tatami" around the room and placing them in the middle. They started to spread "tatami" through the room. People decided to spread "tatami" by the hearth and sit erect with their legs folded under.
"Tatami" has been changing together with people's life style. "Tatami" became common for people in the middle of the Edo Era. Farmers started to use them in the Meiji Era. The removal of "tatami" regulation made them more common in the Meiji Era. Japanese people often dry the "tatami". If the "tatami"'s surface was discolored, people often turned them over. With the economic growth after World War Two people started to use chairs and carpets. Japanese people think flooring is not relaxing or soundproof enough, so people still use "tatami" now.
"Tatami" is made with a rush plant, "igusa". Rush is planted in the rice fields in August. The seedlings are dug out in November, and a good seedling is chosen. The chosen seedlings are planted in the rice fields again in December. By the end of June to the middle of July, the high-quality rush grows up to about one meter tall and it will be harvested the next year.
The rush should be dry after harvesting, and keep the peculiar smell and the color of the rush. The rush is selected according to length and the thickness, and it is checked for bruising. 
After the harvest ends, "tatami" is made. Because Japanese rooms are different sizes, "tatami" are made in different sizes. The base of the "tatami" is made first. "Tatami" is woven with a special machine. It similar to the weaving on a kimono. The next part is the wick of tatami, called "toko". When the "toko" is 40 centimeters or more thick, and the shape is straightened. The mat is complete, and that is called "mushiro". The "tatami" is complete when it is joined to the toko and the decoration on the mat edges are sewn.
"Igusa" is a perennial plant of the family of "igusa". "Igusa" smells good. It has a fresh, grassy smell. In English, they are called rushes. "Igusa" blooms from May through June. The plant grows up to a length of 100 centimeters or less. They grow in marshes where sunshine is good. In Japan, there are 30 kinds of "igusa" growing in many different areas.
"Tatami" is made from natural "igusa" that must be flexible from the root to the tip, and the thickness and the color varies slightly. About 4000 to 7000 "igusa" are used for the" tatami". Generally the best "tatami" uses more and longer "igusa" rushes.
There are many benefits in using "igusa" such as air purification, heat insulation, elasticity, cooling (especially in hot summer seasons), eco-friendly and sound absorbing qualities. "Igusa" "tatami" is also smooth to the touch, so it is comfortable for babies and young children. Most Japanese like "tatami". Many homes have at least one tatami room.
"Tatamiberi" is the cloth that covers the edge and also decorates the "tatami". Some "tatami" don’t have it. In English, it is called the mat edge. The width of "tatamiberi" is about three centimeters. The material on the "tatamiberi" is cotton yarn, a synthetic material string, and a gold thread. The features change according to what strings are combining with "tatamiberi". The woven beautiful color handle sets off the room. There are two types, and the atmosphere of the room changes by the "tatamiberi".
There are many kinds of "tatamiberi". But "tatamiberi" was used to show status. For example, the emperor, ministers, priests, and scholars had different styles. It was recorded in "Amanomokuzu" in 1420.
Japan has etiquette about "tatamiberi". Japanese are taught not to step on the "tatamiberi". It is easy to tear "tatamiberi" when stepping in the weakest part. Stepping on "tatamiberi" fades the color on the edge of cotton and hemp in the "tatami". Therefore etiquette means "not to hurt the mat carelessy stepping when you visit another house, pay it attention". Also, family crests were embroidered on the "tatamiberi" in old times, too. Stepping on the family crest was taboo.

</doc>
<doc id="55707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55707" title="Sake">
Sake

Sake (Japanese:酒; pronounced 'sa.kɛ' ) is a Japanese word for "alcoholic drink". In English, "sake" means one kind of alcoholic drink made from rice. In Japan, people call this drink nihonshu ( "Japanese alcohol") or "sake". This article uses the word "sake" as it is used in English.
Sake is a fermented drink. Most sake is made from rice, water, kōji, and yeast. Sometimes a small amount of lactic acid is used in brewing. Water or small amounts of pure alcohol can be added at the end of production. Sake can have from 12 to 22% alcohol, but is usually around 15 or 16%. Lower quality mass-produced sake can have added sugar or flavorings.
Sake is usually sold in bottles that are either 720ml or 1.8L. Drinkers or servers in a restaurant may pour small cups called "chokko" directly from the bottle. Sake is also served in smaller bottles called "tokkuri". A typical serving in a bar or restaurant is 180ml. People may share that amount. When drinking together, people often pour drinks for each other rather than for themselves.
Amazake is sweet, low or non-alcoholic sake.

</doc>
<doc id="55710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55710" title="Majority">
Majority

Majority means the greater number of something. The opposite is minority.
If more than half the people are right-handed we can say that the majority of people are right-handed.
A minority of people are left-handed.
In fact, nearly everyone is right-handed, so we can say that the "vast majority" are right-handed, and only a "small minority" are left-handed.
If a political party or candidate gets a majority of votes, it means that they get more than all the other parties. In Plurality voting, they only get more than any one of the others. Thus if there are three parties, the winning party may have a plurality of 40% while the other two each have 30%. A "true majority" or "absolute majority" means more votes than all the other parties together, i.e. more than half the total votes.

</doc>
<doc id="55714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55714" title="Charles Koechlin">
Charles Koechlin

Charles Koechlin (pronounce:”Ke-klin” with “klin” to rhyme with French “vin”), (born Paris, November 27 1867; died Le Canadel, December 31 1950) was a French composer, teacher and writer on music. He wrote a very large amount of music, but very little of it was published because he was more interested in helping younger composers than making himself well-known. Some of his best works include his symphonic poems and his film music.
Koechlin was born in Paris, the youngest child of a large and rich family. His mother’s family came from the Alsace near the French border with Germany, and he was proud of his Alsatian background. His grandfather on his mother’s side had started a cotton textile firm in Mulhouse and his father worked in the textile business. When Koechlin was 14 his father died. He showed an interest in music, but his family wanted him to be an artillery officer. However, he had tuberculosis and had to spent six months getting better in Algeria. After finishing his schooling he was allowed to enter the Paris Conservatoire in 1890. Two years later he was studying composition with Massenet, and in 1896 he was a pupil of Gabriel Fauré. Ravel was a pupil in the same class. Fauré had a big influence on Koechlin who wrote a book about him and helped him to arrange some of his music for orchestra.
Koechlin became a freelance composer and teacher. He married Suzanne Pierrard in 1903 and they had five children. At first he was comfortably off, but after World War I the family lost a lot of money and they had to sell their country house.
Koechlin had very free views about music, and this is probably why he never got a teaching job at the Piano Conservatoire. He also agreed with some things that the Communists thought. He did not like modern inventions like the telephone and radio. He looked like an old Russian patriarch with his long beard. He dressed in velvet trousers, sandals and a shepherd’s cape for bad weather. He liked outdoor activities such as swimming and mountaineering. He was offered the Legion d’honneur in 1940 but refused it.
Koechlin composed in a variety of styles, even changing the style during a piece. He often liked quiet music with long chords which are played for the sounds they make rather than for giving the music a traditional shape. Sometimes there were no barlines in his music. He often composed in his head while on a train or climbing a mountain.
His works for orchestra include "Les Bandarlogs" which was based on the "Jungle Book" by Rudyard Kipling. Kipling’s “Bandarlog” are a troupe of monkeys in the forest. The music describes the monkeys, but Koechlin also gives it another meaning: he is criticising music critics, comparing them to monkeys. In the "Seven Stars Symphony" each movement is about a famous film star. They include Greta Garbo, Marlene Dietrich and Charlie Chaplin. He wrote a lot of chamber music and piano music, including some dances for Ginger Rogers.
Robert Orledge, "Charles Koechlin (1867-1950) His Life and Works" (London, 1989)

</doc>
<doc id="55726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55726" title="Jastrzębie-Zdrój">
Jastrzębie-Zdrój

Jastrzębie-Zdrój is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 94,072 inhabitants and an area of 85,44 km².

</doc>
<doc id="55727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55727" title="Palm (unit)">
Palm (unit)

A palm, when used as a unit of length, is usually four digits ("fingers") or three inches, i.e. 7.62 cm (for the international inch).
In English this unit is no longer in use as other units that are based on the human arm: digit (¼ palm), finger (7/24 palm), hand (4/3 palms), shaftment (2 palms), span (3 palms), cubit (6 palms) and ell (15 palms).

</doc>
<doc id="55731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55731" title="Schnapps">
Schnapps

Schnapps is a type of distilled alcoholic drink. The word "schnapps" comes from the German word schnaps. 
Traditional German schnapps are usually clear alcoholic drinks which are distilled from fermented cereals, roots, and fruits. Traditional German schnapps has no sugar or other flavoring added. It is similar in look and flavor to vodka with light fruit flavors. The alcohol content is usually around 40%.
The other type of schnapps is American. This type of schnapps is a liqueur that has sugar and flavorings such as peach, mint, or butterscotch. The alcohol content of American schnapps is usually only about 20%, which is lower than German-style schnapps.

</doc>
<doc id="55732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55732" title="Standard time">
Standard time

Standard time is putting all clocks in a time zone to the same time.
Standard time can also be used to mean the time without daylight saving time. Standard time happens from autumn to early spring. Daylight saving time happens from early spring to autumn.
Standard time was first used by British railways on December 11, 1847, when they switched from local mean time to Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). Almost all of Great Britain's public clocks were using GMT by 1855.
Before 1883, local mean time was used in all of North America. This meant there were many different local times. This caused problems for train schedules. Sandford Fleming, a Canadian, proposed standard time at a meeting of the Royal Canadian Institute on February 8, 1879. The owners of the major railroads met in Chicago to make the Standard Time System. Most states began using the system soon after the railroads. The U.S. government officially began using the system almost fifty years later.
Some people do not like standard time (and daylight saving time). Some people do not like it because they do not trust in government. Others believe that it disturbs circadian rhythms. Others simply like traditional, natural markers of time, like sunsets, noon and sunrise.

</doc>
<doc id="55733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55733" title="Span">
Span

Span could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="55734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55734" title="Span (unit of length)">
Span (unit of length)

Span is the width of a human hand, from the tip of the thumb to the tip of the pinky finger. 
In Slavic languages, the analogue of span is pyad ("peti, пядь"). It is the width from the tip of the thumb to the tip of the forefinger. 

</doc>
<doc id="55736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55736" title="Acting President of the United States">
Acting President of the United States

The Acting President of the United States is a person who temporary acts as President, when President cannot carry out his duties, but remained in office. This position was started under the 25th Amendment to the United States Constitution.
The acting President has all Presidential power and duties during the time of his or her term.
To date there have been two acting Presidents. Both were Vice Presidents:

</doc>
<doc id="55762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55762" title="Electric power transmission">
Electric power transmission

Electric power transmission is one process in the transmitting of electricity to consumers. The term refers to the bulk transfer of electrical power from place to place. Typically, power transmission is between the power plant and a substation near a populated area. Electric power distribution is the delivery from the substation to the consumers. Due to the large amount of power involved, transmission normally takes place at high voltage (110 kV or above). 
Electricity is usually transmitted over long distance through overhead power transmission lines. Underground power transmission is used only in densely populated areas (such as large cities) because of the high cost of installation and maintenance and because the power losses increase dramatically compared with overhead transmission unless superconductors and cryogenic technology are used. 
A power transmission system is sometimes referred to colloquially as a "grid"; however, for reasons of economy, the network is rarely a true grid. Redundant paths and lines are provided so that power can be routed from any power plant to any load center, through a variety of routes, based on the economics of the transmission path and the cost of power. 

</doc>
<doc id="55763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55763" title="Electrical grid">
Electrical grid

An electrical grid is a connection network of power generation, power transmission, power distribution and power load. The grid connects all of those parts in power systems to deliver power from the generators at the power station to the customers or load center which will use the electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="55766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55766" title="Darfur conflict">
Darfur conflict

The Darfur conflict is an ongoing military conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan, the third largest country in Africa. It is a conflict along ethnic and tribal lines that began in 2003. Many people, including the United States Government, consider it to be a genocide. The United Nations currently does not see this as genocide.
One side of the conflict is composed mainly of the Janja-weed, a militia group recruited from the Arab tribes who move from place to place herding camels. The Sudanese government tells the public that it does not support the Janja-weed. However, it has provided cash and assistance and has even participated in joint attacks.
The other side of the conflict is made up of a number of rebel armies, including the Sudan Liberation Movement and the Justice and Equality Movement. These armies are recruited from Black ethnic groups who make a living farming the land. 
The African Union sent a 7,000-troop peacekeeping force to Sudan. However, this force was poorly funded and under-equipped. So the United Nations decided to send an additional 17,300-troop peacekeeping force to help them. Sudan was strongly against this decision and saw the UN forces as foreign invaders. The next day, the Sudanese military launched a major offensive in the region.
The Sudanese government may have suppressed information about the conflict. Some witnesses have been jailed, others may have been killed. This started in 2004. Also, some evidence, such as mass graves was tampered with, so that it became unusable. Some people say this was done by forces which are close to the Sudanese government. In addition, by obstructing and arresting journalists, the Sudanese government has been able to obscure much of what has gone on. The United States government has described it as genocide. The UN has declined to do so. In March 2007 the UN mission accused Sudan's government of "gross violations" in Darfur and called for urgent international action to protect civilians there.
There are different estimates of how many died in the conflict. According to Sudan's government, 9,000 people have been killed. On the other hand, many other people say that it could be from 200,000 to over 400,000. By October 2006, as many as 2.5 million people had to move because of the conflict.
The United Nations says that about 200,000 people have been killed in the conflict so far. Most non-governmental organizations use 200,000 to more than 400,000. The latter is a figure from the Coalition for International Justice that has since been cited by the UN. Sudan's government claims that more than 9,000 people have been killed, although this figure is seen as a gross underestimate.

</doc>
<doc id="55767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55767" title="Darfur conflict bibliography">
Darfur conflict bibliography

This is the bibliography and reference section for the Darfur conflict series. Other websites to reports, news articles and other sources of information may also be found below.

</doc>
<doc id="55771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55771" title="AIESEC">
AIESEC

AIESEC (said like "Eye Seck"), is a big student organisation that was started in 1948. It was made to fix problems between countries and create peace after World War II. It has spread all over the world since it started. There are many members in about 125 countries.
AIESEC is an organisation that helps its members to develop themselves as leaders. It also has an exchange program for students and university graduates to intern or volunteer in other countries. Most members are students at university but some are paid to work for AIESEC. The organisation is presented in 125 countries and territories in the world. The headquarters of AIESEC are in Rotterdam.
Members say that AIESEC does a lot of good in the world through the exchange by helping people from different countries to share information about their culture.
For over 60 years of working AIESEC's main impact had been its alumni all over the world. These alumni become successful business leaders, politicians, and NGO directors. The approximate number of alumni 1 million.

</doc>
<doc id="55780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55780" title="Organelle">
Organelle

In cell biology, an organelle is a part of a cell that does a specific job. 
Organelles typically have their own plasma membrane round them. Most of the cell's organelles are in the cytoplasm.
The name "organelle" comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body. 
There are many types of organelles in eukaryotic cells. Prokaryotes were once thought not to have organelles, but some examples have now been found.
They are not organised like eukaryote organelles, and are not bounded by plasma membranes. They are called bacterial microcompartments.
The term is now widely used to refer to cellular structures surrounded by single or double plasma membranes. However, the older definition of a 'subcellular functional unit' still coexists. That is, the term is sometimes used for structures which are not membrane-bound.
The plasma membrane is a lipid bilayer with some proteins embedded in it. It keeps the ions and molecules of the organelle from merging with the surroundings.
Mitochondria and chloroplasts, which have double-membranes and their own DNA, are believed to have originated from incompletely consumed or invading prokaryotic organisms, which were adopted as a part of the invaded cell. This idea is supported in the endosymbiotic theory.
Prokaryotes are not so complex as eukaryotes. They were thought to have no internal structures enclosed by lipid membranes. 
However, recent research has shown that at least some prokaryotes have microcompartments such as carboxysomes. These subcellular compartments are 100–200 nm in diameter and are enclosed by a shell of proteins. Even more striking is the description of membrane-bound magnetosomes in bacteria. as well as the nucleus-like structures of the "Planctomycetes" that are surrounded by lipid membranes.

</doc>
<doc id="55785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55785" title="That '70s Show">
That '70s Show

That '70s Show is an American television series. It is about the lives of a group of teenagers living in Point Place, Wisconsin from May 17, 1976 to December 31, 1979. The series first started August 23, 1998 and its final episode aired May 18, 2006.
The series continues to run in syndication on FX and CW network in the United States and United Kingdom, CH in Canada, as well as the Seven Network in Australia and Star World in Asia, including Malaysia. It also runs on The NTV for teens.

</doc>
<doc id="55787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55787" title="Sivaya Subramuniyaswami">
Sivaya Subramuniyaswami

Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami (January 5, 1927 – 2001), known as Gurudeva by his followers, was a Hindu leader and author. He was born in Oakland, California. He made a Hindu monastery in Kauai, Hawaii and founded the magazine "Hinduism Today". Subramuniyaswami was an author of many books on Hinduism and metaphysics. He was one of the most traditional and well known people of Hinduism during the last two decades of the 20th century. He was one of Saivism's most revered Gurus, the founder and leader of the world's first Hindu church ("Saiva Siddhanta Church").
Subramuniyaswami has written several books on Hinduism, Saivism, yoga and meditation. His works are highly regarded by many of today's Hindu leaders. Subramuniyaswami's largest work, "Master Course", is a complete essay on all parts of Hinduism (Saivism), including the Hindu approach to meditation and metaphysics. It is in three books and more than 3,000 pages. The work is written in a flowing version of written English that is similar to the spoken language as well as ancient Hindu oral traditions.

</doc>
<doc id="55790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55790" title="Crazy Nights">
Crazy Nights

Crazy Nights is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 18, 1987. "Crazy Crazy Nights" was the first song released from the album. It reached #4 in the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="55792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792" title="Hot in the Shade">
Hot in the Shade

Hot in the Shade is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on October 17, 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="55793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55793" title="Halfway Home (TV series)">
Halfway Home (TV series)

Halfway Home is a comedy television series that premiered on Wednesday, March 14, 2007, at 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. As described on its official website, "Halfway Home" is an "improvised half-hour series featuring the daily exploits of five ex-cons living together in a residential rehab facility."

</doc>
<doc id="55801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55801" title="Prime Minister of New Zealand">
Prime Minister of New Zealand

The Prime Minister of New Zealand is New Zealand's head of government. This job is given to the leader of the party or coalition with the most support in the Parliament of New Zealand. Since 19 November 2008, the Prime Minister has been John Key of the National Party.
The role of the Prime Minister is not formally defined, being based on constitutional convention rather than specific legislation. According to these conventions, the Prime Minister is leader of Cabinet (itself a body existing by convention), and takes a co-ordinating role.
The Prime Minister holds the most senior post in the New Zealand Parliament. The Prime Minister is not able to give direct orders to other people in their party.
The Prime Minister can call for an election by asking the Governor-General to close Parliament

</doc>
<doc id="55834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55834" title="The Masque of the Red Death">
The Masque of the Red Death

"The Masque of the Red Death" is a short story by Edgar Allan Poe. It was first published in May 1842 in "Graham's Lady's and Gentleman's Magazine".

</doc>
<doc id="55835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55835" title="Darfur">
Darfur

Darfur (Arabic دار فور, meaning "home of the Fur") is region of far western Sudan.
It borders the Central African Republic, Libya, and Chad. It is divided into three federal states within Sudan: Gharb Darfur (West Darfur), Janub Darfur (South Darfur), and Shamal Darfur (North Darfur). It is currently in the midst of an ongoing humanitarian crisis that developed from the conflict between Ganjaweed militias and rebel groups (namely the Sudan Liberation Movement and Justice and Equality Movement)
Darfur covers an area of about 493 180 km² (196,555 miles²)—just over two-thirds the size of France and more than half the size of Kenya. It is largely an arid plateau with the "Marrah Mountains" (Jebel Marra), a range of volcanic peaks rising up to 3000 m (10,100 ft), in the center of the region. The region's main towns are Al Fashir, Nyala, and Geneina. 
There are four main features of the physical geography. The whole eastern half of Darfur is covered with plains and low hills of sandy soils, known as "goz", and sandstone hills. In many places the "goz" is waterless and can only be inhabited where there are water reservoirs or deep boreholes. To the north the "goz" is overtaken by the desert sands of the Sahara. A second feature are the "wadis", seasonal watercourses ranging from small rivulets that flood only occasionally during the wet season to large "wadis" that flood for most of the rains and flow from western Darfur hundreds of miles west to Lake Chad. Many "wadis" have pans of alluvium with rich soil that are also difficult to cultivate. The west of Darfur is dominated by the third feature, basement rock, sometimes covered with a thin layer of sandy soil. Basement rock is too infertile to be farmed, but provides sporadic forest cover that can be grazed by animals. The fourth and final feature are the Marrah Mountains, that rise up to a peak at Deriba crater where there is a small area of temperate climate, high rainfall and permanent springs of water. 
The rainy season is from June through September, transforming much of the region from dusty brown to green. Because much of the population of Darfur is agricultural, the rains are vital. In normal years, a crop is ready to be harvested by November. Once harvested, the dry stalks may be fed to domestic livestock. In the far northern desert, years may pass between rainfall. In the far south, annual average rainfall is 700 mm and many trees remain green year-round. 
Darfur has an estimated population of 7.4 million people. Darfur's economy is primarily based on subsistence agriculture, producing cereals, fruit and tobacco as well as livestock in the drier north. In addition to this, Darfur also suffers from frequent droughts during the summer and heavy rainfall in the winter. This has caused many farmers to provide inadequate crops causing the deaths of thousands of people.
The Darfur conflict is an ongoing armed conflict between the Janjaweed militia group and the tribes of the region. The United Nations estimates that over 400,000 people have lost their lives since the beginning of this conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="55838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55838" title="Mill">
Mill

Mill could mean:
People named Mill:

</doc>
<doc id="55839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55839" title="Mill (grinding)">
Mill (grinding)

A grinding mill is a tool that is designed to break a solid material into smaller pieces. There are many different types of grinding mills and many types of materials processed in them. Small mills can be powered by hand, such as a mortar and pestle or a pepper grinder. Large grinding mills were usually powered by working animals, wind (windmill) or water (watermill) in the past. In the 2000s, most large grinding mills are powered by electricity.
People who need to grind a small amount of a food, such as spices or grain, for their own cooking often use a hand-powered mortar and pestle or a hand-powered grinder, such as a pepper grinder. In the 2000s, many people also used electric-powered grinding mills. These kitchen appliances have a metal blade that grinds the food into small pieces. Electric-powered grinding mills are often used for grinding nuts or coffee.
For thousands of years, humans have ground their grains (such as wheat or corn) into flour using grain mills powered by working animals (such as oxen or horses), wind (windmills) or the running water of a stream or river (watermill). In the 2000s, most grain mills are powered by electricity. 
The grinding of solid matters occurs under exposure of mechanical forces that trench the structure by overcoming of the interior bonding forces. After the grinding the state of the solid is changed: the grain size, the grain size disposition and the grain shape.
For process engineering, several factors are important:magnification of the surface area of the solid; manufacturing of solid with wanted grain size; and the material to the desired state.

</doc>
<doc id="55840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55840" title="Windmill">
Windmill

A windmill is a type of engine. It uses the wind to make energy. To do this it uses vanes called sails or blades.
The energy made by windmills can be used in many ways. These include grinding grain or spices, pumping water and sawing wood. Modern wind power machines are used to create electricity. These are called wind turbines. Before modern times, windmills were most commonly used to grind grain into flour for making bread. 
An organ powered by a "windwheel" was written about in the 1st century AD by the Greek engineer Hero. It could have been the first machine in history that used wind power. Vertical axle windmills were used in eastern Persia (Sistan) by 60 AD. Horizontal axle windmills were invented in Northwestern Europe in the 1180s. This is the type often used today.
The first windmills had long vertical shafts with rectangle shaped blades. They existed in Persia in the 9th century. There is a story about a windmill and the second caliph Umar (634\644 AD). It is not known if this is a true story. These windmills were made of six to twelve sails. The sails were covered in reed matting or cloth. They were very different from European versions. A similar type of vertical shaft windmill with rectangle blades can also be found in 13th century China. They were used for irrigation.
The blades or sails of the windmill are turned by the wind. Gears and cogs makes the drive shaft inside the windmill turn. In a windmill used for making flour, this turns the grinding stones. As the stones turn, they crush the wheat (or other grain) between them. In a windmill used for pumping water, turning the drive shaft moves a piston. The piston can suck up and push out water as it moves up and down. In a windmill used for generating power, the drive shaft is connected to many gears. This increases the speed and is used to turn a generator to make electricity
Miguel de Cervantes' book "Don Quixote de La Mancha" has an important scene in which Don Quixote attacks windmills. He thinks that they are violent giants. Because of this, La Mancha and its windmills are famous. This is also the origin of the phrase "tilting at windmills". It means an act of uselessness. "Moulin Rouge" translated directly from French means "Red Windmill". 

</doc>
<doc id="55841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55841" title="Windmill (disambiguation)">
Windmill (disambiguation)

A windmill is an engine powered by the wind to produce energy, often contained in a large building as in traditional post mills, smock mills and tower mills. 
Windmill may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="55848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55848" title="Blood transfusion">
Blood transfusion

Blood transfusion is a medical term. It means a procedure used to transfer blood (or some products based on blood) from the circulatory system of one human to that of another human. 
Blood transfusions can save the life of a person, if that person has lost a lot of blood. A person can lose blood from an injury, a trauma or from a medical operation. Blood transfusions can also be applied as a treatment to certain diseases of the blood (like Anaemia, for example).
Blood is not collected and used immediately. Instead it is kept until it is needed. The storage area is informally called a blood bank . By adding anti-coagulant to keep the blood from clotting and refrigerating the blood, it is possible to store it for a few days. Information about transfusion and donation is available at the National Institutes of Health website .
Not all people are able to donate blood to all other people. Testing for blood types usually prevents any bad reaction to a blood transfusion. However, there are special problems for anyone with rare blood groups. It is very important, in order to avoid any complications during a blood transfusion, to detect individuals with rare blood types. The usual tests for ABO blood group system would show them as group O. It may not be possible to give a blood transfusion at all unless the repository has supply of blood which will not cause a reaction. 

</doc>
<doc id="55850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55850" title="Delirium">
Delirium

Delirium is a medical term. The condition is also known as acute confusional state. Doctors use it to describe patients who have lost parts or all of their ability to focus attention. People who suffer from it may also have problems to concentrate, or to remember things or other people. Delirium is a medical symptom. It is not a disease.
A delirium can have many causes. The most common ones include:
There are several definitions of what constitutes a delirium, but in general, the following is true:
Deliria are often treated with special drugs, called antipsychotics.
Deliria are always a medical emergency, because it is impossible to predict how they develop. Worst-case scenarios include cardiac arrest, and malfunctions of the metabolism. In order to be able to treat a delirium, its cause must usually be found. In the case of alcoholism, the most common cause for a delirium is the withdrawal of alcohol. This condition is known as Delirium tremens.

</doc>
<doc id="55851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55851" title="Jaundice">
Jaundice

Jaundice (also called icterus) is when the skin and the whites of the eyes become a yellow color. People with jaundice have a problem with their liver, which stops it from removing dead red blood cells properly. These blood cells contain a chemical called bilirubin. Bilirubin causes the yellow coloring of the skin. Jaundice is common in newly born babies. It usually starts the second day after birth.
Jaundice can also be caused by other diseases, like malaria, hepatitis, or gallstones.
Jaundice is the most common of all liver problems. The yellow colour of the skin and mucous membranes happens because of an increase in the bile pigment, bilirubin, in the blood.
The bile, made by the liver, is a vital digestive fluid needed for proper nutrition. It also stops decaying changes in food. If the bile is stopped from entering the intestines there is an increase in gases and other products. Normally, the production of bile and its flow is constant.
There are three types of jaundice:
Yellow discoloration of the skin and the whites of the eyes happens in all types of jaundice.
The symptoms of jaundice are:
Jaundice is a sign that the liver is not working. It may be caused by a blockage of the bile ducts which release bile salts and pigment into the intestines. The bile then gets mixed with blood and this gives a yellow colour to the skin. The blockage of the bile ducts could be caused by:
Other causes of jaundice are pernicious anaemia and diseases affecting the liver such as typhoid, malaria, yellow fever and tuberculosis.

</doc>
<doc id="55853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55853" title="Hildegard of Bingen">
Hildegard of Bingen

Hildegard of Bingen (born Bemersheim nr. Alzey 1098; died 17 September 1179) was a German writer, composer and mystic. She was an abbess who is well known for her literary works and her songs. She also wrote about medical and scientific things, and wrote letters to many important politicians.
Hildegard was born into a noble family. Her parents sent her to a monastery because she was the tenth child of the family. She took the veil (became a nun) at the age of 15. By the time she was 38 she had the title of “mother superior”. She founded (started) a monastery on the Rupertsberg in the Rhine valley near Bingen. Later she founded a daughter house on the other side of the river near Rüdesheim. She travelled a lot and talked to many important people. She later had the title of “abbess”. After she died several popes suggested she should be made a saint, but this never happened. She does, though, have a feast day on September 17, which is celebrated in some parts of Germany.
Known as the "Sybil of the Rhine", Hildegard had many visions, many of which she wrote down.They were mostly about God and his relationship with humans, the church, redemption from God, and creation. She wrote lyrical poetry which was very colourful and had lots of visionary ideas. Her music does not use plainchant like the music of many other medieval composers at the time. It mostly has small patterns of melody which are repeated many times in slightly different ways. Her music was also different because the chants she wrote were written for female voices, in a higher range than earlier chants. This made them easier for women's voices. She wrote a morality play in verse with 82 melodies.
Hildegard of Bingen is the first composer whose life we know about. She may possibly be the first woman to write about female sexuality.

</doc>
<doc id="55855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55855" title="Alternative medicine">
Alternative medicine

Alternative medicine describes practices used in place of conventional medical treatments. Some patients seek these practices along with conventional medicine.
Alternative medicine includes practices that incorporate spiritual, metaphysical, or religious belief; non-evidence based practices, non-European medical traditions, or newly developed approaches to healing. 
Examples include acupuncture, chiropractic and homeopathy.

</doc>
<doc id="55856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55856" title="Divaldo Pereira Franco">
Divaldo Pereira Franco

Divaldo Pereira Franco or simply, Divaldo Franco is a Brazilian medium, born in Feira de Santana, Bahia, on May 5th, 1927.
He has been, for almost 60 years, an important spiritual speaker and writer, having devoted more than 50 years to spirituality and more than 40 years dedicated taking care of the street children of Salvador, Bahia.
On 15 August 1952, he founded (along with Nilson de Souza Pereira), the "House of Assistance" (Mansão do Caminho), responsible for the orientation and education of over 33,000 devoid children and adolescents.
Divaldo graduated from the Escola Normal Rural de Feira de Santana, where he received his Primary School Professor diploma in 1943. Since his infancy, he claimed to be able to communicate with spirits.
When he was young, he was traumatized by the death of his two older brothers, so much so that he became sick. He was taken to several Medical specialists, none of them could give a satisfactory diagnosis. After this, he met Dr. Ana Ribeiro Borges, who persuaded him to take up the spiritist doctrine. During his period of convalescence, he dedicated himself to the study of spiritism. After the body health be restored, he continued studying the spiritism.

</doc>
<doc id="55857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55857" title="Hindu gods">
Hindu gods

One Supreme God is worshipped within Hinduism. The Supreme God is regarded as an entity that exists in and gives life to all things. He is believed to have created the universe and many other Gods or Devas, to be his helpers. Different aspects of the Supreme God are worshipped, depending on the Hindu tradition. The other Gods, helpers of the Supreme God, are also worshipped. Gods in Hinduism are highly advanced spiritual beings, often represented in humanoid or partially humanoid forms.
In Vaishnavism, Narayanan (Vishnu) is the supreme God and it tells he produced Brahma and Shiva and in shaivism the supreme god is shiva. 
In Indian history of religion Lord Shiva was worshipped in pre-historic time. The first concept of supreme being comes from Hinduism. Pre-historic India attests first supreme being as Shiva, which literally means “the supreme one”.
Another manifestation of Shiva is Mahadeva, which literally means “Lord of all the lords(or the god of gods).”. Shiva is also known as Maheshvara, the great Lord, Mahadeva, the great God, Shambhu, Hara, Pinakadhrik, bearer of the axe and Mrityunjaya, conqueror of death. He is the spouse of Shakti, the goddess. He also is represented by Mahakala and Bhairava, the terrible, as well as many other forms including Rudra.
All Hindus worship one Supreme Being, though by different names. This is because the people of India with different languages and cultures have understood one God in their own distinct ways. Regional and family traditions can play a large part in influencing this choice. Through history four principal Hindu denominations arose —Saivism, Shaktism, Vaishnavism and Smartism. For Saivites, God is Siva. For Shaktas, Goddess Shakti is supreme. For Vaishnavites, Lord Vishnu is God. For Smartas —who see all Deities as reflections of the One God— the choice of Deity is left to the devotee.
Later on vedas were written in which the three manifestation of God was scripted as "Brahma,Maha Vishnu and Mahesh (Shiva). The Vedas (Sanskrit वेद véda, "knowledge") are a large body of texts originating in Ancient India. The texts are composed in Vedic Sanskrit and form the oldest layer of Sanskrit literature, and the oldest sacred texts of Hinduism.
Most Hindus, in their daily devotional practices, worship some form of a personal aspect of God, although they believe in the more abstract concept of a Supreme God as well. They generally choose one concept of God, and cultivate devotion to that chosen form, while at the same time respecting the chosen ideals of other people. The many different names given to the Supreme God in Hinduism encourage a multiplicity of paths, as opposed to conformity to just one. The unique understanding in Hinduism is that God is not far away, living in a remote heaven, but is all-pervasive and energizes the entire universe. He is also inside each soul, waiting to be discovered. Knowing the one Supreme God in this intimate and experiential way is the goal of Hindu spirituality.
Hindus also believe in many Gods (Devas) who perform various functions, like executives in a large corporation. These should not be confused with the Supreme God. These Divinities are highly advanced beings who have specific duties and powers—not unlike the heavenly spirits, overlords or archangels revered in other faiths. Each denomination worships the Supreme God and its own set of divine beings.
Devas (also called Devatās) constitute an integral part of the colorful Hindu culture. These various forms of God are represented in innumerable paintings, statues, murals, and scriptural stories that can be found in temples, homes, businesses, and other places. In Hinduism the scriptures recommend that for the satisfaction of a particular material desire a person may worship a particular deity. For example, shopkeepers frequently keep a statue or picture of the devi Lakshmi in their shops.
The concept of Goddess Durga as the supreme goddess emerged in historical religious literature as a term to define the powerful and influential nature of female deities in India. Throughout history, goddesses have been portrayed as the mother of the universe, through whose powers the universe is created and destroyed. The gradual changes in belief through time shape the concept of Bhuvaneswari and express how the different Goddes carry the power of the universe on their shoulders.She is almighty. There is a suggestion that she took avatars as Parvati to join with her husband Shiva.

</doc>
<doc id="55862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55862" title="Coheed and Cambria">
Coheed and Cambria

Coheed and Cambria (sometimes abbreviated to "Coheed," "CO & CA" or "C&C") is an American rock band from New York.
Coheed and Cambria have made four studio albums, two live albums, and some special albums. Their studio albums are concept albums, showing one story broken into parts. The band wants to make five albums telling the story of The Amory Wars. Now, four albums have been released: "The Second Stage Turbine Blade", "In Keeping Secrets of Silent Earth: 3", "Good Apollo I'm Burning Star IV, Volume One: From Fear Through the Eyes of Madness", and "Good Apollo, I'm Burning Star IV, Volume Two: No World for Tomorrow", and "Year of the Black Rainbow". These albums make the first, second, third, and fourth part of the four-part story of Coheed and Cambria. The albums have been made out of order; the second part was made first, and the first part has been made last.
When a band called Toxic Parents, with Claudio Sanchez and Travis Stever in it, broke up about the same time as Nate Kelley's band, Moe & The Boogie Cats, the members of these bands came together to form a new band in March 1995. This band was called Beautiful Loser. It had Travis Stever singing and playing guitar, Claudio Sanchez on guitar, Nate Kelley on drums and Jon Carleo on bass. The group did not last long, it broke up in June of 1995; they had an argument about gas money. Stever left the band, and Kelley was kicked out, but he came back when Sanchez asked him to. Without Stever, the band only had three people, so Sanchez started to sing and play guitar.
They changed their name to Shabütie, a chant taken from the movie "The Naked Prey". The band constantly changed and experimented with different genres and styles, never properly deciding a set genre. When Carleo left the band in August 1996, Kelley asked Michael Todd to join the band, who he had worked with in an acoustic project called "Esme 9". Todd, a guitar player, started playing bass because of Shabütie.
After Kelley left, Sanchez and the other people picked Josh Eppard, who was in the band "3", to take his place. In 2001, shortly after The Delirium Trigger EP was made, they changed their name to Coheed and Cambria and Shabütie was finished. The band was now a four piece: Claudio Sanchez, (lead vocals/guitar), Travis Stever, (backup vocals/guitar), Michael Todd, (backup vocals/bass guitar), and Josh Eppard, (drums). When playing live, Dave Parker (keyboards/guitar), sometimes plays too.
Josh Eppard could not play at Coheed and Cambria's June 9 slot at the Download Festival in the UK because he was ill. A few days later, the band canceled the Barcelona and Essen parts of their European tour. 
In November 2006, it was announced that both Josh Eppard and Mic Todd had left the band. 
A few months after, Mic Todd returned to work on the No World For Tomorrow with the band.
It was announced a few days before the band embarked on Warped Tour '07 that Chris Pennie, the former drummer for Dillinger Escape Plan, is working with the band in studio. 
The band debuted their first single from No World For Tomorrow, The Running Free during Warped Tour '07.
In July, a website registered to Sony appeared on the internet, www.noworldfortomorrow.com. This website contained a countdown.
After this countdown ended, a message was released and another countdown appeared. This showed that a message would be released weekly. An archive of the messages released can be found here.
On October 23, 2007 The band's forth studio album was released under the name "" It was met with positive reviews from online zines such as Rollingstone.com and Absolutepunk.net.
Sanchez has said that he is influenced by bands like Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin, Thin Lizzy, Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden, Yes and many people say that they sound like Rush. But, Claudio Sanchez has said that he never listened to the band until he heard people say that they sounded like each other. "Metal Hammer" magazine called the band the "new Led Zeppelin" on the front cover of issue 153. They also have hardcore punk influences such as Bad Brains and The Misfits. Claudio also said in an interview he learned to play guitar by listening to the Misfits' Legacy of Brutality.
"Work done as Shabűtie is noted."
The Coheed and Cambria albums are coming out out of sequence; the last album to come out will be the first part of the series. The first CD made was "The Second Stage Turbine Blade", the second part in the story, the third and fourth parts came out next. The next album has been called "Most Anticipated Album of 2007" by the "Alternative Press" magazine. The February 2007 issue of "Kerrang!" says, "Among the songs that may or may not appear on the album are 'Gravemakers And Gunslingers' and 'The Hound Of Blood And Rank.'" Also, the issue says that a release should come out in either late spring or early summer.
A cover of Night Ranger's 'Sister Christian' was released by the band via the bands official website as an MP3 download as a Christmas present to their fans. Similarly, a cover of The Band's "I Shall Be Released" was uploaded onto the bands MySpace page as a Christmas Present to their fans in 2006. The band also used to play a cover of Iron Maiden's "The Trooper" at concerts. A song called "The Glass" was in the process of being written for the movie Spiderman 2's soundtrack, but the song was not finished in time and it was scrapped. Many Shabütie songs are circulated on the internet. Some were recorded in a studio, but others were recorded on a 4-track, resulting in poor quality audio. There is also a live bootleg on the internet of a song played by Shabütie that fans named "Nauraushaun". It was assumed that this song was one song in full, but former drummer Nate Kelley has recently told fans that the song was in fact two songs played in a medley. These two songs are "Origins" and "Life Without You". These two songs were never recorded except for the bootleg that has been circulating, although "Life Without You" was almost recorded instead of "Cassiopeia". In the end the band decided they liked "Cassiopeia" more and this was recorded instead.
A series of six vignettes that showcase music from "Good Apollo I'm Burning Star IV, Volume One: From Fear Through the Eyes of Madness" were made and are on the albums' special edition bonus DVD.

</doc>
<doc id="55878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55878" title="Watermill">
Watermill

A watermill is an engine that uses a water wheel or turbine to drive a mechanical process such as flour or lumber production, or metal shaping (rolling, grinding or wire drawing). A watermill that only generates electricity is more usually called a hydroelectric plant.
The watermill was invented in China during the Han dynasty (202 BC 220 AD) in order to grind grain as well as to power piston bellows of a blast furnace in forging cast iron.
In the text known as the "Xin Lun" written by Huan Tan about 20 AD (during the usurpation of Wang Mang), it states that the legendary mythological king known as Fu Xi was the one responsible for the pestle and mortar, or tilt-hammer device (see trip hammer).
In 31 AD, a Chinese engineer named Du Shi (Wade-Giles: Tu Shih) ""invented the first water-powered bellows. This was a complicated machine with gears, axles, and levers that was powered by a waterwheel",". This invention aided the forging of cast iron smelted from the blast furnace. Du Shi's invention was continued by Chinese in subsequent dynastic periods of China, although the bellows of his device were improved upon in later periods (from leather bellows to wooden-fan bellows).
The ancient Greeks and Romans have used the technology. In the 1st century BC, the Greek epigrammatist "Antipater of Thessalonica" was the first to make a reference to the waterwheel. He praised it for its use in grinding grain and the reduction of human labor.
The Romans used both fixed and floating water wheels and introduced water power to other countries of the Roman Empire. So-called 'Greek Mills' used water wheels with a vertically mounted shaft. A "Roman Mill" features a horizontally-mounted shaft. Greek style mills are the older and simpler of the two designs, but only operate well with high water velocities and with small diameter millstones. Roman style mills are more complicated as they require gears transmit the power from a shaft with a horizontal axis to one with a vertical axis. An example of a Roman era watermill would be the early 4th century site at Barbegal in southern France, where 16 overshot waterwheels were used to power an enormous flour mill.
The Cistercian Order built huge mill complexes all over Western Europe during the medieval period.
In a 2005 survey the scholar Adam Lucas identified the following first appearances of various industrial mill types in Western Europe. Noticeable is the preeminent role of France in the introduction of new innovative uses of waterpower.
Typically, water is diverted from a river or impoundment or mill pond to a turbine or water wheel, along a channel or pipe (variously known as a flume, head race, mill race, leat, leet, lade (Scots) or penstock). The force of the water's movement drives the blades of a wheel or turbine, which in turn rotates an axle that drives the mill's other machinery. Water leaving the wheel or turbine is drained through a tail race, but this channel may also be the head race of yet another wheel, turbine or mill. The passage of water is controlled by sluice gates that allow maintenance and some measure of flood control; large mill complexes may have dozens of sluices controlling complicated interconnected races that feed multiple buildings and industrial processes.
Watermills can be divided into two kinds, one with a horizontal waterwheel on a vertical axle, and the other with a vertical wheel on a horizontal axle. The oldest of these were horizontal mills in which the force of the water, striking a simple paddle wheel set horizontally in line with the flow turned a runner stone balanced on the rynd which is atop a shaft leading directly up from the wheel. The bedstone does not turn. The problem with this type of mill arose from the lack of gearing; the speed of the water directly set the maximum speed of the runner stone which, in turn, set the rate of milling.

</doc>
<doc id="55879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55879" title="Coma">
Coma

Coma is a medical term. It is a state of deep unconsciousness. People who are in that state cannot be woken up. They also do not react to pain or light. Coma can result from various conditions. Some of these are intoxication, poisons or damages or diseases of the nervous system. It can also be the result of certain drugs. Doctors sometimes put patients that have very bad injuries into a coma. There are different levels of coma. Comas usually do not last more than several weeks, but those several weeks could be disastrous. Sometimes only basic bodily functions are left over. Intensive hospital care is often needed to recover some of these functions.
Some comas can last years, but these are usually not woken up from. The family of a coma victim (or whoever has the power of attorney) can sign papers so that they are taken off of life support and die.

</doc>
<doc id="55880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55880" title="Water wheel">
Water wheel

A water wheel is a hydropower system; a machine for extracting power from the flow of water. Water wheels and hydropower was widely used in the Middle Ages, powering most industry in Europe, along with the windmill. The most common use of the water wheel was to mill flour in gristmills, but other uses included foundry work and machining, and pounding linen for use in paper.
A water wheel consists of a large wooden or metal wheel, with a number of blades or buckets arranged on the outside rim forming the driving surface. Most commonly, the wheel is mounted vertically on a horizontal axle, but the tub or Norse wheel is mounted horizontally on a vertical shaft. Vertical wheels can transmit power either through the axle or via a ring gear and typically drive belts or gears; horizontal wheels usually directly drive their load. A channel created for the water to follow after leaving the wheel is commonly referred to as a "tailrace."
"Main article:" Watermill
The technology of the water wheel had long been known, but it was not put into widespread use until the Middle Ages when an acute shortage of labor made machines such as the water wheel cost effective. However, the water wheels in ancient Rome and ancient China found many practical uses in powering mills for pounding grain and other substances. The Romans used both fixed and floating water wheels and introduced water power to other countries of the Roman Empire. The Romans were known to use waterwheels extensively in mining projects, with enormous Roman-era waterwheels found in places like modern-day Spain. In the 1st century BC, the Greek epigrammatist "Antipater of Thessalonica" was the first to make a reference to the waterwheel.
By at least the 1st century AD, the Chinese of the Eastern Han Dynasty began to use waterwheels to crush grain in mills and to power the piston-bellows in forging iron ore into cast iron.
In the text known as the "Xin Lun" written by Huan Tan about 20 AD (during the usurpation of Wang Mang), it states that the legendary mythological king known as Fu Xi was the one responsible for the pestle and mortar, which evolved into the tilt-hammer and then trip hammer device (see trip hammer). Although the author speaks of the mythological Fu Xi, a passage of his writing gives hint that the waterwheel was in widespread use by the 1st century AD in China.
In the year 31 AD, the engineer and Prefect of Nanyang, Du Shi, applied a complex use of the waterwheel and machinery to power the bellows of the blast furnace to create cast iron. 
Waterwheels in China found practical uses such as this, as well as extraordinary use. The inventor Zhang Heng (78–139) was the first in history to apply motive power in rotating the astronomical instrument of an armillary sphere, by use of a waterwheel. The mechanical engineer Ma Jun (200–265) once used a waterwheel to power and operate a large mechanical puppet theater for Emperor Ming of Wei.
Cistercian monasteries, in particular, made extensive use of water wheels to power watermills of many kinds. An early example of a very large waterwheel is the still extant wheel at the early 13th century Real Monasterio de Nuestra Senora de Rueda, a Cistercian monastery in the Aragon region of Spain. Grist mills (for corn) were undoubtedly the most common, but there were also sawmills, fulling mills and mills to fulfill many other labor-intensive tasks. The water wheel remained competitive with the steam engine well into the Industrial Revolution.
The main difficulty of water wheels was their inseparability from water. This meant that mills often needed to be located far from population centers and away from natural resources. Water mills were still in commercial use well into the twentieth century, however.
Overshot & pitchback waterwheels are suitable where there is a small stream with a height difference of more than 2 meters, often in association with a small reservoir. Breastshot and undershot wheels can be used on rivers or high volume flows with large reservoirs. 
The most powerful waterwheel built in the United Kingdom was the 100 hp Quarry Bank Mill Waterwheel near Manchester. A high breastshot design, it was retired in 1904 and replaced with several turbines. It has now been restored and is a museum open to the public.
Modern Hydro-electric dams can be viewed as the descendants of the water wheel as they too take advantage of the movement of water downhill.

</doc>
<doc id="55881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55881" title="Favism">
Favism

Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (sometimes also called G6PD deficiency, or favism) is a hereditary disease. This means it is passed on through the genes from a parent to the child. It leads to a form of anaemia. There are some means to treat it, though the focus of the doctors now lies on prevention (avoiding parents passing it on to their child). As it is linked to the X chromosome, most people who suffer from it are male. 
Sufferers can not make the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. This will mean the circulation of sugar in their body is different. More red blood cells will be destroyed because of it. About 400 million people suffer from this condition. Very often, it can be found in regions where there is also malaria. This is because the red blood cells found in people with favism are not targeted by malaria.
This condition may result from an allergy to alkaloids in Vicia faba (Faba Bean, Broad bean, Windsor bean).

</doc>
<doc id="55884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55884" title="Hydropower">
Hydropower

Hydropower is the capture of the energy of moving water for some useful purpose. 
In the 1830s, at the peak of the canal-building era, hydropower was used to transport barge traffic up and down steep hills using inclined plane railroads. For direct mechanical power transmission industries that used hydropower had to be near the waterfall. For example, during the last half of the 19th century, many grist mills were built at Saint Anthony Falls, to use the 50 foot (15 metre) drop in the Mississippi River. The mills were important for the growth of Minneapolis. Today the largest use of hydropower is for electric power generation. That allows low cost energy to be used at long distances from the watercourse. 
There are many forms of water power:
"Main article: Hydroelectricity"
Hydroelectric power is a means of making electricity without burning fuel. Hydroelectric power supplies about 715,000 MWe or 19% of world electricity (16% in 2003). Large dams are still being designed. Apart from a few countries with plenty of it, hydro power is normally applied to peak load demand because it is readily stopped and started. Nevertheless, hydroelectric power is probably not a major option for future energy production in the developed nations, because most major sites within these nations are either already being exploited or are unavailable for other reasons, such as environmental considerations.
Hydropower produces essentially no carbon dioxide or other harmful emissions, in contrast to burning fossil fuels, and is not a significant contributor to global warming through CO.
Hydroelectric power can be far less expensive than electricity generated from fossil fuel or nuclear energy. Areas with abundant hydroelectric power attract industry. Environmental concerns about the effects of reservoirs may prohibit development of economic hydropower sources. 
The chief advantage of hydroelectric dams is their ability to handle seasonal (as well as daily) high peak loads. When the electricity demands drop, the dam simply stores more water. Some electricity generators use water dams to store excess energy (often during the night), by using the electricity to pump water up into a basin. Electricity can be generated when demand increases. In practice the utilization of stored water in river dams is sometimes complicated by demands for irrigation which may occur out of phase with peak electrical demands.
Harnessing the tides in a bay or estuary has been achieved in France (since 1966), Canada and Russia, and could be achieved in other areas with a large tidal range. The trapped water turns turbines as it is released through the tidal barrage in either direction. Another possible fault is that the system would generate electricity most efficiently in bursts every six hours (once every tide). This limits how tidal energy can be used. 
A relatively new technology, tidal stream generators draw energy from currents in much the same way that wind generators do. The higher density of water means that a single generator can provide significant power. This technology is at the early stages of development and will need more research before it can produce any higher amount of energy.
But several were tested in the UK, in France and the USA. Already in 2003 a turbine that produces 300 kW was tested in the UK.
The Canadian company Blue Energy has plans for installing very large arrays tidal current devices mounted in what they call a 'tidal fence' in various locations around the world, based on a vertical axis turbine design.
Power from ocean surface wave motion might produce much more energy than tides. It has been tested that it is possible to produce energy from waves, particularly in Scotland in the UK. But there are still a lot of technical problems.
A prototype shore based wave power generator is being constructed at "Port Kembla" in Australia and is expected to generate up to 500 MWh annually. Wave energy is captured by an air driven generator and converted to electricity. For countries with large coastlines and rough sea conditions, the energy of waves offers the possibility of generating electricity in utility volumes. Excess power during rough seas could be used to produce hydrogen.

</doc>
<doc id="55885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55885" title="South Pacific">
South Pacific

South Pacific is the name for a geographical region of the world. It includes regions of the Pacific Ocean which lie south of the Equator: Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, and parts of Oceania.

</doc>
<doc id="55888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55888" title="Guido von List">
Guido von List

Guido (von) List (who was born as Karl Anton List) (* 5 October 1848 in Vienna; † 17 May 1919 in Berlin) was a writer. His works were influenced very much by ideas of race. He was influenced by Arthur de Gobineau, Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, and others. He believed there was a global jewish conspiracy. He thought that the conspiracy threatened those he believed to be the Aryan race. He also believed that Runes had magic power. His beliefs were not unpopular in Western Europe in the 19th century. He was an occultist. A contemporary of his was Houston Steward Chamberlain. Chambelain lived at the same time as he did. One of his successors was Jörg Lanz von Liebenfels.

</doc>
<doc id="55899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55899" title="Franklins">
Franklins

Franklins is a cheap supermarket company in New South Wales in Australia. At one time, it had shops in other states of Australia.
The name of the shops is named after Frank Lindstrom, who started Franklins in 1941 in the city of Sydney in Australia. The shops were created in a time when other supermarkets had low prices, by keeping expenses low. It grew to cover much of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia with a reputation for low prices on groceries. It claims to be "Australia's Original Discount Grocer".
Franklins was the first supermarket in Australia to have brand name products. These products are called No Frills. In fact, the company's shops only sold these products when it first came about. It started out with a few products but now they have 800 products. This ranges from bread to window cleaners. Today, a mascot of Franklins called Red Sock advertises these products.
Franklins offers a wide range of products including No Frills. Franklins mostly deals in food and everyday articles. It even has Franklins brand name products like bread and meat.
A wide range of people shop at Franklins to buy a wide range of articles. In some shops, people can buy their food and everyday articles at Franklins. They can then buy their fresh food outside of the store. In other stores, people can get fresh food articles as well as food and everyday articles all in the one place. Franklins even has a 'bottle shop' inside a few stores where people can get their beer and wine from. These places are both cheap and convenient to shop in.
When Franklins first started, their business philosophy was like Aldi's: "No extras, no service, no music and no electronic cash - only articles at extremely low prices" or as Franklins had put it: "Strictly No Frills". Because of big competition with other "good-looking" shops, it no longer follows this philosophy.
Franklins is still cheap but it has more competition from other markets, such as Aldi. Today, Franklins is owned by the Pick n Pay supermarket company from the country of South Africa. It has opened "Franklins Family Supermarkets" in 2006, independently franchise shops of both Franklins and Pick n Pay.

</doc>
<doc id="55904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55904" title="Hannover 96">
Hannover 96

Hannover 96 is a sports club in Hanover, a city in northern Germany.
The sports club was founded in 1896. Hannover 96 is famous for its football (AE: "Soccer") team that has almost always played in the first or second German football league (Except 1996-1998). 
Hannover 96 was German Football Champion in 1938 and 1954 and German Cup winner in 1992. The club played eight seasons in European cup competitions (24 matches).
Home stadium of Hannover 96 is the HDI-Arena (capacity: 49.000).
In 1963 the German national Football League, the "Fußball-Bundesliga" was founded. Hannover 96 joined the Bundesliga in 1964 and played there for the following ten years. In the 1970s and 1980s the club went down to the second league and up again several times. In the 1990s Hannover 96 played eight seasons in the second "Bundesliga" and two years in the third league, the "Regionalliga Nord" (1996-98).
Since 2002, Hannover 96 is (again) a member of the first German Football league, the Bundesliga.
Some famous players who have been in the team for a long time: Altin Lala Albanian national player, Steven Cherundolo, USA-national player, Robert Enke, former German national goalkeeper.
The coach of the football team (August 2014) is Taifun Korkut, the club's president is Martin Kind.
Former Coaches: Dieter Hecking 2009, Andreas Bergmann 2009, Peter Neururer 2006, Ewald Lienen 2005, Ralf Rangnick 2004, Horst Ehrmanntraut 2001, ...

</doc>
<doc id="55905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55905" title="Water turbine">
Water turbine

A water turbine is a rotary engine that takes energy from moving water.
Water turbines were developed in the nineteenth century and were widely used for industrial power prior to electrical grids. Now they are mostly used for electric power generation. They harness a clean and renewable energy source.
Water wheels have been used for thousands of years for industrial power. Their main shortcoming is size, which limits the flow rate and head that can be used.
The migration from water wheels to modern turbines took about one hundred years. Development occurred during the Industrial revolution, using scientific principles and methods. They also made extensive use of new materials and manufacturing methods developed at the time.
The word turbine was coined by the French engineer Claude Bourdin in the early 19th century and is derived from the Latin word for "whirling" or a "vortex". The main difference between early water turbines and water wheels is a component of the water which passes energy to a spinning rotor. This additional component of motion allowed the turbine to be smaller than a water wheel of the same power. They could process more water by spinning faster and could use much greater heads. (Later, impulse turbines were developed which did not use swirl).
Ján Andrej Segner developed a reactive water turbine in the mid-1700s. It had a horizontal axis and was a precursor to modern water turbines. It is a very simple machine that is still produced today for use in small hydro sites. Segner worked with Euler on some of the early mathematical theories of turbine design.
In 1820, Jean-Victor Poncelet developed an inward-flow turbine.
In 1826 Benoit Fourneyron developed an outward-flow turbine. This was an efficient machine (~80%) that sent water through a runner with blades curved in one dimension. The stationary outlet also had curved guides.
In 1844 Uriah A. Boyden developed an outward flow turbine that improved on the performance of the Fourneyron turbine. Its runner shape was similar to that of a Francis turbine.
In 1849, James B. Francis improved the inward flow reaction turbine to over 90% efficiency. He also conducted sophisticated tests and developed engineering methods for water turbine design. The Francis turbine, named for him, is the first modern water turbine. It is still the most widely used water turbine in the world today.
Inward flow water turbines have a better mechanical arrangement and all modern reaction water turbines are of this design. Also, as the swirling mass of water spins into a tighter rotation, it tries to speed up to conserve energy. This property acts on the runner, in addition to the water's falling weight and swirling motion. Water pressure decreases to zero as it passes through the turbine blades and gives up its energy.
Around 1890, the modern fluid bearing was invented, now universally used to support heavy water turbine spindles. As of 2002, fluid bearings appear to have a mean time between failures of more than 1300 years.
Around 1913, Victor Kaplan created the Kaplan turbine, a propeller-type machine. It was an evolution of the Francis turbine but revolutionized the ability to develop low-head hydro sites.
All common water machines until the late 19th century (including water wheels) were reaction machines; water's "pressure" head acted on the machine and produced work. A reaction turbine needs to fully contain the water during energy transfer.
In 1866, California millwright Samuel Knight invented a machine that worked off a completely different concept. Inspired by the high pressure jet systems used in hydraulic mining in the gold fields, Knight developed a bucketed wheel which captured the energy of a free jet, which had converted a high head (hundreds of vertical feet in a pipe or penstock) of water to kinetic energy. This is called an impulse or tangential turbine. The water's velocity, roughly twice the velocity of the bucket periphery, does a u-turn in the bucket and drops out of the runner at 0 velocity.
In 1879, Lester Pelton, experimenting with a Knight Wheel, developed a double bucket design, which exhausted the water to the side, eliminating some energy loss of the Knight wheel which exhausted some water back against the center of the wheel. In about 1895, William Doble improved on Pelton's half-cylindrical bucket form with an elliptical bucket that included a cut in it to allow the jet a cleaner bucket entry. This is the modern form of the Pelton turbine which today achieves up to 92% efficiency. Pelton had been quite an effective promoter of his design and although Doble took over the Pelton company he did not change the name to Doble because it had brand name recognition.
Turgo and Crossflow turbines were later impulse designs.
Flowing water is directed on to the blades of a turbine runner, creating a force on the blades. Since the runner is spinning, the force acts through a distance (force acting through a distance is the definition of work). In this way, energy is transferred from the water flow to the turbine.
Water turbines are divided into two groups; reaction turbines and impulse turbines.
Reaction turbines are acted on by water, which changes pressure as it moves through the turbine and gives up its energy. They must be encased to contain the water pressure (or suction), or they must be fully submerged in the water flow.
Newton's Third Law of Motion describes the transfer of energy for reaction turbines.
Most water turbines in use are reaction turbines. They are used in low and medium head applications.
Impulse turbines change the velocity of a water jet. The jet pushes the turbine's curved blades which reverse the flow. The resulting change in momentum (impulse) causes a force on the turbine blades. Since the turbine is spinning, the force acts through a distance (work) and the diverted water flow is left with diminished energy.
Prior to hitting the turbine blades, the water's pressure (potential energy) is converted to kinetic energy by a nozzle and focused on the turbine. No pressure change occurs at the turbine blades, and the turbine does not require a housing for operation.
Newton's Second Law of Motion describes the transfer of energy for impulse turbines.
Impulse turbines are most often used in very high head applications.
The power available in a stream of water is;
formula_1
where:
Some water turbines are designed for Pumped storage hydroelectricity. They can reverse flow and operate as a pump to fill a high reservoir during off-peak electrical hours, and then revert to a turbine for power generation during peak electrical demand. This type of turbine is usually a Deriaz or Francis in design.
Large modern water turbines operate at mechanical efficiencies greater than 90% (not to be confused with thermodynamic efficiency).
Reaction turbines:
Impulse turbines:
Turbine selection is based mostly on the available water head, and less so on the available flow rate. In general, impulse turbines are used for high head sites, and reaction turbines are used for low head sites. Kaplan turbines are well-adapted to wide ranges of flow or head conditions, since their peak efficiency can be achieved over a wide range of flow conditions.
Small turbines (mostly under 10 MW) may have horizontal shafts, and even fairly large bulb-type turbines up to 100 MW or so may be horizontal. Very large Francis and Kaplan machines usually have vertical shafts because this makes best use of the available head, and makes installation of a generator more economical. Pelton wheels may be either vertical or horizontal shaft machines because the size of the machine is so much less than the available head. Some impulse turbines use multiple water jets per runner to increase specific speed and balance shaft thrust.
Turbines are designed to run for decades with very little maintenance of the main elements; overhaul intervals are on the order of several years. Maintenance of the runners and parts exposed to water include removal, inspection, and repair of worn parts.
Normal wear and tear is pitting from cavitation, fatigue cracking, and abrasion from suspended solids in the water. Steel elements are repaired by welding, usually with stainless steel rod. Damage areas are cut or ground out, then welding back up to their original or an improved profile. Old turbine runners may have a significant amount of stainless steel added this way by the end of their lifetime. Elaborate welding procedures may be used to achieve the highest quality repairs.
Other elements requiring inspection and repair during overhauls include bearings, packing box and shaft sleeves, servomotors, cooling systems for the bearings and generator coils, seal rings, wicket gate linkage elements and all surfaces.
Water turbines have had both positive and negative impacts on the environment.
They are one of the cleanest producers of power, replacing the burning of fossil fuels and eliminating nuclear waste. Burning fossil fuels produces smoke and ash, and toxic gases such as carbon monoxide. Nuclear waste emits dangerous radiation and is difficult to dispose of. They use a renewable energy source and are designed to operate for decades. They produce significant amounts of the world's electrical supply.
Historically there have also been negative consequences. The rotating blades or gated runners of water turbines can interrupt the natural ecology of rivers, killing fish, stopping migrations, and disrupting peoples' livelihoods. For example, American Indian tribes in the Pacific Northwest had livelihoods built around salmon fishing, but aggressive dam-building destroyed their way of life. Since the late 20th century, it has been possible to construct hydropower systems that divert fish and other organisms away from turbine intakes without significant damage or loss of power; such systems require less cleaning but are substantially more expensive to construct. In the United States, it is now illegal to block the migration of fish so fish ladders must be provided by dam builders.

</doc>
<doc id="55906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55906" title="AWD-Arena">
AWD-Arena

The AWD-Arena is a football stadium in Hanover, a city in north Germany. It is the home stadium of the football club Hannover 96. The AWD-Arena was built from 1952 to 1954 and called "Niedersachsenstadion" (stadium of lower Saxony). Lower Saxony is a German federal state and Hanover is its capital.
Originally the Niedersachsenstadium was large enough to hold about 80.000 people. It was changed for international football championships in 1974 and 1988, especially changing standing room into seats. In 2003, it became changed to be used only for football and the name was sold to the German company of AWD. Today it can hold 49.000 people.
In 2006, the Football World Championships were played there.

</doc>
<doc id="55907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55907" title="Renewable energy">
Renewable energy

Renewable energy comes from renewable resources. It is different from fossil fuels as it does not produce as many greenhouse gases and other pollutants as fossil fuel combustion.
There are a lot of traditional uses of wind power, hydropower, biofuel, and solar energy in developed and developing countries. But the mass production of electricity using renewable energy sources is now becoming more common. 
From the end of 2004, worldwide renewable energy capacity grew at rates of 10–60% annually for many technologies. For wind power and many other renewable technologies, growth sped up in 2009 relative to the previous four years. More wind power was added during 2009 than any other renewable technology. However, grid-connected PV increased the fastest of all renewables technologies, with a 60% annual average growth rate. 
Projections vary, but scientists have advanced a plan to power 100% of the world's energy with wind, hydroelectric, and solar power by the year 2030.
Wind power capacity has expanded quickly to 336 GW in June 2014, and wind energy production was about 4% of total worldwide electricity usage, and growing fast. Wind power is widely used in European countries, and more recently in the United States and Asia. Wind power accounts for approximately 19% of electricity generation in Denmark, 11% in Spain and Portugal, and 9% in the Republic of Ireland. These are some of the largest wind farms in the world, as of January 2010:
A wind farm is a group of wind turbines in the same location used for production of electricity. A large wind farm may consist of several hundred individual wind turbines distributed over an extended area, but the land between the turbines may be used for agricultural or other purposes. A wind farm may also be located offshore.
Solar photovoltaic cells convert sunlight into electricity and many solar photovoltaic power stations have been built, mainly in Europe. As of December 2010, the largest photovoltaic (PV) power plants in the world are the Sarnia Photovoltaic Power Plant (Canada, 97 MW), Montalto di Castro Photovoltaic Power Station (Italy, 84.2 MW), Finsterwalde Solar Park (Germany, 80.7 MW), Rovigo Photovoltaic Power Plant (Italy, 70 MW), Olmedilla Photovoltaic Park (Spain, 60 MW), the Strasskirchen Solar Park (Germany, 54 MW), and the Lieberose Photovoltaic Park (Germany, 53 MW). Larger power stations are under construction, some proposed will have a capacity of 150 MW or more.
Many of these plants are integrated with agriculture and some use innovative tracking systems that follow the sun's daily path across the sky to generate more electricity than conventional fixed-mounted systems. There are no fuel costs or emissions during operation of the power stations.
Large solar thermal power stations include the 354 megawatt (MW) Solar Energy Generating Systems power installation in the USA, Solnova Solar Power Station (Spain, 150 MW), Andasol solar power station (Spain, 100 MW), Nevada Solar One (USA, 64 MW), PS20 solar power tower (Spain, 20 MW), and the PS10 solar power tower (Spain, 11 MW). The 370 MW Ivanpah Solar Power Facility, located in California's Mojave Desert, is the world’s largest solar thermal power plant project currently under construction.
The solar thermal power industry is growing fast with 1.2 GW under construction as of April 2009 and another 13.9 GW announced globally through 2014. Spain is the epicenter of solar thermal power development with 22 projects for 1,037 MW under construction, all of which are projected to come online by the end of 2010. In the United States, 5,600 MW of solar thermal power projects have been announced. In developing countries, three World Bank projects for integrated solar thermal/combined-cycle gas-turbine power plants in Egypt, Mexico, and Morocco have been approved.
Variable renewable energy is a renewable energy source that is non-dispatchable due to its fluctuating nature, like wind power and solar power, as opposed to a controllable renewable energy source such as hydroelectricity, or biomass, or a relatively constant source such as geothermal power or run-of-the-river hydroelectricity. Critics of wind and solar power warn of their variable output, but many studies have shown that the grid can cope, and it is doing so in Denmark and Spain.
The International Energy Agency says that there has been too much focus on issue of the variability. Its significance depends on a range of factors which include the market penetration of the renewables concerned, the balance of plant, and the wider connectivity of the system, as well as demand side flexibility. Variability will rarely be a barrier to increased renewable energy deployment. But at high levels of market penetration it requires careful analysis and management.
Brazil has one of the largest renewable energy programs in the world, involving production of ethanol fuel from sugar cane, and ethanol now provides 18 percent of the country's automotive fuel. As a result, Brazil, which years ago had to import a large share of the petroleum needed for domestic consumption, recently reached complete self-sufficiency in oil. 
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10% ethanol, and motor vehicle manufacturers already produce vehicles designed to run on much higher ethanol blends. Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and General Motors Corporation are among the automobile companies that sell “flexible-fuel” cars, trucks, and minivans that can use gasoline and ethanol blends ranging from pure gasoline up to 85% ethanol (E85). By mid-2006, there were approximately six million E85-compatible vehicles on U.S. roads.

</doc>
<doc id="55908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55908" title="Aral Sea">
Aral Sea

The Aral Sea ( (Aral Tengizi), , ) is a lake in Central Asia. It is between Kazakhstan in the north and Karakalpakstan, an autonomous region of Uzbekistan, in the south.
Since the 1960s, the Aral Sea shrank. 90% of the sea has gone. The rivers that fed it (the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya) were used by the Soviet Union for irrigating cotton production. What is left of the Aral Sea is heavily polluted, largely as the result of weapons testing, industrial projects, and fertilizer runoff before and after the breakup of the Soviet Union.
There is a project to save at least the northern part of the Aral Sea. For this, a dam was built in the 1990 to stop water running off. Climate improved in the following years, and water levels rose again. However, that dam broke, and was rebuilt in 2005, with international funding. 
Another problem was that the Island of Rebirth had been used for the testing of biological weapons until 1993. It is currently contaminated with anthrax, the plague, and tularemia. Since 2001, it is no longer an island, but a peninsula. 

</doc>
<doc id="55918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55918" title="Radiation">
Radiation

In physics, radiation is the emission or transmission of energy in the form of waves or particles through space or through a material medium. 
This includes:
Radiation may also refer to the energy, waves, or particles being radiated.
Many people are already familiar with different kinds of electromagnetic radiation/light. Scientists categorize this type of radiation based on its wavelength and frequency. Some kinds of electromagnetic radiation are:
Ionising radiation is radiation that carries enough energy to free electrons from atoms or molecules. 
Only certain types of radiation are harmful to humans. For example, ultraviolet radiation can give people sunburns. X-rays and gamma rays can make a person sick, or even die, depending on the dose they get. Some types of particle radiation can also make people sick and lead to burns. If radiation does not carry high enough levels of energy, though, then these changes will not happen when something is hit by the radiation. This is referred to as non-ionizing radiation, which is not as dangerous.
One can distinguish between various types of radiation by looking at the source of the radiation, its wavelength (if the radiation is electromagnetic), the amount of energy being carried, any particles involved, etc. Radioactive material is a material which emits radiation. Uranium and plutonium are examples of radioactive materials. The atoms they are made of tend to fall apart and give off different kinds of radiation, like gamma rays and lots of particle radiation.
Ionising radiation can kill living things. It can cause genetic mutations, as shown by H.J. Muller. It can destroy cells in the body which divide, and thus indirectly kill a person.

</doc>
<doc id="55921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55921" title="Non-ionizing radiation">
Non-ionizing radiation

Non-ionizing radiation (or, esp. in British English, non-ionising radiation) means any type of electromagnetic radiation that does not carry enough energy to ionize atoms or molecules - that is, to completely remove an electron from an atom or molecule. 
The composition of this radiation can vary depending on what may be ionized. Visible light, near ultraviolet, infrared, microwave and radio waves are all examples of non-ionizing radiation, though visible and near ultraviolet can also ionize some molecules. The light from the Sun that reaches the earth is largely composed of non-ionizing radiation, with the notable exception of some ultraviolet rays. However, most ionizing radiation is filtered out by the atmosphere.
Because it is lower energy radiation, the use of this type of radiation in medical fields and everyday life poses fewer health risks than ionizing radiation in forms such as X-rays. 

</doc>
<doc id="55923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55923" title="Electromagnetic spectrum">
Electromagnetic spectrum

The electromagnetic (EM) spectrum is the range of all possible electromagnetic radiation. Electromagnetic radiation can be divided into octaves — as sound waves are — adding up to eighty-one octaves. Physicists have studied electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths from thousands of kilometres down to fractions of the size of an atom. It is commonly said that EM waves beyond these limits are uncommon, although this is not known to be true. The short wavelength limit is likely to be the Planck length, and the long wavelength limit is the size of the universe itself, though in principle the spectrum is infinite. 
Nearly all objects in the universe emit, reflect or transmit some light. (Black holes do not.) The distribution of this light along the electromagnetic spectrum (called the "spectrum" of the object) is determined by the object's composition. Several types of spectra can be distinguished depending upon the nature of the radiation coming from an object.
Spectroscopy is the branch of physics that studies matter by its emitted or reflected spectra.
NOTE: The AUDIO entry in this graphic is there for comparison only. Sound waves and radio waves are two different things entirely.

</doc>
<doc id="55924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55924" title="Spectrum (disambiguation)">
Spectrum (disambiguation)

A spectrum is a condition or value that is not limited to a specific set of values but can vary infinitely within a continuum.
Spectrum may refer more specifically to:

</doc>
<doc id="55925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55925" title="Continuum">
Continuum

A Continuum is a continuous series where all parts are very similar to their nearest neighbour, but the ends or extremes of it are different from each other. 
This describes something that changes gradually (little by little) from one condition, to a different condition, but without any sudden changes or discontinuities.
The difference between a continuum, and something with very different changes that can be measured, is important for all continuum theories.
Continuum may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="55926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55926" title="Revenge (album)">
Revenge (album)

Revenge is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on May 14, 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="55928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55928" title="Continuum (theory)">
Continuum (theory)

Continuum theories or models explain variation as involving a gradual quantitative transition without abrupt changes or discontinuities. It can be contrasted with 'categorical' models which propose qualitatively different states. 
In physics, for example, the space-time continuum model explains space and time as part of the same continuum rather than as separate entities. A spectrum in physics (e.g. of light) is often termed either a 'continuous spectrum' (energy at all wavelengths) or 'discrete spectrum' (energy at only certain wavelengths).
In psychology, theories of mental phenomena can propose discrete differences between individuals (e.g. everyone has certain personality traits and not others) or a continuum (e.g. everyone lies somewhere on a particular personality dimension). This can also apply to fields such as law or sociology or ethics in explaining or judging variation in human behavior.
In psychiatry, categorical models seek to distinguish and define particular mental disorders or illnesses, but continuum or dimensional models propose that some people are more extreme than others on particular dimensions.

</doc>
<doc id="55940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55940" title="Joseph Goebbels">
Joseph Goebbels

Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels (German pronunciation: ; 29 October 1897 in Mönchengladbach as "Paul Joseph Goebbels" – 1 May 1945 in Berlin) was a German politician and the minister of propaganda during the Nazi regime. He studied literature and philosophy at the Heidelberg university.
He was a close friend of Adolf Hitler. Goebbels stayed with Hitler in the Führerbunker until Hitler's suicide on 30 April 1945. After Hitler's death, Goebbels was chancellor of Germany for one day, before he and his wife Magda Goebbels killed themselves. Just before she died, Magda killed their six children with poison.
Joseph Goebbels was born as "Paul Joseph Goebbels" in Mönchengladbach on 29 October 1897. His father, Friedrich Goebbels, was a bookkeeper and his mother was Maria Goebbels (born Oldenhausen). He was the third child of the family and grew up with five siblings. Due to an illness in his childhood in 1901, Goebbels' right foot was malformed and he was 1.65m (165cm). He went to a Roman Catholic school in Rheydt in 1908. In 1914, Goebbels went to high school in Rheydt. When the First World War started in August 1914, he volunteered to be part of the Army. This was refused because of his limp.
Goebbels took his Abitur (school exams) in 1917. He was the best in his class. He gave a speech at the end of the school year. However, his headteacher said, that he would not become a good speaker. Later, in 1917, Goebbels studied ancient philology, history and German philology at the University of Bonn. He received his PhD in Drama from the Heidelberg university in 1921. In 1923, Goebbels worked for the Deutsche Bank.
Goebbels joined the National Socialist German Workers' Party in 1926. In the same year, Hitler made him a Gauleiter for Berlin and Brandenburg. In 1927, Goebbels published the first Nazi newspaper, "Der Angriff" ("The Attack"), in Berlin. The newspaper was printed twice a week. In 1928, he became a member of the German Reichstag. He kept this position until 1945. In 1929, Goebbels saw his first movie with sound, ""The Singing Fool"". He said it would be the future of propaganda.
In 1930, he became the "Reichspropagandaleiter" ("Chief of the German Propaganda") and the deputy of Heinrich Himmler. Goebbels married Magda Quand in 1931. Franz Ritter von Epp and Adolf Hitler were the witnesses at the wedding.
When Hitler became Chancellor in 1933, Goebbels became the Reich Minister for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda.
In 1934, Goebbels moved to a villa near Berlin. On 30 June 1934, he saw the arrest of Ernst Röhm in Bad Wiessee. Goebbels gave the order to confiscate about 650 art exhibits in 1937. He put them on display in show called "Degenerate Art". On 9 November 1938, a German diplomat was killed in France by a Jewish teenager. Because of this murder, Goebbels gave the order to the SS for what is now called Kristallnacht.
At the start of the Second World War, Goebbels ordered to broadcast special announcements at the cinema and on the radio. On 26 May 1940, he published the new weekly newspaper "Das Reich" ("The Imperium") for the first time. In 1942, Goebbels took part in the Wannsee Conference. He was one of the Nazi leaders who planned the Final Solution to kill all the Jewish people. In 1943, he gave a well known speech in the Berlin Sportpalast where he called the Germans to support total war. The coup on 20 July 1944 failed, because of Goebbels' quick thinking. He broadcast on radio that the coup had failed, before the plan of Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg could succeed.
On 22 April 1945, two days after Adolf Hitler's birthday, he arrived in the Führerbunker in Berlin. He was one of the witnesses to the marriage of Hitler to Eva Braun. On the same day, he took over the leadership from Hitler. After Hitler's suicide on 30 April, he became the Chancellor of Germany. He only held this job for one day, because on 1 May 1945, his wife poisoned their six children with the help of an SS doctor. Immediately afterward he and his wife went up to the garden of the Chancellery, where they killed themselves. The details of their suicides are uncertain. After the war, Rear-Admiral Michael Musmanno, a U.S. naval officer and judge, published several accounts apparently based on eye-witness testimony: According to one account. "While Schwägermann was preparing the petrol, he heard a shot. Goebbels had shot himself and his wife took poison. Schwägermann ordered one of the soldiers to shoot Goebbels again because he was unable to do it himself." One SS officer said they each took cyanide and ordered an SS trooper to shoot them both. According to another account, Goebbels shot his wife and then himself. 

</doc>
<doc id="55942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55942" title="Carl Maria von Weber">
Carl Maria von Weber

Carl Maria von Weber (born Eutin, Holstein, baptised 20 November 1786; died 5 June, 1826 in London), was one of the most important German composers of the early Romantic period. He wrote many operas, of which "Der Freischütz", "Euryanthe" and "Oberon" are especially famous. He wrote instrumental music, especially for the clarinet, and wrote very well for orchestra.
Weber was the eldest of the three children of Franz Anton von Weber. The word “von” in front of a German surname normally means that the family had noble ancestry, but the Weber family do not appear to be of noble blood. Weber was never a strong, healthy child. He had a damaged hip-bone and always walked with a limp. His father worked in the theatre, and the family often moved from one town to another. This was difficult for his education. His mother was called Rosa, she influenced him to go to military school at the age of 20, but his love for music meant that he would go to Cranbrook in Germany. His daughter Laurel was well known for playing the viola in many Orchestras.
Weber’s mother died of tuberculosis when he was eleven. Later that year Weber went to Salzburg, to study with Michael Haydn (the brother of the famous Joseph Haydn), and later to Munich. He started to publish some piano music, and even composed an opera. When he was 14 the family moved to Freiberg in Saxony. He had an opera performed there, and he started to write articles as a critic in a Leipzig newspaper.
In 1801 the family went back to Salzburg and Weber had more lessons from Michael Haydn. He also studied in Vienna with a famous musician called Abbé Vogler. Through him he got to know another of his pupils, Giacomo Meyerbeer, who became a famous composer and was a close friend of Weber.
Vogler thought Weber was very talented, and helped him to get a job in Breslau. Weber had lots of good ideas about how to improve the music there: by changing the way that the orchestra sat, having more rehearsal time, not playing bad pieces of music, and pensioning off old singers. A lot of people there did not like these ideas and made life difficult for him. One night he absent-mindedly drank from a wine bottle. The bottle had engraving-acid inside, and it made him ill for two months. He was never able to sing again. When he tried to go back to work all the good changes he had made had been undone, so he resigned. He had a job in Karlsruhe for a short time, then went briefly back to Breslau, but because he owed people money there he disappeared and got a job in Stuttgart.
His lifestyle was rather wild, and he even got arrested once for debt and fraud. However, he continued to become well known as a composer and wrote a lot of instrumental and religious music. He spent some time in several large cities including Prague and Berlin. In Dresden he worked hard to make German Opera a success (most operas were still Italian in those days).
Weber was not well. He was suffering from tuberculosis, but needed money to support his family. So when he was invited to go to London to compose and produce his opera "Oberon" he accepted the offer. He had already been having English lessons and learned to speak the language quite well. In 1826 he travelled to England where he finished composing "Oberon" and conducted its first performance on 12 April. He stayed on in England to earn some more money. He was looking forward to going home, but on 5 June, the night before he was due to go back to Germany, he died. He was buried in London. 18 years later Richard Wagner arranged for Weber’s body to be brought back to Germany to be buried in Dresden.
Weber left an opera "Die Drei Pintos" ('The Three Pintos') unfinished. Meyerbeer was going to finish it, but in the end it was Gustav Mahler who finished it and conducted the first performance of the completed work in Leipzig in 1888.
Weber was not only a great composer, but a very skilled pianist and conductor. He wrote a very large number of works including cantatas and songs, but most of these are not often heard today. One of his most popular works is called "Invitation to the Dance". It was written for piano, but later Hector Berlioz arranged it for orchestra and this is how it is often heard nowadays.
Weber wrote two Concertos for clarinet and orchestra and also a Concertino (a small concerto in one movement). Another one-movement concerto was the "Konzertstück in F minor" for piano and orchestra. His opera "Der Freischütz " is probably his best work, and the overture is often heard separately as a concert piece. The story of the opera is full of magic. It is written in German and has some spoken words as well as sung music (this kind of opera was called a Singspiel). This opera in particular influenced Richard Wagner who developed German opera in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="55944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55944" title="Alive III">
Alive III

Alive III is a live album by the American hard rock and heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on May 18, 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="55948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55948" title="Ter Hachatrjan">
Ter Hachatrjan

Ter Hachatrjan () is the name of a Russian noble family during the 18th century. 
Duke Aleksandr Ter Hachatrjan (around 1870–1917) was born as an Armenian aristocrat. He also belonged to the Russian nobility. He married a Greek duchess named Sofia. They had two sons together: Duke Anton Aleksandrovich (around 1891–1950) and Duke Bagrat Aleksandrovich (1892–1981).
During the revolution in Petrograd in 1917, Duke Aleksandr and his wife were killed by the Bolsheviks. Their two sons then escaped from Petrograd and went to the Caucasus. Bagrat was separated from his brother Anton.
Anton later appeared in the city Rostov on Don. He married Barinova Elena Aleksandrovna. They had no children.
Bagrat got married to Elizaveta Danilovna in 1923. They had a daughter and a son together: Emma Bagratovna (1924–2005) and Yuri Bagratovich. Bagrat divorced Elizaveta in 1927. In the year 1932, Bagrat married Petrachuk Olga Alekseevna, the daughter of merchant from Ukraine. They had two daughters together: Amalia Bagratovn (born 1933) and Inessa Bagratovna (born 1936). Bagrat was an officer in the Imperial Army. He was awarded the Military Order of the Saint Grand Martyr and the Triumphant George. It was one of the highest awards of the Russian Empire.
The Ter Hachatrjan family fell under the repression of NKVD in 1937. They were arrested and placed in jail in the city of Goris. Bagrat Aleksandrovich was accused of taking part in the execution of 26 Baku Commissars. As was the case with all noble families, Duke Bagrat was found guilty of treason and was declared an enemy of the Soviet State. Under the pressure of the government, Duke Bagrat had to stop using his title and rid himself of all his possessions that were brought from Petrograd. The family were then given amnesty.
After, that Bagrat Aleksandrovich worked as a director and actor of movies in Armenia. He died in Kafan in 1981.
Amalia Bagratovna married Saidoff N. S., a rich man from Baku. They had two children together: Saidoff A. N. (born 1961) and Saidoff S. C. N. (born 1963).
Since this time, all the descendents of the Ter Hachatrjan family are named as Saidoff–Ter Hachatrjan.
Ter-Khachatryan or Ter-Khachatryants is an Armenian family, known from the XVIII century. First well-known representative of this family - Daniel-Bek of Sassun Ter Khachatryan or Ter Khachatryan (born in province Sassun or Sason of Western Armenia) about 1785 - died in (town Mush of Western Armenia), in 1829). He was originally an Armenian nobleman, descendant of South or Sout-West branch, i.e. Tarawn-Аldznik branch of Bagratouni or Bagratids dynasty (Actually son of the Armenian priest of Khachatur and, who was a descendant of the Armenian princely dynasty Bagratid, the south or south-west branch of them in 13-14 centuries saved shallow possessions in the district of Sassun or Sason of Western Armenia and province of Aldznik, as well as in the district of Mush in the province of Tarawn of Western Armenia). As a result of the hard oppressions of Kurd feudal lords, Daniel-Bek of Sassun transmigrated from Sason to the town Mush, where his family had a house in the Armenian quarter of Berd, near the church Saint Marineh . The eldest son of Daniel-Bek of Sassun, Avdal bek Ter-Khachatryants (1805-1867) also lived in Mush. The son of Avdal bek Ter-Khachatryants and grandson of Daniel-Bek of Sassun was Jakob bek (Hakob bek) Ter-Khachatryants. The son of Jakob bek (Hakob bek) Ter-Khachatryants was Khachatur-Bek of Mush (the town Mush of Western Armenia), who lived in the first half of the 19th century. Khachar and Garegin Khachatryan, both prominent Armenian artists and ideologists of Armenian liberation movement, were descendents of his House.

</doc>
<doc id="55949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55949" title="Turbine">
Turbine

A turbine is an engine that turns fluid movement into energy. 
Simple turbines have a shaft with a blade on it. Moving fluids, such as water or air, push the blades so that they turn around with the shaft. The turning movement is most often used to turn a generator. Early turbine examples are windmills and water wheels. Turbine blades can also be turned to move a fluid. This is how simple propeller airplanes work.
A casing can be placed around the turbine to control the movement of the fluid.

</doc>
<doc id="55950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55950" title="Rotor">
Rotor

Rotor ( part) may mean:
In engineering:
In computing:
In music:
In other fields:

</doc>
<doc id="55951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55951" title="Jet">
Jet

JET, Jet or Jets all have many meanings. Some of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="55952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55952" title="Electric power">
Electric power

Electric power is defined as the power dissipated by an electric circuit. Electric power is a measurement of the rate at which energy is used over a period of time. The SI unit for power is the watt, the unit for energy is the joule, and the unit for time is the second, and the unit for electric current is the ampere. 
When electric current flows through a circuit its slowed down by the resistance in the circuit. Devices can convert this current to useful forms of work, such as heat radiation, light emission, mechanical motion, or acoustic vibrations. 

</doc>
<doc id="55955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55955" title="Kiss Unplugged">
Kiss Unplugged

Kiss Unplugged is an album of the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss's performance on MTV Unplugged on August 8, 1995. The album was released on March 12, 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="55958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55958" title="Carnival of Souls: The Final Sessions">
Carnival of Souls: The Final Sessions

Carnival of Souls: The Final Sessions is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on October 28, 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="55981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55981" title="Head (hydraulic)">
Head (hydraulic)

Hydraulic head is a specific measurement of water pressure or total energy per unit weight above a datum. 
It is usually measured as a water surface elevation, expressed in units of length, but represents the energy at the entrance (or bottom) of a piezometer. In an aquifer, it can be calculated from the depth to water in a piezometric well (a specialized water well), and given information of the piezometer's elevation and screen depth. 
Even though it is conventional to use gauge pressure in the calculation of hydraulic head, it is more correct to use total pressure (gauge pressure + atmospheric pressure), since this is truly what drives groundwater flow. Often detailed observations of barometric pressure are not available at each well through time, so this is often disregarded (contributing to large errors at locations where hydraulic gradients are low or the angle between wells is acute.)
Hydraulic head is a measure of energy, and has many analogs in physics and chemistry, where the same mathematical principles and rules apply:

</doc>
<doc id="55982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55982" title="Susan Brownmiller">
Susan Brownmiller

Susan Brownmiller (born February 15, 1935) is an American radical feminist, journalist and activist. She is best known for her pioneering work on the politics of rape in "Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape" (1975). Brownmiller says that rape has been defined by men rather than women until now. Men use rape as a means of continuing male dominance by keeping all women in a state of fear. All men benefit from this. Brownmiller also participated in civil rights activism. She joined CORE during the sit-in movement and volunteered for Freedom Summer in 1964. She first became involved in the Women's Liberation Movement in New York City in 1968. There she joined a consciousness-raising group in the newly-formed New York Radical Women organization. Brownmiller went on to co-ordinate a sit-in against Ladies' Home Journal in 1970, began work on "Against Our Will" after a New York Radical Feminists speak-out on rape in 1971, and co-founded Women Against Pornography in 1979. She continues to write and speak on feminist issues, including a recent memoir and history of Second Wave radical feminism, "In Our Time: Memoir of a Revolution" (1999).
As of 2005, she is an Adjunct Professor of Women's & Gender Studies at Pace University in New York City,

</doc>
<doc id="55983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55983" title="Erich Fromm">
Erich Fromm

Erich Pinchas Fromm (23 March 1900 – 18 March 1980) was a Jewish-German-American social psychologist, psychoanalyst, and humanistic philosopher. He was part of what became known as the Frankfurt School of critical theory.

</doc>
<doc id="55984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55984" title="François Adrien Boieldieu">
François Adrien Boieldieu

François Adrien Boieldieu (December 16, 1775 – October 8, 1834) was a French composer. He mainly wrote operas.

</doc>
<doc id="55985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55985" title="Red Hot Riding Hood">
Red Hot Riding Hood

Red Hot Riding Hood is a movie made by Tex Avery. It is a short cartoon. It was made in 1943. In 1990, the public voted it to be one of the best animated movies of all time.

</doc>
<doc id="55995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55995" title="Turkish Van">
Turkish Van

The Turkish Van is a breed of cat that comes from Turkey. It has lived in the Lake Van area of Turkey for hundreds of years. This is why it is named the Turkish Van. This part of Turkey is in very high mountains and has long, cold winters. But the summers are hot. 
This cat got used to this climate over time by its body changing. It now has a thick, full fur coat in the winter, but sheds in the summer and becomes a short-haired cat. The Turkish Van swims in the summer to cool itself off and the thin summer coat dries quickly.
A Turkish Van may have blue eyes, amber eyes, or eyes with two different colors.

</doc>
<doc id="55997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55997" title="Turkish Angora">
Turkish Angora

The Turkish Angora is a cat from Turkey. It has long white fur. It is like the Turkish Van cat, but its fur is different.

</doc>
<doc id="55998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55998" title="Work (physics)">
Work (physics)

In physics, a force does work when it acts on a body and there is a displacement of the point of application in the direction of the force. 
The "work done" by a force acting on a body is the force along the direction of the displacement multiplied by the displacement of the point of application. 
It is the force that does the work, not the agent that created the force. Motion is a requirement of work. 
Like energy, it is a scalar quantity, with SI units of joules. Heat conduction is not considered to be a form of work, since there is no macroscopically measurable force, only microscopic forces occurring in atomic collisions. The term "work" was created in the 1830s by the French mathematician Gaspard-Gustave Coriolis.
According to the work-energy theorem if an external force acts upon a rigid object, causing its kinetic energy to change from "E" to "E", then the mechanical work ("W") is given by:
where "m" is the mass of the object and "v" is the object's velocity.
If a constant force "F" acts on an object while the object is displaced a distance "d", and the force and displacement are parallel to each other, the work done on the object is the product of "F" and "d":
If the force and the displacement are in the same direction, the work is positive. If the force and the displacement are in opposite directions the work is negative. For example, the work done by the weight on a book being lifted is negative. This is because the downward weight is in the opposite direction to the upward displacement.

</doc>
<doc id="56002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56002" title="Psycho Circus">
Psycho Circus

Psycho Circus is a studio album by the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. It was released on September 22, 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="56003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56003" title="Biological warfare">
Biological warfare

Biological warfare (or germ warfare) is when pathogens are used as a weapon. This is called a biological weapon. Pathogens are microorganisms that can cause disease. If non-living things (like toxins) are used, this is called chemical warfare. 
Biological warfare has been used throughout history. The first form of biological warfare may have been when the plague hit the Mongols. During battle, they were said to have thrown plague victims' bodies at their enemies. Before the 20th century, it took some of the following forms:
During the Second Sino-Japanese War, biological weapons were used by the Japanese army against China. The Japanese army usually launched contaminated fleas or food from planes.
Today, pathogens for diseases like anthrax or smallpox could be used as agents for biological weapons.
The production, and stockpiling of such weapons was forbidden in the Biological Weapons Convention of 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="56006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56006" title="Kiss Symphony: Alive IV">
Kiss Symphony: Alive IV

Kiss Symphony: Alive IV is a live album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss performing with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra. It was released on July 22, 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="56008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56008" title="Frankfurt Stock Exchange">
Frankfurt Stock Exchange

The Frankfurt Stock Exchange ("in German Börse Frankfurt") is a stock exchange in Frankfurt, Hesse. It is the biggest stock exchange in Germany by the amount of money exchanged and the number of companies.

</doc>
<doc id="56009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56009" title="General-purpose programming language">
General-purpose programming language

A General-purpose programming language (GPL) is a way to tell a computer what to do that makes a user's job easy and quick without much confusion. GPLs can be used for many different things. An example can be BASIC, invented by John Kemeny and Thomas Kurtz in 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="56010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56010" title="Bikini">
Bikini

A Bikini is a type of swimsuit for women. It consists of two parts; pants and a bra top, leaving an uncovered area between the two. The bikini is an ancient invention, reinvented after the Second World War.
The bikini is perhaps the most popular female beachwear around the globe.
By the mid 2000s bikinis had become a US$811 million business annually, according to the NPD Group, a consumer and retail information company. The bikini has boosted spin-off services like bikini waxing and the sun tanning industries.
Predecessors of the bikini date back to antiquity, in Çatalhöyük and the Greco-Roman world. Artwork dating back to the Diocletian period (286-305 AD) in Villa Romana del Casale, Sicily depicts women in garments resembling bikinis in mosaics on the floor. The images of ten women, dubbed the "Bikini Girls", exercising in clothing that would pass as bikinis today, are the most replicated mosaic among the 37 million colored tiles at the site. Archeological finds, especially in Pompeii, show the Roman goddess Venus wearing a bikini. A statue of Venus in a bikini was found in a cupboard in the southwest corner in Casa della Venere, others were found in the front hall.
By the early 1940s two-piece swimsuits were frequent on American beaches. Hollywood stars like Ava Gardner, Rita Hayworth and Lana Turner tried similar swimwear or beachwear.
Finally, the modern bikini was introduced by French engineer Louis Réard and fashion designer Jacques Heim in Paris in 1946. Réard was a car engineer but by 1946 he was running his mother's lingerie boutique near Les Folies Bergères in Paris. Heim was working on a new kind of beach costume. It comprised two pieces, the bottom large enough to cover its wearer's navel. Réard named his swimsuit the "bikini", taking the name from the Bikini Atoll, one of a series of islands in the South Pacific where testing on the new atomic bomb was occurring that summer. Réard could not find a model to wear his design. He ended up hiring Micheline Bernardini, a nude dancer from the "Casino de Paris". That bikini, with a g-string back, had of cloth with newspaper type printed across. It introduced on July 5 at Piscine Molitor, a public pool in Paris. Heim's design was the first worn on the beach, but the clothing was given its name by Réard. The bikini became increasingly popular throughout the 1960s and 70s. 

</doc>
<doc id="56013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56013" title="High Voltage">
High Voltage

High Voltage is the debut studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It was released in Australia on 17 February, 1975.
All songs were written by Angus Young, Malcolm Young, and Bon Scott, except where noted.

</doc>
<doc id="56016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56016" title="Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap">
Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap

Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap is a studio album by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It was released in November 1976 in Europe and delayed for release in USA until 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="56026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56026" title="Iron oxide">
Iron oxide

Iron oxides are chemical compounds. There are sixteen known iron oxides. Iron oxides are used in pigments. It is used in both man-made and natural pigments.
Venetian red (haematite), Magnetite (Fe0), or a mixture of oxides make black or purple pigments. The umber, sienna and ochre are oxides or hydrated oxides of a yellow to chestnut colour.
Most iron oxide is mined as iron ore. Every year millions of tons go into blast furnaces to make iron. 

</doc>
<doc id="56027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56027" title="Jimi Hendrix">
Jimi Hendrix

James Marshall Hendrix (November 27, 1942 – September 18, 1970), was an American guitarist, singer and songwriter. Hendrix was a major influence on other rock and roll musicians.
He became successful in England, and then became famous all through the world after he played at the Monterey Pop Festival in 1967. He was also known for headlining in the famous Woodstock Festival.
Hendrix taught himself how to play the electric guitar and usually played a Fender Stratocaster. Because he was left-handed, he would play the guitar upside down.
He was named "Greatest Guitarist of all Time" by "Rolling Stone" magazine in 2003. 
Jimi Hendrix was born in Seattle on November 27, 1942. He was called Johnny Allen Hendrix when he was born. Later, his dad named him James Marshall Hendrix when he returned from the military. He grew up without much money or attention; his parents divorced when he was nine years old, and his mother died when he was 16. At about the age of 14, Hendrix found his first guitar. It was a broken broomstick with one string that had been thrown away by another boy. He still managed to play several tunes on it. Soon after, at around 15, he managed to buy a proper acoustic guitar for $5 from a friend of his father. His first electric guitar was a white Supro Ozark that his father, Al Hendrix, had bought him. He did not have lessons and learned basic tunes and improvisation from watching Chuck Berry and Elvis Presley play live. He played without an amplifier.
Hendrix finished middle school but did not graduate from his high school, Garfield High School. Hendrix told some reporters in the late 1960s that he had failed because people were racist there, and did not like him because he was black. Others claim it was just because he could not get good enough grades and was unorganized. Hendrix later told the reporters that he was thrown out for being impolite to a teacher.
When Hendrix was young, he was a fan of Elvis Presley. He went to see Presley play at Sick’s Stadium on September 1, 1957, and he drew a color picture of him holding an acoustic guitar. The original drawing can be seen in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, Ohio. Even as an adult, he still loved Presley. He went to a see a Presley movie, King Creole, in Paris in late 1968, to give him inspiration to write songs. He also liked famous blues musicians such as Muddy Waters, Bo Diddley and Lightning Hopkins; and he played in the band of R&B star Little Richard. However, Hendrix and Richard did not get along. Richard did not like Hendrix's clothes, his being late and him showing off on stage.
After getting in trouble for stealing cars twice, Hendrix had to choose between going to prison for two years or joining the U.S. Army. Hendrix chose the army and on May 31, 1961 was sent to Fort Campbell, Kentucky. While in the army, his officers said that he was often caught sleeping on duty and needed to be watched at all times. He could not use a gun well and an officer said that "his mind apparently cannot function [cannot work properly] while performing duties and thinking about his guitar". However, his time in the army was important for Hendrix, because it was there that he met another soldier and bass guitar player called Billy Cox. They would later play together in a small group called The King Kasuals.
On May 31, 1962 Hendrix’s officers thought it would be best for him to leave the army because he caused too much trouble. Hendrix agreed, and he left after only a year of service. Hendrix later said he had been let go from the army after breaking his ankle when he was landing his 26th parachute jump. He also spoke about his time in the army in interviews for a magazine, "Melody Maker", in 1967 and 1969. He said that he did not like serving the army and did not agree with their ways of doing things. When he was interviewed in America, Hendrix never talked about his time in the army. When it was brought up in a television interview, Hendrix only said that he had been based at Fort Campbell.
Hendrix's left-handed playing on a guitar made for right-handed people made him popular. His first proper concert was with a small band without a name, playing in a Synagogue. He later joined a band called The Velvetones.
After leaving the army, Hendrix and Cox moved to Clarksville in Tennessee, where they played in their group, The King Kasuals. They played in small bars but they did not make much money. So, eventually, he and Cox moved to Nashville. They played many blues-style songs in Nashville. In November 1962, Hendrix went to his first studio performance. While in Nashville, Hendrix played in many other bands as rhythm and lead guitarist and vocals. This did not get him much money, but did give him experience of how bands worked.
Later, Hendrix left Nashville and went to Northern New York City. By January 1964, he moved to Harlem where he played at bars and clubs for money. Hendrix also won first prize in an amateur guitar contest at The Apollo Theatre. In 1966, Hendrix formed his own band called "Jimmy James and The Blues Flames". The members were people that he met around town. One of them was a 15-year-old boy called Randy. 
Hendrix played many gigs around New York City and many songs at a cafe called "Café Wha?"
In 1966, Hendrix became friends with the girlfriend of Keith Richards, guitarist for The Rolling Stones, Linda Keith. She liked his music and introduced him to Chas Chandler, the manager for The Animals. Chandler told Hendrix to write a rock version of the song “Hey Joe” and when he did, Chandler brought him to London to sign a contract with him. Hendrix had to make a new band. It was called The Jimi Hendrix Experience, a name found by their business manager Mike Jeffery.
The Jimi Hendrix Experience made its first album in 1967. It was called Are You Experienced? 
When the album was being produced and sold, Hendrix travelled around the UK and some of Europe. On June 4, 1967, The Jimi Hendrix Experience played their last concert in London before going to America. In America many famous people came to see Hendrix play including Paul McCartney, George Harrison, Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce and Brian Epstein.
The album reached number two in the UK charts. In 2001, VH1 named "Are You Experienced" as the fifth greatest album of all time. "Rolling Stone" magazine put it at number 15 on a list of the 500 greatest albums of all time in 2003.
Hendrix’ second album came out in 1967. It was called Axis: Bold as Love. It had famous songs in it, most famous being ""Little Wing"". There have been several other versions of the song by other musicians like Stevie Ray Vaughan, Henry "Hank" Marrion, Metallica, Eric Clapton, Sting and Pearl Jam. An important difference in the album from other albums he made was that Hendrix tuned his guitar down a semi-tone (to E flat). The album reached number three in the US charts and number five in the UK charts.
The album almost did not sell, since Hendrix lost the master tape of side one of the LP in the back of a taxi in London. Hendrix, Chas Chandler and an engineer called Eddie Kramer had to re-mix the songs in one night. They could not get the song ""If 6 was 9"" right, but Hendrix's bassist Noel Redding had a copy of it on tape. When the album was released, Hendrix was disappointed that the album was finished so quickly and he thought it could have been done better.
Hendrix finished his third album, called Electric LadyLand - a double album with two LP's - in 1968. In this year, Chas Chandler (Hendrix’s manager) decided to leave Hendrix and so did Noel Redding. When Chandler left, Hendrix changed everything in his music. He began using different musicians and instruments. He used guitars with flutes and trombones all with distortion to get strange sounds. The album reached number one in the US. It reached number five in the UK. In 2003, VH1 named the album the 72nd best album of all time, and the "Rolling Stones" magazine gave it 54th greatest album of all time.
Hendrix went to play at Woodstock on August 18, 1969. That year, Woodstock made over $18,000 and has since become one of the most famous concerts in the world. Hendrix was told to play on Sunday evening, but did not arrive until Monday morning, which was unfortunate because of the 500,000 people that had paid to see him, around 180,000 were left and did not plan on staying his whole concert; they just wanted to see him in person for a few minutes. Hendrix then went on to play a two-hour concert that was described as awful. Hendrix’s large band had not practiced enough and could not keep up with Hendrix's fast guitar playing. But to make up for all of this, Hendrix played a version of Star Spangled Banner. He played this anthem with heavy distortion and screams from his guitar, and people thought that he was being anti-American and making fun of their anthem and country. Hendrix, in an interview, said that he "did not intend for his performance to be a political statement", he just wanted it to be another version of the national anthem.
On September 18, 1970, Hendrix was found dead in a basement of the Samarkand Hotel in London. He died after drinking too much, and then taking too many sleeping pills. He vomited and choked on his vomit because he could not regain consciousness. There are many different theories that were thought up. His girlfriend, who was with him at the time that he died, said that he was alive when she put him in the back of the ambulance, but hospital records say that Hendrix had been dead for some time before the ambulance had reached him. Some people say that Hendrix was alive, but that the paramedics did not properly hold his head while he was unconscious so he choked on his own vomit. A sad poem that was found in Hendrix’ apartment written by him made some think that he committed suicide.
The most likely explanation is that Hendrix just took too many sleeping pills while he was drunk, and then could not wake up as he vomited and choked as a result. There has been recent speculation that he may have been murdered by his manager.
Hendrix was buried in Renton, Washington in Greenwood Memorial Park on October 1, 1970. His headstone was wrong because it shows a picture of Hendrix playing a Stratocaster, but the Stratocaster is right-handed, Hendrix played left-handed. Because Hendrix had so many fans, people were worried that the crowds of people wanting to look at his grave would damage other graves, so Hendrix’ father, Al Hendrix, had another memorial site built far from other graves. The memorial is a granite dome architecture, held up by three pillars and Hendrix is buried underneath. His autograph is at the foot of each pillar and a brass sundial is at the top of the dome. There is also a memorial statue of Hendrix playing a Stratocaster on the corner of Broadway and Pine in Seattle.
Hendrix had unique fashion and a Bob Dylan-style haircut. He wore scarves, rings and brooches. In his early career, he wore a dark suit with a silk shirt. Later, he wore bright blue velvet suits, red suits and flared trousers. In 1967, he started to wear a cowboy-style hat he called "The Westerner". 
In 1968, Hendrix started tying scarves to his legs and arms. In 1969, he wore his famous bandana.
Hendrix was widely associated with the use of psychedelic drugs like LSD. He also smoked marijuana and drank alcohol. Hendrix would become angry and violent when he was drunk.
However, no one knows if Hendrix took heroin or not. Hendrix died after choking on his own vomit in a London apartment. At his autopsy, there was no heroin in his body and he had no needle marks on his body.

</doc>
<doc id="56030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56030" title="Incendiary device">
Incendiary device

Incendiary devices or incendiary bombs are bombs. These bombs have been designed to start a fire. Sometimes they are also called firebombs. They were used very frequently in World War II. Materials such as Napalm, White phosphorus, thermite, chlorine trifluoride are often employed in such bombs. A very crude such bomb (which uses fuel) is the Molotov cocktail.
The United States still uses such bombs, called Mark 77 bomb. They were used during the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Most other countries no longer use them, since they are banned by Section III of the United Nations Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons. This treaty was ratified in 1980.
Probably the most famous incendiary attack is the bombing of Dresden, Germany during WWII by the Allies. Flamethrowers are also incendiary devices.

</doc>
<doc id="56031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56031" title="Napalm">
Napalm

Napalm is the name for a number of flammable liquids that have been used in warfare. Often it is jellied gasoline. Napalm is actually the thickener in such liquids. When it is mixed with gasoline, the thickener makes a sticky incendiary gel. It was developed by the U.S. in World War II by a team of Harvard chemists. The team leader was Louis Fieser. The name "napalm" has comes from the ingredients that were first used to make it: coprecipitated aluminum salts of naphthenic and palmitic acids. These were added to the flammable substance to cause it to gel.
One of the major problems of early incendiary fluids (such as those used in flamethrowers) was that they splashed and drained too easily. The U.S. found that flamethrowers that use a gasoline gel are able to shoot farther and are more useful. Gasoline gel was difficult to manufacture because it used natural rubber, which was in high demand and expensive. Napalm provided a far cheaper alternative. It solved the problems involved with rubber-based incendiaries.
Nowadays, napalm is mostly made of benzene and polystyrene, and is known as napalm-B.
Napalm was used in flamethrowers and bombs by the U.S. and Allied forces, to increase the usefulness of flammable liquids. Napalm is made to burn at a specific rate and stick to materials. This is done by mixing different of amounts of napalm and other materials. Another useful (and dangerous) effect, primarily involving its use in bombs, was that napalm "rapidly deoxygenates the available air." It also creates large amounts of carbon monoxide causing suffocation. Napalm bombs were also used in the Vietnam War to clear landing zones for helicopters.
Though napalm was a 20th century invention, it is part of a long history of incendiary materials in warfare. However, historically, it was primarily liquids that were used (see Greek fire). An infantry-based flammable liquid fuel weapon, the flamethrower, was introduced in World War I by the Germans, variations of which were soon developed by other sides in the conflict.
On July 17, 1944, napalm incendiary bombs were dropped for the first time by American P-38 pilots on a fuel depot at Coutances, near St. Lô, France. Napalm bombs were first used in the Pacific Theatre during the Battle of Tinian by Marine aviator. Its use was complicated because of problems with mixing, fusing and the release mechanisms. In World War II, Allied forces bombed cities in Japan with napalm, and used it in bombs and flamethrowers in Germany and the Japanese-held islands. It was used by the Greek army against communist guerrilla fighters during the Greek Civil War, by United Nations forces in Korea, by Mexico in the late 1960s against guerrilla fighters in Guerrero and by the United States during the Vietnam War.
The most well-known method of delivering napalm is from air-dropped incendiary bombs. A lesser-known method is the flame throwers used by combat infantry. Flame throwers use a thinner version of the same jellied gasoline to destroy gun emplacements, bunkers and cave hideouts. U.S. Marines fighting on Guadalcanal found them very effective against Japanese positions. The Marines used fire as both a casualty weapon as well as a psychological weapon. Men have a natural fear of fire. They found that Japanese soldiers would abandon positions in which they fought to the death against other weapons. Prisoners of war confirmed that they feared napalm more than any other weapon thrown at them.
Napalm became one of the preferred weapons of the Korean War. Pilots returning from the war zone often remarked they would rather have a couple of gasoline tanks full of napalm to drop than any other weapon, bombs, rockets or guns. The U.S. Air Force and Navy used napalm with great effect against all manner of targets to include troops, tanks, buildings and even rail road tunnels. The demoralizing effect napalm had on the enemy became apparent when scores of North Korean troops began to surrender to aircraft flying overhead. Pilots noted they saw surviving enemy troops waving white flags on subsequent passes after dropping napalm. The pilots radioed to ground troops and the North Koreans were captured.
Napalm has been used recently in wartime by or against: Iran (1980–88), Israel (1967, 1982), Nigeria (1969), Brazil (1972), Egypt (1973), Cyprus (1964, 1974), Argentina (1982), Iraq (1980–88, 1991, 2003 – ?), Serbia (1994), Turkey (1963, 1974, 1997), Angola, United States.
In some cases, napalm disables and kills its victims very quickly. Those who do survive suffer up to 5th degree burns. These damage parts of the skin which do not have pain receptors. However, victims who suffer 2nd degree burns from splashed napalm will be in significant amounts of pain.
Philip Jones Griffiths describes its use in Vietnam:
Phuc had third-degree burns to half her body and was not expected to live. But thanks to assistance from South Vietnamese photographer Nick Ut, and after surviving a 14-month hospital stay and 17 operations, she became an outspoken peace activist.
International law does not prohibit the use of napalm or other incendiaries against military targets, but use against civilian populations was banned by the United Nations' inhumane weapons convention (often referred to as the CCW) in 1981. Protocol III of the CCW restricts the use of incendiary weapons (not only napalm), but a number of states have not acceded to all of the protocols of the CCW. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), states are considered a party to the convention, which entered into force as international law in December 1983, if they ratify at least two of the five protocols. The United States, for example, is a party to the CCW but did not sign Protocol III.
Reports by the "Sydney Morning Herald" suggested that "napalm" has been used in the Iraq War by US forces. The U.S. Department of Defense denied this. In August 2003, the San Diego Union Tribune said that U.S. Marine pilots and their commanders confirmed the use of Mark 77 firebombs on Iraqi Republican Guards during the start of combat. Official denials of the use of 'napalm' were, however, disingenuous, as the Mk 77 bomb that is currently in service at this time, the Mk 77 Mod 5, does not use actual napalm (e.g. napalm-B). The last U.S. bomb to use actual napalm was the Mark 77 Mod 4, the last of which were destroyed in March 2001. The substance used now is a different incendiary mixture. It is sufficiently analogous in its effects that it is still a controversial incendiary, and can still be referred to colloquially as 'napalm.' 
"We napalmed both those (bridge) approaches," said Col. Randolph Alles in a recent interview. "Unfortunately, there were people there because you could see them in the (cockpit) video." (...) "They were Iraqi soldiers there. It's no great way to die," he added. (...) The generals love napalm. ... It has a big psychological effect." - "San Diego Union-Tribune, August 2003"
These bombs did not actually have napalm in them. The napalm-B (super napalm) used in Vietnam was gasoline based. The Mk-77 firebombs used in the Gulf were kerosene based. It is, however, a napalm-like liquid in its effect.
Recipes how to make napalm-like substances can be found on the Internet. Very often, the recipes say that they will make a thick substance using gasoline, with soap or polystyrene as a thickening agent. However, inexperienced people following these instructions often handle the substance improperly and cause accidents. In addition, making incendiary devices is illegal in many countries.
Napalm is usually a mixture of gasoline with suitable thickening agents. The earliest thickeners were soaps, aluminum, and magnesium palmitates and stearates. Depending on how much thickener is added, the resulting viscosity may range between syrupy liquid and thick rubbery gel. The content of long hydrocarbon chains makes the material highly hydrophobic (resistant to wetting with water), making it more difficult to extinguish. Thickened fuel also rebounds better from surfaces, making it more useful for operations in urban terrain.
There are two types of napalm: oil-based with aluminium soap thickener, and oil-based with polymeric thickener ("napalm-B").
The United States military uses three kinds of thickeners: M1, M2, and M4.
A later variant, napalm-B, also called "super napalm", is a mixture of low-octane gasoline with benzene and polystyrene. It was used in the Vietnam War. Unlike conventional napalm, which burns for only 15–30 seconds, napalm B burns for up to 10 minutes with fewer fireballs. It also sticks better to surfaces, and offers improved destruction effects. It is not as easy to ignite. This reduces the number of accidents caused by soldiers smoking. When it burns, it develops a characteristic smell.
Starting in the early 1990s, various websites including The Anarchist Cookbook advertised recipes for homemade napalm. These recipes were predominantly equal parts gasoline and styrofoam. This mixture closely resembles that of napalm-B, but lacks a percentage of benzene.
Napalm reaches burning temperatures of approximately 1,200 °C (2,200 °F). Other additives can be added, e.g. powdered aluminium or magnesium, or white phosphorus.
In the early 1950s, Norway developed its own napalm, based on fatty acids in whale oil. The reason for this development was that the American-produced thickening agent performed rather poorly in the cold Norwegian climate. The product was known as Northick II.
Napalm itself became well known by the American public after its use in the Vietnam war. Since then, it has been mentioned in the media and arts multiple times. This summary is not meant to be all inclusive.

</doc>
<doc id="56032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56032" title="Midwestern United States">
Midwestern United States

The Midwestern United States (or Midwest) is a name for the north-central states of the United States of America. The states that are part of the Midwest are: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. 
The word "Midwest" has been in common use for over 100 years. Other names for the area are no longer used. These names include the "Northwest" or "Old Northwest", "Mid-America," or "the Heartland". Since 1929, sociologists have often used the Midwest as "typical" of the entire nation.I
The land in the Midwest is generally thought of as being flat. Many places are indeed flat, but others are not flat. For example, the eastern Midwest near the Appalachian Mountains, the Great Lakes basin, and northern parts of Wisconsin, U.P. of Michigan and Minnesota are not flat. The far northern part of the Upper Mississippi valley is known as The Driftless Region, a region of very rugged hills centered primarily western Wisconsin, though the region includes small parts of northeast Iowa, Southeast Minnesota, and northwest Illinois. The Ocooch Mountains of Wisconsin contain the highest peaks in Driftless Region. Also, the northern part of the Ozark mountain range is in southern Missouri. Prairies cover most of the states west of the Mississippi River. Less rain falls in the western Midwest than in the eastern part. This causes different types of prairies. Most of the Midwest can now be called either "urban areas" or "agricultural areas". Areas in northern Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin, and the Ohio River valley are not very developed.
Chicago is the largest city in the region, followed by Detroit and Indianapolis. Some other important cities in the region are: Minneapolis-St. Paul, Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas City, Milwaukee, Cincinnati, Columbus, Wichita, Des Moines, Madison and Omaha.
Midwesterners are sometimes viewed as open, friendly, and straightforward, or sometimes as stubborn and uncultured. Midwest values were shaped by religious beliefs and the agricultural values from the people who settled in the area. The Midwest today is a mix of Protestantism and Calvinism, untrusting of authority and power. 
Between 19 and 29% of the Midwest is Catholic. 14% of the people in Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan, 22% in Missouri and 5% in Minnesota are Baptists. 22-24% of people in Wisconsin and Minnesota are Lutherans. 1% or less of the people in the Midwest are Jewish and Muslim, with slightly more Jewish or Muslim people in major cities, such as Chicago and Cleveland. 16% of the Midwest do not have a religion.
Politics in the Midwest are very divided. With many states leaning liberal and others conservative. The Great Lakes area, which has more large cities than the rest of the Midwest, tends to be the most liberal area of the Midwest. However, the rural Great Plains states, are more conservative. 
Because of 20th century African American migration from the South, many African Americans live in most of the area's large cities. However, there are still more African Americans living in the Southern United States than in the Midwest. The mix of industry and cultures in those cities led to new types of music in the 20th century in the Midwest, including jazz, blues, rock and roll. Techno music came from Detroit and house music and blues came from Chicago. 
Today the population of the Midwest is 65,971,974, or 22.2% of the total population of the United States.
The accents of the Midwest are often clearly different from the accents of the South and many urban areas of the American Northeast. The accent of most of the Midwest is thought by many to be "standard" American English. Many national radio and television shows in the U.S. like this accent more than many other accents. This may have started because many television show hosts — such as Walter Cronkite, Johnny Carson, David Letterman, Tom Brokaw and Casey Kasem — came from this area. 
In some parts of the Midwest, the accents are quite different from the "neutral" accent of the rest of the Midwest. These accents usually are because of the of the area. For example, Minnesota, western Wisconsin and Michigan's Upper Peninsula have strong Scandinavian accents, which get stronger the farther north one goes. Many parts of Michigan have Dutch-flavored accents. Also, people from Chicago are known to have their own "" accent. The same is true of St. Louis. In the most southern parts of the Midwest, such as southern Indiana, Southern accents are common in addition to the standard Midwest accent. The same can be said of Southern Illinois, particularly below U.S. Highway 50 and south of St. Louis. Missouri is also an example of a Midwest state with southern culture. Missourians can have either a southern or Midwestern accent or a combined dialect, but accents tend to be distinctly Southern in the Southeastern and Bootheel sections of the state.

</doc>
<doc id="56034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56034" title="Maynard James Keenan">
Maynard James Keenan

Maynard James Keenan (born James Herbert Keenan on April 17, 1964) is an American rock singer, songwriter, musician, and producer. He sings in the band Tool, and also in the band A Perfect Circle. He has a side project called Puscifer.
James Herbert Keenan was born in Ravenna, Ohio on April 17, 1964. His mother is Judith and his father is Michael, who was a high school teacher. Keenan's parents divorced when he was three years old, and Michael moved away. Keenan did not see him very much for the next 12 years. Later, his mother married someone else. He was mean and did not allow Keenan to be creative. When Keenan was 11, his mother, Judith, had a brain aneurysm that paralyzed her. Two years later, she told Keenan to move to Michigan with his father.
Keenan joined the United States Army after he graduated from high school. He wanted to use the G.I. Bill to go to art school. He joined the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (West Point Prep School) where he picked up the nickname "Maynard". He did very well in his training, but said no to an offer to stay in the Army and work at West Point. He decided to start his music career instead.
After being honorably discharged from the Army, Keenan went back to Michigan to go to art school. Then, in 1988, he moved to Los Angeles, California to help design the inside of pet stores. He was fired from this job and then worked creating movie sets. He also played bass guitar in a band and sang for another band.
Keenan started playing soon after leaving art school. Then him and Adam Jones formed Tool. They have a thing for releasing albums every five years. They did so with Undertow, AEnima, and 10,000 Days. Keenan left and formed A Perfect Circle. They had 3 albums, Mer De Noms, The Thirteenth Step, and eMOTIVe. He then left again to go and pursue family time. He now has a vineyard where he makes fine wine but still takes tours for his working side project; Puscifer... There was a rumor of there being a Tool album coming out in 2011, but we still have yet to hear anything..
Keenan met Adam Jones in Los Angeles. They started the band Tool in 1990. The band's line up later became Keenan as singer, Jones playing guitar, Danny Carey playing drums, and Paul D'Amour playing bass. D'Amour ended up leaving the band and Justin Chancellor took his place. Tool signed to Zoo Entertainment in November 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="56042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56042" title="Naphtha">
Naphtha

Naphtha is the name for a number of intermediary products that occur when refining crude oil. They are liquid hydrocarbons. They are used to produce high octane gasoline products. The petrochemical industry also uses them to make olefins and solvents.
Typical naphtas are used for:

</doc>
<doc id="56043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56043" title="Lukas Podolski">
Lukas Podolski

Lukas Podolski (born 4 June 1985 in Gliwice, Poland) is a Polish born German football player. He plays for Köln. From 2004 until 2006, he played for Köln. He has plays Germany national team.
He is known for his fashion during press conferences. He often wears button down shirts and polished shoes. He has a girlfriend named Monika and they have a son. Their son's name is Louis, he was born in April 2008.
152||61||14||8||23||8||189||77
152||61||14||8||23||8||189||77
!Total||116||47

</doc>
<doc id="56044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56044" title="Naphthalene">
Naphthalene

Naphthalene is a crystalline, white hydrocarbon, with a strong smell. It is best known as the main ingredient in mothballs, urinal deodorizer blocks, and can be used as an antiseptic. In mothballs, it is used as an insecticide or pesticide.
Naphthalene is toxic. In humans, being exposed to naphthalene can destroy red blood cells. Naphthalene may also cause cancer.
In the early 1820s, two different papers are published on something that matches the description of Naphthalene. Both groups made it by distilling coal tar. In 1821 John Kidd cited both reports, and condensed their results to accurately describe the properties of naphthalene, and how to make it. Kidd named it naphthalene because "naphtha"  means any explosive hydrocarbon mixture. By 1826, Michael Faraday discovered the formula for it. Emil Erlenmeyer proposes that it is two fused benzene rings in 1866, and Carl Gräbe confirms this three years later.

</doc>
<doc id="56051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56051" title="MySQL">
MySQL

MySQL is a database system used by many websites on the Internet. It is based off of SQL. Many ways of doing things in SQL are similar in MySQL.
MySQL was first released in May 1995 and a Windows version was released in January 1998. The latest version (5.6.11) was released in April 2013.
MySQL is compatible with many major programming languages. The most common one is PHP. An ODBC interface (called MyODBC) has been made so that users of Microsoft's ASP language can use MySQL.
Some of the largest MySQL users on the internet include:
Many PHP scripts also use MySQL. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="56052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56052" title="White phosphorus">
White phosphorus

White phosphorus is an incendiary weapon. It makes a bright light and smoke. Its main ingredient is one of the allotropes of the chemical element phosphorus. White phosphorus is toxic to humans. It can burn deep into soft tissue, it can be breathed in, or it can be ingested (eaten). Over time, these can cause death.
The use of incendiary weapons against civilians is forbidden since 1949. They were used by U.S. forces in Iraq in 2004.
White phosphorous was also used in the Israeli invasion of Gaza during December 2008 through January 2009. These actions were supported by the US government. 

</doc>
<doc id="56054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56054" title="Miroslav Klose">
Miroslav Klose

Miroslav Klose (born June 9 1978 in Opole, Poland) is a Polish born German football player. From 1999 until 2004 he played for Kaiserslautern and from 2004 until 2007 for Werder Bremen. In 2007 changed to Bayern Munich. In 2011, he left Bayern Munich and joined the Italian team Lazio. On the Germany national team he has played in 137 matches since 2001 and scored 71 goals.
Klose is a great player known for his heading skills and he is currently the all-time top scorer of the Germany national football team with 71 goals. He is also the all-time leading goal scorer of the FIFA World Cup after beating Ronaldo's record in the semi-final against Brazil.
327||132||38||20||72||24||434||176
139||55||11||3||18||6||168||64
466||187||49||23||90||30||602||240

</doc>
<doc id="56056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56056" title="Mothball">
Mothball

Mothballs are small balls of chemical pesticide and deodorant.They are used when clothing and other articles susceptible to damage from mold or moth larvae are stored. Older mothballs were made primarily of naphthalene. Because naphthalene can catch fire easily, modern mothballs use 1,4-dichlorobenzene instead. Both of these ingredients have a strong, pungent smell often associated strongly with mothballs. Camphor, an insect repellent, can also be used in mothballs.
Their use when clothing is stored out-of-season led to the colloquial usage of the terms mothballed and put into mothballs to refer to anything which is put into storage or whose operation is suspended. Some claim that the use of the word in this sense derives from naval usage. When warships were laid up, the open ends of their gun barrels and other openings were covered in white material to prevent the entry of water. These white circles suggested mothballs.

</doc>
<doc id="56057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56057" title="Oliver Kahn">
Oliver Kahn

Oliver Rolf Kahn (born 15 June 1969 in Karlsruhe, Germany) is a former German football player. He also played the position of the goalkeeper for Bayern Munich. From 1988 until 1994, Kahn played for Karlsruhe. He has played 86 matches for the Germany national team.
After 2006 FIFA World Cup, he retired from the national team. After the season 2007/2008 he ended his career and stopped playing for his club Bayern Munich, too.
Kahn has won several titles with Bayern München, among them are the UEFA champions league, the UEFA cup, the intercontinental cup, eight national championships and six national cups.
In the world championships in 2002 he become vice champion with the German national team.
Kahns nicknames are "King Kahn" or "the titan".
557||0||82||0||142||0||781||0
557||0||82||0||142||0||781||0
!Total||86||0

</doc>
<doc id="56058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56058" title="Timo Hildebrand">
Timo Hildebrand

Timo Hidebrand (born 5 April 1979 in Worms, West Germany) is a German football player. He played Germany national team.
231||0||20||0||31||0||282||0
26||0||3||0||3||0||32||0
257||0||23||0||34||0||314||0
!Total||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="56060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56060" title="Philipp Lahm">
Philipp Lahm

Philipp Lahm (born 11 November 1983, in Munich, Germany) is a German football player. He plays as a defender for Bayern Munich.
From 2003 until 2005 he played for Stuttgart. He played with the Germany national team from 2004 to 2014. He is the captain for his club, and the former captain for Germany.
!Total||113||5

</doc>
<doc id="56061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56061" title="Valencia C.F.">
Valencia C.F.

Valencia C.F. is a football team in Spain.
Goalkeeper:
Defence:
Midfield:
Attack:

</doc>
<doc id="56067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56067" title="Bastian Schweinsteiger">
Bastian Schweinsteiger

Bastian Schweinsteiger (born 1 August 1984, in Kolbermoor, Germany) is a German football player. He plays as midfielder for Manchester United and the Germany national team. He has a brother, Tobias, who is also a footballer and is playing for Unterhaching on loan in the third German league. As of 11 July 2015, Schweinsteiger was transferred under a disclosed fee to Manchester United after Bayern CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge announced the transfer in a press conference. Schweinsteiger has been in a relationship with Ana Ivanovic since September 2014. The couple married on 12 July 2016 in Venice.
Schweinsteiger signed with Bayern Munich as a youth team player on 1 July 1998 and soon was successful with the youth teams and the second team. He made his debut in the first team as substitute in an UEFA Championsleague match versus RC Lens in November 2002. onla a short time later he signed a professional contract for the first team. He shot his first Bayern goal against VfL Wolfsburg in September 2003.
At the beginning of the 2005/06 season he was sent back to the second team but soon came back. Over the next three seasons, up until the end of 2007–08, Schweinsteiger made 135 appearances in all competitions for Bayern Munich (UEFA Champions League, Bundesliga and German Cup), scoring 10 goals. In December 2010, he prolonged his contract with Bayern until 2016. However, in July 2015 Schweinsteiger made a move to Manchester United.
Schweinsteiger made his international debut in 2004 in a friendly against Hungary. Since that time he played regularly in the German football national team. He was member of the Euro 2004 and 2008 - and World Cup 2006, 2010 and 2014 squads.
!Total||107||23

</doc>
<doc id="56068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56068" title="Feller Bach">
Feller Bach

The Feller Bach is a right tributary of the Moselle River in Rhineland-Palatinate (Germany). Its source is in the Hunsrück mountains. It flows through the villages Lorscheid ("Verbandsgemeinde" Ruwer), Fell and Riol ("Verbandsgemeinde" Schweich). It joins the Moselle in Riol. 
At the left there is the Thommer Bach in the Nossernvalley with the 
Fell Exhibition Slate Mine (Besucherbergwerk Fell).

</doc>
<doc id="56072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56072" title="Per Mertesacker">
Per Mertesacker

Per Mertesacker (born 29 September 1984 in Hanover, West Germany) is a German football player. He started playing for Werder Bremen in 2006. Before that, he played for Hannover. He played for the German national team.
154||12||14||2||32||3||200||17
154||12||14||2||32||3||200||17
!Total||104||4

</doc>
<doc id="56075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56075" title="Bernd Schneider">
Bernd Schneider

Bernd Schneider (born 17 November 1973 in Jena, Germany) is a former German footballer. He has played for Germany national team.
Schneider started his professional career at local Carl Zeiss Jena, going on to help the East German outfit to remain five consecutive seasons in the second division; his debut came on 13 August 1991, playing ten minutes in a 1–3 loss at Darmstadt 98.
Schneider then played one season at Eintracht Frankfurt, subsequently moving to Bayer Leverkusen, and establishing himself as an important player for both club and country. In 1999–2000 and 2001–02, he was helpful in Bayer's 2nd-place finish in the Fußball-Bundesliga. He also appeared 19 times in the side reached the 2002 Champions League Final.
More a creator than a finisher, Schneider scored a career-best ten league goals in the 2003–04 season, making him the highest-scoring midfielder in that year's competition, alongside Johan Micoud; Leverkusen finished third and, during the following season, Schneider extended his contract a few more years.
After two more seasons in which he scored ten goals and achieved 18 assists in 60 matches, Schneider began suffering back-to-back injuries: first the calf, then the back, not appearing for almost the entire 2008–09 season due to the injuries. He only managed to return to action on 16 May 2009, playing the last 20 minutes of a 5–0 home win against Borussia Mönchengladbach. The following month, he announced his retirement because he could not fully recover from the injuries.
!Total||81||4

</doc>
<doc id="56076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56076" title="David Odonkor">
David Odonkor

David Odonkor (born February 21, 1984 in Bünde, Germany) is a German football player. At the moment, he plays for Real Betis Balompié. Until 2006, he was playing for Borussia Dortmund. For the Germany national team he has played 16 matches and made 1 goal.
75||2
40||1
115||3
!Total||16||1

</doc>
<doc id="56079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56079" title="Black Entertainment Television">
Black Entertainment Television

Black Entertainment Television (BET) is an American cable television television network. It is based in Washington, D.C.. The network is targeted toward African-American audiences in the United States. Most of what it shows is hip-hop and R&B music videos as well as religious shows and movies and series for African-Americans.
BET was founded by Robert L. Johnson on January 25, 1980. The network started out as a two-hour Friday night show on the USA Network each week. It was on from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. (EST). They mostly showed older movies and music videos. In May of that year, BET started showing Black collegiate sporting events. In November 1980, BET added two half-hour shows, "Black Showcase" and "The Bobby Jones Gospel Show". On June 26, 1983, BET started showing "Video Soul", a music video series. On October 1, 1983, BET started broadcasting 24 hours daily with help from Home Box Office. In the latter years, BET has moved from having a variety of Black entertainment to mostly showing music videos around the clock. who now owns it.

</doc>
<doc id="56080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56080" title="Country Music Television">
Country Music Television

CMT (Country Music Television) is an American country music cable television channel. Some of the programs on the channel include country music videos, taped concerts, movies, biographies of country music stars, game shows, and reality programs.

</doc>
<doc id="56083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56083" title="Johnny Carson">
Johnny Carson

John William "Johnny" Carson (October 23, 1925 – January 23, 2005) was an American television host and comedian, known for thirty years as host of "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" (1962–1992).
Carson was born in Corning, Iowa, in 1925, to Homer Lloyd "Kit" Carson, a power company manager, and Ruth (Hook) Carson, who was of Irish ancestry. He grew up in the nearby towns of Avoca, Clarinda, and Red Oak in southwest Iowa before moving to Norfolk, Nebraska, at the age of eight. At the age of twelve, Carson found a book on magic at a friend's house and immediately purchased a mail-order magician's kit. He debuted as "The Great Carsoni" at age 14 and he was paid US$3; many other performances at local picnics and country fairs followed.
Carson joined the U.S. Navy on June 8, 1943, received V-12 officer training at Columbia University and Millsaps College, and continued to perform magic.
Carson died in West Hollywood, California from respiratory failure caused by emphysema, aged 79.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="56085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56085" title="TNT (band)">
TNT (band)

TNT is a Norwegian hard rock/heavy metal band. The band was formed in Trondheim in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="56089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56089" title="Anarcho-capitalism">
Anarcho-capitalism

Anarcho-capitalism is a political philosophy that says that governments are not needed but that property rights are needed.
Anarcho-capitalism says that governments are not needed because governments either do not work or are bad.  Governments are said to be bad because they use force to get things done.  Examples of government force include:
Anarcho-capitalists say that society would be better off if the few "good" things that governments do were instead done on the free market by private individuals, private companies, charities, mutual aid societies, and voluntary unions.  Anarcho-capitalists think that people will still be safe without armies and police that are paid for with taxes.  Anarcho-capitalists say that people will be able to protect themselves by paying people or "private defence agencies" to defend them, or by setting up neighbourhood watches.  They also think that when people get into fights or arguments about who owns what, people should be able to get together and decide what kind of court to go to and what kind of rules they should be judged by, instead of being forced to go to a court that the government sets up.
The term "anarcho-capitalism" was coined by Jarret B. Wollstein.  It is called "anarcho-capitalism" because it is a mix of (1) the individualist anarchist idea that governments are bad and unnecessary, and (2) the capitalist idea that private property is good when it has been gotten in a legitimate way instead of through force.  Anarcho-capitalists say that the government is a thief, because it takes people's money away against their will.  Governments also keep people from making trades between themselves.
Most libertarians are minarchists, which means they think that there needs to be a very small government whose only purpose is to protect people's property.  Anarcho-capitalists are different because they believe society would be better off without any government, even though they are still a kind of libertarian.
Like other anarchists, anarcho-capitalists are against the whole idea of hierarchy.  But, unlike other anarchists, anarcho-capitalists do not define hierarchy as something that exists when one person is simply "seen" as being more important than another person.  Anarcho-capitalist believe hierarchy exists only when a person is given the authority to use force against a nonviolent person person or that person's legitimate property.  Only when "no one" is allowed to use force against nonviolent people or their legitimate property are people truly equal.  Only then is hierarchy no more.
Some classical anarchists oppose anarcho-capitalism because they do not believe any private property is legitimate.  These anarchists would say that all property is founded on the theft of the commons (unowned land and stuff).  Many anarchists don't even think that anarcho-capitalism counts as a real form of anarchism, as this critique of property goes back to some of the earliest people calling themselves anarchists.
Anarcho-capitalists, like other libertarians and classical liberals, only believe property is legitimate when it has been gotten in the right sort of way.  If you steal (take something from someone without her permission), or hire someone to steal on your behalf, or ask the government to steal on your behalf, the property you get is not really yours.  The "real" owner is still the person or people it belonged to before it was stolen.  Anarcho-capitalists say that governments do not legitimately own anything, since governments get all of their wealth through force, including taxation and counterfeiting.
In the eyes of anarcho-capitalists, property can only be legitimately gotten in one of three ways.  The first way is through John Locke's "homestead principle," which means that something owned by no one "becomes" your legitimate property when you "mix your labour" with the thing.  In other words, if you come across an unowned field, and you start farming it, then the land you farm becomes your property, along with all of the crops you grow.  If someone else comes along and steals all of the crops you worked on growing, that person has committed a form of force called "theft."  The second and third ways to legitimately get property is through voluntary trade or gift.
If someone has gotten something in an illegitimate way, it is not theft to take the thing back, as long as you harm no innocent person in the process.
Some anarcho-capitalists are also anarcho-pacifists, but most anarcho-capitalists are not.  Anarcho-pacifists, like Robert LeFevre, believe one may never use any force at all, not even in self-defence.  Most anarcho-capitalists, however, believe it is okay to use defensive force as long as it is "only" directed against those who have used non-defensive force, and as long as it is proportional to the non-defensive force.  In other words, one may not legitimately shoot a person for stealing a stick of gum, because shooting someone is a lot more forceful than stealing the gum.
The following is a list of some notable nonfiction works discussing anarcho-capitalism.
Anarcho-capitalism has been looked at in certain works of literature, particularly science fiction.  An early example is Robert A. Heinlein's 1966 novel "The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress", in which he explores what he calls "rational anarchism."  A contemporary anarcho-capitalistic work of science fiction is John C. Wright's "The Golden Age".
In "The Illuminatus! Trilogy" by Robert Anton Wilson, the Discordian Society, headed by the character Hagbard Celine, is anarcho-capitalist.  The manifesto of the society in the novel, "Never Whistle While You're Pissing," contains Celine's Laws, three laws regarding government and social interaction.
Cyberpunk and postcyberpunk authors have been interested by the idea of the breakdown of the government.  Some stories of Vernor Vinge, including "Marooned in Realtime" and "Conquest by Default", feature anarcho-capitalist societies, sometimes made to look good, and sometimes not.  Neal Stephenson's "Snow Crash" and "The Diamond Age", Max Barry's "Jennifer Government", Cory Doctorow's "Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom," and L. Neil Smith's "The Probability Broach" all explore anarcho-capitalist ideas.  Anarchy in cyberpunk fiction ranges from the very bad to the very good.
Ken MacLeod's Fall Revolution series looks at the future results of the breakdown of today's political systems during a revolution.  The second novel of the series, "The Stone Canal", deals with an anarcho-capitalist society and looks at issues of self-ownership, privatisation of police and courts of law, and the results of a contractual society.
In Matt Stone's (Richard D. Fuerle) novelette "On the Steppes of Central Asia", an American graduate student is invited to work for a newspaper in Mongolia, and finds out that the Mongolian society is stateless in a way similar to anarcho-capitalism.  The novelette was originally written to advertise Fuerle's 1986 economics book, "The Pure Logic of Choice".
J. Neil Schulman's novel "Alongside Night" shows a society using agorism to successfully becoming a market anarchist society.
"Sharper Security: A Sovereign Security Company Novel", part of a series by Thomas Sewell, is "set a couple of decades into the near-future with a liberty view of society based on individual choice and free market economics" and shows a society where individuals hire a security company to protect and insure them from crime.  The security companies are sovereign, but customers are free to switch between them.  They behave as a combination of insurance/underwriting and para-military police forces.  Anarcho-capitalist themes in the book include a look at what would happen if sovereign immunity is not forced onto people, and a look at privately-owned road systems, a "laissez-faire" market, and competing currencies.
Sandy Sandfort's, Scott Bieser's, and Lee Oaks's Webcomic, "Escape from Terra", looks at a market anarchist society living on Ceres
and its interaction with the violent statist society on Terra.

</doc>
<doc id="56090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56090" title="Walther von der Vogelweide">
Walther von der Vogelweide

Walther von der Vogelweide (born about 1170; died possibly in Würzburg around 1230) was a famous German poet and composer. He was the greatest of the German Minnesinger. These were people who wrote and sang songs about courtly love. Walther himself may have added “von der Vogelweide” to his name (it means “of the bird meadow”).
The German courtly love songs that had been written at the time were all very similar, but Walther gave these songs new life and made them very beautiful. Unfortunately we do not know any of his music, because he did not write it down. But he wrote his poems down. They are very original, sometimes humorous, sometimes serious, often just gently suggesting ideas carefully.
We do not know where Walther was born, but he wrote in a document that he had learned to sing and write poetry in Austria. The dialect he spoke shows that he must have come from Bavaria or Austria. He spent some time at the court of Duke Leopold V of Babenberg in Vienna. This was about 1190. He took part in public singing contests and had long discussions with other people about love and the way it should be written about in poetry.
In about 1198 he left Vienna and spent many years travelling around, visiting courts in Europe, entertaining dukes and princes, and singing his songs. He always wrote the words himself, he never used other poets’ words. That would have made him a simple “Spielmann”, but Walther was of noble birth (he had the title “Herr”). He often spent several weeks or months in a castle where he entertained people, and where he probably also fell in love with one of the ladies. He wrote about these love-affairs in his poetry.
Walther also wrote verses called “Sprüche" ("sayings"). These were about the history of the time. They were a kind of political propaganda and were used in political debates. Walther supported Emperor Otto IV in his arguments against the pope, persuading the emperor to go on the crusade which the pope had forbidden. We do not know whether Walther went with him on the crusade.
By this time Walther had became very famous, not just as a poet and musician but as a kind of political adviser. Walther was the first poet to write national and patriotic poetry. He also wrote a type of love poem which was new in German literature. "Unter der Linde" is the most famous of these. Here are the first two verses:

</doc>
<doc id="56092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56092" title="Striptease">
Striptease

Striptease is an entertainment, by females usually, before an audience. It is often included in the theatre form called burlesque. With music and dance, the stripper gradually removes her clothing. It is a very ancient dance form, and occurs in many societies.
Stripping is done in a teasing manner, but without being obscene (for example, by delaying to take an item off). While hiding certain parts of the body with hands or pieces of clothing, stripper dances around. Sometimes, plays are arranged, the strippers are disguised as Arabic dancers, Salome, Lolita or other well-known people. The spectator sometimes identifies with the stripper. Erotic dreams and exhibitionist fantasies may be projected into the striptease. 
The Sumerians had a myth of the goddess Inanna descending into the Underworld. At each of the seven gates, she removed an article of clothing or a piece of jewelry. As long as she remained in hell, the earth was barren. When she returned, fecundity abounded. 
Salome's dance for King Herod is referred to in the New Testament ( and ). However, the first mention of her removing seven veils is in Oscar Wilde's play of "Salome" in 1893. Some have claimed as the origin of modern striptease. After Wilde's play and Richard Strauss's opera "Salome", first performed in 1905 the erotic 'dance of the seven veils', became a standard routine in opera, vaudeville, film and burlesque. A famous early practitioner was Maud Allan who in 1907 gave a private performance of the dance to Edward VII.
In ancient Greece, the lawgiver Solon established several classes of prostitutes in the late 6th century BC. Among these were the "auletrides": female dancers, acrobats, and musicians, noted for dancing naked in an alluring fashion in front of audiences of men. In ancient Rome, dance featuring stripping was part of the Floralia, an April festival. 
Empress Theodora, wife of 6th-century Byzantine emperor Justinian is reported by several ancient sources to have started in life as a courtesan and actress who performed in acts inspired from mythological themes and in which she disrobed "as far as the laws of the day allowed". She was famous for her striptease performance of "Leda and the Swan". From these accounts, it appears that the practice was not exceptional or new. It was, however, actively opposed by the Christian Church, which got statutes banning it in the following century. The degree to which these statutes were enforced is open to question. No practice of the sort is reported in texts of the European Middle Ages.
In the 1880s and 1890s, Parisian shows such as the Moulin Rouge and Folies Bergère had attractive scantily-clad women dancing and "tableaux vivants" (static poses). Acts in the 1890s had a woman slowly removed clothes in a vain search for a flea crawling on her body. The "People's Almanac" credits this as the origin of modern striptease.
Starting in 1905, Mata Hari entered the scene. On the invitation of Emile Guimet she danced before a carefully chosen audience. The scene at the end of the show, where she was naked was a sensation. Similar performances, at the requests of Baron von Rothschild, Cécile Sorel, Gaston Menier and Natalie Clifford Barney followed. Mata Hari had never learned how to dance, and had never studied Indian and oriental dancing. Her dances were a product of her imagination. In 1917, Mata Hari was charged with espionage and sentenced to death. She was shot, on 15 October 1917, in Vincennes, near Paris. 
Another landmark performance was the appearance at the Moulin Rouge in 1907 of an actress called Germaine Aymos who entered dressed only in three very small shells. In the 1930s the famous Josephine Baker danced semi-nude in the "danse sauvage" at the Folies and other such performances were provided at the Tabarin. These shows were notable for their sophisticated choreography and often dressing the girls in glitzy sequins and feathers. By the 1960s "fully nude" shows were provided at such places as Le Crazy Horse Saloon.
After the war, in the 1950s striptease became the motor of an emerging sex industry (mainly focused on publications, like Playboy). Paris saw the opening of the high-society strip clubs, like the Alcazar or the Crazy Horse.
In modern times, the art of striptease gets lost more and more. In the 1990s, a German private TV channel (called RTL) made a strip show called Tutti Frutti. Since then, during the night, many TV stations have women, who try to get rid of their clothes (without even dancing), while they advertise some phone sex numbers (or other prime-rate numbers). 
There is also a film called "Striptease". It plays in US strip clubs, without giving much background information.
Originally, striptease was only done by women. Today, a very small number of male strippers are there. Among the most notable of them are the Chippendales.

</doc>
<doc id="56093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56093" title="Roald Dahl">
Roald Dahl

Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British writer. 
He was born in Llandaff, Cardiff, Wales to Norwegian parents. He was educated in England and then worked in Africa for Shell Oil Company. In the Second World War, he was an RAF fighter pilot. It was after an air-crash and "a monumental bash on the head" that he began to write. The crash was the subject of his first published story, "Shot Down Over Libya".
His stories are full of huge, wild ideas and he hoped they would help children to learn to love books. He is one of the world's most popular children's writers. 
He wrote many famous children's stories and adult horror stories. Many of his books and stories have been made into films and TV shows all over the world. Among his most popular books are "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "James and the Giant Peach", "Matilda", "The Witches", "The BFG", Fantastic Mr Fox , and "Kiss Kiss". Many of his children's books have pictures drawn by Quentin Blake.
He was married to Patricia Neal from 1953 until they divorced in 1983. They had four daughters (one of whom died before them) and a son. Dahl was married to Felicity Crosland from 1983 until his death. He lived in Great Missenden, Buckinghamshire. He died on the morning of 23 November 1990 in Oxford, from myelodysplastic syndrome, aged 74. 
Model Sophie Dahl is his granddaughter.

</doc>
<doc id="56101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56101" title="Let There Be Rock">
Let There Be Rock

Let There Be Rock is a studio album by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It was released on June 23, 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="56108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56108" title="Electrical energy">
Electrical energy

Electrical energy can refer to several closely related things. It can mean:
In any of these cases, the SI unit of electrical energy is the joule; which is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such as a tiny light bulb, drawing power for one second. The unit used by many electrical utility companies is the watt-hour (Wh); which is the amount of energy used by the same one-watt load drawing power for one hour. The kilowatt-hour (kWh), which is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour, is a useful size for measuring the energy use of households and small businesses. A typical household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month. The megawatt-hour (MWh), which is 1,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour, is used for measuring the energy output of large power plants.
The terms "electrical energy" and "electric power" are frequently used interchangeably. However, in physics, and electrical engineering, "energy" and "power" have different meanings. Power is energy per unit time. The SI unit of power and electricity is the watt. One watt is a joule per second. In other words, the phrases "flow of power," and "consume a quantity of electric power" are both incorrect and should be changed to "flow of energy" and "consume a quantity of electrical energy."

</doc>
<doc id="56109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56109" title="Power (physics)">
Power (physics)

In physics, power (symbol: "P") is how fast work is done or energy is given from one thing to another. In the SI system of measurement, power is measured in watts (symbol: W). 
It may take a certain amount of work to make a change in the world, such as lifting a heavy weight to a higher level. It makes no difference if the weight is lifted slowly or quickly. The same amount of work will have been performed. The difference between a slow lift and a quick lift is that a quick lift requires more power. This means the work can be done in a shorter time if there is more power available.
As a rate of change of work done or the energy of a subsystem, power is:
where
Power is also equal to force times velocity (or speed).
In optics, or radiometry, the term "power" sometimes refers to radiant flux. This is the average rate of energy transport by electromagnetic radiation, measured in watts. But the term "power" is also used to express the ability of a lens or other optical device to focus light. It is measured in dioptres (inverse metres), and is equal to one over the focal length of the optical device.

</doc>
<doc id="56110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56110" title="List of Byzantine Emperors">
List of Byzantine Emperors

This is a list of the Emperors of the late Eastern Roman Empire, called Byzantine by modern historians. This list does not include many of the emperors that rules with someone else.
The title of all Emperors before Heraclius was Augustus, but other titles such as Dominus were also used. After Heraclius, the title was changed to the Greek Basileus. This title used to mean "king", "sovereign" but now was used in place of Augustus. The emperors of the 15th century called themselves "Basileus ton Hellinon" ("Emperor of the Greeks") but they were still "Roman" Emperors.
This list begins with Constantine I the Great, the first Christian emperor reigning from Constantinople. 
At around this time the emperors began using the title "Βασιλευς Βασιλεων Βασιλευων Βασιλευσιν", that is, "King of Kings, ruling over Kings."
In 1453 Mehmed II overthrew the Byzantine Empire and claimed the title of Kaisar; his successors continued this claim. See Ottomans for the complete list of Ottoman sultans.

</doc>
<doc id="56114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56114" title="Maroon 5">
Maroon 5

Maroon 5 is an American pop rock band. It is based in Los Angeles, California. It used to be called Kara's Flowers. The band members were vocalist Adam Levine, guitarist James Valentine, bassist Mickey Madden, percussionist Matt Flynn, and keyboardists Jesse Carmichael and PJ Morton.
The band has released 5 studio albums, "Songs About Jane" (2002), "It Won't Be Soon Before Long" (2007), "Hands All Over" (2010), "Overexposed" (2012), and "V". All those albums charted in the top 3 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 chart. The band has sold more than 27 million albums and 109 million singles worldwide.
In 1994 the band known today as "Maroon 5" was a Los Angeles, California grunge band. The members were singer Adam Levine, guitarist Jesse Carmichael, drummer Ryan Dusick, and bassist Michael Madden.
In 1997, the group signed with Reprise Records and released the studio album "The Fourth World". In 2001, James Valentine (guitarist) joined the band. In 2006, Dusick left the band. Matt Flynn replaced him as drummer. The band's first album using the name Maroon 5 was "Songs About Jane", released in 2002.
On June 22, 2011, the group released the single "Moves Like Jagger" featuring pop singer Christina Aguilera. The release was in promotion of the NBC show "The Voice". The song became #1 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. Levine won the first American season of "The Voice" in June 2011 with his partner Javier Colon. The band said that they would be working on a fourth studio album released before 2012. A song titled "Life After you" was expected to be recorded and released in early 2012. A song titled "Wipe Your Eyes" was leaked on the web January 15, 2012 and is said to have been produced by music producer J.R. Rotem.
On March 26, 2012, "Rolling Stone" magazine announced that the group would release their fourth studio album "Overexposed" on June 26, 2012. The band had worked with headlining producer Max Martin, along with Benjamin Levin and lead singer of OneRepublic, Ryan Tedder. The lead single off the album, "Payphone", was released on April 17, 2012.
In 2014, the fifth studio album "V" was released.
 

</doc>
<doc id="56116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56116" title="Jens Lehmann">
Jens Lehmann

Jens Lehmann (born 10 November 1969 in Essen, Germany) is a German football player. He has played for Arsenal since 2003. Lehmann is the goalkeeper of the Germany national team. He has played 61 matches for the national team.
Jens Lehmann has played for Arsenal joining the team in November 2002. He was an important part of their success during their "Invincibles" season where Arsenal won the title without losing a single game. He has had lots of memories playing for Arsenal but during the 2007-2008 season he got injured and then was replaced by Manuel Almunia after a poor start to the season. He came back on December the 1st from his knee injury. Now Jens has played 1 or 2 games for Germany and now is probably going to quit Arsenal and he is thinking to go to a German team. And now Arsenal have to say another goodbye to their 3rd recent mover.
Jens has just began to play again after his bad injury (knee injury). He played at least a game for Germany on December the 6th 2007. Unfortunantly he let in 3 goals and saved 22 from going in to the goals. Jens now might live in Germany forever because he is leaving Arsenal and moves in July 2008 to Stuttgart.
437||2||0||0||2||0||23||0||462||2
5||0||||||||||||||5||0
145||0||13||0||0||0||36||0||194||0
587||2||13||0||2||0||59||0||661||2
!Total||61||0

</doc>
<doc id="56117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56117" title="Karlsruher SC">
Karlsruher SC

Karlsruher SC is a German football club in the second division (2. Bundesliga).
Goalkeepers:
Defences:
Middlefields:
Strikers:
Winned Cups:
Championchips:
Pokalchampion:

</doc>
<doc id="56119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56119" title="A.C. Milan">
A.C. Milan

A.C. Milan is an Italian football club in Milan.
They were started in 1899 by two Englishmen, Herbet Kilpin and Alfred Edwards after a heavy drinking session in the Fiaschetteria Toscana tavern in Milan.
Herbet Kilpin became the first team coach and captain whilst Alfred Edwards became the first club president.
Their first name was Milan Cricket and Football Club. They have won the Serie A football league 18 times and the Coppa Italia football cup 5 times. They have won more things than any Italian club except for Juventus. In season 2005/06 they were punished for setting up the results. They started the 2006/07 season with an 8-point deficit, but they managed to end up fourth and win the UEFA Champions League qualification games. A.C.Milan won the 2006/07 UEFA Champions League in the final at Athens versus Liverpool. 2 to 1 was the score for the Italian team.
They play at the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza Stadium, also known as San Siro because Giuseppe Meazza was a star playing for arch rival, Internazionale Milano in Milan.

</doc>
<doc id="56120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56120" title="Germany national football team">
Germany national football team

The Germany national football team is the national football team in Germany. The team has won the 1954 FIFA World Cup, 1974 FIFA World Cup, 1990 FIFA World Cup and 2014 FIFA World Cup. The team came as second in the 1966 FIFA World Cup, 1982 FIFA World Cup, 1986 FIFA World Cup and in 2002 FIFA World Cup. In the 1934 FIFA World Cup, 1970 FIFA World Cup, 2006 FIFA World Cup and 2010 FIFA World Cup, the team got third place. The teams current coach is Joachim Löw, who took over from Jürgen Klinsmann.
From 1950 to 1990, the team was mainly West Germany. Other teams were around that are now part of Germany. These include the East German team (1952-1990) and the Saarland team (1950-1956).
Germany has always been one of the best teams in the world. Germany is the only team to have won men's and women's world cup titles. Also, Germany's main rivals are England, the Netherlands and Argentina.
The teams recent performance in a tournament was a victory over Argentina to win the 2014 FIFA World Cup. In the semi-final against Brazil, Germany thrashed them with a 7–1 win, making it the largest win in FIFA World Cup semi-final history. Miroslav Klose, one of the greatest German players of all time, also scored a record breaking goal that made him the top scorer in FIFA World Cup history.
After another World Cup exit in 1998, Germany's status as one of the best teams in the world was beginning to go away. In the UEFA Euro 2000, Germany failed to advance to the next round, after loosing two matches and one draw in the group stage. The manager at the time then resigned and was replaced by Rudi Völler.
Going into the 2002 FIFA World Cup, the expectations for Germany was low because of the mediocre performance in the qualifiers. However, they performed very well in the World Cup, eventually making it to the finals but loosing to Brazil 0–2. Miroslav Klose of Germany won the Silver Boot and Oliver Kahn won the Golden Ball.
Germany again failed to advance to the next round in the UEFA Euro 2004 after they tied two matches and lost one. The manager Rudi Völler resigned shortly afterwards. Jürgen Klinsmann then replaced him, although having no experience. Joachim Löw was also assigned to assist him. Klinsmann made Michael Ballack captain after the Euro 2004. Klinsmann main goal was to help Germany perform well in the next world cup.
Before the tournament, not many people expected Germany to do well because of their performance in the last tournaments. However, Germany won the first match of the tournament against Costa Rica. They continued to build confidence, and they eventually advanced to next stage with three wins in the group stage. Germany then beat Sweden 2–0 in the Round of 16.
Germany then faced favourites Argentina in the quarter-finals. Argentina took the lead first in the match with a goal by Roberto Ayala in the 49th minute. Miroslav Klose then equalized with a goal at the 80th minute. The game later went to a penalty shootout, with Germany winning 4–2 and their goalkeeper Jens Lehmann making two saves.
Although many then expected Germany to reach the final, they lost in the Semi-finals to Italy after Italy scored two goals in extra time. However, the German team went on to thrash Portugal 3–1 in the third place match. After the World Cup, Miroslav Klose won the Golden Boot and Lukas Podolski won the Best Young Player award.Also, four of Germany's players were put in the All-Star squad. When the German team arrived back in Berlin, they were greeted by 500,000 fans who were all honoring the German team.
Klinsmann left the German team after the World Cup, with Joachim Löw taking the throne. Löw was known for often putting young players in the team. The German team then easily qualified for the UEFA Euro 2008. In the final tournament, Germany advanced to the next round after they finished the group stage with two wins and one loss to Croatia. Germany then played Portugal in the quarter-finals and beat them 3–2 with goals from Bastian Schweinsteiger, Miroslav Klose and Michael Ballack. They then went to the Semi-finals against Turkey and barely defeated them 3–2 after Philipp Lahm scored on the 90th minute. In the final of the Euro 2008, Spain were the favourites but Germany was believed to have a chance. Spain took control of the game and with Fernando Torres's goal, Spain won the tournament.
Germany easily qualified in their qualifying group against Azerbaijan, Finland, Liechtenstein, Russia and Wales. In the tournament, Germany advanced through the group stage after winning two games and loosing one against Serbia. Germany then went on to dominate the Round of 16 and Quarter-finals after defeating England 4–1 and thrashing Argentina 4–0. In the semi-finals, Germany lost to Spain 1–0. Germany then beat Uruguay 3–2 to become the third place medal winners. Thomas Müller won the Golden Boot and the Best Young Player award. Germany also scored the most than any other team in the tournament, with 16 goals.
Germany won all ten of their qualifying matches for the UEFA Euro 2012. They later were placed in Group B along with Portugal, the Netherlands and Denmark. The team went on to win all their matches in the group stage and broke a record of 15 consecutive wins in all matches. They then beat Greece 4–2 in the quarter-finals with goals from Philipp Lahm, Sami Khedira, Miroslav Klose and Marco Reus. However, they lost to Italy 1–2 in the semi-finals.
Germany almost had ten straight wins in the qualifying round for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. However, in a game against Sweden, the team conceded 4 goals when they were up 4–0 up. The team performed well in the international friendlies before the World Cup with an unbeaten streak. Their most notable win was against Armenia, where they won 6–1. Germany was put in Group G with Portugal, Ghana and the United States.
The first match against Portugal ended with Germany defeating them 4–0; with the help of Thomas Müller's hat-trick. Their second game against Ghana ended with a 2–2 draw after Miroslav Klose equalized the score. Their final game ended with a win against the United States after Thomas Müller scored at the 55th minute. In the quarter-finals, Mats Hummels scored the winning goal at the 13th minute, meaning that Germany advanced to their fourth consecutive semi-final in the FIFA World Cup. In the semi-final against Brazil, Germany thrashed them with a 7–1 win, making it the largest win in FIFA World Cup semi-final history. Miroslav Klose also scored a record breaking goal that made him the top scorer in FIFA World Cup history. The win began to be known as the Miracle of Belo Horizonte. Germany then went on to their 8th World Cup final in history. In the final, Mario Götze scored at the 113th minute to help Germany defeat Argentina 1–0.
Germany was put in a qualifying group with Poland, Republic of Ireland, Scotland, Georgia and Gibraltar. They qualified at the top of their group after 7 wins, 1 draw and 2 losses. They are currently placed with Ukraine, Poland and Northern Ireland in the group stage.
The squad for the UEFA Euro 2016:
The squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup:
The squad for the UEFA Euro 2012:
The squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup:
Germany doesn't have an official stadium, so they use many stadiums. The city of Berlin has been the host of the most German games (44 times). The Olympiastadion Berlin is the most commonly used stadium in Berlin, and it holds 74,500 seats. Other common cities to host games have been Hamburg (33 matches), Stuttgart (31), Hanover (26) and Dortmund. Another popular location is Munich, which hosted the 1974 FIFA World Cup Final, where Germany defeated the Netherlands.

</doc>
<doc id="56121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56121" title="Larissa">
Larissa

Larissa () is the capital city of the Thessaly periphery of Greece, and capital of the Larissa Prefecture. Larissa is found in the north of the Thessaly plain near at the foot of the mountain Olympus. Its population is 131,496 inhabitants. Larissa is crossed by Pineios river. The most interest sight in Larissa is the ancient theater which is located in the center of the city. 

</doc>
<doc id="56130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130" title="Steven Gerrard">
Steven Gerrard

Steven George Gerrard (born 30 May 1980) is an English footballer. Gerrard is best known for playing for Liverpool, where he wore the number 8 shirt, playing from 1997 until 2015. He was also the England captain, for which he wore the number 4. He usually plays as a central midfielder. He currently plays for Los Angeles Galaxy.
Gerrard was born in Whiston Hospital but he grew up in the Liverpool suburb of Huyton.
Gerrard was engaged to Alex Curran and they married on 16 June 2007. They have three daughters: Lilly-Ella Gerrard (born on 23 February 2004), Lexie Gerrard (born on 9 May 2006) and Lourdes Gerrard (born on 2 November 2011).
On 1 September 2006, he published his first autobiography, entitled "Gerrard: My Autobiography".
Gerrard also started training with his boyhood club on 30 November 2015
Gerrard also recently started a punditry job on BT Sport Europe.
333||71||26||9||19||7||101||32||484||119
333||71||26||9||19||7||101||32||484||119
!Total||77||16

</doc>
<doc id="56133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56133" title="Ikebana">
Ikebana

Ikebana (Japanese: 生け花 or いけばな) is the Japanese art of making flower arrangements. The word "Ikebana" means " to make alive flowers". People who want to do Ikebana have to learn many things. It is not just about putting flowers in a vase. Japanese flower arrangements often have special meanings.
There are many ways in which Ikebana can be taught. These schools (ways of teaching) include Ikenobo, Sogetsu, Ohara.
Ikenobo is very well known. Until the Mid-Edo Period it was only for upper class people. Ikenobo was started by a Buddhist priest called Ikenobo Senkei in the 15th century. It uses standing flowers (called "rikka"). It is a Buddhist way of showing the beauty of nature. There are 7 branches. Each branch Krepresents something in nature, e.g. a hill, valley, waterfall etc. Later, in the 17th century, it became simpler and was called "shoka". Shoka uses just 3 branches called "ten" (heaven), "chi" (earth) and "jin" (man). 
Another form of Ikebana is called "cha-bana". It is used in tea ceremony.
Today Ikebana is very popular among all classes of people in Japan. 15 million people in Japan practice Ikebana.

</doc>
<doc id="56144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56144" title="Venom (band)">
Venom (band)

Venom is a black metal band from Newcastle upon Tyne, England. The band was formed in 1979. Venom is considered to be (one of) the first Black Metal bands.

</doc>
<doc id="56146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56146" title="Venom (disambiguation)">
Venom (disambiguation)

Venom may mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="56148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56148" title="Scottsdale, Tasmania">
Scottsdale, Tasmania

Scottsdale is a town in the north-east of Tasmania, Australia. It is 63 km northeast of Launceston and 22 km southeast of town of Bridport. It is part of the Dorset Council.
The area was first surveyed in 1855 and was described as, ""the best soil on the island ... well watered, with a mild climate"" by surveyor James Scott. The town was named after him. Scottsdale is now a major agricultural centre.

</doc>
<doc id="56155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56155" title="Torsten Frings">
Torsten Frings

Torsten Frings (born 22 November 1976 in Würselen, Germany) is a German football player. At the moment he playes for the Canadian soccer club Toronto FC. Before his change, he played for the German club Werder Bremen, Bayern Munich (2004 until 2005), Borussia Dortmund (2002 until 2004) and Werder Bremen (1997 until 2002).
He has played for the Germany national team since 2001.
397||50||21||2||11||2||61||9||490||63
397||50||21||2||11||2||61||9||490||63
!Total||79||10

</doc>
<doc id="56177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56177" title="David Letterman">
David Letterman

David Michael Letterman (born April 12, 1947) is an American television host and comedian. He hosts the late night television talk show "Late Show with David Letterman", broadcast on CBS. Letterman has hosted the 1982 debut of "Late Night with David Letterman" on NBC. In 2013, Letterman surpassed friend and mentor Johnny Carson as the longest-serving late-night talk show host in TV history, at 31 years.
Letterman's ironic comedy is similar to comedians such as Andy Kaufman, Ernie Kovacs, and "Tonight Show" hosts Johnny Carson and Steve Allen.
Letterman was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. His father, Harry Joseph Letterman, was a florist of English ancestry; his mother Dorothy Letterman, a church secretary of German ancestry, has been an occasional figure on the show, usually at holidays and birthdays.
He lived on the north side of Indianapolis, not far from the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. He enjoyed collecting model cars, including racers. In 2000, he told an interviewer for "Esquire" that, while growing up, he admired his father's ability to tell jokes and be the life of the party. Harry Joseph Letterman survived a heart attack at age 36, when David was a young boy. The fear of losing his father was constantly with Letterman as he grew up. The elder Letterman died of a second heart attack at age 57.

</doc>
<doc id="56178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56178" title="Tide">
Tide

A tide is the periodic rising and falling of Earth's ocean surface caused mainly by the gravitational pull of the Moon acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine (river mouth) waters. Tides also make oscillating currents known as tidal streams (~'rip tides'). This means that being able to predict the tide is important for coastal navigation. The strip of seashore that is under water at high tide and exposed at low tide, called the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides.
The height of tides varies somewhat with the phases of the Moon. At New Moon and Full Moon, tides are higher because the Sun's tidal force adds to the Moon's. This is called "spring tide".
In most places, there are two tides a day. They each have a high point (the high tide) and a low point (the low tide). We speak of a "flood tide" coming in towards high tide, and an "ebb tide" going out towards low tide.
The period of the tide is about 12 hours and 25.2 minutes, exactly half a "tidal lunar day". The lunar day is longer than the Earth day because the Moon orbits in the same direction the Earth spins. This is analogous to the minute hand on a watch crossing the hour hand at 12:00 and then again at about 1:05½ (not at 1:00).
The Moon orbits the Earth in the same direction as the Earth rotates on its axis, so it takes slightly more than a day—about 24 hours and 50 minutes—for the Moon to return to the same location in the sky. During this time, it has passed overhead once and underfoot once, so in many places the period of strongest tidal forcing is the above mentioned, about 12 hours and 25 minutes. 
Because the gravitational field created by the Moon weakens with distance from the Moon, it exerts a slightly stronger than average force on the side of the Earth facing the Moon, and a slightly weaker force on the opposite side. The Moon thus tends to "stretch" the Earth slightly along the line connecting the two bodies. The solid Earth deforms a bit, but ocean water, being fluid, is free to move much more in response to the tidal force, particularly horizontally. As the Earth rotates, the magnitude and direction of the tidal force at any particular point on the Earth's surface change constantly; although the ocean never reaches equilibrium—there is never time for the fluid to "catch up" to the state it would eventually reach if the tidal force were constant—the changing tidal force nonetheless causes rhythmic changes in sea surface height.

</doc>
<doc id="56179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56179" title="Tidal force">
Tidal force

Tidal force is caused by gravity and makes tides happen. This is because the gravitational field changes across the middle of a body (the diameter). 

</doc>
<doc id="56180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56180" title="Tidal energy">
Tidal energy

Tidal energy, sometimes called "tidal power", is the power achieved by capturing the energy contained in moving water in tides and open ocean currents. 
There are two types of tidal energy systems that can be used to extract energy: kinetic energy, the moving water of rivers, tides and open ocean currents; and potential energy from the difference in height (or "head") between high and low tides. The first method - generating energy from tidal currents - is becoming more and more popular because people believe that it does not harm the environment as much as barrages or dams. Many coastal sites worldwide are being examined for their suitability to produce tidal (current) energy.
Like other hydroelectricity, tidal power is classified as a renewable energy source, because tides are caused by the orbital mechanics of the solar system (ocean currents are caused by the surface effect of winds) and are considered inexhaustible. The root source of the energy is the orbital kinetic energy of the earth-moon system, and also the earth-sun system. Tidal power has great potential for future power and electricity generation because of the essentially inexhaustible amount of energy contained in these rotational systems. Tidal power is reliably predictable (unlike wind power and solar power). In Europe, tide mills have been used for nearly 1,000 years, mainly for grinding grains. Modern tide mills provide tidal stream power.

</doc>
<doc id="56181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56181" title="Evangeline Lilly">
Evangeline Lilly

Nicole Evangeline Lilly (born August 3, 1979) is a Canadian actress. She is well known for her role as Katherine "Kate" Austen on the television show "Lost".
Evangeline was once married to Canadian hockey player Murray Hone. She also dated Dominic Monaghan, who was also on "Lost". The two broke up in 2007.
Her nicknames include "Evi" and "Monkey". The other actors on "Lost" gave her the name "Monkey" because she can climb trees easily, a skill that her character Kate also has. "Lost"-actor Josh Holloway also calls her "Freckles", sharing the nickname his character Sawyer gave her.

</doc>
<doc id="56183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56183" title="View">
View

A view is what can be seen in somebody's vision. A view can also be a very scenic image. It can also be someone's opinion on something or how they look at something.
There are many types of views.

</doc>
<doc id="56187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56187" title="Greystones">
Greystones

Greystones () is a coastal town in County Wicklow, Ireland. It is on Ireland’s east coast, south of Bray and south of Dublin (it is within the Greater Dublin Area), with 15,000 people living in the region.

</doc>
<doc id="56197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56197" title="Courtly love">
Courtly love

Courtly love was a special idea of love that people had in Europe in the Middle Ages. The word "court" means the courts where princes or dukes lived. Courtly love is usually when a young man, who may be a peasant or even a simple King, falls in love with a rich and tries to make himself of her by doing brave things or by singing beautiful love songs.
The idea of courtly love can be found in a lot of literature e.g. in works by Geoffrey Chaucer, Dante, Gottfried von Strassburg, Walther von der Vogelweide, Wolfram von Eschenbach, Malory and William Shakespeare. 

</doc>
<doc id="56205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56205" title="Royal court">
Royal court

A royal court or noble court is a place where an important ruler such as a king, prince or duke live. The building is often called a palace, but the “royal court” means not just the buildings but all the royal household (all the people who live and work there).
It is called a court because in early times the palace would have a court (an enclosed space) at the front.
In history there were great rulers who held important courts, e.g. Charlemagne.
A famous example is Hampton Court on the river Thames in London where Henry VIII had his court. Today the Queen holds court at Buckingham Palace.
People who work at court are “court officials”.

</doc>
<doc id="56237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237" title="Chris Gueffroy">
Chris Gueffroy

Chris Gueffroy (21 June 1968–6 February 1989) was the last person to die while trying to escape across the Berlin Wall.
Gueffroy and his friend Christian Gaudian tried to escape from East Berlin to West Berlin on the night of 5 to 6 February 1989. They tried to cross near the Britz district canal.
Gueffroy and Gaudian thought that the "Schießbefehl", the order to shoot anyone who attempted to cross the wall, had been stopped. Climbing the last metal fence, the two were seen and shot at by the National People's Army (NVA) border troops. Gueffroy was hit in the chest by ten shots and died in the border strip.
Gaudian was badly injured, and was arrested and was sentenced on 24 May 1989 to imprisonment for three years by the Pankow district court for trying illegally to cross the border (""versuchten ungesetzlichen Grenzübertritts im schweren Fall"").
In September 1989 Gaudian was freed on bail by the East German government and on 17 October 1989 he was transferred to West Berlin.
The four border guards at first got an award ("Leistungsabzeichen der Grenztruppen") from the chief of the local border guards, Erich Wöllner, and a prize of 150 East German Marks each. After the reunification of East and West Germany, they were prosecuted by Berlin regional court. Two of them were released in January 1992. Ingo Heinrich, who fired the shot that killed Gueffroey was sentenced to three and a half years in jail. The Bundesgerichtshof reduced the penalty to a suspended sentence of two years in 1994.
In 2000, two SED officials, Siegfried Lorenz and Hans-Joachim Böhme, were tried for the death of Gueffroy and two other young men, but acquitted as the judge could find no evidence that they might have been able to lift the shoot-to-kill order. The case was retried on 7 August 2004, and the two men were found guilty and given suspended sentences of 15 months each. The judge explained that the short sentences were due to the length of time since the events. This was the last case concerning deaths on the inner German border.
On 21 June 2003, which would have been his 35th birthday, a monument to Gueffroy was built on the banks of the Britz district canal. The monument was designed by Berlin artist Karl Biedermann.

</doc>
<doc id="56244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56244" title="Electricity generation">
Electricity generation

]
Electricity generation is the making of electricity for use by people. Most comes from rotary electrical generators turned by various engines. 
Making electricity in one central place became useful when electric power distribution was possible. This required power transformers which could change voltage. Electricity could be sent as alternating current along electric power lines for great distances cheaply.
Electricity has been generated for powering human technologies for at least 120 years. Different sources of energy have been used to run generators, including coal, nuclear, natural gas, hydroelectric, and petroleum power and a small amount from solar energy, tidal harnesses, wind generators, and geothermal sources.
The demand for electricity can be met in two different ways. The main method is to build large centralized projects to generate and transmit the electricity required. Many of these projects have caused unpleasant environmental effects such as air or radiation pollution and the flooding of large areas of land.
Distributed generation creates power on a smaller scale at locations on the electricity network. These sites often generate electricity as a byproduct of other industry such as using gas from landfills to power turbines.
Rotating turbines attached to electrical generators produce most commercially available electricity. Turbines are driven by a fluid which acts as an intermediate energy carrier. The fluids typically used are:
Combined cycle gas turbine plants are driven by both steam and gas. They generate power by burning natural gas in a gas turbine and use residual heat to generate additional electricity from steam. These plants offer efficiencies of up to 60%.
Small electricity generators are often powered by reciprocating engines burning diesel fuel, biogas or natural gas. Diesel generators are often used for backup power, usually at low voltages. Biogas is often combusted where it is produced, such as a landfill or wastewater treatment plant, with a reciprocating engine or a microturbine, which is a small gas turbine.
Unlike the solar heat concentrators, photovoltaic panels convert sunlight directly to electricity. Although sunlight is free, solar panels cost a lot of money to make and have only a 10-20% conversion efficiency. Until recently, photovoltaics were most commonly used in remote sites where there is no access to a commercial power grid, or as an extra electricity source for individual homes and businesses. Recent advances in manufacturing efficiency and photovoltaic technology, combined with subsidies driven by environmental concerns, have dramatically accelerated the deployment of solar panels. Installed solar capacity is growing by 30% per year in several regions including Germany, Japan, California and New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="56251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56251" title="Casey Kasem">
Casey Kasem

Casey Kasem (born Kemal Amin Kasem; April 27, 1932– June 15, 2014) was an American radio personality, stand-up comedian, actor, voice artist, and comedian. He is known for his many voice roles in cartoons and for being a public radio personality.
Kasem was born Kemal Amin Kasem in Detroit, Michigan, on April 27, 1932, to Lebanese immigrant parents. They settled in Michigan, where they worked as grocers. Kasem graduated from Northwestern High School in Detroit and Wayne State University.
Kasem's career began in the radio business in the 1950s in Flint, Michigan. He then made his first movie appearance in "Easy Rider" in 1967.
He was the host of the weekly "American Top 40" radio show from 1970 to 1988, and again from March 1998 until January 10, 2004. Ryan Seacrest is now the host. Kasem is the host of two weekly radio shows, "American Top 20 with Casey Kasem" and "American Top 10 with Casey Kasem".
Kasem did the voice of many advertisements, has done many voices for "Sesame Street", and is the voice of 'Shaggy' for the animated television show "Scooby-Doo".
Kasem retired in 2009 because of old age and health concerns.
Kasem married Linda Myers in 1972. The couple had three children. Kasem then married Jean Thompson in 1980. The couple had one child. Kasem lived in Washington state.
Kasem was a Democrat. He narrated television ads for 1972 president candidate George McGovern's campaign.
On May 12, 2014, Kasem was declared missing by a Los Angeles court judge ordered an investigation for his whereabouts. Soon after, Kasem was found alive in Washington state, having moved out of the United States.
Kasem suffered from Parkinson's disease and an early form of dementia. 
On June 6, 2014, Kasem was in critical but stable condition at a hospital in Washington state hospital, receiving antibiotic treatment from blood pressure and bedsores. He also suffers from Lewy body disease, the most common type of progressive dementia after Alzheimer's and has been bed-ridden.
Kasem died in Gig Harbor, Washington from complications of dementia and sepsis, aged 82. On August 14 it was reported in the Norwegian newspaper "Verdens Gang" that Kasem was going to be buried in Oslo. The funeral administration of Oslo, Norway confirmed that Kasem was buried at Vestre Gravlund in Oslo on December 16, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="56259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56259" title="Bloc Party">
Bloc Party

Bloc Party is a British indie rock band, which consists of four people: Kele Okereke performs the vocals and rhythm guitar, Russell Lissack plays the lead guitar, Gordon Moakes is on bass guitar and Matt Tong plays the drums. The band's music has been compared to bands such as The Cure, Gang of Four and The Strokes.
The band formed during the 1999 Reading Festival. They went through many names before Bloc Party was chosen in 2003. Moakes joined after reading an advertisement in "NME" magazine. Tong was picked through an audition. The band was first noticed when the gave BBC Radio 1 DJ Steve Lamacq and Franz Ferdinand's lead singer Alex Kapranos a copy of its music demo, "She's Hearing Voices". Later it was released as a single.
In February 2005, the band released its debut album, "Silent Alarm". It received excellent reviews from many critics, and made "NME"'s Album of the Year list. The album was succesful enough to recieve platinum status in the UK a year later. The band released its second album, "A Weekend in the City", in 2007. This album reached number two on the UK album chart and number twelve on the "Billboard" 200. During the month of August in 2008, the band released their third album, "Intimacy".
Russell Lissack and Kele Okereke first met in 1998 in Essex. They saw each other again in 1999 at the Reading Festival and then decided to form a band. Bass guitar player Gordon Moakes joined after answering an advertisement in "NME", and drummer Matt Tong joined after an audition. They were called Union at the start, the band chose to call themselves Bloc Party in September 2003 as another way of saying "block party". The band have said in interviews that the name was not supposed to be related to the Soviet Bloc or the Canadian political party Bloc Québécois. However, Gordon Moakes said on the group's official Internet forum that the name was made by joining the eastern "Blocs" and the western "parties", in the political sense. Moakes also said that the name was not chosen only for this reason, but because it "looked, sounded, and seemed fine, so we went with it."
In November 2003, Bloc Party had their song "The Marshals Are Dead" featured on a compilation album called "The New Cross" released by Angular Recording Corporation. They then released their debut single "She's Hearing Voices" on the record label Trash Aesthetics, which was new at the time.
The band were first noticed after lead singer Okereke went to a Franz Ferdinand concert in 2003. He gave a CD of "She's Hearing Voices" to both lead singer Alex Kapranos and Radio One DJ Steve Lamacq. Afterwards, Lamacq played the song on his radio show. He called the track "genius", and he invited them to record a live session for the show. The success of the track led to the release of another single, "Banquet", which was released by Moshi Moshi Records. They went on to sign with independent label Wichita Recordings in April 2004.
Bloc Party's first album, "Silent Alarm", was released in the UK in February 2005 on Wichita Recordings. In the United States, it was released in March 2005 by Vice Records. It was given a lot of praise. It was voted as the "NME" album of the year for 2005, and reached number three on UK album charts before being certified platinum. The first single from the album, "So Here We Are", made the top 5 on UK charts. Further, the singles "Banquet", "Helicopter" and "Pioneers", managed to reach the UK top 20 but did not do as well as "So Here We Are". The animated music video for "Pioneers" was made by Shoreditch-based designers Minivegas. It was number one in the "NME" video charts for four weeks.
The band got good reviews from critics in the United States, and they toured there a lot over 2006. At the start of 2006, they finished their tour with sold out shows in Los Angeles, Miami and Berkeley. It sold 350,000 copies in North America and over a million worldwide. After the success of the album, the established electronic group The Chemical Brothers soon collaborated with Okereke for "Believe", a track on the Brothers' "Push the Button" album. An album of remixes of tracks from "Silent Alarm" was released at the end of August in the UK. The album was called "Silent Alarm Remixed", and it kept the first album's song list.
During July, Bloc Party recorded two new tracks with "Silent Alarm" producer Paul Epworth. The songs were released as an extended play called "Two More Years". The release of this EP came with another release of "Silent Alarm", which had on it both "Two More Years" and old single "Little Thoughts". "Two More Years" was released later at the same time as their October 2005 UK tour. The single also had a remix of "Banquet" done by The Streets, for which a music video was also made.
The band also made the track "The Present" for the "" compilation album. The money raised from this album went to the War Child charity. In 2005, their album track "Like Eating Glass" was used on the soundtrack of a horror movie called "Cry Wolf". It was also remixed for use on Activision's skateboarding game "Tony Hawk's American Wasteland".
Bloc Party's second album, "A Weekend in the City", was produced by Jacknife Lee. It was published by Wichita in the UK and Vice Records in the US and was released in February 2007. However, it was leaked in November 2006. It was released on the UK iTunes store before in shops, and reached second place in the Official UK Chart. The album did just as well in Australia and Belgium. It entered at number 12 in the "Billboard" 200, with 48,000 copies sold. The first single, "The Prayer", was released on 29 January. It became the single which did the best in the UK Top 40 for the band, reaching fourth place. Before the release of the album, BBC Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe played a live recording of the band at the Maida Vale studio, featuring both old and new songs, on his radio show on 30 January 2007. On 1 February 2007, "A Weekend in the City" was made able free to listen to on the band's official MySpace page.
The next single, "I Still Remember", was Bloc Party's highest charting single in America. It got to number 24 on the Modern Rock Chart. The band released their third single, "Hunting for Witches", in August 2007. The single was their only ARIA Chart entry, getting to number 20.
In October 2007 Bloc Party said they would release a new single, "Flux", on 13 November—ahead of their end-of-year concerts. The electronic song, also produced by Jacknife Lee, was very different from previous singles released by the band.
The band's first concert following the release of "A Weekend In The City" was on 5 February 2007, in Reading. It was played live on BBC 6 Music that night. On 20 May 2007, Bloc Party were the first band to play that year on the "In New Music We Trust" stage at the BBC Radio 1 Big Weekend at Preston. They also took part in the UK Live Earth concert on 7 July 2007 at Wembley Stadium. The band also played sets at T in the Park and Oxegen 2007 that same weekend, as well as Glastonbury and the Reading and Leeds Festivals. Bloc Party said that they would tour Australia and New Zealand in August 2007, which would include a special concert at the Splendour in the Grass Festival on 5 August. On 17 September 2007 they recorded a concert for the PBS show Austin City Limits. This was the day after playing at the Austin City Limits Music Festival. On 27 October 2007, the band performed with the Exmoor Singers, a London-based choir, as part of the BBC Electric Proms. They played songs from both "Silent Alarm" and "A Weekend In The City" along with the first UK live performance of "Flux". During 2007, Russell Lissack formed his side project group Pin Me Down with Melina Mepris.
"Mercury", the first single from Bloc Party's third album "Intimacy", was played on Zane Lowe's BBC Radio 1 show on 7 July 2008. It then appeared on the Radio 1 website fifteen minutes later. The exclusive followed a countdown timer which was put in place of the band's website for three days, which ended with a link to the Radio 1 website at the time of Lowe's radio show. Many fans were expecting new songs over the internet, with some being annoyed by the act. The song had an electronic sound like the last single, "Flux". During the first play of "Mercury" on Radio 1, Kele was with Zane Lowe, and said that Jacknife Lee and Paul Epworth would be producing the new album. It was also said that the single was to be released on 11 August 2008. The video was put out with the single.
Bloc Party's third studio album has a new, electronic sound, even though Kele said this would not be the case. He had said before this that the sound would be as raw as "Silent Alarm", but as "experienced" as "A Weekend in the City".
The band talked about the release of their third album with fans on a forum on 18 August 2008. The album then was made available for pre-order in many formats - an MP3 download with the CD release on 27 October 2008. "Trojan Horse", a song from the album, was made available to stream through "NME"'s website. On 20 August 2008, the band added more album tracks, "Signs" and "One Month Off", as well as "Trojan Horse", to their MySpace profile. On 23-24 August, 2008, the band played concerts at the Reading and Leeds Festivals. The band played set-opener "Mercury", as well as album track "One Month Off". A concert like that one followed a week later on 30 August 2008, when the band played as the main act at the Hydro Connect Music Festival, in Argyll, Scotland.
During Autumn 2008, the band played in North America and Canada. They played at the Virgin Mobile Festival in Toronto on 6 September 2008, and had their first ever American college show at Syracuse University. They had their next live performance in the UK on 30 September 2008 with a special concert in London as part of Q Awards: The Gigs. As well as this, they played at the Glasgow date of MTV Two and Topman's "Gonzo on Tour" on 19 October 2008. On 8 September 2008, Bloc Party said that their next single, "Talons" would be released on 20 October 2008. The song was not able to be downloaded as part of the pre-order album released on August 27, but did appear on the full album release on 27 October 2008. It was also given to fans who had already bought the download-only album, given out after the song's first play on Zane Lowe's BBC Radio 1 show.
After the digital release of "Intimacy", Bloc Party said to the public that they would go on another UK tour, starting on 25 January 2009 in Glasgow. They will then play in Manchester and Wolverhampton in the same month, with another gig in Wolverhampton on 1 February 2009. Their first UK tour since December 2007 will finish on 12 April 2009 in London. Also in early 2009, the band toured North America in many small places. In June 2009 they announced that their new single is called One More Chance. This song was not on Intimacy and was played on Radio One on the 18th of June 2009. It was released during August 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="56260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56260" title="VfR Mannheim">
VfR Mannheim

VfR Mannheim a German football team. It is in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg. The club was formed in 1911.

</doc>
<doc id="56262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56262" title="S.V. Waldhof Mannheim">
S.V. Waldhof Mannheim

SV Waldhof Mannheim is a German football club. It is in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg. The club was founded 1907. The club today has over 2,400 people. The team plays in the Regionalliga Süd the 4th German Football division.

</doc>
<doc id="56264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56264" title="Popular science">
Popular science

If a book or a TV show is about science, but it's made so it's easy for everyone to understand, then it is popular science. It has "popular" in its name because it's made for the whole "population", not just for scientists. Nature documentaries (nature shows) are examples of popular science.
Popular science is non-fiction, so it is not the same as "science fiction".
Popular science is also not the same as "Science journalism". Science journalism is what journalists write to report the newest theories and discoveries made in science, but popular science is not always about what is newest.
Some famous people who make popular science are Isaac Asimov, Jared Diamond, Stephen Hawking, Bill Nye, and Carl Sagan. 
When scientists write about their work, first they write books and periodicals meant for the same kind of scientists to read-- "scientific literature". The purpose of popular science is to show scientific literature in a way that different types of scientists, and people who are not scientists, will easily understand. When people take an idea from scientific literature and change it into popular science, important things about that idea are often left out or added in.
Scientific literature is made to seem like the ideas in it are not very new, and that the writer is not sure the idea is true. That way, other scientists will agree with the idea more. But popular science is made to be like other media, so many people will enjoy it. In popular science, ideas are made to sound like they are new, and like scientists all agree with the ideas. If scientific literature and popular science are compared, there is often a big difference. Even if most people agree about the subject, there is still a difference.
Some popular science is made by people who do not understand the subject well. Some is made by people who have a strong bias. Some is part science and part pseudoscience. It can be hard for someone who is not an expert to tell which works of popular science are misleading.

</doc>
<doc id="56265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56265" title="Lullaby">
Lullaby

A lullaby is a song which is sung to help a baby or small child go to sleep. Composers of classical music often wrote pieces for instruments to play (very often for piano solo) which they called "lullaby". They also used the French word "Berceuse". Brahms wrote his famous "Wiegenlied" originally for a young singer, Bertha Faber, when she gave birth to her second son.
Lullabies always have a gentle, rocking rhythm with a simple accompaniment. Frédéric Chopin's "Berceuse" is a lullaby for piano. Gabriel Fauré wrote one at the beginning of his "Dolly Suite" for piano duet. There are many other examples. 
Mothers sing lullabies to their children at bedtime. "Rock-a-bye Baby" and "Hush Little Baby" are two very well-known lullabies.

</doc>
<doc id="56285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56285" title="Lund">
Lund

Lund is a city in Scania, in the south of Sweden. About 80,000 people live there, which makes it the eleventh biggest city in Sweden. It is close to Malmö. The municipality has about 105,000 people. 
Lund is known for its university, Lund University (founded in 1666). It is the largest university in Scandinavia. The city is also known for its cathedral, Lund Cathedral ("Lunds domkyrka").
Lund is an old city. It was probably founded around the year 990, when Scania belonged to Denmark.

</doc>
<doc id="56292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56292" title="Guadalcanal">
Guadalcanal

Guadalcanal is the biggest island in the Solomon Islands. During World War II, there was a battle there between the Americans and the Japanese.

</doc>
<doc id="56294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56294" title="1. FC Eintracht Bamberg">
1. FC Eintracht Bamberg

1. FC Eintracht Bamberg is a football team in Bamberg, Upper Franconia Germany. In 1946 they were called 1. FC Bamberg and were in the "first Division". Now they play in the "Fourth Division", Regionalliga Bayern, with the new name, F.C. Eintracht Bamberg.

</doc>
<doc id="56295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56295" title="FSV Frankfurt">
FSV Frankfurt

FSV Frankfurt is the second best football team in Frankfurt, Germany after Eintracht Frankfurt. In the season 2007/08 it became champion of the Regionalliga Süd. Since 2008 FSV Frankfurt plays in the 2. Bundesliga.

</doc>
<doc id="56296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56296" title="Joachim Löw">
Joachim Löw

Joachim Löw (born 3 February 1960) is a former German football player who currently manages the Germany national football team. He became a World Cup winning manager when his team won the 2014 FIFA World Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="56297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56297" title="Polyhydroxyalkanoate">
Polyhydroxyalkanoate

Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) is a biopolymer that is made by bacteria. It can break down naturally (it is biodegradable). PHA has the same qualities of plastic, but it uses renewable raw material such as sugar from crop, instead of finite natural resources such as crude oil, natural gas and coal. Some PHAs share properties with polypropylene, a plastic used to make ropes and packaging. Others are similar to rubber.

</doc>
<doc id="56298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56298" title="SpVgg Bayreuth">
SpVgg Bayreuth

SpVgg Bayreuth is a German football team in Bayreuth, Bavaria. It was founded in 1921. The club was banned in 1933 by the Nazis but restarted shortly after World War II. SpVgg Bayreuth plays in one of the Fourths Divisions, the Bayernliga. In the season 2005/2006, they played in the Third Division, the Regionalliga. Today the play in the Fifth Division (Bayernliga Nord). 

</doc>
<doc id="56306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56306" title="Max Reger">
Max Reger

Max Reger (born in Brand, Bavaria, 19 March 1873; died 11 May 1916) was a German composer, organist, pianist and teacher.
Reger’s father was a schoolteacher who was an amateur musician. When he was a boy Max helped his father to rebuild an organ that was going to be thrown away. This was the instrument on which he learned to play. It was some time before he started proper lessons, but by the time he was a teenager he was playing the organ for church services. When he was 15 he went to Bayreuth to hear Wagner’s operas. This was the moment when Reger decided he wanted to become a musician.
Reger studied music in Munich and Wiesbaden with a famous teacher Hugo Riemann. He composed a lot of music, especially for the organ. His musical style was similar to that of Brahms, but he also learned a lot from the music of Bach, Mendelssohn and Schumann. He liked the symphonic poems of Liszt and these gave him the ideas for writing chorale fantasies for the organ, although he never wrote music that tells a story (programme music).
In 1902 Reger married. He and his wife adopted two children. In 1907 he became professor of composition at the University of Leipzig. He was a very good teacher. He became well-known abroad. He travelled to London where he spent hours in the art galleries. Then he bored his friends by talking all the time about the paintings. He conducted the orchestra at Meiningen, performing works by many composers, especially Brahms, Bruckner and his own.
Reger enjoyed eating and drinking. He regularly went to his local café where he would eat ten large sausages and drink ten glasses of beer. His health got bad, and he died of a heart attack in Leipzig, where he was visiting friends on his way home from the Netherlands.
Reger wrote an enormous amount of music, but very little of it is played nowadays. He wrote in a late-Romantic style. He is best remembered for his organ music. He liked to write fugues and sets of Variations. His "Fantasy and Fugue on BACH" is one of the hardest pieces ever written for organ. He wrote a lovely song called "Marias Wiegenlied" ("Mary’s lullaby).

</doc>
<doc id="56316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56316" title="Saint Stephen">
Saint Stephen

Saint Stephen () is known as the first martyr of Christianity.
Therefore he is also called the Protomartyr (). He is venerated as a saint in the Roman Catholic Church, as well as in the Eastern Orthodox Church. His feast day was historically kept on August 3. His name means 'laurel wreath' or 'crown' in Greek. His death is described in the Book of Acts, and is remembered on the Feast of St. Stephen, December 26.

</doc>
<doc id="56319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56319" title="The Dark Tower (series)">
The Dark Tower (series)

The Dark Tower is a series of eight books by American writer Stephen King that tells the tale of lead character Roland Deschain's quest for the "Dark Tower." 

</doc>
<doc id="56328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56328" title="Jon Corzine">
Jon Corzine

Jon Stevens Corzine (born January 1, 1947) is an American politician. He was the 54th Governor of the state of New Jersey. He represented New Jersey in the United States Senate from 2001 until 2006, when he stepped down to take his seat as governor. On November 3, 2009, Jon Corzine lost re-election for another four years as governor. The person who won was Chris Christie, who became the governor on January 20, 2010. 

</doc>
<doc id="56329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56329" title="James McGreevey">
James McGreevey

James Edward "'Jim"' McGreevey (born August 6, 1957) was the 52nd Governor of New Jersey. In 2004, he said that he was gay. He resigned as governor after he said he had an affair with a male employee. He was the first openly gay governor of any state in the history of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="56331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56331" title="Physical quantity">
Physical quantity

A physical quantity is a quantity in physics that can be measured. Or a physical quantity is a physical property that can be quantified. Examples of physical quantities are mass, amount of substance, length, time, temperature, electric current, light intensity, force, velocity, density, and many others. A physical quantity is always measured of natural non-living objects (Inanimate objects)
The foundation of physics rests upon physical quantities in term of which the laws of physics are expressed. Therefore, these quantities have to be measured accurately. Physical quantities are often divided into two categories; base quantities and derived quantities. Derived quantities are those quantities which are derived from other physical quantities. Examples of derived quantities are force, velocity, acceleration etc.

</doc>
<doc id="56337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56337" title="Helicopter rotor">
Helicopter rotor

A rotor is the rotating part of a helicopter which generates lift, either vertically in the case of a main rotor, or horizontally in the case of a tail rotor.
Before the development of powered helicopters in the mid 20th century, autogyro pioneer "Juan de la Cierva" researched and developed many of the basics of the rotor. Cierva is credited with successful development of multi-bladed, fully articulated rotor systems. This type of system is widely used today in many multi-bladed helicopters.

</doc>
<doc id="56340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56340" title="Variations (music)">
Variations (music)

In music, variation is a way of organizing a piece of music by taking a tune (a theme) and then repeating it in several different ways. It is often called theme and variation.
Many composers wrote pieces which are examples of theme and variation. Sometimes the theme is one they made up, at other times they took a theme that another composer had already written and then made variations on it.
There are lots of ways of varying a tune, and each variation will change it in a different way. A variation may play the tune much faster or much slower, it may change the tune by adding extra sharps and flats or other ornamental notes, or by playing the tune in octaves. It may change the harmony or the rhythm or use different instruments. It may combine the tune in different parts (counterpoint).
Composers have used variations in music for centuries. In the Renaissance and Baroque periods composers wrote variations on a short tune in the bass which was repeated again and again. This was called a ground bass or sometimes it was a passacaglia or chaconne. Renaissance composers also liked writing what they called “divisions”. This meant varying a tune by playing it, for example, at twice the speed or half the speed etc. so that crotchets (quarter notes) became minims (half notes) or quavers (eighth notes).
George Frideric Handel wrote a famous set of variations for harpsichord called "Harmonious Blacksmith", and Johann Sebastian Bach wrote the "Goldberg Variations", which was a set of 30 variations: a very long piece of music. It was written for a man who found it difficult to sleep at night, so he would ask his harpsichord player, whose name was Goldberg, to play to him.
Many composers from the Classical, Romantic and 20th century classical music periods wrote sets of variations. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart wrote several, one of which was based on a French folktune which we know in Britain as “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star”. Beethoven wrote several wonderful sets of variations. Many of them were for piano, but he also used the form in other pieces e.g. the slow movement of his . Schubert often wrote variations on tunes from his own songs.
Other composers who wrote variations include Brahms, Elgar, Schoenberg, and Britten.

</doc>
<doc id="56348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56348" title="Logo (programming language)">
Logo (programming language)

Logo is a programming language that is easy to learn. It is used to teach students and children to program a computer. It was developed to process lists of words. It was like the language LISP. 
In 1967, the first Logo ran on a mainframe computer, a machine called a teletype was used to type in and printout the results. There was no screen. 
In 1969, it was used to control a Floor Turtle. Commands were added to send the turtle forwards and backwards, and to turn the turtle to left or right. This turtle had pen with different colors. When it moved, it left a trail on the floor. 
When a new version of Logo was developed to draw graphics on a screen, it used the same commands. This was called Turtle graphics. 
There are 170 versions of Logo. Many of them are open source and free. There are three Logo textbooks that can be downloaded free. Logo is usually an interpreted language. 
Load the Logo program. Type the next line in the command box.
The computer replies.
A spiral drawn using recursion. 
Using the editor, type in this new definition.
Type this in the command box.
On the screen you will see.
Logo Programs
Online books

</doc>
<doc id="56349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56349" title="LISP">
LISP

Lisp (used to be called LISP) is a programming language. It is among the oldest programming languages that are still used today. Only Fortran is one year older. Lisp was designed by John McCarthy in 1958. The best-known versions of LISP are Common Lisp, Scheme and Clojure. Many concepts that are used in modern programming languages were first created in Lisp.
Linked lists are a very important data structure in Lisp. 
The basic concepts behind Lisp are easy to learn. Logo is another version of Lisp that was made for children. Logo can help young children develop skills and become efficient within the programming language.

</doc>
<doc id="56350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56350" title="Lambda calculus">
Lambda calculus

In mathematical logic and computer science, lambda calculus, also λ-calculus, is a formal system. It was designed to investigate the definition of functions, and how to apply them. It is also a tool for analysing recursion. It was introduced by Alonzo Church and Stephen Cole Kleene in the 1930s. Church used lambda calculus in 1936 to give a negative answer to the Entscheidungsproblem. Lambda calculus can be used to define what a computable function is. No general algorithm can answer the question of whether two lambda calculus expressions are equivalent. This was the first question, even before the halting problem, for which undecidability could be proved. Lambda calculus has greatly influenced functional programming languages, such as LISP, ML and Haskell.
Lambda calculus can be called the smallest universal programming language. It consists of a single transformation rule (variable substitution) and a single function definition scheme. Lambda calculus is universal in the sense that any computable function can be expressed and evaluated using this formalism. It is thus the same as the Turing machine formalism. However, lambda calculus emphasizes the use of transformation rules. It does not care about the actual machine that implements them. It is an approach more related to software than to hardware.

</doc>
<doc id="56351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56351" title="Family Jewels">
Family Jewels

Family Jewels is a two disc compilation DVD by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It contains videos from the Bon Scott era to the Brian Johnson era. The compilation was released in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="56359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56359" title="Power transmission">
Power transmission

Power transmission is the movement of energy from its place of generation to a place where it can be used for work.
Power is defined formally as units of energy per unit time.
In SI units: 1 watt = 1 joule/s = 1 newton * metre/second (1W=1J/s=1N·m/s).
Since the development of technology, Transmission and storage systems have been of immense interest to technologists and technology users.
With widespread establishment of power grids, power transmission has came to be associated most often with electric power transmission. 
Electrical power transmission has replaced mechanical power transmission in all but the very shortest distances. From the start of the industrial revolution until the end of the 19th century mechanical power transmission was the norm. Factories were fitted with overhead driveshafts providing rotary power. Drivebelts would provide power to individual machines on the shop floor.
Mechanical power may be transmitted directly using a solid structure such as a driveshaft; transmission gears can adjust the amount of torque or force vs. speed in much the same way an electrical transformer adjusts voltage vs current.
Power (and energy) may be transmitted by physically transporting chemical or nuclear fuels. Possible artificial fuels include radioactive isotopes, wood alcohol, grain alcohol, methane, synthetic gas, cryogenic gas, hydrogen gas (H) and liquefied natural gas (LNG).

</doc>
<doc id="56361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56361" title="Ocean surface wave">
Ocean surface wave

Ocean surface waves are surface waves that occur in the upper layer of the ocean. They usually result from wind or geologic effects like earthquakes or vulcanicity and may travel thousands of miles before striking land. They range in size from small ripples to huge tsunamis. There is little actual forward motion of individual water particles in an unbroken wave, despite the large amount of energy and momentum it may carry forward.
The great majority of large breakers one sees on an ocean beach result from distant winds. Three factors influence the formation of "wind waves":
All of these factors work together to determine the size and shape of ocean waves. The greater each of the variables, the larger the waves. Waves are measured by:
Waves in a given area typically have a range of sizes. For weather reporting and for scientific analysis of wind wave statistics, their size over a period of time is usually expressed as "significant wave height." This figure represents the average height of the highest one-third of the waves in a given time period (usually twelve hours) or in a specific wave or storm system. Given the variability of wave size, the largest individual waves are likely to be twice the reported significant wave height for a particular day or storm.

</doc>
<doc id="56362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56362" title="Crest (physics)">
Crest (physics)

A crest is the point on a wave with the greatest positive value or upward displacement in a cycle. A trough is the opposite of a crest.
When the crest and the trough of two waves of equal magnitude and frequency intersect or collide when in phase with each other the result is called constructive interference and the magnitudes double (above and below the line), when 180° out of phase the result is destructive interference with each other the resulting wave is the undisturbed line that is in the middle of the diagram having zero amplitude.
In other words, the wave crest is called a peak.

</doc>
<doc id="56363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56363" title="Trough">
Trough

A trough is a box-like drinking vessel for farm animals. Other senses of the word refer to things that are lower than their surroundings, like a trough:
See also trow.

</doc>
<doc id="56368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56368" title="Surface wave">
Surface wave

In physics, a surface wave can refer to a mechanical wave that propagates along the interface between differing media, usually two fluids with different densities. A surface wave can also be an electromagnetic wave guided by a refractive index gradient. For radio waves, a ground wave is a surface wave that propagates close to the surface of the Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="56369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56369" title="Nausea">
Nausea

Nausea is a general feeling of unease and discomfort in the stomach, often with the urge to vomit. The word "nausea" comes from the Latin word for seasickness.
Nausea is a symptom, rather than an illness or disease. The causes for it very often are not in the stomach itself, but somewhere else in the body. Nausea is often caused by a stomach virus. Nausea is usually harmless, in the short term. A good treatment for it can be not to take solid food (and to only drink non-alcoholic drinks, like water). Nausea can also occur during pregnancy, and is quite normal in that context. People can suffer nausea without vomiting.

</doc>
<doc id="56370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56370" title="Anxiety">
Anxiety

Anxiety is an unpleasant emotional state. It can include fear. Very often, people with anxiety also feel worries. There can also be physical symptoms, like having a headache or an upset stomach.
Some people suffer a lot of anxiety over a long period of time which controls them and makes their lives difficult. These conditions are called anxiety disorders and can be treated by therapy and medicine.
General anxiety is a disorder in which the victim is constantly worried or fearful about situations or things that normally wouldn’t bother them or others. When this continual anxious state starts to interfere with their social, family and work life, and prevents them functioning in a normal fashion, they may be said to have a General Anxiety Disorder (GAD).
General anxiety symptoms are things such as; continual tiredness / exhaustion, inability to relax, lack of confidence, low self-esteem, fear of public places, fear of socializing, frequent feelings of irrational anxiety / fear, compulsive behavior, worrying about making mistakes, regular nightmares, disturbed sleep patterns, excessive crying, headaches, stomach problems, diarrhea, nausea, aching muscles, and so on.
Symptoms of anxiety attacks are things like; sweating, shaking and tremors, palpitations, shortness of breath, hyperventilating, racing heart beat, tingling in hands and feet, feeling of impending doom, feeling you are having a heart attack. There are more, but these are the usual ones.
These symptoms, more or less, define anxiety but they can also be signs of other problems, so your first port of call has to be your doctor or other health care professional. They will be able to define what your problem is exactly, and propose the appropriate treatment. Since the theme of this article is defining anxiety, we’ll assume that your doctor has diagnosed you with anxiety…
Your doctor’s first line treatment is usually through drug-based medication; for example antidepressants, anti-anxiety tablets and beta-blockers. These can be very effective, but they all have their side effects, some worse than others. This can tend to put folks off continuing with them. However, no matter how bad you feel, never, ever discontinue treatment unless advised by your doctor to do so.
There are other non-drug therapies which are becoming very popular such as; self-hypnosis, meditation, yoga, cognitive behavioral therapy, counseling, acupuncture, etc. These are therapies to help you ‘manage’ or ‘cope’ with your anxiety and / or anxiety attacks.
But what about the underlying cause(s) of anxiety? The two treatment types above focus on either reducing the symptoms of anxiety, or, helping you cope with your disorder. They don’t seem to do anything about the underlying condition(s) that are causing your anxiety.
And the very ‘fear’ of another anxiety attack can bring one on. As long as this irrational fear exists it’s very difficult to stop attacks and resolve your general anxiety. If you can eliminate this fear, you can prevent further attacks and get rid of your general anxiety much more effectively.

</doc>
<doc id="56371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56371" title="Lumbar puncture">
Lumbar puncture

A lumbar puncture (often called spinal tap, by non-doctors) is a medical method to collect a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (fluid from the brain). This can be done to analyse the sample, to find some hints to diseases. It can also be done to lower the pressure of the fluid inside the skull.

</doc>
<doc id="56374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56374" title="Wave power">
Wave power

Wave power means the use of ocean surface waves and the capture of that energy to do useful work—including electricity generation, desalination, and the pumping of water (into reservoirs). It makes use of the kinetic energy of the waves that are driven by the wind.
Power from ocean surface wave motion might produce much more energy than tides. Tests have shown that it is possible to produce energy from waves, particularly in Scotland in the UK. But the technology is not as well developed as other renewable energy such as wind power or solar power.

</doc>
<doc id="56375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56375" title="Port Royal">
Port Royal

Port Royal was a city in Jamaica. It was the focus of trade in Jamaica in the 17th century. It was known for its piracy, but also for the riches accumulated, and for the very bad moral values that could be found in the city. An earthquake in June of 1692 largely destroyed the city. Two thirds of the city sank into the Caribbean Sea. Today, the city is covered by at least 8 metres of water. The city is among the most important archaeological sites in the Ocean. Its role as a center for trade was taken over by Spanish Town, Jamaica, and later by Kingston.

</doc>
<doc id="56384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56384" title="S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl">
S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl

S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl, previously known as S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Oblivion Lost, is a post-apocalyptic first-person shooter video game by Ukrainian developer GSC Game World.
The game uses a software feature called the "X-Ray engine". It features an alternate reality theme, where the second nuclear disaster happens at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in the near future and makes strange changes happen to the area around it, which create a lot of mutated animals, plants, and change the laws of Physics. The game has a storyline that lets the player have a lot of freedom, and features gameplay features such as trading and two-way communication with NPCs. The game includes features of role-playing and economic games.
Some phrases used in the game ("The Zone", "Stalker") as well as the idea of the game, are borrowed from the popular science fiction book "Roadside Picnic" by Boris and Arkady Strugatsky and the 1979 film "Stalker", based on the book.
GSC Game World talked about the game's AI in January 2005. IGN said that the game, while similar to "Far Cry", will have more wildlife, and that the way animals act in the game is as important to them as the humans. The animals anger will vary with how hungry and tired they are, as well as other things. So, the game will have some idea of fight or flight to it.
In the game, the player is known as "The Marked One" who is a Stalker, a person who lives in the Zone and makes a living collecting "Artifacts" and selling them. The Zone has a lot of danger in it.
The type of game is a mix of a RPG and a FPS, though the player does not get attributes like Strength of Constitution, or get more powerful, which is different from a normal computer RPG. The role-playing part is mainly about normal RPG elements, such as storyline and the way other people in the game act with the player. But, the game does not let the player have a lot of choice when it comes to talking to characters in the game. Unlike RPGs such as "Knights of the Old Republic", the number of different conversations the player can have with NPCs in the game is quite small and does not change the way that the game will end for the player a lot.
The Zone is made up of a 30 km square area, that has wilderness, human camps, and a few heavily-guarded military bases. But, the game world is not one big world, but is a lot of smaller maps broken up by loading screens. Moving from one area of the Zone to another can only happen at certain passageways; a white fence border stops players from trying to cross the map in any other area. The game does not have vehicles that the player can drive. The player does have a fast sprint, but he or she cannot sprint without stopping, and the player can not fire weapons while sprinting
"S.T.A.L.K.E.R." uses "realistic" bullet physics, that is, the way that the bullets move is like how a bullet would move in real life. The bullet physics are similar to tactical shooters such as "Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter" or "Call of Duty 2". Bullets are affected by gravity, and weapons are highly inaccurate when fired "from the hip". To be sure of hitting the enemy at long range, players must aim using the iron sights on their guns. Also, bullets do "realistic" damage, and the player can die after only being shot a few times (but to make up for this, later in the game the player can get different armor suits that increase the amount the player can be shot before dying).
"Artifacts" are the product of 'anomalies', which occur randomly throughout the game. Anomalies are normally a few metres across, these areas are dangerous to enter and can instantly kill the player or cause serious injury. They can be seen by looking for swirling leaves, heat waves, wind moving about, and electricity. An anomaly will be in the game for about one week in game time, and once they have disappeared the player is able to collect the artifacts left behind, which can be traded for supplies, or worn to enhance some player abilities, with normally some bad side effects; for example, there is an artifact in the game that can make bullets less likely to hit the player, but will slowly give the player radiation sickness, which will eventually kill the character being played.
The local animals and plants were altered a lot by the years of radiation. They have become more dangerous, and have developed natural defenses to survive the harsh world. There are also a lot of people that were mutated by the radiation from the second explosion in the power plant.
The stalkers find it difficult to hunt for artifacts because the Ukrainian Military is in the area, trying to stop the zone getting bigger, and help control the mutant. The Military is an enemy of anyone who is not Military, and will work as a big team to attack anyone they see using heavy force and the use of Mi-35 Hind gunships, which are attack helicopters.
A few other groups work in the zone, and are neutral or an enemy based on certain events. Two groups are important: "Freedom" and "Duty" as they are the only two groups that the player can decide if they want to be friendly towards or not. Neither Faction will attack the player at first, and both will offer missions to the player. Freedom and Duty are at war with one another, and although th player can keep friendship with both of them at first, the player will end up having to choose a side. The player cannot join either faction, no matter how friendly the player becomes towards them, as the player's faction status in the player's P.D.A. will tell the player, the player is always a loner in this game. There are several other groups, these are almost all enemies for the player. The scientists are different though, because the player can be friends by saving one of them from a mercenary attack later in the game.
The player also works with other NPCs in the Zone, and can help Stalker factions and receive missions, which further the storyline. Players are able to explore over 30 square km of the Zone, including the ghost town of Pripyat and the empty Chernobyl Nuclear Plant, while meeting animals and plants mutated by radiation as well as other Stalkers and NPCs.
The game uses uses GSC Gameworld's proprietary ALife artificial intelligence engine. ALife supports more than one thousand characters living in the Zone.
The NPCs act as if they really are alive, having different states, such as task accomplishment, combat, rest, feeding and sleep. The monsters in the game also act in this way. These monsters will move in large groups. The non-scripted way the characters work means that there are an unlimited number of random quests. For example, rescuing Stalkers from danger, killing Stalker renegades, protecting or attacking Stalker camps or searching for treasure. The AI characters travel around the entire zone as they want.
Numerous different ways of playing the game can be used, such as using stealth and sniping. The NPCs will react in a different way to each of them.
A weather system works in various parts of the landscape and let the weather act as if it is real, letting the game have weather such as sunshine, storms and showers. The weapons available, the way the AI acts, game tactics and ranking systems will depend on the weather.
Multiplayer, like many other new games, will work over both LAN and the Internet with up to 32 players. Currently the three game modes are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Artifact hunt. The game will also use a ranking system.
Early in the development of the game it was named "Oblivion Lost", and the game was planned to have more of a futuristic theme before the idea was reworked to set the game in Chernobyl, being a nearby location to the game's Kiev based development team. Eventually, this was reflected in the change of the game's subtitle to "Shadow of Chernobyl". Screenshots and trailers of this early version can be found on various web sites, depicting the robots and spacecraft originally planned for the game.
While the source of the Zone may still turn out to have extraterrestrial connections (like in "Roadside Picnic", where the Zone is thought to have been an absent-minded, accidental creation of a careless, vastly superior alien race), there is no indication that such more direct manifestations will return.
The game was first announced in November 2001 and has had its release date, originally in 2003, pushed back several times. Meanwhile hundreds of screenshots of the game have been released, as well as dozen preview video clips, accompanied by other forms of promotion by GSC, such as inviting fans to their offices in Kiev to play the current build of the game. However due to the delays some considered "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." to be vaporware, like the game "Duke Nukem Forever", or fear that the game may become a new "Daikatana".
In their E3 Awards for 2005, IGN gave "S.T.A.L.K.E.R."<nowiki>'</nowiki>s absence the award of "Biggest PC Surprise"; the runners-up were the absence of "Fallout 3" from the show, and the lack of a new announcement from Blizzard Entertainment.
In February 2005, THQ expressed desire to see the game released toward the end of its 2006 fiscal year (March 31 2006) but maintained that no release date had been set. In October, 2005, THQ confirmed that "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." will not be out "until the second half of THQ's 2007 fiscal year - October 2006 at the earliest." In February of 2006, THQ revised this possible release window, saying the game would not be in stores until the first quarter of 2007.
In an interview at the Russian Gameland Awards, PR Manager Oleg Yavorsky indicated that release was planned for September 2006.
In 2006, the game came 9th in "Wired"'s Vaporware '06 award.
THQ ran a competition in January 2007 offering the lucky winners the chance to play the beta version of S.T.A.L.K.E.R, in a 24 hour marathon session. The event, scheduled to take place on the January 24 2007, was subsequently changed to a 12 hour session days before it was supposed to occur.
On the morning of the event, the 'lucky' winners were met at the venue by the THQ staff that had organized the event, who were embarrassed to report that they had been unable to get any copies of the game. In late February GSC managed to release a public beta. Multiplayer demo was released to public on March 15 2007.
On March 2 2007, it was announced that the game had gone gold.
So far, publications which have reviewed the title have been largely positive, noting the immersive, atmospheric setting and open-ended, rewarding gameplay. Some aspects of the game, such as the translation of printed text, the absence of subtitles for spoken Russian, and general game performance, have received negative criticism. It has also been noted that there are numerous sporadic bugs which can affect gameplay, although most of these are considered minor. However, in the newly released patch 1.0001 it is claimed that many bugs and glitches were fixed. Another common criticism is the fact that less than half of the map is actually accessible by the player.
Publications which have submitted reviews include IGN U.S. (8.2/10), IGN Australia (8.9/10), GameSpot (8.5/10), Australian PC User 95% and "PC Gamer" (87%). Ukraine's own "Gameplay" magazine awarded it 4.5 out of 5. UK based website Mansized scored the game 4/5.
Several years after the Chernobyl disaster, the Zone was occupied and "repurposed" by several research projects run by the Soviet government. Facilities were constructed or expanded under the abandoned military bases and civilian factories and industrial sites in the area, and a large lab was established directly beneath Reactor 4 and its Sarcophagus. These experiments were focused primarily on various aspects of the mind, including creating and enhancing ESP in humans, psychotronic weapons, and an experiment intended to create a human hive mind: the "Collective Consciousness," or "C-Consciousness," project.
Shortly after C-Consciousness was successfully created by the fusion of seven human minds through a computer interface, the Soviet Union collapsed. In the years that followed, some of the research labs were abandoned, and the C-Consciousness entity took greater control over the few facilities that remained in full operation. With its enhanced cognitive abilities, C-Consciousness was able to perceive and eventually to directly alter the "noosphere" (the collective "environment" of all thought, just as the "biosphere" refers to the sum total of all biological matter and its myriad interactions).
The intention of C-Consciousness was subtle mind control on a global scale. It believed that by manipulating the noosphere that the more negative and destructive aspects of human consciousness, cognition, and emotion could be eliminated to create world peace and harmony. Unfortunately, in 2006 C-Consciousness's first major attempt to manipulate the Noosphere resulted in disaster. There was a massive explosion of both psychic and physical force, and the noosphere in the vicinity of the C-Consciousness lab was twisted and distorted. In much the same way that the biosphere can permanently alter the physical landscape of the earth, so manipulation of the noosphere can distort all manner of physical reality: mind over matter on a massive scale.
This distortion of the noosphere powered by C-Consciousness and the machinery it was connected to created the anomalies and many of the mutants that inhabit the Zone in 2012. Desperate to correct its mistake and in order to shield itself from outside interference, especially the meddlesome "Stalkers" beginning to appear in the Zone, the C-Consciousness created an "Alien Monolith" in the center of the gutted Reactor 4, and used its ability to affect the minds of normal humans to create the "Monolith" cult, a group of heavily armed zealots whose tenets included worship of the Monolith and the prevention of "heretics" from approaching the remains of Chernobyl. They converted the Steel Yard radar facility near Pripyat into a powerful "Brain Scorcher" that would blast the mind of any unprotected human who approached too close, turning them into mindlessly aggressive zombies (while allowing C-Consciousness to select some individuals to brainwash into new members of Monolith). Finally, they used some of their agents (former Stalkers spread throughout the Zone) to disseminate stories of a "Wish Granter" at the heart of Chernobyl, ensuring that anyone who did manage to evade both the Monolith faction and the Brain Scorcher would be drawn to the Monolith and disposed of, rather than discovering the existence of the C-Consciousness lab.
This lasted for several years, but the continued efforts of C-Consciousness were unable to repair the damage they had done to the Zone. In fact, the damage appeared to be getting worse, with "Blowouts" deepening the distortion of the noosphere around the Zone at irregular intervals. Still, the C-Consciousness entity persisted in its experiments, behind the shields of the Monolith and the Wish Granter myth, the Monolith faction's patrols, the Brain Scorcher, and the dangers of the Zone itself. Occasionally, though, special circumstances would require an agent, a human able to do what was needed to preserve the Zone's secrets without revealing the existence of the C-Consciousness project. In these cases, Stalkers who were tough and resourceful enough to make it to or past the Brain Scorcher would be captured, brainwashed, and sent back into the outer areas of the zone on one of the "Death Trucks." These agents were marked with the tattoo "S.T.A.L.K.E.R." This is where Strelok, the main character, enters the story.
Strelok and his allies, Ghost, Fang, and Doc, were a group of Stalkers who had a particular interest in what exactly lay at the center of The Zone. At some point a few weeks before the start of the game, they managed to slip past the Brain Scorcher and all the way to the Nuclear Power Plant, finding the Monolith, an electronically locked vault door beneath the Monolith chamber (which leads to C-Consciousness), and documents hinting at the fact that the giant glowing Monolith was in fact a deliberate trap for anyone attempting to discover the secrets of the Zone. Unfortunately, they were forced to retreat, and their next attempt to penetrate into the heart of the Zone met with disaster. They had managed to obtain an electronic lockpick that would open the vault door, but this time the Monolith was ready for them and they were forced to retreat again, and their escape was further complicated by a blowout. Strelok was caught in the blowout and rendered unconscious with a severe case of amnesia. This made for a perfect subject for the conditioning process for a human agent of the C-Consciousness entity. Ghost and Fang escaped, but Fang was seriously wounded and died before the pair made it out of Pripyat, with Ghost moving on to find "safer" work in the outer regions of the Zone.
By this point, Strelok had become a serious threat to the security and secrecy of the C-Consciousness lab and the entity contained there, and it was decided that Strelok must be killed. However, due to unknown factors, C-Consciousness made a mistake: not realizing the identity of the man who had been caught in the blowout, they attempted to program him to kill Strelok, when in fact the man was Strelok. A second accident, the chance destruction of the Death Truck meant to carry this new agent back to the outer Zone, resulted in a loss of C-Consciousness control over him. Strelok was a free agent once again, though confused, amnesiac, and stripped of his possessions. The mission to kill himself led Strelok to retrace his steps through the past few weeks, tracking down his old associates and, over time, putting back together the evidence that had led him to become a danger to C-Consciousness in the first place. With the help of Doc to reveal his identity and to point him in the direction of a backup cache of documentation and another electronic lock pick, Strelok returned to Chernobyl and penetrated to the chamber under the "Monolith," destroying the projection device that created the illusion.
C-Consciousness, having no other option, confronted him to offer an explanation of their actions, the nature of the Zone, and a choice: to join them, bolster their numbers, help them repair the harm they had caused and shepherd humanity's consciousness towards peace, or to face a final confrontation with the remaining forces of the Monolith Faction in an attempt to reach the heart of the real C-Consciousness Lab, in order to put a stop to their manipulations and machinations.

</doc>
<doc id="56388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56388" title="List of bridges in the United States">
List of bridges in the United States

List of bridges in the United States is a work in progress.

</doc>
<doc id="56389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56389" title="Osborne's bull">
Osborne's bull

Osborne's bull was created as an advertisement for a sherry in 1956. Many people see it as the unofficial image of Spain. The bull is seen in semi-profile. The bulls used today are about 14 metres high, and are made out of about 70 plates of iron. There are many people who think it as a god.

</doc>
<doc id="56399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56399" title="Desalination">
Desalination

Desalination means any process that removes the excess salt and other minerals from water in order to obtain fresh water suitable for animal consumption or irrigation.
If almost all of the salt is removed for human consumption, sometimes the process produces table salt as a by-product.
Desalination of brackish water is done in the United States in order to meet treaty obligations for river water entering Mexico. Several Middle Eastern countries have energy reserves so great that they use desalinated water for agriculture. Saudi Arabia's desalination plants account for about 24% of total world capacity. The world's largest desalination plant is the "Jebel Ali" Desalination Plant (Phase 2) in UAE. It uses multi-stage flash distillation, dual-purpose and it is capable of producing 300 million cubic meters of water per year.
The traditional process used in these operations is vacuum distillation — essentially the boiling of water at less than atmospheric pressure, and thus a much lower temperature than normal. Due to the reduced temperature, energy is saved.

</doc>
<doc id="56400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56400" title="Solar energy">
Solar energy

Solar energy is energy that is present in sunlight. It has been used for thousands of years in many different ways by people all over the world. As well as its traditional human uses in heating, cooking, and drying, it is used today to make electricity where other power supplies are absent, such as in remote places and in space. It is becoming cheaper to make electricity from solar energy and in many situations it is now competitive with energy from coal or oil.
Solar energy is used today in a number of ways:
After passing through the Earth's atmosphere, most of the Sun's energy is in the form of visible light and infrared light radiation. Plants convert the energy in sunlight into chemical energy (sugars and starches) through the process of photosynthesis. Humans regularly use this store of energy in various ways, as when they burn wood or fossil fuels, or when simply eating plants, fish and animals.
Solar radiation reaches the Earth's upper Earth's atmosphere with the power of 1366 watts per square meter (W/m). Since the Earth is round, the surface nearer its poles is angled away from the Sun and receives much less solar energy than the surface nearer the equator.
At present, solar cell panels convert, at best, about 15% of sunlight hitting them into electricity. 
The dark disks in the third diagram on the right are imaginary examples of the amount of land that, if covered with 8% efficient solar panels, would produce slightly more energy in the form of electricity than the world needed in 2003.
Many technologies have been developed to make use of solar radiation. Some of these technologies make direct use of the solar energy (e.g. to provide light, heat, etc.), while others produce electricity.
Solar power plants convert sunlight into electricity, either directly using photovoltaics (PV), or indirectly using "concentrated solar power" (CSP). Concentrated solar power systems use lenses or mirrors and tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam. Photovoltaics converts light into electric current using the photoelectric effect.
Solar cooking uses the Sun as the source of energy instead of standard cooking fuels such as charcoal, coal or gas. Solar cookers are an inexpensive and environmentally sound alternative to traditional ovens. They are becoming widely used in areas of the developing world where deforestation is an issue, financial resources to purchase fuel are limited, and where open flames would pose a serious risk to people and the environment.
 The Sun may be used to heat water instead of electricity or gas. There are two basic types of active solar heating systems based on the type of fluid — either liquid or air — that is heated in the solar energy collectors. (The collector is the device in which a fluid is heated by the Sun.)
Liquid-based systems heat water or an antifreeze solution in a "hydronic" collector, whereas air-based systems heat air in an "air collector." Both air and liquid systems can supplement forced air systems.
Solar cells can be used to generate electricity from sunlight. It is a device that converts light energy into electrical energy. Sometimes the term "solar cell" is reserved for devices intended specifically to capture energy from sunlight, while the term "photovoltaic cell" is used when the light source is unspecified.
Solar cells have many applications. They have long been used in situations where electrical power from the grid is unavailable, such as in remote area power systems, Earth-orbiting satellites and space probes, consumer systems, e.g. handheld calculators or wrist watches, remote radiotelephones and water pumping applications.

</doc>
<doc id="56401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56401" title="Photovoltaics">
Photovoltaics

Photovoltaics (PVs) are arrays of cells containing a solar photovoltaic material that converts solar radiation or energy from the sun into direct current electricity. Due to the growing demand for renewable energy sources, the manufacturing of solar cells and photovoltaic arrays has advanced considerably in recent years, and costs have dropped.
Solar photovoltaics are growing rapidly, from a small base, to a total global capacity of 130,000 MW at the end of 2013. More than 100 countries use solar PV. Installations may be ground-mounted (and sometimes integrated with farming and grazing) or built into the roof or walls of a building.
Photovoltaic solar panels come in many different voltages. The most common are 12 volts, 24 volts, and 48 volts. Like batteries, multiple solar panels can be connected together to produce higher voltages, for example, two 48 volt panels connected together would produce 96 volts. The inverter, batteries, and solar panels in a system are usually all of the same voltage. The advantage of a higher-voltage system is that thinner wire is used, which is less expensive and easier to pull through conduit. The disadvantage of a higher-voltage installation is that electric shock and arc flash become more of a hazard, so installations above 48 volts are usually only found in solar power plants or commercial buildings.
A photovoltaic installation typically includes an array of solar panels, an inverter, rechargeable batteries (for use at night), a charge controller (a device that prevents the batteries from over-charging), two GFCI circuit breakers (one before the inverter and one after), and interconnection wiring. There is sometimes also a transformer after the inverter, which can power 240 volt heavy appliances such as a clothes dryer or oven. The transformer is often part of the inverter and can't be seen. Everything past the inverter (or transformer if there is one) is set up like a normal utility-fed installation (breaker panel, lights, outlets, switches, etc.). If there is no transformer, only 120 volt devices may be used. Installations without a transformer must be labelled as such on the breaker panel to alert future electricians that 240 volt appliances can not be installed. Some installations have direct current (DC) lighting and possibly DC appliances. The advantage of this is that for DC loads, the losses in the inverter are avoided. These installations will have a separate DC breaker panel connected before the inverter. For safety reasons, DC wiring cannot be run in the same conduit as AC wiring, and DC outlets must not accept an AC plug and vice versa.
A solar cell or photovoltaic cell is a device that changes light energy into electricity. Photovoltaics are best known as a method for making electricity by using solar cells to change energy from the sun into a flow of electrons. The photovoltaic effect was first noticed by Alexandre-Edmond Becquerel in 1839. Practically all photovoltaic devices are some type of photodiode. 
Solar cells can be used to power tools or to recharge a storage battery. The first actual request of photovoltaics was to power orbiting satellites and other spacecrafts, but today the most photovoltaic modules are used for grid connected power creation. In this case a tool called an inverter is required to convert the direct current to alternating current. Cells require protection from the environment and are usually packaged tightly behind a glass sheet. When more power is required than a single cell can give off, cells are electrically connected together to form photovoltaic modules, or solar panels. A single module is enough to power an emergency telephone, but for a house or a power station the modules must be arranged in multiples as arrays.

</doc>
<doc id="56402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56402" title="Solar cell">
Solar cell

A solar cell or photovoltaic cell is a device that converts light energy into electrical energy. Sometimes the term "solar cell" is reserved for devices intended specifically to capture energy from sunlight, while the term "photovoltaic cell" is used when the light source is unspecified. The device needs to fulfill only two functions: photogeneration of charge carriers (electrons and electron holes) in a light-absorbing material, and separation of the charge carriers to a conductive contact that will transmit the electricity. This conversion is called the "photovoltaic effect", and the field related to solar cells is known as photovoltaics.
Solar cells have many apps. They have long been used in situations where electrical power from the grid is unavailable, such as in remote area power systems, Earth-orbiting satellites and space probes, consumer systems, e.g. handheld calculators or wrist watches, remote radiotelephones and water pumping applications. More recently, they are starting to be used in assemblies of solar modules connected to the electricity grid through an inverter, often in combination with net metering.
Solar cells are regarded as one of the key technologies towards a sustainable energy supply.
The first generation photovoltaic consists of a large-area, single layer p-n junction diode, which is capable of generating usable electrical energy from light sources with the wavelengths of sunlight. These cells are typically made using a silicon wafer. First generation photovoltaic cells (also known as silicon wafer-based solar cells) are the dominant technology in the commercial production of solar cells, accounting for more than 86% of the solar cell market.
The second generation of photovoltaic materials is based on the use of thin-film deposits of semiconductors. These devices were initially designed to be high-efficiency, multiple junction photovoltaic cells. Later, the advantage of using a thin-film of material was noted, reducing the mass of material required for cell design. This contributed to a prediction of greatly reduced costs for thin film solar cells. Currently (2007) there are different technologies/semiconductor materials under investigation or in mass production, such as amorphous silicon, poly-crystalline silicon, micro-crystalline silicon, cadmium telluride, copper indium selenide/sulfide. Typically, the efficiencies of thin-film solar cells are lower compared with silicon (wafer-based) solar cells, but manufacturing costs are also lower, so that a lower price in terms of $/watt of electrical output can be achieved. Another advantage of the reduced mass is that less support is needed when placing panels on rooftops and it allows fitting panels on light materials or flexible materials, even textiles. This allows for portable roll-up solar panels, which can fit in a backpack and be used to power cell phones or laptops in remote areas.
Third generation photovoltaics are very different from the other two, broadly defined as semiconductor devices which do not rely on a traditional p-n junction to separate photogenerated charge carriers. These new devices include photoelectrochemical cells, Polymer solar cells, and nanocrystal solar cells.
Companies working on third generation photovoltaics include "Xsunx, Konarka Technologies, Inc.", "Nanosolar" and "Nanosys". Research is also being done in this area by the USA's "National Renewable Energy Laboratory" (http://www.nrel.gov/).

</doc>
<doc id="56404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56404" title="Alternating current">
Alternating current

An alternating current (AC) is an electric current of which magnitude and direction vary, unlike direct current, whose direction remains constant. 
The usual waveform of an AC power circuit is a sine wave, because this leads to the most efficient transmission of energy. However, in certain applications different waveforms are used, such as triangular or square waves.
When one speaks of alternating current one mostly refers to the form in which electricity is delivered to businesses and residences. But audio and radio signals carried on electrical wire are also examples of alternating current. In these applications, an important goal is often the recovery of information encoded (or modulated) onto the AC signal.
This means that the direction of current flowing in a circuit is constantly being reversed back and forth. This is done with any type of AC voltage source.
All houses have alternating current. The AC comes from a power plant. The direction of the electricity switches back 60 times every second (or 50 times in some parts of the world). This happens so fast that a light bulb does not stop glowing.
Nikola Tesla experimented with electrical resonance and studied various lighting systems. He invented an induction motor, new types of generators and transformers, and a system of alternating current power transmission.
William Stanley, Jr. designed one of the first practical devices to transfer AC power efficiently between isolated circuits. Using pairs of coils wound on a common iron core, his design, called an induction coil, was an early precursor of the modern transformer. The system used today was devised in the late nineteenth century, largely by Nikola Tesla. Contributions were also made by George Westinghouse, Lucien Gaulard, John Dixon Gibbs,Wilhelm Siemens and Oliver Shallenger. AC systems overcame the limitations of the direct current system used by Thomas Edison to distribute electricity efficiently over long distances. 
The first modern commercial power plant that used three-phase alternating current was at the Mill Creek hydroelectric plant near Redlands, California in 1893. Its designer was Almirian Decker, a brilliant young engineer. Decker's innovative design incorporated 10,000 volt three phase transmission and established the standards for the complete system of generation, transmission and motors used today.
AC power is cheaper and easier to make electronic devices. The power switches for AC power are also less expensive to make. It is less expensive than DC because you can increase and decrease the current very easily. AC can use high voltages with smaller current to reduce losses when you send power. AC reduces the heating in the wires. DC power could be sent, but it would lose a lot of energy and you would have to put more work in it to send it great distances. This is why we do not have transformer stations everywhere. Alternating current works by switching the current many times back and forth constantly while it goes back to the source it came from.

</doc>
<doc id="56405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56405" title="Direct current">
Direct current

Direct current (DC or ""continuous current"") is the flow of electricity in a single direction, from the positive to the negative terminals (potential, poles).
The direct current always flow in the same direction, distinguishing it from the alternating current (AC). Direct current used to be called "Galvanic current".
Batteries are some of the main sources of direct current (DC), but many other sources also exist such as bridge rectifiers in power supply, solar panels, etc.
Typically, the current goes through a conductor and other things that can carry DC. DC is also sent through a vacuum as in electron beams or ion beams.
The first commercial electric power transmission was developed by Thomas Edison in the late nineteenth century using direct current. Today nearly all electric power distribution uses alternating current because of the advantages with transformers and transmission. High-voltage direct current is often used for transporting electricity to places far away.
For applications requiring direct current, the alternating current is typically distributed to a substation and then converted to direct current.
Long after the usage of direct current had been established, physicists realized that the current was made of negative electric charges, the electrons, and that the actual flow was from the negative to the positive pole (and so-called "holes" flow in the opposite direction), but by convention, the usage of the term was never changed.

</doc>
<doc id="56407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56407" title="Snowmobile">
Snowmobile

A snowmobile is a motorized vehicle used for travelling over snow. It is like a car, only instead of wheels, it has treads. Some snowmobiles have skis in the front for steering. 
Adding snowmobile studs to the tread decreases the time and distance it takes to stop a snowmobile. Once you make a decision to stop a snowmobile, the distance it will take to stop will be a combination of the speed of the machine, weight of the machine and the available friction and or the mechanical damping (which will equal the effective drag factor) between the snowmobile and the surface on which it is trying to stop. If the surface is icy or hard-packed, the mechanical damping portion of the effective drag factor is decreased, leaving you with only the friction provided by the tread to stop.
Snowmobile studs made from steel or stainless steel with carbide tips are installed in the tread. The studs are designed for specific terrains in varying lengths, shapes and materials. The studs control acceleration, deceleration and maneuverability. The correct amount and type of stud installed in an effective pattern will produce the best traction results.

</doc>
<doc id="56413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413" title="Remo Four">
Remo Four

The Remo Four were a rock band from Liverpool, England, from the late 1950s and early 1960s, at the same time the Beatles were starting their musical careers.
While the Beatles gained experience performing in Hamburg, Germany, the Remo Four played at American Air Force bases in France. Members of the two bands were friends, and often played at the same places back in Liverpool, or would go to watch each other perform.
After the Beatles became famous under Brian Epstein's management, Epstein signed up the Remo Four also. He worked hard to promote the band, but they never achieved massive success as the Beatles had. Epstein paired the Remo Four with a singer he also managed, called Tommy Quickly. They made a series of singles together, but none became hits. Quickly retired from music, and the Remo Four went on to work with other singers, including Billy J. Kramer. They also released an album, titled "Smile", on a German record label.
George Harrison was invited to record a movie late in 1967. Instead of working with the Beatles, he invited the Remo Four to work with him. The movie, "Wonderwall", got little exposure, but the soundtrack album, "Wonderwall Music", became a minor hit the next year.

</doc>
<doc id="56415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56415" title="Magnitude (mathematics)">
Magnitude (mathematics)

The magnitude of a mathematical object is its size: a property by which it can be larger or smaller than other objects of the same kind.
In mathematical language one would say: It is an ordering of the class of objects to which it belongs.
The Ancient Greeks between several types of magnitude, including:
They had proven that the first two could not be the same, or even isomorphic systems of magnitude. They did not consider negative magnitudes to be meaningful, and "magnitude" is still chiefly used in contexts in which zero is either the lowest size or less than all possible sizes. 
The magnitude of a real number is usually called the absolute value or modulus. It is written | "x" |, and is defined by:
This gives the number's distance from zero on the real number line. For example, the modulus of -5 is 5.
A magnitude is never negative. When comparing magnitudes, it is often helpful to use a logarithmic scale. Real-world examples include the loudness of a sound (decibel), the brightness of a star, or the Richter scale of earthquake intensity.
To put it another way, often it is not meaningful to simply add and subtract magnitudes.

</doc>
<doc id="56416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56416" title="Fraction (mathematics)">
Fraction (mathematics)

A fraction is a number that shows how many equal parts there are. When we write fractions, we show one number with a line above another number, for example, formula_1 or or 1/4. The top number tells us how many parts there are, the second number tells us the total number of parts.
The top part of the fraction is called a numerator. The bottom part of the fraction is called a denominator. For example, formula_1: The 1 is the numerator here, and the 4 is the denominator.
A fraction is a mathematical expression relating two quantities or numbers, one divided by the other. The numbers may be whole numbers (or integers) – this is a rational number. For example, formula_6 is a fraction. They can also be polynomials – this is a rational function.
Mathematically, a fraction is a quotient of numbers, representing the number's value when the numerator is divided by the denominator (lower number). Thus formula_6 means one divided by two, or, in decimals, 0.5.
To find formula_6 of formula_6, the denominators are multiplied. That means: denominator 2 multiplied by 2 equals 4 or: formula_6 x formula_6 = formula_1 or: 0.5 x 0.5 = 0.25.
To find formula_6 "divided by" formula_6, multiply formula_6 by the reciprocal of formula_6, which is 2. That answer is 1.
The numerator is multiplied by the other numerator. The denominator is multiplied by the other denominator.
E.g. ' x ' = you can simplify
this by dividing both the numbers by a common factor.This would be 

</doc>
<doc id="56423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56423" title="Buckethead">
Buckethead

Brian Patrick Carroll, better known as Buckethead, is an American musician and songwriter. As of 2016 he has released 255 solo albums. He has performed on over 50 more albums by other music artists. His music spans many different styles and genres.
When performing onstage Buckethead wears a white KFC bucket over his head and an expressionless plain white costume mask.
Although he can play many different types of musical instruments, Buckethead is best known for his guitar playing. He has been voted as a top guitarist in many magazines dedicated to the topic of guitar playing.
Buckethead records and performs onstage as a solo artist most of the time. He has also worked with a wide variety musicians including: Bill Laswell, Bootsy Collins, Bernie Worrell, Iggy Pop, Les Claypool, Serj Tankian, Mike Patton and Viggo Mortensen. Buckethead was a member of Guns N' Roses from 2000 to 2004.
Buckethead has created music for movies such as: "Saw II", "Ghosts of Mars", "Beverly Hills Ninja" and "Last Action Hero".

</doc>
<doc id="56427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56427" title="Quotient">
Quotient

In mathematics, the quotient is the end result of a division problem. For example, in the problem 6 ÷ 3, the quotient would be 2. Then 6 would be called the dividend, and 3 the divisor. The quotient can also be expressed as the number of times the divisor divides into the dividend.
A quotient can also mean just the integral part of the result of dividing two integers. For example, the quotient of 13 ÷ 5 would be 2 while the remainder would be 3.
Quotients also come up in certain tests, like the IQ test, which stands for intelligence quotient. In this case, your quotient is basically your score. In recent decades, as people begin to emphasize full personal development, other similar quotients appeared. 

</doc>
<doc id="56428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56428" title="Norman language">
Norman language

Norman is a language spoken mainly in Normandy. It is a Romance language (a language which comes from Latin). It is closely related to French. After the Norman Conquest, Norman changed the English language considerably. 
Forms of the Norman are still used in the Channel Islands,
No one now uses Sercquiais or Auregnais as their first language, but Jèrriais and Guernésiais are still used.

</doc>
<doc id="56429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56429" title="Division (mathematics)">
Division (mathematics)

In mathematics, the word "division" means the operation which is the opposite of multiplication. The symbol for division can be a slash, a line, or the division sign (formula_1), as in:
Each, of those three, means "6 divided by 3" giving 2 as the answer. The first number is the dividend (6), and the second number is the divisor (3). The result (or answer) is the quotient. Whole numbers, any left-over amount is called the "remainder" (such as 14/4 gives 3 with the remainer as 2, as the number , same as or 3.5).
The numbers can be very big, such as with two hundred: 200/5 = 40, or with 7 billion:  7,000,000,000 / 1000 = 7,000,000 (equals 7 million).
If "c" times "b" equals "a", written as:
where "b" is not zero, then "a" divided by "b" equals "c", written as:
For instance, 
since
In the above expression, "a" is called the dividend, "b" the divisor and "c" the quotient.
Division by zero
...is not defined.
Division is most often shown by placing the "dividend" over the "divisor" with a horizontal line, also called a vinculum, between them. For example, "a" divided by "b" is written
This can be read out loud as "a divided by b" or "a over b". A way to express division all on one line is to write the "dividend", then a slash, then the "divisor", like this:
This is the usual way to specify division in most computer programming languages since it can easily be typed as a simple sequence of characters.
A typographical variation which is halfway between these two forms uses a slash but elevates the dividend, and lowers the divisor:
Any of these forms can be used to display a fraction. A fraction is a division expression where both dividend and divisor are integers (although typically called the "numerator" and "denominator"). A fraction is an accepted way of writing numbers. It is not always expected that the result of the division is written in decimals.
A less common way to show division is to use the obelus (or division sign) in this manner:
But in elementary arithmetic this form is used rather often. The obelus is also used alone to represent the division operation itself, as for instance as a label on a key of a calculator.
In some non-English-speaking cultures, ""a" divided by "b"" is written "a" : "b". However, in English usage the colon is restricted to expressing the related concept of ratios (with "a":"b" said as ""a" is to "b"").

</doc>
<doc id="56430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56430" title="Division">
Division

Division could mean:
Processes:
Units/ Entities:
Music:
Miscellaneous:

</doc>
<doc id="56432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56432" title="Divisor">
Divisor

In mathematics, a divisor of an integer "n", also called a factor of "n", is an integer which evenly divides "n" without leaving a remainder. Any number is always evenly divisible by 1 and itself, which are two of the divisors. A prime number has no other divisors.
Finding one or more factors of a given number is called factorization.
For example, 7 is a divisor of 42 because 42/7 = 6. We also say 42 is divisible by 7 or 42 is a multiple of 7 or 7 divides 42 or 7 is a factor of 42 and we usually write 7 | 42. For example, the positive divisors of 42 are 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 14, 21, 42.
In general, we say "m"|"n" (read: "m" divides "n") for non-zero integers "m" and "n" iff there exists an integer "k" such that "n" = "km". Thus, divisors can be negative as well as positive, although often we restrict our attention to positive divisors. (For example, there are six divisors of four, 1, 2, 4, -1, -2, -4, but one would usually mention only the positive ones, 1, 2, and 4.) 
1 and -1 divide (are divisors of) every integer, every integer is a divisor of itself, and every integer is a divisor of 0, except by convention 0 itself (see also division by zero). Numbers divisible by 2 are called even and numbers not divisible by 2 are called odd.
A divisor of "n" that is not 1, -1, "n" or -"n" is known as a non-trivial divisor; numbers with non-trivial divisors are known as composite numbers, while prime numbers have no non-trivial divisors.
The name comes from the arithmetic operation of division: if "a"/"b" = "c" then "a" is the dividend, "b" the divisor, and "c" the quotient.
There are properties which allow one to recognize certain divisors of a number from the number's digits. Those properties can be used as "math tricks" to quickly spot some divisors of a number.
For example, if the last digit is even (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), then 2 is a divisor. If the last digit is 0 or 5, then 5 is a divisor. If the digits add up to a multiple of 3, then 3 is a divisor. For the number 340, ending in "0" then both 2 and 5 are divisors, plus 2×5 = 10 is also a divisor. Dividing by 10, 340/10 = 34, as finally 2×17. Combining all the smaller numbers, the 12 divisors of 340 are:
Note that any number is always evenly divisible by 1 and itself.

</doc>
<doc id="56433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56433" title="Remainder">
Remainder

In arithmetic, the result of the division of two integers usually cannot be expressed with an integer quotient, unless a remainder –an amount "left over"– is also accepted.
If "a" and "d" are natural numbers, with "d" non-zero, it can be proved that there exist unique integers "q" and "r", such that "a" = "qd" + "r" and 0 ≤ "r" < "d". The number "q" is called the "quotient", while "r" is called the "remainder".
If "a" and "d" are integers, with "d" non-zero, then a remainder is an integer "r" such that "a" = "qd" + "r" for some integer "q", and with 0 ≤ |"r"| < |"d"|.
When defined this way, there are two possible remainders. For example, the division of -42 by -5 can be expressed as either
or
So the remainder is then either 3 or -2.
This ambiguity in the value of the remainder is not very serious; in the case above, the negative remainder is obtained from the positive one just by subtracting 5, which is "d". This holds in general. When dividing by "d", if the positive remainder is "r", and the negative one is "r", then
When "a" and "d" are real numbers, with "d" non-zero, "a" can be divided by "d" without remainder, with the quotient being another real number. If the quotient is constrained to being an integer however, the concept of remainder is still necessary. It can be proved that there exists a unique integer quotient "q" and a unique real remainder "r" such that "a"="qd"+"r" with 0≤"r" < |"d"|. As in the case of division of integers, the remainder could be required to be negative, that is, -|"d"| < "r" ≤ 0. 
Extending the definition of remainder for real numbers as described above is not of theoretical importance in mathematics; however, many programming languages implement this definition – see modulo operation.

</doc>
<doc id="56434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56434" title="Remainder (disambiguation)">
Remainder (disambiguation)

Remainder is the amount "left over" when dividing two integers.
Remainder could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="56437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56437" title="List of 20th Century Fox movies">
List of 20th Century Fox movies

This is a list of movies produced and/or distributed by the U.S. movie studio 20th Century Fox. The company was founded on May 31, 1935 as a merger between Fox Film Corporation and 20th Century Pictures. For the movies of those two companies, see List of pre-1940 Fox films and List of 20th Century Pictures films.

</doc>
<doc id="56438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56438" title="Andreas Starke">
Andreas Starke

Andreas Starke (SPD) (born 17 September 1956 in Hamburg) became the Lord Mayor of Bamberg in Bavaria, Germany in 2006. He won the election against Peter Neller (CSU), Ursula Sowa (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen) and Norbert Tscherner (BBB).

</doc>
<doc id="56449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56449" title="Robert Enke">
Robert Enke

Robert Enke (born 24 August 1977 in Jena, East Germany - died 10 November 2009, Neustadt am Rübenberge, Germany) was a German football player. He was a goalkeeper for the Germany football team.
Enke started to play football at "BSG Jenapharm Jena", a local club in his city. In 1985 he came to the youth teams of Jena's major football club, Carl Zeiss Jena. On 11 November 1995, at the age of 18, he had his first professional match for Jena in the German 2. Bundesliga. In 1996, he came to Borussia Mönchengladbach in the German Bundesliga.
From 1997 to 1999 he made fifteen matches for the German under-21 national team. In 1999 he was nominated as one of three goalkeepers of the national team and he went to the FIFA Confederations Cup in the same year. After leaving Germany in 1999 and playing in Portugal, Spain and Turkey, he was not nominated.
In 2006, already playing two years back home, he was nominated as a stand-by goalkeeper for the world championships. After that he returned to the team, on 28 March 2007 he made his first match for the team (against Denmark). In May 2008 he became goalkeeper number two after Jens Lehmann who was already 38 years old. After the UEFA Euro 2008, Jens Lehmann left the national team. Since then, the goalkeepers changed often. On 8 October 2008, Enke broke his hand, so René Adler played his first match in the national team. Other goalkeepers who were tested were Manuel Neuer and Tim Wiese.
Enke's last club was Hannover 96. He had a contract until the year 2010. In 2007 he became team captain in his club. He had played eight matches for the national team. His last match for the national team was on 12 August 2009 against Azerbaijan, his last club match was on 8 November 2009 against Hamburg.
Enke and his wife had a daughter who died in 2006. She was two years old. In 2009 they adopted another daughter.
Enke died in the evening of 10 November 2009 when he was hit by a train near Neustadt am Rübenberge. His advisor said that Enke committed suicide. The next day, there was a press conference with Enke's widow and his psychiatrist. They said that Enke had had a major depressive disorder (depression) since the year 2003.
200||0
57||0
10||0
1||0
268||0
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="56460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56460" title="Velikiy Novgorod">
Velikiy Novgorod

Velikiy Novgorod (Russian: Вели́кий Но́вгород) is a city in the European part of Russia. It is about 200km from St. Petersburg. In 2007 about 2170,000 people lived there. "Novgorod" is the Russian word for "new city" and "Velikiy" means "the Great". The city is actually one of the most historic in Russia. Its past can be traced to the 9th century.It was also the only Russian province that was "not" captured by the Golden Horde.

</doc>
<doc id="56462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56462" title="Nizhny Novgorod">
Nizhny Novgorod

Nizhny Novgorod (Russian:Ни́жний Но́вгород, often shortened to "Nizhny") is the fourth largest city in Russia. The first three are Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Novosibirsk. Nizhny Novgorod had a population of 1,311,252 in 2002, and one of 1,438,133 in 1989. It is the economic and cultural center of the vast Volga-Vyatka economic region, and also the administrative center of Nizhny Novgorod Oblast and Volga Federal District.
From 1932 to 1990 the city was known as Gorky (Russian: Го́рький} after the writer Maxim Gorky.

</doc>
<doc id="56464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56464" title="Maxim Gorky">
Maxim Gorky

Aleksei Maksimovich Peshkov (In Russian Алексей Максимович Пешков) (Old style: 16 March 1868, New style: 28 March – 18 June 1936), better known as Maxim Gorky (Максим Горький), was a Soviet/Russian author, a founder of the socialist realism literary method and a political activist. 
From 1906 to 1913 and from 1921 to 1929 he lived abroad, mostly in Capri, Italy; after his return to the Soviet Union he accepted the cultural policies of the time, although he was not permitted to leave the country.

</doc>
<doc id="56465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56465" title="Ankh">
Ankh

The ankh was the Egyptian hieroglyphic character that stood for the word ʿnḫ, meaning life. Egyptian gods are often portrayed carrying it by its loop, or bearing one in each hand, arms crossed over their chest. It is also known as the Egyptian Cross, or as crux ansata, Latin for "cross with a handle".
"Ankhs" are viewed as a protective symbol.

</doc>
<doc id="56478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56478" title="Ingrid Bergman">
Ingrid Bergman

Ingrid Bergman (29 August 1915 – 29 August 1982) was a Swedish actress. 
Born in Stockholm, Ingrid Bergman enrolled at Royal Dramatic Drama School and began acting in movies in Sweden before being taken by producer David O. Selnick to Hollywood in 1939. Her first movie there was a remake of a Swedish movie she appeared in called "Intermezzo". 
The public quickly took to her and she soon established herself as one of the most popular movie stars of the time. Some of her most famous movies include; "Casablanca" (1942), "Gaslight" (1944), "Spellbound" (1945), "Notorious" (1946).
At the height of her fame and success, she scandalized the world, when she began an affair with Italian movie director Roberto Rossellini, while still married to her first husband Dr. Peter Lindström. She married Rossellini in 1950. 
She returned to Hollywood in 1956 with "Anastasia", which won her the Academy Award for best actress, followed by "The Inn of the Sixth Happiness" (1958). She went on appearing in movies in both America and Europe. Her last role was in a television miniserie on the life of Golda Meir (1982).
She had a daughter Pia (born 1938) by her first husband Dr. Lindström, and a son Robertino (born 1950) and twin daughters Isabella and Isotta (born 1952) with Rossellini.
Bergman died in London, England, of breast cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="56482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56482" title="Ruwer-Hochwald-Radweg">
Ruwer-Hochwald-Radweg

The Ruwer-Hochwald-Radweg is a cycle trail. It links the Moselle-valley and
the Hunsrück from Trier to Hermeskeil in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.
The length is about :

</doc>
<doc id="56494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56494" title="Novosibirsk">
Novosibirsk

Novosibirsk (Russian:Новосиби́рск , pronounced ) is Russia's third largest city, after Moscow and Saint Petersburg, and the administrative center of Novosibirsk Oblast. It is also the largest city in Siberia and the administrative center of Siberian Federal District. It is in the southwest of this district.
It was founded in 1893 as the future site of the Trans-Siberian railway bridge crossing the great Siberian river Ob. Its importance further increased early in the 20th century with the completion of the Turkestan-Siberia Railway connecting Novosibirsk to Central Asia and the Caspian Sea. 
From 1893 until 1925 Novosibirsk was called Novonikolayevsk after Tsar Nicholas II.
The city lies along the Ob River in the West Siberian Plain. To the south is the Ukok Plateau part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site entitled "Golden Mountains of Altai". The climate is sharply continental, with very severe, cold and snowy winters and hot and dry summers. Temperatures in summer range from 20 to 25 °C (75 °F), in winter -18 to -20 °C (0 °F), but can reach -40 °C (-40 °F) in winter and 35-40 °C (100 °F) in summer. The difference between the highest and the lowest temperature is 88 °C (158 °F). Most of the time the weather is sunny, with an average of 2880 hours of sunshine per year.
Industries include machine manufacturing and metallurgy. It is the home of one of Novosibirsk State University (situated in nearby Akademgorodok), a number of institutes and a scientific research center. Novosibirsk boasts opera and ballet companies, several theaters, museums, and art galleries, and numerous sports facilities.

</doc>
<doc id="56499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56499" title="Alice Springs">
Alice Springs

Alice Springs is a city in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is 200 km south of the centre of mainland Australia. It is about halfway between Darwin in the north and Adelaide in the south.
In 2005 there were 26,486 people living in Alice Springs. This makes it the second largest town in the Northern Territory.
Alice Springs is often called "the Alice" or simply "Alice.” It is called "Mparntwe" by the Arrernte. The Arrernte people are the Aboriginal people who have lived around Alice Springs for more than 50,000 years.
According to the Arrernte traditional stories, the land around Alice Springs was shaped by caterpillars, wild dogs, travelling boys, two sisters, euros and other ancestral figures. There are many sites of traditional importance in and around Alice Springs. These include Anthwerrke (Emily Gap), Akeyulerre (Billy Goat Hill), Ntaripe (Heavitree Gap), Atnelkentyarliweke (Anzac Hill) and Alhekulyele (Mt. Gillen).
In 1862, John McDouall Stuart led an expedition into Central Australia and the area where Alice Springs is located. Until the 1930s the town was known as Stuart. The Australian Overland Telegraph Line that joined Adelaide to Darwin and Great Britain was completed in 1872. It followed Stuart’s route. It opened up the interior for permanent European settlement. When surface alluvial gold was found at Arltunga, 100 km east of Alice Springs, in 1887 many people began to move into the area.
The telegraph station was built near a waterhole in the normally dry Todd River. It was thought to be a permanent source of water, and was named Alice Springs. Alice was the wife of the former Postmaster General of South Australia, Sir Charles Todd. The Todd River was named after Sir Charles.
The original method of travel in the outback were camels. These camel trains were run by people from Pathan tribes in the North-West frontier of India and Pakistan. They were wrongly called ‘Afghans’ in Australia.
In 1929 the Palmerston and Pine Creek Railway was built from Darwin as far as Birdum, Northern Territory. The Great Northern Railway had been built in 1891 from Port Augusta as far as Oodnadatta, South Australia. The lines wouldn’t meet until 2003. On February 4, 2004, the first passenger train arrived in Darwin.
During the 1960s Alice Springs became an important defence base. About 700 people work at the US/Australian Pine Gap joint defence satellite monitoring base.
The major industry in recent times is tourism.
The town of Alice Springs built on the banks of the usually dry Todd River. It is on the northern side of MacDonnell Ranges. The region where Alice Springs is located is known as Central Australia, or the Red Centre. It is a very dry region, made up of several different deserts.
Temperatures can vary by up to 28 °C. In summer the average highest temperature is in the high 30s°C. In winter the average lowest temperature can be -7.5 °C.
The rainfall can vary quite a lot from year to year. The annual average rainfall is 286 mm. In 2001 741 mm fell, but in 2002 only 198 mm fell.
Alice Springs began as a town to supply the cattle farms that first came to the area. The arrival of the railway increased its economy and productivity. Today the town supplies a region of 546,046 square kilometres. There are 38,749 people living in the region. The region includes a number of mining and farm communities, the Joint Defence Facility at Pine Gap and tourist attractions at Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park, Watarrka National Park and the MacDonnell Ranges.
In June 2004, 38,749 people lived in the region. There were 26,058 people living in the city of Alice Springs. Aboriginal people made up about 37% of people in the Alice Springs region in 2001.
According to the 2001 census, Australian Aborigines are about 17% of the people in Alice Springs, and 29% of the people in the Northern Territory. Alice Springs is the business centre of Central Australia. Aboriginal people come from all over the region to use the town's services. Aboriginal residents usually live in the suburbs, on special purpose leases (or town camps). Some live farther out at Amoonguna to the south. Many live on the small family outstation communities on Aboriginal Lands in surrounding areas.
The traditional owners of the Alice Springs area are the Central Arrernte people. As it is the largest town in central Australia, there are also speakers of at least thirteen other languages.
The American influence in Alice Springs comes from Pine Gap, a US satellite tracking station. It is 19 km south-west of Alice Springs. Pine Gap employs 700 American and Australians. There are about 2,000 people in the Alice Springs region who are US citizens.
American influence can be seen throughout Alice Springs. The Americans still celebrate all major festivals, including Halloween, Independence Day and Thanksgiving. A number of Australians also join in the festivities from time to time. There is also American sport, including baseball, basketball, and American football.
Alice Springs has a large number of visitors up of:
Alice Springs has 19 public and private schools and colleges. This includes 2 for aboriginal students, 7 pre-schools and the Alice Springs School of the Air. The School of the Air provides education to students in remote areas. The Alice Springs Campus of Charles Darwin University offers courses in TAFE and Higher Education. The Centre for Appropriate Technology was established in 1980. It has a range of services to encourage and help Aboriginal people improve their quality of life on remote communities.
Australian Rules Football is a popular sport in Alice Springs. The Central Australian Football League has several teams and many people play. The sport is very popular in Indigenous communities. The local stadium, Traeger Park, can hold 10,000 people. It was built to hold national AFL and international cricket matches. In 2004, an AFL pre-season Regional Challenge match between Collingwood Football Club and Port Adelaide Football Club filled the stadium.
Cricket is also a popular sport in Alice Springs. The Imparja Cup Cricket Carnival started in 1994. Teams from Indigenous communities come from all across Australia. A unique sporting event, held every year, is the Henley-on-Todd Regatta. This is also known as the Todd River Race. It is a sand river race with bottomless boats. It is the only dry river regatta in the world. Another unusual sporting event is the Camel Cup. This is also held every year at the local racetrack, Blatherskite Park. It is a full day event with races using camels instead of horses.

</doc>
<doc id="56500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56500" title="Recital">
Recital

A recital is a concert of classical music given by just one musician or one musician and an accompanist. A pianist playing a concert by himself will be giving a "piano recital". A "violin recital" will be given by a violinist and piano accompanist.
People started talking about "recitals" in the middle of the 19th century. Pianists such as Liszt became famous when they travelled about giving piano recitals. Soon piano manufacturers (firms that make pianos) and concert agents started to sponsor famous pianists to give recitals. These great pianists became great stars in the way that, in music, only opera singers had been great stars before. Some concert halls have become well-known places for recitals, e.g. the Bosendorfersaal in Vienna, the Beethovensaal in Berlin, the Wigmore Hall in London and the Carnegie Hall in New York.
Some pianists became known for playing recitals of music by just one composer. Recitals of Chopin's music were particularly popular. "Song recitals" (or "vocal recitals") are given by singers who sing Lieder and sometimes arias from operas.

</doc>
<doc id="56501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56501" title="Programme music">
Programme music

Programme music (or "program music" in US English) is music for instruments which describes something or tells a story. It is the opposite of "absolute music" which is not trying to describe anything, just the sound of the piece. Programme music was very popular in the 19th century although some programme music was written earlier.
Some composers in the Renaissance and Baroque periods wrote music which described battles. Antonio Vivaldi wrote a very famous set of four concertos for violin and strings called "The Four Seasons". Each of the movements describe things happening during the year's seasons, e.g. the birds singing in the spring, snowy winter days, etc.
At the start of the 1800s, Beethoven wrote a pastoral symphony, Symphony No. 6 "Pastorale", which describes the peaceful life in the countryside. This way of making music describe things became very popular with Romantic composers. Mendelssohn wrote "concert overtures" which had nothing to do with an opera but were simply short pieces of music for orchestra which told a story. "Hebrides Overture", for example, describes the feel of the sea lapping into Fingal's Cave in the Scottish Inner Hebrides.
Franz Liszt made programme music very popular in his symphonic poems. Hector Berlioz's "Symphonie Fantastique" describes a story he made up himself about a man who has dreams about a woman he loves. The woman he loves is represented by a tune (melody) which is heard in different ways during the symphony. It is called an "idée fixe" (French for "fixed idea"). This way of linking a theme (tune) with a person led to Wagner's use of leitmotif in his operas in which a tune is linked to a person, event or idea. At the start of the 19th century Richard Strauss wrote several symphonic poems, often using a leitmotif to describe the person it is about. They include "Don Juan", "Don Quixote" and "Ein Heldenleben" ("A hero's life").

</doc>
<doc id="56508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56508" title="Anaerobic organism">
Anaerobic organism

An anaerobic organism is any living thing that does not need oxygen for growth. 
Microaerophiles are organisms that may use oxygen, but only at low concentrations (low micromolar range); their growth is inhibited by normal oxygen concentrations (approximately 200 micromolar). Nanaerobes are organisms that cannot grow in the presence of micromolar concentrations of oxygen, but can grow with and benefit from nanomolar concentrations of oxygen.
Obligate anaerobes may use fermentation or anaerobic respiration. In the presence of oxygen, facultative anaerobes use aerobic respiration; without oxygen some of them ferment, some use anaerobic respiration. Aerotolerant organisms are strictly fermentative. Microaerophiles carry out aerobic respiration, and some of them can also do anaerobic respiration.
Some anaerobic bacteria produce toxins (e.g., tetanus or botulinum toxins) that are highly dangerous to higher organisms, including humans.

</doc>
<doc id="56509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56509" title="Tetanus">
Tetanus

Tetanus is a disease that leads to muscle contractions that stay that way for some time.
Infection generally occurs through wound contamination, and often involves a cut or deep puncture wound. The primary symptoms are caused by tetanospasmin, a neurotoxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium "Clostridium tetani". As the infection goes on, muscle spasms develop in the jaw. This led to the common name of the condition, lockjaw. This is usually followed by difficulties with swallowing. The condition leads to general muscle stiffness and spasms in other parts of the body. Infection can be prevented by proper immunization and by post-exposure prophylaxis.

</doc>
<doc id="56512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56512" title="Immunization">
Immunization

Immunization is a way of preventing a person from getting a disease. This is done by making the person's body come into contact with a bit of the disease so that the body learns how to fight it. The body's ability to fight off a disease is called its immune system. 
The material is known as an immunogen. Immunization is the same as inoculation and vaccination because inoculation and vaccination use an infecting agent (something that infects) in the same way that immunization does.
When the human immune system is exposed to an infection once, it can learn how to cope quickly if it is exposed to it again. By exposing an individual to an immunogen in a controlled way, the body will be able to protect itself from that infection later on in life.

</doc>
<doc id="56515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56515" title="Whipped cream">
Whipped cream

Whipped cream is a dairy food used in many desserts. It is made with heavy cream, a type of cream that contains a large amount of fat.
To make whipped cream, a person whips or beats the heavy cream with a whisk or an electric mixer until it becomes fluffy and filled with air. For some desserts, people add icing sugar as a sweetener. Some people also add flavourings to whipped cream, such as vanilla.
Whipped cream is used in many types of desserts. Some desserts, such as apple pie or strawberry shortcake, are often served with whipped cream on top. Whipped cream is also served in milk shakes and on ice cream sundaes. Some desserts have whipped cream inside them, such as cream puffs and eclairs.

</doc>
<doc id="56516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56516" title="Tetanospasmin">
Tetanospasmin

Tetanospasmin is the neurotoxin produced by the vegetative spore of "Clostridium tetani" in anaerobic conditions, causing tetanus. It is sometimes called spasmogenic toxin, tetanus toxin or abbreviated to TeTx or TeNT. 

</doc>
<doc id="56518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56518" title="Neurotoxin">
Neurotoxin

A neurotoxin is a toxin that acts specifically on nerve cells – neurons – usually by interacting with membrane proteins and ion channels. 
Many of the venoms and other toxins that organisms use in defense against vertebrates are neurotoxins. A common effect is paralysis, which sets in extremely rapidly. The venom of bees, scorpions, pufferfish, spiders and snakes can contain many different toxins. Many neurotoxins act by affecting voltage-dependent ion channels.

</doc>
<doc id="56521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56521" title="Paralysis">
Paralysis

Paralysis is the complete loss of muscle function for one or more muscle groups, when the thing that is paralysed cannot move. 
Paralysis is most often caused by damage to the nervous system or brain, especially the spinal cord. Major causes are stroke, trauma, poliomyelitis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), botulism, spina bifida, multiple sclerosis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. Partial paralysis can also occur in the REM stage of sleep (see:Sleep paralysis). Paralysis often includes loss of feeling in the affected area.

</doc>
<doc id="56523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56523" title="Membrane protein">
Membrane protein

A membrane protein is a protein molecule that is attached to, or associated with the membrane of a cell or an organelle. 
20–30% of all genes in genomes code for membrane proteins. They are targets of over 50% of all modern medicinal drugs. 
Membrane proteins perform a variety of functions vital to the survival of organisms:

</doc>
<doc id="56549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56549" title="Tampa Bay Buccaneers">
Tampa Bay Buccaneers

The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are an American Football team in the National Football League (NFL). They are a part of the Southern Division of the National Football Conference. The Buccaneers are from Tampa, Florida. The team was founded in 1976, and are the champions from Super Bowl XXXVII. The current head coach is Lovie Smith.

</doc>
<doc id="56551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56551" title="Obelus">
Obelus

An obelus (plural, obeli) is a symbol consisting of a line with dots above and below, formula_1, used to represent the mathematical division operation. This symbol is also known as a division sign. 
The word "obelus" comes from the Greek word for a sharpened stick, spit, or pointed pillar. This is the same root as that of the word "obelisk".
The obelus was first used as a symbol for division in 1659 in the algebra book "Teutsche Algebra" by Johann Rahn. 
Today the obelus remains in occasional use, primarily as a standalone symbol for the division operation itself (as on a calculator), or as an operator in elementary arithmetic. In most contexts division is now signified in other ways, often by a forward slash (/). 

</doc>
<doc id="56553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56553" title="Vinculum (symbol)">
Vinculum (symbol)

A vinculum is a horizontal line put over a mathematical expression. It shows that it belongs together as a group. ("Vinculum" is Latin for "chain".)
Examples are:
1. groups of digits repeating forever, for example,
2. fractions
3. radicals (in the following example the quantity formula_3 is the radicand, and thus has a vinculum over it):

</doc>
<doc id="56555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56555" title="Colon (punctuation)">
Colon (punctuation)

The colon (":") is a punctuation mark, visually consisting of two equally sized dots centered on the same vertical (up/down) line. 
A colon is a more significant pause than a semi-colon. It is often used to contrast two parts of a sentence:
These two examples were lists within a sentence. 
A colon may also be used for the following:
The colon's first appearance in English text is marked by the "Shorter Oxford English Dictionary" as 1589.
A special double-triangle colon symbol is used in IPA to indicate that the preceding sound is long. Its form is that of two triangles, each a bit larger than a point of a standard colon, pointing toward each other. It is available in Unicode as modifier letter triangular colon, Unicode U+02D0 (). A regular colon is often used as a fallback when this character is not available, or in the practical orthography of some languages (particularly in Mexico) which have a phonemic long/short distinction in vowels.
The colon is also used in mathematics, cartography, model building and other fields to denote a ratio or a scale, as in 3:1 (pronounced "three to one").
Unicode provides a distinct ratio character, Unicode U+2236 () for mathematical usage.
In many non-Anglophone countries, the colon is used as a division sign: ""a divided by b"" is written as a : b.
The combination with an equal sign, formula_1, is used for definitions.
In computing, the colon character is represented by ASCII code 58, and is located at Unicode code-point U+003A. The full-width (double-byte) equivalent, ：, is located at Unicode code point U+FF1A.
The colon is quite often used as a special control character in many operating systems commands, URLs, computer programming languages, and in the path representation of several file systems. It is often used as a single post-fix delimiter, signifying a token keyword had immediately preceded it or the transition from one mode of character string interpretation to another related mode. Some applications, such as the widely used MediaWiki, utilize the colon as both a pre-fix and post-fix delimiter.
For a double-colon, "::" the meaning has included the use of ellipsis, as spanning over omitted text; however, there have been other meanings as well.
On the Internet (online chats, email, message boards, etc.) a colon, or multiple colons, is sometimes used to denote an action or emote. In this use, it has the inverse function of quotation marks; denoting actions where unmarked text is assumed to be dialog. For example:
Colons may also be used for sounds (as with ":Click:"). Compare to the use of outer asterisks (*word*).
It also has the widespread usage of representing two vertically aligned eyes in a emoticon, such as :-), :( :P, :D, :3, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="56556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56556" title="Colon (disambiguation)">
Colon (disambiguation)

Colon could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="56559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56559" title="Tomorrow Never Knows">
Tomorrow Never Knows

Tomorrow Never Knows is a song from The Beatles's "Revolver" album, from 1966.
John Lennon wrote the song based on his readings of "The Psychedelic Experience", which adapted the "Tibetan Book of the Dead" for use as an LSD "user's manual", intending to give users a kind of religious experience. The song's title came from his bandmate Ringo Starr, who was known for his but insightful comments about life.
Lennon wanted the sound of monks , to complement the Beatles' recording of the song. It was not possible to do this, but Lennon's voice was played through a special speaker (called a Leslie speaker), to give it a sound, like a voice calling from a hilltop. Other sounds on the record came from tape loops, playing over and over, and from a sitar.
The song has also been recorded by other artists. A dance cover version appeared in the 1990s.

</doc>
<doc id="56560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56560" title="Gone with the Wind (movie)">
Gone with the Wind (movie)

Gone with the Wind is the 1939 American movie based on Margaret Mitchell's book with the same name. The movie premiered in Atlanta, Georgia. It stars Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, Leslie Howard, and Olivia de Havilland. "Gone with the Wind" told the story of the American Civil War from the perspective (view point) of a young southern woman named Scarlett O'Hara (Vivien Leigh).
Scarlett O'Hara (played by Vivien Leigh) is a spoiled, beautiful, histrionic young Southern woman living in Georgia in the year 1861. In this time, who a woman marries is very important to the rest of her life, and Scarlett loves only one man. His name is Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard). Unfortunately, Scarlett finds out that Ashley is going to marry a woman named Melanie Hamilton (Olivia de Havilland), his own cousin. During a barbecue at Ashley's plantation named Twelve Oaks, with all the families in the area, news arrives that a war between the Northern and Southern parts of the United States has begun. Before Scarlett lets Ashley marry Melanie, she decides to tell him how she really feels. While the women nap to before the upcoming party that evening, Scarlett slips down and waits for Ashley to come out of the "meeting" the men are having about the war. 
During the meeting, Rhett Butler, a rich, clever, Charleston, South Carolina "gentleman", stands up to warn the men about being too sure of their victory in the war, explaining that the north has the technology, the rail lines, the immigrants they don't have. The men take insult, and Rhett leaves to let the men cool down. He decides to show himself around the house. 
Ashley leaves the room as well, to be a good host. But, before he can catch up with him, Scarlett peeps out from her hiding place and waves Ashley over. He follows her into a room where they can be alone. Scarlett tells Ashley how much she loves him, but Ashley has already made up his mind to marry Melanie. The wealthy and spoiled Scarlett throws a fit, and because of that Ashley leaves the room. Scarlett in a frenzy picks up a vase and heaves it across the room over a couch and into the wall. The charming Rhett Butler rises from the couch, startling and embarrassing Scarlett. He agrees not to tell anyone about the conversation, although humorously mocking her about it all. Before the men leave, whooping at the excitement of war and declaring how they'll "whip those Yankees" and be back in a month, Scarlett agrees to marry Charles Hamilton (Melanie's younger brother). She barely looks at him, accepting his proposal only because she wants to get revenge on Ashley for marrying Melanie. Unfortunately, Charles gets sick and dies in the war, and Scarlett is left home bored with the traditions of mourning a man she didn't love. 
Seeing how miserable her eldest daughter is, her mother allows Scarlett goes to Atlanta, Georgia to stay with Melanie, although Scarlett really has Ashley in mind. While there, she sees Rhett Butler (Clark Gable), with whom she had the brief encounter with at the party. Rhett has become a privateer, smuggling goods to the south past the northern naval blockade. He makes Scarlett very uncomfortable, especially after Mealanie offers her wedding ring to raise money for the army and Scarlett gives hers as well. Rhett respects Melanie deeply, but knows that Scarlett's offer of her wedding ring means nothing at all to her. But bored at wearing interminable black mourning clothes and being prevented from dancing, which she loves, she agrees to dance with him when he offers a large donation for "The Cause" for a dance with her, something which her elders think she should not do since her husband had just died and she is in mourning. But when Melanie thinks it would be all right because she would only be doing this for the donation, Scarlett dances with Rhett to the Virginia Reel. 
A few months later, the battle gets close to Atlanta, and as rumors of the Union Army invading Atlanta increase, Melanie's Aunt Pittypat, a neurotic hysteric, leaves the two young women alone. Scarlett goes to Melanie to tell her they ought to get out of the city as well, only to find her sister-in-law in labor with Ashley's baby, conceived on his last, brief leave. The doctor is too busy trying to care for the thousands of wounded Confederate soldiers, so with only Scarlett's inexpert help, Melanie gives birth to a boy. Thinking she may die, Melanie asks Scarlett if she would take care of her son. Scarlett, already terrified but not wanting Melanie to see, tells her not to be such a silly goose and sends her maid Prissy to find Rhett. He's playing cards in a brothel, and Prissy stands outside, calling his name, afraid to enter. When he finally comes to the window, she tells him that Miss Melly had her baby (although she takes the credit for most of it, saying Miss Scarlett "helped a little") and Miss Scarlett wants Rhett to come because the Yankees are coming. After a loud explosion sends Prissy into hysterics, Rhett finds one of the last remaining horses in Atlanta, and a wagon for it to pull. Scarlett begs Rhett to take them home to Tara, finally sobbing that she wants her mother. That softens Rhett's heart, as does the sight of Melanie, who can barely hold onto him as he lifts her from her bed, and at her nearly inaudible request, translated by Scarlett, takes along her most prized possessions: one possession each of her husband's and brother's. After loading the wagon, placing Melanie, in great pain from the difficult birth, with her baby in the wagon bed, he manages to laugh at Scarlett because she's concerned that she forgot to lock the front door. 
Rhett tries to outrun both the retreating Confederate Army, who want the horse, and the approaching Union Army. They race against the background of the great fire caused by the Confederate Army destroying the fuel depot to prevent it from falling into the enemy's hands. However, after escaping Atlanta, Rhett stops the wagon under a bridge over which the Confederate soldiers are marching. It is pouring rain, and the very weak and ill Melanie tries to protect her infant from the weather. Rhett informs Scarlett that he is leaving to join the army. She argues with him, but he won't be swayed, and when he asks for a kiss for a departing soldier (meaning himself), Scarlett slaps him instead, declaring her eternal hatred for him. The three women finally reach Twelve Oaks, the Wilkes' family home, burned to the ground. This sight makes Scarlett even more determined to get to Tara and her mother, and she whips the poor tired horse in a frenzy. The horse collapses and dies. They find Tara in very bad shape; her mother has died and her father's mental state seems unstable. Scarlett famously vows to always take care of herself and her family, no matter what it takes, because she nor her own will ever be hungry again.
After an intermission (a short break used in very long movies), the movie returns to Tara, where Scarlett and her family are working very hard to survive. The far-away war is over now, and despite Scarlett's protests, they share their food with returning Confederate soldiers passing through. Ashley Wilkes returns, recognized from far away by Melanie, who runs to greet her husband. When Scarlett realizes who it is, she too starts to move towards him, held back by Mammy's reminder that he's Melanie's husband. They continue to work the land themselves, without the assistance of the slaves such a plantation required. Tara's previous overseer, fired by Scarlett's mother for what she considered his unacceptable behavior with the local trollop, has become a powerful man in the county, and out of revenge, raises their taxes beyond what they can afford to pay. Scarlett finds out that Rhett Butler is in jail and she plans to trick him into giving her some money to help her family. However, the scheme does not go according to Scarlett's plan, and after leaving Rhett's jail, Scarlett meets Frank Kennedy, her sister Suellen's intended husband. Realizing that he has a good business, which she intends to improve and save Tara, Scarlett decides to marry him, despite the fact that he was going to marry her own sister.
Scarlett is assaulted in her carriage while driving along the road. She is not harmed, because one of the former field slaves from Tara is living in a shantytown and rescues her, after which she tells him to go home to Tara. But Frank and the other men decide to go clear out the shantytown, where former slaves and criminals lived after the war because they had no homes to return to and no way to feed themselves. During this act, illegal under the laws imposed by the occupying Union Army, Frank, is killed and Ashley wounded. Rhett, known to be friends with many of the Northern soldiers, uses his quick wits and concocts a plan with Melanie, who trusts him, and the other women, who trust Melanie's judgment. Soon after, Scarlett again shocks the "Old Guard", i.e. the remaining southern Atlanta families of her class, by accepting Rhett Butler's proposal. They enjoy their honeymoon in New Orleans, including Scarlett's obvious enjoyment of the vast amounts of delicious foods and the closeness between them at night when he soothes her as she is awakened by a repeated nightmare. Rhett promises to help rebuild Tara and they build another mansion in Atlanta. Enjoying her riches as security for the first time since the war, Scarlett's becomes increasingly greedy, furnishing her new mansion opulently and in Rhett's opinion tastelessly. She holds parties inviting northern carpetbaggers, while the southerners of her acquaintance remain poor and dress in rags. But Melanie, one of the most respected of all the women of Atlanta, makes it clear that Scarlett and Rhett are still to be accepted in her world. 
When Scarlett has a baby that Rhett names Bonnie, Rhett begins to see that if Bonnie is to be accepted into their own world, he must change his reputation. Melanie helps by making it known that Rhett fought in the Confederate Army. After Bonnie is born, Scarlett says she will have no more children, and Rhett takes the news badly, since in that time, the only way to ensure no more pregnancies was total abstinence from sex. Scarlett still wishes she could marry Ashley Wilkes, and she sees him one day and is caught hugging him. At a party that night, Rhett refuses to accompany her, but forces her to go, first choosing a bright red dress for her to wear. Scarlett is apprehensive, but as always sails in, holding her head high. But there's no need for her to worry, because Melanie is as always totally aloving and accepting of "our dear Scarlett", walking her to every guest one by one, forcing them to greet her. She even orders Ashley's sister India to leave her house when India insult Scarlet's reputation. Rhett, however, is very angry and hurt, and late that night, when she sneaks downstairs to drink a glass of port before bed, he violently grabs her and carries her upstairs to her bedroom. The next morning she awakes happy, but her mood only lasts he tells her he's going away and taking Bonnie with him. In London, he fires the Nanny he'd hired to care for Bonnie when she neglects to leave a nightlight on because of Bonnie's fear of the dark, and is enraged by the woman's insistence that giving in to the child will make her weak, telling her Bonnie hasn't a weak bone in her body. Bonnie, looking like a miniature Scarlett wants to go home, and her father promises they will go right away. Very possibly his daughter's nightmares remind him of her mother's on their honeymoon. But when he greets Scarlett on the enormous staircase he carried her up the last night he was there, she tells him coldly that she is pregnant with another baby. He grabs her arm and asks if it's his or Ashley's. Angry, Scarlett jerks her arm away violently and she falls down the stairs, killing their unborn child.
Scarlett and Rhett are further devastated (very upset) when Bonnie, now their only child, insists on jumping her horse. Scarlett has a flashback to her father's fatal accident while jumping his horse, and jumps up, begging Rhett to stop her. But with no time to do so, Bonnie falls and dies. Melanie, who is summoned by Mammy to help Rhett, who has locked himself in a room with Bonnie's body, is also very sick, pregnant with another baby, despite being told she would never survive another birth. She collapses outside Rhett's door and is carried home. News reaches Scarlett and Rhett that Melanie will probably die, and they hurry to see her. While Melanie and Scarlett are alone, Melanie asks Scarlett to look after her husband, Ashley, and to never stop loving Rhett, who loves Scarlett very much. She dies just after, and Ashley is extremely upset. Scarlett finally realizes how much Melanie meant to Ashley, and that Scarlett could never have meant so much to him, and also finally realizes that despite her jealousy and negative thoughts over the years about Melanie, she was truly her best and most beloved friend. And as she finally has these revelations, she also finally comes to the realization by running through the fog home to her husband that this is her nightmare, and the meaning of it is that Rhett truly is the man she loves and wants to be with.
Scarlett hurries home to find Rhett and tell him how much she loves him, but he tells her he wants a divorce because he feels like she never loved him. He is still very hurt by losing Bonnie, his daughter, and he leaves Scarlett sitting alone on the stairs, alone and unwanted for the first time in her life. Then, she realizes she always has Tara. So she decides not to think about Rhett and Melanie and Ashley now. Instead, she'll go home to Tara and think about it tomorrow.
There are many famous lines from this movie. People remember these lines and think they are important to the movie.
Although "Gone with the Wind" premiered in 1939, it is still remembered today as one of the greatest American movies of all time. When it was released in Atlanta, a parade came before it, plus three days of parties in which the stars of the movie wore costumes and many stores in the city redecorated to look like they would have in the Civil War.
"Gone with the Wind" received 10 Academy Awards in 1940.
It was nominated for five more.
"Gone with the Wind" was named the #4 best movie of all time by the American movie Institute. The quote "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn," said by Rhett Butler at the end of the movie, was voted the #1 greatest movie quote of all time.
"Gone with the Wind" has become the movie that made the most money of all time, after taking inflation into account.

</doc>
<doc id="56561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56561" title="Titanic">
Titanic

Titanic can refer to

</doc>
<doc id="56576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56576" title="Santino Marella">
Santino Marella

Anthony Carelli (born March 14, 1974) is a Canadian retired professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE. He appears under the ring name Santino Marella. During his wrestling career, he was a two-time WWE Intercontinental Champion, one-time WWE United States Champion, and one-time WWE Tag Team Champion with Vladimir Kozlov.
Carrelli made his WWE debut on the April 16 edition of WWE Raw under the name of Santino Marella. He won the WWE Intercontinental Championship after Umaga was attacked by Bobby Lashley. With this, he became one of a few superstars to win a title in their first match.
On July 6, 2014, at a live event in Toronto, Ontario, Marella announced his retirement due to a third major injury to his neck.

</doc>
<doc id="56579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56579" title="Fresco">
Fresco

Fresco is a way of painting pictures. A "fresco" is a painting that is done on a wall. A wall painting is sometimes called a"fresco" by mistake. A true "fresco" is painted onto plaster that is fresh. The plaster has been laid on the wall that day and is still damp. The word "fresco" comes from the Italian for "fresh". 
"Fresco" is a very good way of painting pictures on walls. It is much easier than painting on dry plaster because when paint is put onto dry plaster, it sinks straight in. Painting on fresh plaster means that the artist can spread the paint much easier. 
Another reason why it is a good way to paint pictures on plastered walls is that the paint joins with the plaster so that the colours will not rub off. Frescoes last for hundreds of years. If they are kept clean and dry, the colours will stay bright for a very long time. 
Fresco is the "green" method of painting because it does not use dangerous chemicals. The water, the calcite and the colours do not cause pollution.
The problems with painting "frescos" come from the plaster. It must be mixed up and put on the wall freshly every day and left to partly dry before it can be used. As the plaster begins to dry or "set", the artist can start the picture. 
The artist must work very quickly and carefully. If he/she makes a mistake, the plaster must be scraped off. 
While the plaster is setting, it becomes very hot and gives off gases. This makes working on a fresco unpleasant. 
Because frescos are on walls, or ceilings, they can not be moved from place to place, or rearranged, like other paintings.
The artist must plan the work carefully. It starts with a small drawing of the picture, The artists then makes a large drawing, called a "cartoon", and works out the right order to paint the picture, because a big picture might take more than a week to paint. Each day's work is called by the Italian name "giornata". "Giorno" means "day". 
When the day's work starts, the artist needs to work fast so there is usually another worker or "assistant" who mixes the plaster and helps the artist. 
The artists pins up a drawing and uses a sharp point to mark the lines of the drawing onto the plaster. He/she then paints the outlines of the picture onto the plaster. "Accuracy" is very important; the artist must get it right in one go. 
As the painting dries, the artist works over the whole "giornata" again, putting in details of the faces and the clothing, and painting shadows. 
At the beginning of the next day's work, the plaster edge of the last "giornata" is scraped so that the new plaster joins well. Often it is possible to see the joins and work out how many "giornata" it took to do a single painting.
Not all wall paintings are frescoes. In Ancient Egypt, for example, many of the wall paintings were done on dry plaster and are not true frescoes. 
The Royal Palace at Knossos in Crete, c. 1500 BC, had many frescoes. The scene of athletes dancing with a bull is the most famous. 
Many Ancient Roman wall paintings can be seen at Pompeii from the 1st century AD, but these are not true frescoes. 
The Sigiriya Frescoes painted in Sigiriya in Sri Lanka around 485 AD use the "fresco lustro" technique which varies slightly from the pure fresco technique in that it also contains a mild binding agent. This gives the frescoes added durability as they have survived exposed for nearly 1500 years. 
There are many frescoes dating from the late Middle Ages, about 1000-1400 AD when, it was the fashion to paint the inside of churches with people and stories from the Bible. The order of the pictures was carefully planned by the artists and priests. Above the altar is usually seen a picture of Jesus Christ. On the west wall is often a frightening picture of The Last Judgement to remind people to turn to Jesus. Many frescoes like this can be seen in Greece, Spain, Portugal, Serbia, Armenia, Romania and Russia. There are a few in Germany, France and Italy.
In Italy, around 1300 AD, the artist Giotto painted frescoes that were so full of life that people were amazed. Each picture was like looking onto a stage where real people told the story. This was the beginning of the period of art history called the Renaissance. Giotto's frescoes became so famous that he had many pupils and followers. Giotto's most famous frescoes are in the Arena Chapel in Padua. He also painted in the Church of St. Francis at Assisi and at Santa Croce (Church of the Holy Cross) in Florence.
A hundred years later, about 1400 AD, two artists called Masolino and Masaccio worked in the city of Florence, painting a chapel. Their names translate as "Little Tom" and "Fat Tom". Masaccio's way of painting was the biggest change since Giotto, in particular the two weeping naked figures of Adam and Eve. Everyone thought that Masaccio was one of the greatest painters alive. But he died at only 27 years old. These frescoes are in the Church of the Carmine, in Florence.
In the 1400s many other artists in Italy were given the job of painting churches or chapels. They were paid by "patrons", rich people who could afford an artist. The most important patron was the Pope. Pope Sixtus IV had built a new chapel in the Vatican in Rome. In 1481, he got some of the best artists in Italy to decorate the walls for him. See Sistine Chapel. 
In 1508 the work continued in the Sistine Chapel when Pope Julius II made the great artist Michelangelo go to Rome to paint the ceiling. It took him four years, and he became sick from the strain and the smell. But when he had finished, he had painted one of the greatest artworks in the world. Then, 1537-1541, he painted the west wall of the same chapel with The Last Judgement
For the next 200 years, painted ceilings were in fashion. But artists soon discovered that it was easier to paint in oil on canvas and put it up on the ceiling than to paint on the ceiling in fresco. The fashion for fresco painting began to fade.

</doc>
<doc id="56580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56580" title="The Count of Monte Cristo">
The Count of Monte Cristo

The Count of Monte Cristo is a novel by Alexandre Dumas, père. The story is about revenge and forgiveness. The main character of the book, Edmond Dantès, is wrongly sent to prison. There, he meets an old priest named Faria, who tells Dantès of a treasure. He escapes and finds the large treasure. He uses it to carry out a plan of revenge on the three people who sent him to prison. The novel was well received by critics and readers. It has been adapted to many stage plays and movies.
The novel was first published in the "Journal des Débats" in 18 parts from August 28, 1844 to January 15, 1846. It was first published in Paris by Pétion in 18 volumes (1844-5). It was published in English in 1846 by Chapman and Hall. It has been translated many times since 1846, and into many languages. Dumas wrote a set of three plays that told the story of "The Count of Monte Cristo": "Monte Cristo" (1848), "Le Comte de Morcerf" (1851), and "Villefort" (1851). The book inspired the plot for other novels, including Lew Wallace's "" (1880).

</doc>
<doc id="56581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56581" title="Hallandale Beach, Florida">
Hallandale Beach, Florida

Hallandale Beach is a city in Broward County, Florida, United States. The city is named after Luther Halland, a worker for Henry Flagler's Florida East Coast Railroad. The population was 37,282 at the 2000 census. Sometimes the city is called the "southernmost Canadian city". This is because Hallandale Beach has been a popular vacation spot for years, and most of the tourists come from Quebec and the northeast United States. Throughout the years, a large number of these tourists eventually move to the area to live there.

</doc>
<doc id="56587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56587" title="Nazi Party">
Nazi Party

The National Socialist German Workers' Party ("Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei", abbreviated NSDAP), also known as the Nazi Party, was a German political party. It was started in 1920 from the "Deutsche Arbeiterpartei" (German Workers' party) (DAP), which would later be renamed the NSDAP. On the day it was created, the party published its 25-point manifesto (book of ideas). The items in this list of ideas included getting rid of the Treaty of Versailles; gaining more land for the German people; taking away any income people had not earned by working; taking away Jewish people's citizenship; changing the education system; and setting up a strong central government. 
Until 1923, the NSDAP was most popular in Bavaria.
In 1919, Adolf Hitler joined the Nazi Party. He took control of the party in 1921. 
In 1923, the Nazi Party tried to start a coup d'état in Munich to take over Germany, but failed. This battle was called the Beer Hall Putsch. Hitler was sentenced to five years in prison for treason. However, he was let out of prison after nine months. Other people who participated in the Beer Hall Putsch were given the death penalty. The government also made the NSDAP illegal in Germany.
While he was in prison, Adolf Hitler wrote most of "Mein Kampf" ("My "). In this book, he wrote down his political ideas and his future plans for Germany.
In 1924, Hitler was let out of prison early. He restarted the NSDAP. He wanted to gain power legally, through elections. At this time, the NSDAP was only one of a few extreme right-wing, nationalist political parties in Germany. There were many other parties with similar ideas then. Important people like Fritz Thyssen and Emil Kirdorf, both leaders of big industries, supported the Nazi Party.
The next elections to the Reichstag were held in 1928. In these elections, the Nazi Party won 2.6% of the vote. The party decided to decrease its anti-Semitic slogans in order to do better in the next election. Instead, the NSDAP focused more on foreign policy and on terrorising the German people. In local elections in 1929 and 1930, the NSDAP won about 10% of the vote.
In 1930, President Paul von Hindenburg dissolved the Reichstag. The Nazi Party saw this as an opportunity. In the elections on 14 September, 1930, the NSDAP won 18.3% of the vote, and had become the second biggest party in Germany. 
At this time, most German people wanted to get rid of the Weimar Republic (the "Weimarer Republik"). Weimar was the German city where the German constitution was written after the First World War. People also wanted a stronger Germany, with more soldiers. The Treaty of Versailles had made it illegal for Germany to have some types of weapons and ships.
On January 30, 1933, Franz von Papen offered to make Adolf Hitler the Chancellor of Germany in a nationalist cabinet. He did this in secret. This was a "Machtübergabe", or "transfer of power." However, later on, the NSDAP started to call it the "Machtergreifung" ("seizing power"). It was better for Nazi propaganda to say that they took power from the Weimar Republic, instead of being made the Republic's legal government.
The last "free" election in Weimar Germany was in March 1933. The Nazi Party won 44% of the vote. This was not the majority. Nevertheless, they managed to get the two-thirds majority they needed to pass the "Ermächtigungsgesetz" (Enabling Act). Based on this new law, they dissolved parliament; gave Hitler the power to do anything he wanted; and made all political parties (except the NSDAP) illegal.
After this, the NSDAP became very important. People had to be party members to get some jobs, or to get promoted. The NSDAP was busy until Germany surrendered to the Allies on 8 May 1945.
The NSDAP dissolved itself on 8 May 1945. After that, the NSDAP no longer existed.
They made some reforms which still exist today. For example:
But the Nazis did so many bad things that in Germany, it is illegal to display the swastika symbol (shown on the flag above) or use slogans such as "Sieg Heil." In November 2010, a British member of the European Parliament, Godfrey Bloom, was forced to leave Parliament. This happened after he shouted the Nazi slogan ""Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer"" at a German member of Parliament.

</doc>
<doc id="56589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56589" title="Carl Nielsen">
Carl Nielsen

Carl Nielsen (born Sortelung, near Nørre Lyndelse on Funen, June 9, 1865; died Copenhagen, October 3, 1931) was a Danish composer. He is the most famous composer from Denmark and one of the most important composers of symphonies from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Carl Nielsen was the 7th in a family of 12 children. His father’s name was Niels Jørgensen. It was Danish tradition for a child to get his father’s first name as his surname, so Carl became Carl Nielsen (“son of Niels”).
The family was very poor and Carl had to help in the home. During the school holidays he looked after the geese. His father, who was a simple painter, played the violin and cornet in the village band. Carl soon learned to play the violin and joined in with his father’s band. He listened to music by Haydn and Mozart and became very interested in general knowledge. All his life he tried to learn new languages and was interested in literature, art and philosophy. He loved animals and the nature around him.
When he was 14, he had a job in the military orchestra in the nearby town of Odense. He played the horn and trombone. In 1884 some rich people in Odense paid for him to go to the Conservatory in Copenhagen. He studied music there and did quite well, but there was nothing yet to show that he would be a brilliant composer. He got a job as violinist in the Royal Chapel, a good orchestra which was conducted by Johan Svendsen. He got to know the music of Wagner, and he went to Germany to study it. Later he was not so keen on Wagner’s music, and he was not much influenced by it.
In 1891, he married Anne Marie Brodersen who was a sculptress. They travelled together to Italy where they saw lots of great art. When they returned to Denmark Nielsen started composing some of the music that was to make him famous. In 1901 the Danish government paid him money every year so that he did not have to teach and could spend his time composing. He also conducted the Royal Theatre when Svendsen retired. He often travelled to other countries and, later, did some teaching and examining at the Copenhagen Conservatoire. He was made director of the conservatoire in 1931, shortly before he died.
Nielsen suffered for several years from heart trouble. He died from this disease on October 3, 1931.
Carl Nielsen wrote nearly every kind of music: opera, chamber music, symphony, concerto, songs. His music was different from the Romantic music that other composers were writing at that time. Nielsen liked the music of the Classical period, especially Haydn and Mozart. He learned from them, but also used a lot of chromaticism and interesting orchestral sounds which made his music much more modern.
He wrote a serious opera called "Saul og David" and a comic opera "Maskarade". He wrote a lot of Danish songs which are very popular in Denmark.
By far the most important of his works internationally are his six symphonies and three concertos. The Fourth and Fifth Symphonies, especially, are performed very often by orchestras all over the world.
He wrote a very large work for organ called "Commotio".
Nielsen always said how important his simple village background was for his music. This can be heard clearly in his popular cantata "Fynsk Foraar" ("Springtime in Funen") which shows his love of the countryside where he grew up.

</doc>
<doc id="56612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56612" title="Madonna and Child">
Madonna and Child

The Madonna and Child or The Virgin and Child is often the name of a work of art which shows the Virgin Mary and the Child Jesus. The word "Madonna" means "My Lady" in Italian. Artworks of the Christ Child and his mother Mary are part of the Roman Catholic tradition in many parts of the world including Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, South America and the Philippines. Paintings known as icons are also an important tradition of the Orthodox Church and often show the Mary and the Christ Child. They are found particularly in Eastern Europe, Russia, Egypt, the Middle East and India. 
Works of art which show the "Madonna and Child" can be paintings or sculptures. Some paintings are very large and show the Madonna on a throne, with saints standing around it. These paintings are altarpieces; they are designed to go above the altar in a church. 
In some churches, particularly in Italy and in Eastern Orthodox Churches, there are many wall paintings and mosaics of the "Madonna and Child".
Most "Madonna and Child" paintings are small. They have been painted for private owners and would usually have been kept in houses. They might be hung on the wall above a table where flowers and candles could be placed to honour the Virgin Mary. Most of the famous ones are now in art galleries. 
Many Catholic churches have statues of the Virgin Mary with the Christ Child, These are sometimes life-sized and are painted, with real hair and glass eyes so that they look lifelike. 
Other statues of the "Madonna and Child" are very small. In the Middle Ages small statues were carved from ivory. These precious statues are often very beautifully and delicately made. They can often be seen in museums. 
In Florence in the early 1400s, an artist called Luca della Robbia began making "terracotta" statues and sculptured altarpieces from clay, which were fired and "glazed" with colours, most often blue and white, but also purple, green and yellow. This family business lasted for 120 years.
Many statues of the "Madonna and Child" may be factory-made and sold as souvenirs. This tradition of small statues has been around for hundreds of years. Many of them were made in artist's workshops in the Early Renaissance 
In the Orthodox Church, there is also a long tradition of painting images of the Virgin Mary with the Christ Child. These pictures, which are often quite small and are painted on wooden panels, are often very careful copies of particular famous icons. This tradition continues to the present day.
These three famous paintings are all together in one room of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. Two of these paintings are from the Middle Ages, but Giotto's painting is an Early Renaissance painting, as can be seen in the natural, solid look of the figures which seem to be "three dimensional". 
Many churches contain famous statues of the "Madonna and Child", particularly old churches. 

</doc>
<doc id="56614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56614" title="Göppingen">
Göppingen

Göppingen is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. In 2005 there were 57,771 people living in Göppingen. It is at the bottom of the high "Kaiserberg", or "Emperors' Mountain".
The first settlement at Göppingen was in the Hallstatt period, 800-480 BC. A Roman settlement from about 250 BC was found near the present day Oberhofen Church. An Alemannic prince by the name of "Geppo", is believed to have started the town after the sometime in the 3rd or 4th century. The town is named after him.
A fire on August 25 1782 destroyed most of the town, but it was immediately rebuilt. During the 1800's, many factories were built in the area. Companies such as Märklin and Schuler are still based in the town.
In 1930, an air field was built north of Göppingen. This was taken over by the Luftwaffe in 1935 and was called the Fliegerhorst Kaserne (barracks). From 1945 to 1949, displaced persons and refugees were housed in the buildings. In 1949, it was renamed Cooke Barracks, after Charles H. Cooke, Jr., who been killed in action and given the Silver Star and Soldier's Medal for bravery.
In late 1950, the 7th Army had been reformed in Stuttgart and U.S. Army units began to be stationed at Cooke Barracks. The barracks were made bigger for the 28th Infantry Division headquarters. The 28th Infantry was renamed as the 9th Infantry Division (United States) in 1954 and was replaced by the 8th Infantry Division in 1956. They were then replaced by the 4th Armored Division in 1957, which was renamed as the 1st Armored Division in 1971 and moved to Hindenburg Kaserne in Ansbach in 1972. The 1st Infantry Division moved from Augsburg in 1972 until 1991. 
Cooke Barracks were given back to the German government in 1992. The barracks were again used to house refugees for some time, then returned to civilian use. 
Frisch Auf! Göppingen currently plays in the German first handball-division (Handball-Bundesliga).

</doc>
<doc id="56616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56616" title="National Gallery, London">
National Gallery, London

The National Gallery, London is an art gallery in London, England, which has one of the finest collections of European paintings in the world. 
What makes this gallery so important is that, although there are bigger galleries, "The National Gallery" has many paintings of very high quality and also because it has paintings by famous artists whose works are very rare. These rare paintings include works by Duccio, Masaccio, Uccello, Piero della Francesca, Leonardo, Giorgione, Michelangelo, Caravaggio, Vermeer, Chardin, Klimt, Rousseau and Redon.
"The National Gallery" is on Trafalgar Square, which is one of the busiest tourist places in London. It is a grand building of pale grey limestone, with a central dome and a large Classical style porch ("portico") like an Ancient Greek temple. To the left side, the gallery has a large new building called "The Sainsbury Wing". 
In 1823 a collector called Sir George Beaumont offered to give his famous collection of paintings to the British Government to start a public art gallery. In 1824 another famous collection of paintings was on sale. The owner, John Julius Angerstein, had died. It looked as if his paintings would be sold outside England. Then there was another offer of paintings from a third collector, The Reverend Holwell Carr. The Parliament had to make a quick decision.
The Parliament voted that a national collection should be started and a gallery should be built. They gave 60,000 Pounds Sterling to buy the Angerstein paintings. They got 38 pictures and were able to display them publicly in the Angerstein House. 
The collection grew quickly with the Beaumont and Holwell Carr paintings, and others, being bought or given. A new gallery was needed. In 1831 the plans of the architect William Wilkins were accepted. The site which looks over Trafalgar Square was chosen, old buildings were demolished and the magnificent new gallery was opened on April 9, 1838.
When "the National Gallery" opened, there was a strong opinion that paintings of the High Renaissance period of the late 1400s to Baroque paintings of the 1600s were the finest type of art. The word "primitive" was used to describe Italian paintings from the 1300s and early 1400s. Luckily, the director of the Gallery, Sir Charles Eastlake, thought it was important to collect some of these "primitive" paintings, as well as the more popular High Renaissance paintings. That is how the "National Gallery" came to own so many very rare works from the Late Middle Ages and Early Renaissance periods.
In the 1870s the Gallery was lucky to get two collections of paintings by famous Dutch artists. The building had to be made larger to house them. The Gallery was also given paintings by famous British artists; soon there were so many that most of them were moved out to a new gallery called the Tate.
By the 20th century, it was getting more difficult to buy very important paintings; there were other galleries in the United States and Germany who were trying to buy the same paintings. So the "National Gallery" began to buy works by more modern painters and soon had a collection of 19th and early 20th century paintings. This is not a large part of the "National Gallery's" collection, but it does show small works by many very important artists, particularly the Impressionists.

</doc>
<doc id="56617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56617" title="Unperson">
Unperson

In the George Orwell book Nineteen Eighty-Four, an Unperson is someone who has been vaporized. Vaporization is when a person is secretly murdered and from society, the present, the universe, and existence. Such a person would be taken out of books, photographs, and articles so that no trace of them is found in the present anywhere – no record of them would be found.This was so that a person who defied the Party would be gone from all citizens' memories, even friends and family. There is no Newspeak word for what happened to unpeople, therefore it is thoughtcrime to say an unperson's name or think of unpeople. This is like the Stalinist Soviet Party erasing people from photographs after death; this is an example of "real" unpeople.
A similar punishment, damnatio memoriae, was used in the Roman Empire. The Stalin-era Soviet Union also provided real-world examples of unpersons in its treatment of Leon Trotsky and other members of the Communist party who became politically inconvenient. In his 1960 magazine article "Pravda means 'Truth'", reprinted in Expanded Universe, Robert A. Heinlein argued that John Paul Jones and a mysterious May 15, 1960 cosmonaut had also received this treatment.

</doc>
<doc id="56624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56624" title="Düren">
Düren

Düren is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany between Cologne and Aachen. About 90,000 people live there. Düren is at the river Rur.

</doc>
<doc id="56626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56626" title="Gütersloh">
Gütersloh

Gütersloh is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 96,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="56628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56628" title="Iserlohn">
Iserlohn

Iserlohn is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 93,000 people live there; it is one of the largest cities in that region.

</doc>
<doc id="56629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56629" title="Velbert">
Velbert

Velbert is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 87,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="56631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56631" title="Lünen">
Lünen

Lünen is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. 88,000 people live there. Lünen has got two important football clubs: Lüner SV and BV Brambauer. Lüner SV is playing in the "Bezirksliga (8. league), but in 1963 the club achieved his greatest aim. They got Champion of Westphalia.

</doc>
<doc id="56632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56632" title="Marl">
Marl

Marl is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 91,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="56636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56636" title="Bocholt">
Bocholt

Bocholt is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 73,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="56638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56638" title="Roman Abramovich">
Roman Abramovich

Roman Abramovich (born October 24, 1966 in Saratov, Russia) is a Russian-British businessman. He is one of the richest men in the world. According to 2006 Forbes Magazine, he has a net worth of $18.2 billion. He owns Chelsea F.C., an English Premiership football club. He has given Chelsea a lot money to pay their players, and buy new ones. He is a former governor of a region of Russia called Chukotka.

</doc>
<doc id="56652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56652" title="Morena Baccarin">
Morena Baccarin

Morena Baccarin (born June 2, 1979) is a Brazilian actress. She is best known for her role as Inara Serra in the sci-fi television series "Firefly" and the movie "Serenity". Morena was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Her father is of Italian descent. Her mother is Brazilian stage and television actress Vera Setta.
When she was 10, Baccarin moved with her family to Greenwich Village, New York, in the United States. She later attended the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts (the High School in the movie "Fame") before she studied theater at Juilliard. 

</doc>
<doc id="56660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56660" title="José Mourinho">
José Mourinho

José Mário dos Santos Mourinho Félix, , or simply José Mourinho (born January 26, 1963 in Setúbal) is a Portuguese football manager. He is the current manager of Premier League club Manchester United. He is commonly known as "The Special One". Mourinho is regarded by some players, coaches, and critics as one of the best football coaches of all time.
Mourinho won four league titles in a row (two at Porto and two at Chelsea). He has also won the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Cup with Porto. For two years in a row (2004 and 2005), Mourinho was named the world's best football coach by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics (IFFHS). After leaving Chelsea F.C., he was replaced by Avram Grant. He went to coach Internazionale Milano and won the Italian Super Cup in August 2008.
"Statistics accurate as of match played 20 October 2012."

</doc>
<doc id="56664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56664" title="Sawmill">
Sawmill

A sawmill is a place where lumber is cut into boards.
Sawmills today work like sawmills from hundreds of years ago; a log enters on one end, and pieces of wood of a specific shape and size exit from the other end.
Sawmills seem to have existed in the medieval period, as one was sketched by "Villard de Honnecourt" in c.1250. On the other hand people think they were introduced to Madeira following its discovery in c.1420 and spread widely in Europe in the 16th century. 
The Dutchman "Cornelis Corneliszoon" (1550-1607) invented his type of sawmill by applying a pitman arm onto a wind mill, which converted a turning motion into an up-an-down motion. Corneliszoon patented the sawmill on December 15, 1593 and the pitman on December 6, 1597. He built the first sawmill there in 1594. 
Before to the invention of the sawmill, boards were sawn by two men with a whipsaw, using saddleblocks to hold the log, and a pit for the pitman who worked below. Sawing was slow, and required strong and enduring men. The topsawer had to be the stronger of the two because the saw was pulled in turn by each man, and the lower had the advantage of gravity. The topsawyer also had to guide the saw so that the board was of even thickness. This was often done by following a chalkline.
Early sawmills simply adapted the whipsaw to mechanical power, generally driven by a water wheel to speed up the process. The circular motion of the wheel was changed to back-and-forth motion of the saw blade by a Connecting rod known as a "pitman" (thus introducing a term used in many mechanical applications). A pitman is similar to a crankshaft, but in reverse; a crankshaft converts back-and-forth motion to circular motion.
Generally, only the saw was powered, and the logs had to be loaded and moved by hand. An early improvement was the development of a movable carriage, also water powered, to steadily move the log through the saw blade.
A small mill such as this would be the center of many rural communities in wood-exporting regions such as the Baltic countries and Canada. The output of such mills would be quite low, perhaps only 500 boards per day. They would also generally only operate during the winter, the peak logging season.
In the United States, the sawmills was introduced soon after the colonisation of Virginia by recruiting skilled men from Hamburgh. Later the metal parts were obtained from the Netherlands, where the technology was far ahead of that in England, where the sawmill reamiend largely unknown until the late 18th century. The arrival of a sawmill was a large and stimulative step in the growth of a frontier community. 
Early mills were taken to the forest, where a temporary shelter was built, and the logs were skidded to the nearby mill by horse or ox teams, often when there was some snow to provide lubrication. As mills grew larger, they were usually established in more permanent facilities on a river, and the logs were floated down to them by log drivers. 
Technology has changed sawmill operations significantly in recent years, emphasizing increasing profits through waste minimization and increased energy efficiency as well as improving operator safety.

</doc>
<doc id="56670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56670" title="Hazrat Babajan">
Hazrat Babajan

Hazrat Babajan (1806–1931), birthname Gool Rukh ("like a rose"), was born as a Pathan lady in a noble Muslim family of Balochistan in northern British India Empire(now Pakistan). At the age of 18 she fled her arranged marriage and sought God instead. She journeyed to the northeast, first to Peshawar and then to Rawalpindi, disguised by her Muslim veil. She lived for a year and a half in the mountainous regions of what is now Pakistan under the guidance of a Hindu sadguru, then traveled to Punjab. In Multan, at the age of 37, she received God-realization from an Islamic qutub (Muslim master), Maula Shah.
Babajan is most famously remembered as the spiritual master of Meher Baba. 

</doc>
<doc id="56677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56677" title="Concept album">
Concept album

A concept album is a kind of album in which all the songs are about the same thing. Most of the time, they tell a story.
Examples of concept albums are:

</doc>
<doc id="56678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56678" title="Convenience food">
Convenience food

Convenience food is a type of food. This kind of food has been made so it can save the consumers time to prepare it. Usually such foods just need to be heated. They are designed for a long shelf life, so that they can stay in the store for a long time. One thing to remember is that you may have to pay for the convenience, as this food is often expensive.
Many people criticise these products, because:

</doc>
<doc id="56679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56679" title="Zippo">
Zippo

A Zippo lighter is a refillable metal lighter made by Zippo Manufacturing Company since 1933. Many different styles have been made since 1933, such as the pipe Zippo, for lighting pipes. Many people collect Zippos. Some Zippos are worth a lot of money.
Zippo lighters are wind-proof, which means that the wind can not blow them out. The most common fuel for Zippos is naphtha.

</doc>
<doc id="56718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56718" title="1367">
1367


</doc>
<doc id="56725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56725" title="Contronym">
Contronym

A contronym is a word with two meanings. These two meanings are the opposites of each other.

</doc>
<doc id="56726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56726" title="Water heating">
Water heating

Water heating is a thermodynamic process using an energy source to heat water above its initial temperature. Typical domestic uses of hot water are for cooking, cleaning and bathing, and space heating. In industry both hot water and water heated to steam have many uses.
The most common energy sources for heating water are fossil fuels: natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, oil or sometimes solid fuels (coal or firewood. These fuels may be consumed directly or by the use of electricity (which may derive from any of the above fuels or from nuclear or renewable sources). Alternative energy such as solar energy, heat pumps, hot water heat recycling, and sometimes geothermal power, may also be used as available, usually in combination with gas, oil or electricity.
Solar collectors for solar powered water heaters are installed outside dwellings, typically on the roof or nearby. Nearly all models are the direct-gain type. They consist of flat panels in which water circulates.
In countries like Iceland and New Zealand, and other volcanic regions, water heating may be done using geothermal power, rather than combustion.

</doc>
<doc id="56738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56738" title="Couëron">
Couëron

Couëron is a city in France on the Atlantic Ocean near Nantes. About 18.000 people live in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="56740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56740" title="Room temperature">
Room temperature

Room temperature does not have an exact scientific definition. It means a temperature that is normal in rooms used by human beings.
A comfortable room temperature depends on individual needs and other factors. According to the West Midlands Public Health Observatory (UK), 21 °C (70 °F) is the recommended living room temperature, and 18 °C (64.4 °F) is a good bedroom temperature.
However, this might not be true for countries found near the equator. As the temperature is higher, the room temperature is around 30 °C (86 °F).
Room Temperature is the temperature that is comfortable and normal to be in.
For scientific work, room temperature is taken to be about 20 to 25 degrees Celsius with an average of 23 °C (about 73.4 degrees Fahrenheit (°F), 528 to 537 degrees Rankine (°R), or 293 to 298 Kelvins (K)). For numerical convenience, either 20 °C or 300 K is often used.
The progress and results of many scientific and industrial processes can sometimes depend on the temperature of the surroundings of the equipment. For example, a measurement of the charge of the electron does not depend upon the temperature of the test equipment. In this case, if scientists mention temperature at all, they usually only mention "room temperature", which means that what is being measured has not been cooled or heated.

</doc>
<doc id="56741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56741" title="Kraftwerk">
Kraftwerk

Kraftwerk is a electronic band from Germany that became famous in the late 1970s and 1980s for making electronic music. They used a synthesizer to make the rhythms and melodies in the song.
Kraftwerk made electronic music many years before other bands knew it would be popular. They paved the way for the MIDI and digital styles of music to become popular in the 1990s. Many of the sounds from songs such as "Computer Love", "The Robots", and "Trans Europe Express" can be heard sampled by a variety of bands on their current releases. Recently, some of Kraftwerk's original recording equipment was sold on eBay for astonishing amounts. Kraftwerk continues to have a faithful following. The band's name is German for power station.

</doc>
<doc id="56743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56743" title="Cricket ball">
Cricket ball

A cricket ball is a hard, solid ball used to play cricket. In men's cricket the ball must weigh between 5.5 and 5.75 ounces (137.5 and 143.8 g) and measure between 8 13/16 and 9 in (220 and 225 mm) in circumference.
Appearance
A cricket ball is usually red, white or pink depending on the game.
Nowadays, white cricket balls are used the most.

</doc>
<doc id="56746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56746" title="Baptist">
Baptist

Baptist is a word describing a tradition within Christianity and may also refer to individuals belonging to a Baptist church or a Baptist denomination. The tradition takes its name from the belief that followers of Jesus Christ should be placed in water to show their faith. Baptists do not practice infant baptism.
In 1639, Roger Williams began a Baptist church in Providence, Rhode Island and John Clarke began a Baptist church in Newport, Rhode Island. It is not clear which church opened first. Records for both churches are missing information.
Baptist churches do not have a central principal authority. Therefore, beliefs are not the same from one Baptist church to another, mainly beliefs that may be considered minor. However, on major issues, most are held in common among almost all Baptist churches.
Baptists share so-called "orthodox" Christian beliefs with most other moderate or conservative Christian denominations. Some of them are beliefs about one God; Jesus' death, burial, and bodily resurrection; the Trinity (the divinity of Jesus and the Holy Spirit, together with God the Father); the need for salvation; grace; and evangelism and missions.
There are over 90 million Baptists in the world in nearly 300,000 churches. There are about 47 million members in the United States. Other large populations of Baptists also exist in Asia, Africa and Latin America. There are 2.4 million Baptists in India, 2.3 million in Nigeria, 1.9 million in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and 1.5 million in Brazil.
In a poll in the 1990s, about 20% of Americans said they are Baptist.
Many people outside the community see them as Protestant, but some baptists do not. In their view, Baptists have existed separately since early church days. Those holding this view believe that Baptists have never been a part of the Roman Catholic Church, and that Baptists are not "protesting" against Catholicism.
They also point out that Baptists have no connections with the Reformationists like Luther, Calvin, or Zwingli. Other Baptists accept the "Protestant" label as a category for churches who have similar religious views of "sola scriptura, sola fide," the priesthood of all believers and other positions that Luther or Calvin had in contrast to the Roman Catholic Church in the 1500s.
The tag: "denomination", is by some because of the autonomous system used by Baptist churches for control. Being a denomination is viewed by them as having a hierarchy instead of the Roman Catholic Church. Another reason for the rejection of the tag is the influence of the Restoration period on Baptist churches, which tore down denominational barriers. Other Baptists accept the tag. They feel that it does not lie or have any bad meanings. It is just used as a synonym for a Christian or religious group with common beliefs.
The tag: "Evangelical", is rejected by some fundamentalist Baptists who think that the term is not 'fundamentalist' enough. It is also rejected by some liberal Baptists who think that the term is too conservative. It is accepted by moderate Baptists believing in the revival in the United States in the 1700s called the First Great Awakening. Some Evangelicals also reject the tag: fundamentalist, because they think that it is too extreme.

</doc>
<doc id="56748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56748" title="Techno">
Techno

Techno is a form of electronic dance music that became popular in Detroit, Michigan during the mid-1980s. It was influenced by synthpop, house music, funk, post-disco and futuristic fiction ideas that were important during the end of the Cold War in the United States at that time. Juan Atkins is generally thought to be the founder of Techno music. Detroit Techno first became successful locally and then became popular around the world in the 1990s. 
The word "techno" comes from "technology". Fans of Techno music are careful in their use of the word. They are careful not to confuse it with other types of music that are similar but different (for example house, trance, hardcore). At the same time, the word "techno" is commonly used when talking about all forms of electronic music and dance music, especially in Europe, the Americas and Australia. Despite the common usage of the term to refer to all electronic dance in general, techno is a specific genre with its own, distinguishable sound. By nature, techno tends to be highly repetitive, instrumentally-oriented music which follows a regular four-on-the-floor beat. The genre places a strong emphasis on rhythm, and techno tends to have a very beat-based sound.

</doc>
<doc id="56750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56750" title="Dog sled">
Dog sled

A dog sled is a sled that is pulled by sled dogs and can go over ice and snow. Dog sleds were first made by First Nations people in Canada before the English and French got there, because they had no horses so they used dogs to travel. They were also made by people in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia because it was also easier to travel with dogs in parts of those countries.
Racing dog sleds is a popular sport which a lot of people enjoy watching or actually going in the sleds to race. It is more popular in places where there is not much horse racing.

</doc>
<doc id="56751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56751" title="Multiset">
Multiset

A multiset (sometimes called a bag) is a concept from mathematics. In many ways, multisets are like sets. Certain items are either elements of that multiset, or they are not. However, multisets are different from sets: The same type of item can be in the multiset more than once. For this reason, mathematicians have defined a relation (function) that tells, how many copies of a certain type of item there are in a certain multiset. They call this "multiplicity". For example, in the multiset { "a", "a", "b", "b", "b", "c" }, the multiplicities of the members "a", "b", and "c" are respectively 2, 3, and 1. 
A multiset is illustrated by means of a histogram.
A multiset can also be considered an unordered tuple:
One of the simplest examples is the multiset of prime factors of a number "n". Here the underlying set of elements is the set of prime divisors of "n". For example the number "120" has the prime factorisation
which gives the multiset {2, 2, 2, 3, 5}.
Another is the multiset of solutions of an algebraic equation. A quadratic equation, for example, has two solutions. However, in some cases they are both the same number. Thus the multiset of solutions of the equation could be { 3, 5 }, or it could be { 4, 4 }. In the latter case it has a solution of multiplicity 2.

</doc>
<doc id="56753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56753" title="Tom Brokaw">
Tom Brokaw

Thomas John Brokaw (born February 6, 1940 in Webster, South Dakota) is a popular American television journalist and is the former anchorman (host) of "NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw". His last appearance as anchorman was on December 1, 2004. In the later part of hosting "NBC Nightly News", the program became the most-watched news program in the United States. Brokaw has received many awards and honors.
Brokaw was diagnosed with multiple myeloma in August 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="56755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56755" title="Tuple">
Tuple

In mathematics, a tuple is a finite sequence of objects. Sometimes the finite sequence is also called an "ordered list". Each of the objects in the list has a certain type. A tuple consisting of "n" entries is called an n-tuple. Tuples are used to describe mathematical objects that are made of certain, well-defined components. They are also used very frequently with databases. 
Tuples are different from sets:
In other words, tuples are like ordered multisets.

</doc>
<doc id="56756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56756" title="Manure">
Manure

Manure is organic matter used as fertilizer in agriculture. Manures improve the fertility of the soil by adding organic matter and nutrients, such as nitrogen that is trapped by bacteria in the soil. Higher organisms then feed on the fungi and bacteria in a chain of life.
The term "manure" was used for inorganic fertilizers in the past, but this usage is now very rare.
The word manure came from Middle English "manuren" meaning "to cultivate land," and initially from French "main-oeuvre" = "hand work" alluding to the work which involved manuring land.
There are two classes of manures in soil management: green manures and animal manures. Compost is distinguished from manure in that it is the "decomposed" remnants of organic materials (which may, nevertheless, include manure).
Most animal manure is feces–excrement (variously called "droppings" or "crap" etc.) of plant-eating mammals (herbivores) and plant material (often straw) which has been used as bedding for animals and thus is heavily contaminated with their feces and urine.
Green manures are crops grown for the express purpose of plowing them under. In so doing, fertility is increased through the nutrients and organic matter that are returned to the soil. 
Manure has been used for centuries as a fertilizer for farming, as it is rich in nitrogen and other nutrients which facilitate the growth of plants. Liquid manure from pig/hog operations is usually knifed (injected) directly into the soil to reduce the unpleasant odors. Manure from hogs and cattle is spread on fields using a manure spreader. Due to the relatively lower level of proteins in grasses, which herbivores eat, cattle manure has a milder smell than the dung of carnivores–for example, elephant dung is practically odorless. However, due to the quantity of manure applied to fields, odor can be a problem in some agricultural regions. Poultry droppings are harmful to plants when fresh but after a period of composting are valuable fertilizers.
The dried manure of animals has been used as fuel throughout history. Dried manure (usually known as dung) of cows was, and still is, an important fuel source in countries such as India, while camel dung may be used in treeless regions such as deserts. On the Oregon Trail, pioneering families collected large quantities of "buffalo chips" in lieu of scarce firewood. It has been used for many purposes, in cooking fires and to combat the cold desert nights.
Another use of manure is to make paper. This has been done with dung from elephants where it is a small industry in Africa and Asia, and also horses, llamas, and kangaroos. Other than the llama, these animals are not ruminants and thus tend to pass plant fibres undigested in their dung.

</doc>
<doc id="56759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56759" title="Nutrient">
Nutrient

A nutrient is either a chemical element or compound used in an organism's metabolism or physiology. A nutrient is essential to an organism if it cannot be produced by the organism and must be obtained from a food source.
This article deals with nutrition in animals, especially humans. Nutrition in plants, fungi, bacteria and archaea is not discussed here.
The following table gives an idea of what elements are essential for humans: 
Periodic table highlighting dietary elements

</doc>
<doc id="56760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56760" title="Histogram">
Histogram

A histogram is a concept from statistics. It is a graphical display that tells us about the distribution of the samples involved. They are commonly a picture made from a table with many categories. The table tells how many samples there are in each category.
The word "histogram" is derived from "histos" and "gramma" in Greek. "Histos" means "web" or "mast". "Gramma" means "drawing", "record" or "writing". A histogram of something is therefore, etymologically speaking, a drawing of the web of this something. 
The histogram is one of the seven basic tools of quality control, which also include the Pareto chart, check sheet, control chart, cause-and-effect diagram, flowchart, and scatter diagram. 
A generalization of the histogram is kernel smoothing techniques. This will construct a smooth probability density function from the supplied data.

</doc>
<doc id="56761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56761" title="Green manure">
Green manure

Typically, a green manure crop is grown for a specific period, and then plowed under and incorporated into the soil. Green manures usually perform several functions, that include soil improvement and soil protection:
Historically, the practice of green manuring can be traced back to the fallow cycle of crop rotation, which was used to allow soils to recover.
Organic farming relies on soil health and cycling of nutrients through the soil using natural processes, such as the addition of animal manures. If animal manures are not available, in a stockless rotation, green manures perform a vital function of fertilization.

</doc>
<doc id="56762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56762" title="Normal distribution">
Normal distribution

\; \exp\left(-\frac{\left(x-\mu\right)^2}{2\sigma^2} \right) \!</math>|
The normal distribution is a probability distribution. It is also called Gaussian distribution because it was discovered by Carl Friedrich Gauss. The normal distribution is a continuous probability distribution. It is very important in many fields of science. Normal distributions are a family of distributions of the same general form. These distributions differ in their "location" and "scale" parameters: the mean ("average") of the distribution defines its location, and the standard deviation ("variability") defines the scale.
The standard normal distribution (also known as the Z distribution) is the normal distribution with a mean of zero and a variance of one (the green curves in the plots to the right). It is often called the bell curve because the graph of its probability density looks like a bell.
Many values follow a normal distribution. This is because of the central limit theorem, which says that if an event is the sum of other random events, it will be normally distributed. Some examples include:

</doc>
<doc id="56763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56763" title="Biomass">
Biomass

Biomass is a basic term in ecology, and in the energy production industry.
Organic waste such as dead plant and animal material, animal dung and kitchen waste can be converted into gaseous fuel called biogas. The organic waste is decomposed by bacteria in biogas digesters to emit biogas which is essentially a mixture of methane and carbon dioxide. 
In ecology, biomass means the accumulation of living matter. It is the total living material in a given area or a biological community or group. Biomass is measured by weight, or by dry weight, per given area (per square metre or square kilometer).
In the energy industry, it refers to biological material which can be used as fuel or for industrial production. Biomass includes plant matter grown for use as biofuel, and also includes plant or animal matter used for production of fibres, chemicals or heat. Biomass may also include biodegradable wastes which can be burnt as fuel. It excludes organic material which has been transformed by geological processes into substances such as coal or petroleum. It is usually measured by dry weight. 
The term biomass is especially useful for plants, where some internal structures may not always be considered living tissue, such as the wood (secondary xylem) of a tree. 
Biofuels include bioethanol, biodiesel & biogas. 
Biomass is grown from several plants, including switchgrass, hemp, corn, poplar, willow and sugarcane. The particular plant used is usually not very important to the end products, but it does affect the processing of the raw material. 
Though biomass is a renewable fuel, its use can still contribute to global warming. This happens when the natural carbon equilibrium is disturbed; for example by deforestation or urbanization of green sites.
Biomass is part of the carbon cycle. Photosynthesis converts carbon from the atmosphere into plant matter. When the plant rots or burns, the carbon goes back into the atmosphere. This happens somewhat quickly, and plant matter used as a fuel can be constantly replaced by planting for new growth. Therefore, it doesn't much change the amount of atmospheric carbon.
Although fossil fuels come from things that died long ago, they are not considered biomass by the generally accepted definition because they contain carbon that has been 'out' of the carbon cycle for a very long time. Burning them combustion therefore adds much carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. 
Other uses of biomass, besides fuel:
Plastics from biomass, like some made to dissolve in seawater, are made the same way as petroleum-based plastics, are actually cheaper to manufacture and meet or exceed most performance standards. But they lack the water resistance of conventional plastics.
The most successful animal, in terms of biomass, is the Antarctic krill, "Euphausia superba", with a biomass of probably over 500 million tons across the world, about twice the total biomass of humans. 
Biomass may also be a measure of the dried organic mass of an ecosystem. 
This is a summary of biomass data.

</doc>
<doc id="56768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56768" title="Variance">
Variance

The variance in probability theory and statistics is a way to measure how far a set of numbers is spread out.
Variance describes how much a random variable differs from its expected value. The variance is defined as the average of the squares of the differences between the individual (observed) and the expected value. That means it is always positive. In practice, it is a measure of how much something changes. For example, temperature has more variance in Moscow than in Hawaii. 
The variance is not simply the average difference from the expected value. The standard deviation, which is the square root of the variance and comes closer to the average difference, also is not simply the average difference. Variance and standard deviation are used because it makes the mathematics easier when adding two random variables together.
In accountancy, a variance refers to the difference between the budget for a cost, and the actual cost.

</doc>
<doc id="56769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56769" title="Tarzan's Treehouse">
Tarzan's Treehouse

Tarzan's Treehouse is a walk-through attraction in Disneyland in Anaheim, California. It was originally called the Swiss Family Treehouse. The treehouse explores the past of the Disney character Tarzan. The tree is fake, but is considered by Disney imagineers a real species or "Disneyodendron eximus" which translates to "out of the ordinary Disney tree". The tree has 1,400 branches and 300,000 polyethlyne leaves. The tree is covered in live Spanish moss.

</doc>
<doc id="56770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56770" title="Adam Małysz">
Adam Małysz

Adam Małysz (born 3 December 1977 in Wisła, Poland) was a Polish ski jumper. He has four Olympic medals (3 silver, 1 bronze). His longest jump was 230,5 meters. Since 2011 he is a rally driver.

</doc>
<doc id="56776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56776" title="Salome">
Salome

Salome or Salomé (Hebrew: שלומית Shlomit), the Daughter of Herodias (c AD 14 - between 62 and 71), like Dismas, or the various names of the Magi, is a name given to a character in the New Testament, one whose name is not given there itself. She is, however, an entirely historical person, whose name is preserved in non-biblical literature. In scholarly works, she tends to be referred to as the Daughter of Herodias.
The name "Salome" is given to the stepdaughter of Herod Antipas (unnamed in the Gospels of Matthew and Mark) in Josephus' "Jewish Antiquities" (Book XVIII, Chapter 5, 4):Herodias, [...], was married to Herod, the son of Herod the Great, who was born of Mariamne, the daughter of Simon the high priest, who had a daughter, Salome; after whose birth Herodias took upon her to
confound the laws of our country, and divorced herself from her husband while he was alive, and was married to Herod, her husband's brother by the father's side, he was tetrarch of Galilee; but her daughter Salome was married to Philip, the son of Herod, and tetrarch of Trachonitis; and as he died childless,
Aristobulus, the son of Herod, the brother of Agrippa, married her; they had three sons, Herod, Agrippa, and Aristobulus;
Despite the early date of this account, she was not consistently called Salome until the nineteenth century, when Gustave Flaubert (following Josephus) referred to her as Salome in his play Herodias (1876).
According to Mark 6:21-29, Salome was the stepdaughter of Herod Antipas, and danced before Herod and her mother Herodias at the occasion of Herod's birthday, and by doing so caused the death of John the Baptist. The New Testament suggests that Salome caused John to be executed because of his complaints that Herod's marriage to Herodias was adulterous; and that Herodias put her up to the demand that John be executed, something the king was initially reluctant to do. 
Some ancient Greek translations of Mark read "Herod's daughter Herodias" (rather than "daughter of the said Herodias"). To scholars using these ancient texts, both mother and daughter had the same name. However, scholars using the Latin Vulgate Bible (which translates the passage as it is above) did not confuse the two; thus western Church Fathers tended to refer to Salome as "Herodias's daughter" or just "the girl". Nevertheless, because she is otherwise unnamed in the Bible, the idea that both mother and daughter were named Herodias gained some currency in early modern Europe. 
This Salome is not the same Salome who is said to be a witness to the Crucifixion of Jesus in Mark 15:40. (see Salome (disciple)).
The story above has been adapted to various forms of art. Innumerable paintings about it exist. There is a play by Oscar Wilde. Operas about it have been composed by Richard Strauss and Jules Massenet. Ballets by Florent Schmit and Flemming Flindt. Various films have also been made between 1918 and 2006. 

</doc>
<doc id="56787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56787" title="Winchester College">
Winchester College

Winchester College is a well-known boys' school. It is an example of a British public school. The school is located in the city of Winchester in Hampshire, England. Its official name is Collegium Sanctae Mariae prope Wintoniam (or Collegium Beatae Mariae Wintoniensis prope Winton), or St Mary's College near Winchester. The school is commonly just called "Winchester". Winchester has existed for over six hundred years. It has the longest unbroken history of any school in England. It is the oldest of the original nine English public schools as defined by the Public Schools Act 1868. 37% of students go to Cambridge or Oxford. 
Winchester College was founded in 1382 by William of Wykeham, Bishop of Winchester and Chancellor to Richard II. The first seventy students entered the school in 1394. It was founded with New College, Oxford. Winchester was built to get students ready to attend New College. This was the model for Eton College and King's College, Cambridge 50 years later and for Westminster School, Christ Church, Oxford and Trinity College, Cambridge in Tudor times.
The headmaster is currently Dr Ralph Townsend, formerly of Sydney Grammar School and Oundle School.

</doc>
<doc id="56788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56788" title="Buffy the Vampire Slayer (movie)">
Buffy the Vampire Slayer (movie)

Buffy the Vampire Slayer is a 1992 American action/comedy fantasy movie about a cheerleader (Kristy Swanson) chosen by fate to fight and kill vampires. The movie is a light parody. It goes against the clichés of horror movies. The movie led to a darker and much more popular TV series of the same name. The television series starred Sarah Michelle Gellar and was created and produced by screenwriter Joss Whedon. Whedon often said how the television series was more like his vision than the movie. When the movie was first released, it was moderately successful and received mixed reviews from critics.

</doc>
<doc id="56789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56789" title="Fran Rubel Kuzui">
Fran Rubel Kuzui

Fran Rubel Kuzui is an American movie director and producer. She is best known as the director of the 1992 "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" movie, which was made into the television series of the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="56790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56790" title="Roseanne Barr">
Roseanne Barr

Roseanne Cherrie Barr (born November 3, 1952) is an Emmy Award-winning American actress, writer, and comedian. She has also been known as "Roseanne Arnold" and "Roseanne Thomas". For several years in the late 1990s and early 2000s, she was known simply as Roseanne, but by 2005 had resumed referring to herself by her maiden name, Roseanne Barr. She is best known for playing "Roseanne Conner" on the television series "Roseanne". 
In August 4, 2011, on an episode of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno she announced that she would be running for President in 2012. She ran for Green Party, however, she lost to Jill Stein. Then she ran for Peace and Freedom Party and won the nomination. Barr received 61,971 votes in the general election, placing sixth overall. She is running again in 2016 for the same party.

</doc>
<doc id="56797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56797" title="BI-LO (Australia)">
BI-LO (Australia)

Bi-Lo is a supermarket with 214 shops all over Australia. It used to have shops in Western Australia called Newmart. It changed the names of all its stores to Coles Supermarkets in 2006 and 2007.
John Weekes started Bi-Lo towards the end of the 1970s in the city of Adelaide in South Australia with three shops. It was called "Bi-Lo" because it sells food and everyday articles at relatively cheap prices.

</doc>
<doc id="56807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56807" title="Sucrose">
Sucrose

Sucrose (common name: table sugar, also called saccharose) is a disaccharide (glucose + fructose) with the molecular formula CHO. Its systematic name is α-D-glucopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-D-fructofuranose. It is best known for its role in human nutrition and is formed by plants but not by higher organisms.
Pure sucrose is most often prepared as a fine, white, odorless crystalline powder with a pleasing, sweet taste.

</doc>
<doc id="56808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56808" title="Disaccharide">
Disaccharide

A disaccharide is a sugar (a carbohydrate) composed of two monosaccharides. It is formed when two sugars are joined together and a molecule of water is removed. For example, milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas cane sugar (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose.
Maltose and cellobiose are hydrolysis products of the polysaccharides, starch and cellulose, respectively.
Some common Disaccharides are: Maltose, Lactose and Sucrose.

</doc>
<doc id="56811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56811" title="Biological hazard">
Biological hazard

A biological hazard, or biohazard, is anything coming from living organisms (i.e. pollen, fungi, animals, insects, bacteria and viruses) that could be a threat to someone's health. It is represented by ☣, the biohazard symbol, which is used everywhere in the world. When people see this sign they know to take precautions, and to follow proper conduct for science labs.
There are four biosafety levels made by the Center of Disease Control. These are used in laboratories so only people who have the right skills can enter. Different levels mean scientists must wear different uniforms and take special care when dealing with dangerous things like viruses.
Biosafety Level 1 The viruses handled in BSL-1 are not very dangerous and usually only cause mild sickness. Diseases in BSL-1 include chicken pox and some E-Coli strains. People in BSL-1 have to wash their hands with soap, wear gloves, and put waste materials in specially-marked bins.
Biosafety Level 2 BSL-2 is filled with slightly more hazourdous diseases than BSL-1. They have to take more safety precautions has a result. Hepatitis, influenza, HIV / AIDS, and salmonella are handled here.
Biosafety Level 3 BSL-3 is for diseases that may kill but are less deadly than those in Level 4, SARS and yellow fever. A lot of them are airborne, and the lab must be in an closed off area in case of an incident.
Biosafety Level 4 BSL-4 is for very hazardous diseases that kill many people and are hard to treat. BSL-4 workers must be careful and alert at all times and wear suits with special air filters. A lot of hemorrhagic fevers are dealt with in BSL-4, like Ebola, Marburg, and Lassa Virus.

</doc>
<doc id="56812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56812" title="Petri dish">
Petri dish

A petri dish is a small dish shaped like a cylinder. Scientists use it to grow cells from animals, fungus, and diseases so they can study them. They are usually made of glass or plastic. The glass ones can be used again if they are heated at 160°F. Sometimes people fill them with agar, which helps cells grow. These are called 'agar plates'. Many people use them in science classes at school. They have lids so germs in the air can not get into them, or "contaminate" them, and ruin the experiment.

</doc>
<doc id="56815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56815" title="IGA Australia">
IGA Australia

Independent Grocers of Australia or (IGA) for short, is the largest independent supermarket group in Australia. It is part of the Independent Grocers Association which has shops all over the world. Each "IGA" shop is run by the local shopkeeper unlike big companies such as Woolworths and Coles which runs all of their shops across the country. A company supplies all "IGA" shops around the country and controls the use of the "IGA" name but does not own every one of each shop. The independent shopkeepers and their shops claim to be "Local Heroes". There are over 1000 shops and three sub-brands.
IGA in Australia also has the Black & Gold brand name product range which first came about in 1980, the first such brand name product range to enter the independent food shops that are now called "IGA". Now, it also has a premium brand name range also called "IGA" and a healthy range of products called "IGA Way of Life".
"Metcash Trading Limited" is the company behind "IGA" and supplies the shops. "Davids Holdings", Metcash's old name, brought the "IGA" name to Australia in 1988 with just 10 shops. Now, it has grown from 10 shops to over 1000 shops in less than 20 years.
The stores also have the Community Chest program, where they donate profits to local charities.

</doc>
<doc id="56816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56816" title="Chelmsford (borough)">
Chelmsford (borough)

Chelmsford is a borough in the county of Essex in the East of England. It has the same name as it main settlement of Chelmsford, the county town of Essex. About 170,000 people live in the borough. It was formed on 1 April 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="56821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56821" title="Communication Studies">
Communication Studies

Communication Studies is a college or university area of study involving the study of communication. Students learn about speech and different types of media.

</doc>
<doc id="56822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56822" title="Belote">
Belote

Belote is a French 32 card trick-taking game. This game requires four players divided into two teams. There are many kinds of belote : "belote," "belote coinchée," and "belote avec annonce". All of them come from a Dutch game, played since 1600.
The dealer may choose to shuffle the deck. The previous dealer, on the left, must cut the deck. He must deal the all deck in three time (3+2+3).
Once the card are dealt, players start to bet on the number of point. To bet, the player need to tell the trump he wants, and bet at least 10 point higher than the previous player. The first player have to bet at least 80, half of all the point. If a player have King and queen from the trump color, the team get 20 bonus points.
Even though there is only 4 color in the game, there is 6 kind of trump: Clubs ♣ Diamonds ♦ Hearts ♥ Spades ♠ "No trump" "All trumps".
When a player chooses "no trump" or "all trump", he must choose a color. the points of this color will be count as trump, all the other will be count as No trump.
Every kind of belote share some basic rules:
In every belote game points are counted depending on the card and their trump status then:
Trump : J=20, 9=14, A=11 10=10, K=4, Q=3, 8=0, 7=0
Non-trump : A=11, 10=10, K=4, Q=3, J=2, 9=0, 8=0, 7=0
The basic strategy of this game is to count the trump cards. But it is also recommend to count all the other color, the deck is small, only 32 cards.
Betting is the only way to communicate with a team mate, that is why even if a hand is weak, betting will help a teammate to bet or play.
A team will have to play a defending strategy if they have less trump than the other team. The only rules with a defensive game is to save every point. One should not expect more than one trick for each colors.
The usual strategy for the attacking team is to try make the opponent lose their trumps, so they will not be able to cut the other trick. Once it is done they may start to think about trying to get the ace or 10 card. There is only one way to get an ace: to cut it. That is why whenever a team mate is about to take the current trick, someone should play the colour in which someone has one less card. To get a ten someone may play an ace at the second trick or cut it.

</doc>
<doc id="56827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56827" title="Monosaccharide">
Monosaccharide

Monosaccharides are the simplest form of carbohydrates. They consist of one sugar and are usually colorless, water-soluble, crystalline solids. Some monosaccharides have a sweet taste. 
Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose, galactose, and ribose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides like sucrose (common sugar) and polysaccharides (such as cellulose and starch). Further, each carbon atom that supports a hydroxyl group (except for the first and last) is chiral, giving rise to a number of isomeric forms all with the same chemical formula. For instance, galactose and glucose are both aldohexoses, but they have different chemical and physical properties.

</doc>
<doc id="56830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56830" title="Lactose">
Lactose

Lactose is a disaccharide that consists of galactose and glucose molecules. Lactose makes up around 2-8% of the solids in milk. The name comes from the Latin word for milk, plus the -ose ending used to name sugars. Lactose is found in milk products.
Infant mammals are fed on by milk from their mothers. To digest it an enzyme called lactase cleaves the lactose into its two subunits glucose and galactose for absorption.

</doc>
<doc id="56831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56831" title="Glycogen">
Glycogen

Glycogen (commonly known as animal starch although this name is inaccurate) is a polysaccharide that is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. 
Glycogen is found in the form of granules in the cytosol in many cell types, and plays an important role in the glucose cycle. Glycogen forms an energy reserve that can be quickly mobilized to meet a sudden need for glucose, but one that is less compact than the energy reserves of triglycerides. Only the glycogen stored in the liver can be made accessible to other organs. 

</doc>
<doc id="56838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56838" title="Pollutant">
Pollutant

Pollutants are compounds which are dangerous to the environment.
They can also be harmful to humans in the long-term range. They come from mineral and fossil sources or are produced by humans themselves.
Many pollutants have a poisonous effect on the body. Carbon monoxide is an example of a substance which is damaging to humans. This compound is taken up in the body instead of oxygen. That makes the body and in severe cases may lead to death.
Some pollutants became dangerous by reaction with other naturally occurring compounds. The oxides of nitrogen and sulfur are released from impurities in fossil fuels when they are burnt. They react with water vapor in the atmosphere to become acid rain. Acid rain damages buildings and makes lakes unable to support marine life, which causes fish and water plants to die.

</doc>
<doc id="56839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56839" title="Carbon monoxide">
Carbon monoxide

Carbon monoxide, with the chemical formula CO, is a colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas. It consists of one carbon atom covalently bonded to one oxygen atom. It is made when carbon compounds burn and there is not enough oxygen. It is a good fuel and burns in air with a blue flame, making carbon dioxide. It is very toxic, but it is useful for modern technology as well.
The most important use for carbon monoxide in industry is making iron from iron ore. The carbon monoxide takes the oxygen from the iron ore when heated in a large oven called a blast furnace. Liquid metal iron is left behind. The carbon monoxide turns into carbon dioxide.
Carbon monoxide can accidentally form when there are too little air to burn all the fuel into carbon dioxide. Such situation may happen if the oven shutters are closed too early or if a mobile cooker is used in a small tent with no ventilation (= fresh air coming in and smoke going out). Many people have died from carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide poisoning can cause feelings of paranoia and hallucinations, and has been determined to be a major cause of "haunted" houses. Small amounts of it are found in coal gas, a fuel produced by heating coal without any air.
Despite that it is a poison, carbon monoxide is very useful in chemical industry so lots of ways of making it have been discovered. Normally we burn coke at high temperature with not enough oxygen. The chemical equation for this is:
It can be also made by blowing hot steam through red-hot crushed coke
Carbon monoxide can be used as heating fuel because it burns easily into carbon dioxide. It can also be used as so-called "synthesis gas" for making man-made gasoline in the Fischer-Tropsch process.
During the World War II when petrol was rare and reserved for the military, many cars were converted to use "wood gas". It is carbon monoxide made by burning wood chips in insufficient amount of air. The wood gas was made in a special oven called "generator", which was carried on the car. The resulting carbon monoxide was then used as fuel for the car itself. Even today there are cars which use wood gas as fuel.

</doc>
<doc id="56844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56844" title="Schweinfurt">
Schweinfurt

Schweinfurt is a city in Franconia. The population is about 50,000. Larger, nearby cities are Würzburg and Bamberg

</doc>
<doc id="56845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56845" title="Falco">
Falco

Falco (born February 19, 1957 in Vienna, Austria as Johann (Hans) Hölzel, and died on February 6, 1998 in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic) was an Austrian pop singer. His breakthrough was "Der Kommissar", which beat top positions in international charts. This song and his first two albums were produced by Robert Ponger.
His song "Rock me Amadeus" has been the one and only German-speaking song reaching no.1 on the US charts. From 1985 to 1988 he produced 3 albums with the Dutch Production Team Bolland & Bolland. "Falco 3" became his most successful record reaching number 3 of the US Longplay Charts. 
In 1985, Falco also had his 3rd No.1 hit "Jeanny" and in 1986 his 4th - "Coming Home (Jeanny Part 2)".
Unsuccessful albums like "Data de Groove" (produced by Ponger again) followed. In 1988 he married Isabella Vitkovic, one year later, in 1989, they separated. Ponger and the Bollands produced all of the albums that were released in his lifetime. To stay tuned Falco recorded many techno songs and worked with different producers for his last album.
His successful album "Out of the dark (into the light)" was released after Falco's death in a road accident.

</doc>
<doc id="56849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56849" title="Gabriel Pascal">
Gabriel Pascal

Gabriel Pascal (4 June 1894 – 6 July 1954) was a Hungarian movie producer and director.
Gabriel Pascal was born in Transylvania (which is now part of Romania) in 1894. Pascal is best known for having turned some of the best plays by the famous Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw into successful movies. His most famous movie made from one of Shaw's plays was "Pygmalion" in 1938. "Pygmalion" tells the story of a bet that two rich men made over whether one of them, Professor Higgins, could turn a poor uneducated girl into a sophisticated lady. The movie was so successful that after Gabriel Pascal died it was made into a huge Broadway musical called "My Fair Lady", and amazingly this musical was then made into another movie. So "Pygmalion" was first a play, then a movie based on the play, then a play based on the movie, and then a new play based on the movie made from the old play. It is therefore quite a remarkable history and it was Gabriel Pascal's idea to make the play a musical, though he did not live long enough to do it himself.
Gabriel Pascal invented his name and no one seems to know his real one. He claimed to have memories of being rescued by Gypsies from a burning building when he was a tiny child and that the Gypsies taught him to beg, steal, and do acrobatic tricks, but no one knows if this is true. It is unclear what parts of his fabulous account of his childhood are true as there are no formal records of him prior to the age of 17 when he was enlisted in military school in Holics, Hungary, by a mysterious Catholic priest. Gabriel Pascal, who was decidedly unfit for military life, became interested in theater and studied at the Academy of the Hofburg Theater in Vienna. Later his interest expanded into the newly burgeoning cinema and he made movies in Germany and Italy with sporadic success.
Pascal had one son, Peter, conceived in Germany during the delirium of a fever with his landlady's sister Elsie. Unable to care even for himself, Pascal fled to Holland. After WWII ended, at last on his feet with the success of "Pygmalion" and "Major Barbara", Pascal rushed to Germany to search for his son Peter, but he was listed among the missing Hitler Youth. Elsie had been killed by a bomb.
As a young man, Pascal found a job tending horses in Hungary. Leading the horses through the forest to a stream each day, Pascal developed the habit of riding bareback naked through the Hungarian countryside. One day he accidentally rode stark naked through the outdoor set of a silent movie in production and was "discovered." The film's director asked him to repeat the ride for the cameras and he joined the group. Soon he was making his own movies.
Pascal had another auspicious encounter when he was young while walking along the shore of the Mediterranean. An old man, George Bernard Shaw, was swimming naked holding onto a buoy. A conversation ensued and Shaw dared the young Pascal on the shore to take off his clothes and join him in the water. He was impressed when Pascal immediately did so and this began their friendship. Shaw was impressed with Pascal's youthful enthusiasm for art and his bravado and invited him to come visit him one day when he was entirely broke. This chance meeting was to play a major role in Pascal's later career.
Pascal began his producing career making silent movies in Italy for German distribution through UFA Studios in Berlin. His directorial debut was "Populi Morituri" in which he also starred. He later produced horror movies in Germany. His most famous was "Unholy Tales" in 1932. It was an anthology of short spooky stories, including some by Edgar Allan Poe, tied together by the adventures of a black cat and is considered by some to be a forgotten horror classic.
In 1933, during a trip to Hollywood, Pascal was contacted by Princess Norina Matchabelli about a movie project based on the teachings of her guru Meher Baba. Pascal got very caught up in this project, bringing movie writers Hy Kraft and Karl Vollmöller into helping him work up treatments and even making a trip to India to discuss the project further with Meher Baba. By the time Pascal arrived in India, however, Meher Baba did not seem in any hurry to complete the movie, saying it could wait and inviting Pascal to live with him in India. Most ordinary men would have been discouraged, but Pascal took energetically to the austere life of an eastern ascetic, even shedding his western garb for eastern clothing. He took a liking to Meher Baba and maintained a correspondence with him all of his life. Meher Baba nicknamed Pascal "Phoenix" and alternately "Panther." 
Pascal remained in contact with his guru Meher Baba right up to the end of his life and met with him in person one last time in New York in 1952. Even in this final meeting there was mention of the movie that Pascal had agreed to try to make for Baba.
In time, however, Pascal's desire to make his mark on cinema returned and Pascal took a ship back to America penniless but undaunted. He landed in San Francisco where he spent some time deciding what to do next. Then it struck him to approach George Bernard Shaw (the most famous living playwright in the English speaking world at the time), whom Pascal had met auspiciously many years earlier. During that earlier meeting Shaw, who had been impressed with the young Pascal's passion for art and cinema, had told him to pay him a visit when he was entirely penniless. Pascal was now exactly that. He then sought out Shaw, first by going to N.Y. hidden in the toilet of the train, then convincing a sea captain to give him a lift to England.
Somehow he did convince Shaw to give him the rights to his plays, beginning with "Pygmalion" (1938), which was an enormous international hit, both critically and financially. Pascal followed up "Pygmalion" with "Major Barbara" (1941) which he directed as well as produced. "Major Barbara" was filmed in London during the bombing by the Nazis. During air raids the crew and cast had to dodge into bomb shelters. Pascal never stopped the production and the movie was completed on schedule. But Pascal became more and more extravagant, finally losing his credibility with "Caesar and Cleopatra" (1945) which was the most expensive British movie ever made at that time and a terrible financial and critical flop, although it is more highly regarded today. Pascal famously insisted on importing sand from Egypt to achieve the right cinematic colors for this extravaganza. Shaw had become more difficult to work with also. After the success of "Pygmalion", which was shortened in its transition from stage to screen, as plays generally are, he increasingly refused to let his plays be cut. The result was that "Major Barbara" and "Caesar and Cleopatra" were not only filmed virtually complete, but with additional scenes by Shaw himself. Each of the two movies ran over two hours.
Pascal did manage to produce one more movie, "Androcles and the Lion", in 1952. By this time he was increasingly sick with cancer of the liver.
In spring of 1954, in New York City, just before his passing Pascal had planned a trip to India to see Meher Baba one last time. He was having an affair and divorcing his wife at the time. One day he impulsively wrote on a piece of hotel stationery to his mistress, "If I die on my trip to India I leave my entire estate to you." He signed and dated it before two witnesses, a cook and a maid in the hotel who did not speak English but only Chinese. This was an absurd gesture since Pascal was totally in debt. He died within a short time of this letter in July 1954, and within two years of his death the musical "My Fair Lady", which Pascal had managed to retain an option on by borrowing money from a Baba follower named Margaret Scott, opened on Broadway. Thus, soon after his death, his estate, which had been worth nothing on his deathbed, grew to an estimated value of two million dollars. There was a large court battle in which his wife Valerie (who he was not fully divorced from at the time of his death) and the mistress fought over his estate. His odd last will and testament on the hotel stationery was entered as evidence in support of his mistress and the case was well-publicized. Several Meher Baba followers were involved in his life at the end including Harold Rudd who testified at his trial. The result of the trial was an even split of Pascal's royalties from "My Fair Lady" between the mistress and Pascal's estranged wife, each receiving well over one million dollars in settlement. His wife Valerie attempted to pay back the borrowed option money to Margaret Scott, but by the time the settlement came through Mrs. Scott had fallen from a New York apartment window to her death. Valerie therefore paid the money to Margaret's daughter instead.
Pascal is best remembered as one of the big Hungarian movie producers, like the famous Alexander Korda. He was the only producer ever to have major movie deals with seven separate countries on three continents: Hungary, Italy, Germany, China, India, England, and the US. He was also the only man to ever convince George Bernard Shaw to adjust his scripts to the new medium of cinema, gaining concessions from Shaw that no other man could. Pascal even invented the famous line for Pygmalion, later appearing in the theatrical and movie versions of "My Fair Lady," "The rain in Spain stays mainly in the plain" and Shaw, by now publicly referring to Pascal as a "genius," wrote the line into the script. He was one of the most extravagant men of his time, named in 1938 as one of the world's most famous men by "Time" magazine along with Adolf Hitler. He is less known for his deep interest in the spiritual and his boundless enthusiasm for art as a direct and honest route to God. He is even less known for his lifelong devotion to spiritual master Meher Baba. His life is well documented in the beautifully written biography by his wife Valerie, "The Disciple and His Devil," published by McGraw-Hill in 1970 and republished by iUniverse in 1984. After Pascal's death, Valerie married the famous publisher and philanthropist George T. Delacorte Jr. and spent the rest of her life supporting charitable foundations under the name Valerie Delacorte.

</doc>
<doc id="56858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56858" title="McLaren">
McLaren

Vodafone McLaren Mercedes (McLaren Racing Limited) is a Formula 1 racing team. McLaren was started by Bruce McLaren in 1963. McLaren's current drivers are Jenson Button and Fernando Alonso. Jenson Button was the 2009 World Champion.
McLaren also make some other cars at its Woking factory, like the Mercedes McLaren SLR supercar.

</doc>
<doc id="56870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56870" title="Haylie Duff">
Haylie Duff

Haylie Katherine Duff (born February 19, 1985) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for her supporting role on the television series "7th Heaven". She is the sister of Hilary Duff.
Duff was born in Houston, Texas. Her mother, Susan Duff, is a producer. Robert Erhard Duff, Haylie's father, lives at the family home in Houston. Haylie is two and a half years older than her sister.
Duff wrote or co-wrote several songs on two of her sister Hilary's albums, "Metamorphosis" (2003), "Hilary Duff" (2004) and the song, "Gypsy Woman", on Hilary's 4th album, "Dignity". She has also done many songs for different soundtracks with her sister. 

</doc>
<doc id="56872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56872" title="20th Century Fox">
20th Century Fox

Twentieth (20th) Century Fox (known from 1935 to 1985 as Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation) is a large American company that makes movies ("motion picture studio"). It is in the Century City area of Los Angeles, California, USA, just west of Beverly Hills. The studio is a subsidiary of News Corporation, the media conglomerate controlled by Rupert Murdoch.
Twentieth Century Fox was formed in 1935 when Fox Film Corporation and Twentieth Century Pictures joined together to form the company. 20th Century Fox Television is a part of the company that makes television series.

</doc>
<doc id="56873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56873" title="Marquette, Michigan">
Marquette, Michigan

Marquette is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. Close to 20,000 people live there. Marquette is in the Upper Peninsula, on Lake Superior and is an important port on that lake. Much of the iron ore that was taken from mines in the Upper Peninsula was loaded onto ships in Marquette. Marquette is in the United States of America.

</doc>
<doc id="56879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56879" title="John Taverner">
John Taverner

John Taverner (born about 1490 – died 18 October, 1545) was the most important English composer of his time. He was also an organist.
We cannot be sure exactly when Taverner was born. Some people think that he was a boy chorister at the church of Tattershall in Lincolnshire but his name does not appear on the list of choristers there. People now think that he worked there later as a lay clerk.
He got a job at Cardinal College (now called Christ Church) in Oxford but he could not stay very long because King Henry VIII made lots of changes to the way people had to worship in church. Taverner even hid some books which the king had forbidden under the floor, and he got into trouble for doing this. In the end the Cardinal did not punish him because, he said, he was “only a musician”.
In 1530 he seems to have gone back to Lincolnshire and stayed there for the rest of his life. He probably wrote no more music, but he was quite rich.
Taverner composed eight masses. The most famous one is called the "Western Wynde". It was a “parody mass”, which meant that it used a popular tune with that title. Another mass was called "Gloria tibi trinitas". This work set a fashion for pieces which were called "In Nomine"s, because the tune was from the Benedictus in the mass which sets the words “in nomine domine” (“in the name of the Father”). “In nomine”s were compositions for instruments which used this tune.
Taverner also wrote magnificats and motets.

</doc>
<doc id="56880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56880" title="John Tavener">
John Tavener

Sir John Tavener (28 January 1944 – 12 November 2013) was an English composer. He is one of the most important composers of today. Most of his music is inspired by religion in some way.
John Tavener was born in Wembley, Middlesex. He went to Highgate School in North London. Another pupil there at the time was John Rutter. At school he studied piano, organ and composition and wrote music for the school orchestra. He also wrote music for the Presbyterian church where his family went and where his father was organist. In 1962 he went to the Royal College of Music where he studied the piano at first but then changed to composition. One of his early successes was a cantata called "Cain and Abel" which was performed by the London Bach Society. It was the performance of "The Whale" by the London Sinfonietta in 1968 that made him really famous. This work used collage, pre-recorded tape, amplified percussion and a chorus who used loudhailers. This kind of thing was very fashionable in the 1960s.
Another work written in 1968 was "In Alium". It was performed at the Proms. It was an unusual concert: three works by living composers were played in the first half. The audience were asked to vote for which one they wanted to hear again after the interval. They chose "In Alium".
The Beatles became interested in Tavener’s music. John Lennon heard The Whale and he decided to issue Tavener’s music on the newly formed Apple label.
Tavener became professor of composition at Trinity College. He continued to compose, although he often had difficulty finishing pieces. He was often worried that he might not be able to think of any new music. In 1977 he became a member of the Russian Orthodox Church. This changed his life. His music was very religious. He married his second wife and had two children. He was also very ill with heart trouble and even died on the operating table in hospital, but he brought back to life by the doctors.
He made a very important friend, Mother Thekla. She was an 80 year-old nun in the Orthodox Church, and she gave John a lot of advice and encouragement in his life.
A short piece for choir, "The Lamb" was written as a birthday present for his 3 year old nephew. It is very often sung by choirs at Christmas as a carol.
In 1989 his work "The Protecting Veil" was performed at the Proms. It was a work for cello and orchestra. The cellist was Steven Isserlis. This piece is one of the best known modern works for cello. He continued to write a lot of music. His "Song for Athene" was performed at the funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1998. It was heard on television all over the world. 
Tavener was knighted in 2000.
Tavener died on 12 November 2013 at his home in Child Okeford, Dorset from unknown causes, aged 69. Tavener suffered many health issues. He suffered two heart attack and had surgery to remove an intestinal tumor.

</doc>
<doc id="56893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56893" title="Escape velocity">
Escape velocity

Escape velocity is the initial speed that something would need to completely escape the gravity of a large body, like a star or a planet (such as the Earth), by mere inertia.
If a ball is thrown upwards while standing on the ground, the ball will reach a certain height (the faster thrown - the higher) and fall back down. But imagine if the ball is thrown fast enough that it "never" falls back down, and instead travels into space farther and farther away from the Earth. The minimum speed at which this could happen is called the escape velocity.
The escape velocity at the surface of the Earth is 11.2 kilometers per second (or 6.96 miles per second), assuming there is no drag.
This is, of course, a very high speed compared to how fast a ball can be thrown. Even a bullet shot into the sky will fall back down, because its initial speed of nearly 1 kilometer per second (or 0.621 miles per second) is far from escape velocity.
Spacecraft starting from the surface of Earth has a zero initial speed. But, if it has enough fuel, it may be permanently accelerated by its engine until it reaches escape velocity. Then it will travel into space even after the engine is shut off.

</doc>
<doc id="56899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56899" title="Razor">
Razor

A razor is a tool with one or more blades used by men for shaving the hair from their face, and by women for shaving hair from their legs and underarms. The earliest razors known are from the Bronze Age. They were made of bronze and had an oval shape. There are different kinds of razors today, including straight razors, which are rarely used, and safety razors and electric razors.
A slightly different type of electric razor is used to trim and cut hair from the head, because hair can be cut much more quickly with electric haircutting razors than with scissors.
Before the 20th century, straight razors were widely used. A straight razor consists of a knife blade, which can be reused. Since this blade is usually very sharp, there is a high risk of cutting oneself with the razor while scraping off the hair. Today, such razors are rarely used any more, except by barbers.
In the late 18th century, French engineer Jean-Jacques Perret invented the safety razor. With this system, the skin is protected, from all but the edge of the blade. This makes cutting much harder. The first such razor was released in 1875 by the Campfe Brothers. In 1901, King Camp Gillette invented the first razor with disposable razor blades. The blades were thrown away after several uses. The number of times a disposable blade can be used depends on beard coarseness and shaving technique, but the average is about one week. The company, Gilette still makes such razors today. They sell the razor relatively cheaply, and make big profits on the razor blades.
The electric razor was the next big step. With electric razors, shaving cream, soap or water is no longer needed. Electric razors use electricity to either make blades rotate or oscillate. That is the blades are either moved in circles, or they are moved up and down (or left and right). The razor is usually powered by a rechargeable battery. Prof. Alexandre Horowitz invented the concept of rotating blades which is still marketed as "Philishave" by Philips.
A slightly different type of electric razor is used to trim and cut hair from the head. Haircutting electric razors have comb-like attachments which determine the length of the hair. Electric haircutting razors are widely used by military and prison barbers, because hair can be cut much more quickly with electric haircutting razors than with scissors.
Shaving using any of the shaving methods (straight razor, safety razor, or electric razor) can have side-effects, including cuts, abrasions, and irritated skin. "Razor bumps" can also occur from removing ingrown hairs. To reduce the likelihood of cuts, abrasions, and irritated skin, people can use a fresh razor blade and prepare their faces by washing in hot, soapy water and then applying a shaving cream lather. There is a razor called Bump Fighter that is designed to reduce razor bumps and other side effects, but it uses special cartridges that are more expensive than standard double-edge razor blades.

</doc>
<doc id="56909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56909" title="Mood stabilizer">
Mood stabilizer

A mood stabilizer is a psychiatric medication used to treat mood disorders characterized by fast and unstable mood changes. Among the disorders commonly treated are bipolar disorder and Borderline personality disorder. With these conditions, the mood can change rapidly, between mania and depression. Many mood stabilizers can also prevent convulsions.

</doc>
<doc id="56910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56910" title="International Baccalaureate">
International Baccalaureate

The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme, or IBDP, is a well-known and difficult school program. It is taught in English, French or Spanish in more than 140 countries.
Students earn an IB Diploma after passing exams and completing the program requirements. They have to take classes in 6 subject areas. This is more than most countries.
The six subject areas are: Language 1 (first language), Language 2 (second language), Math, Science, World Studies, and Electives. History, Literature, Geography, and Economics are all World Studies subjects.
Students also have to write a long paper called an 'Extended Essay' and take a philosophy class called 'Theory of Knowledge'.
IBDP is famous as a difficult school program because the program has many subjects. Students have to do to 3 Higher Level subjects and 3 Standard Level subjects. Higher Level subjects are longer and more complex.
IB is studied in most countries, but some schools study the IB differently.

</doc>
