<doc id="7582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7582" title="Kurt Cobain">
Kurt Cobain

Kurt Donald Cobain (February 20, 1967 - c. April 5, 1994) was an American musician. He was the lead singer and guitarist of the grunge band Nirvana, which also included bassist Krist Novoselic and drummer Dave Grohl. 
Cobain was born in the city of Aberdeen, Washington. His parents divorced when he was seven years old. During his sophomore year in high school, Cobain began living with his mother in Aberdeen. In late 1986 Cobain moved into an apartment. At this time he often travelled to Olympia to go to rock concerts.
Cobain met Love in 1990. Love began pursuing Cobain in 1991. He married her in 1992 in Hawaii after she found out that she was pregnant with his child, Frances Bean Cobain. 
In 2002, some of Cobain's private journal entries were published in a book called "Journals".
Cobain was very influential in creating what came to be known as grunge music. Grunge musicians pushed back against music they saw commercial and shallow. Grunge was a reaction against 1980s stadium rock and metal bands that were more concerned with appearance than sound. 
Kurt Cobain started Nirvana with his friend Krist Novecselic in 1987. They often would practice on the second floor of Novescelic's Mom's hair salon. Nirvana's first album, "Bleach", was released in 1989. they went through five different drummers and finally they decided to hire Dave Grohl from the band Scream in 1990. After the 1991 release of their hit album "Nevermind", Nirvana became one of the most popular bands of that time. Nirvana's best known song is "Smells Like Teen Spirit", which was often referred to by the media as an anthem for Generation X and grunge itself. Often Cobain expressed frustration with his fame, because he thought they where getting the wrong side of him. They went on to release one more album, "In Utero". it wasn't as famous as "Nevermind", but it was still very successful. Cobain said that this album was the one he was looking for, the sound he had in his head for their last two albums. he decided that he wanted to have a more mellow sound. The band broke up after Cobain committed suicide in 1994.
On February 20, 2014, Aberdeen had its first Kurt Cobain Day.
Cobain was diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and bipolar disorder. He started using drugs when he was a teenager. He often used heroin. Cobain also had chronic bronchitis. He used drugs to self-treat his undiagnosed stomach condition. Later in his career, he was admitted to special drug treatment hospitals several times. The last time, he escaped to his home. Cobain committed suicide by shooting himself with a gun and taking an overdose of heroin in 1994. He is a member of the '27 club' of popular musicians who have died at the age of 27, often from drug abuse.

</doc>
<doc id="7583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7583" title="Mikhail Gorbachev">
Mikhail Gorbachev

Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev (sometimes spelled Gorbachov) (born 2 March 1931) is a former Soviet politician. He was the last leader of the Soviet Union. 
He was the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1985 until 1991, chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union (head of state) from 1988 until 1991 and the first (and last) president of the Soviet Union from 1990 until it was dissolved in 1991. Gorbachev is known for forming a friendship with President of the United States Ronald Reagan. Both of them would help end the Cold War.
Gorbachev was born in Privolnoye, Stavropol Krai, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union.
His attempts at reform and partnership with Ronald Reagan led to the end of the Cold War. His main intent was to improve the economy of the USSR. To do this, he set in motion two major reforms:
Indirectly, this may have helped cause the end of the power of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), and the break-up of the Soviet Union into smaller countries. However, it should be noted that the need to modernise the economy, and to conduct government less ruthlessly than Stalin, was agreed by the previous two leaders. They, Andropov and Chernenko, were elderly and died before real changes could be put in place.
In 1990, Gorbachev created the office of President of the Soviet Union. It was to be based on the systems in France and the United States. The office merged together office of General Secretary and head of state. The President was to be elected by the Soviet People but its only holder was Gorbachev who wasn't elected. Gorbachev saw the office mainly as a position for himself to remain influential in Soviet politics. His main goal was to keep the Soviet Union together, controlled by Moscow.
After the August coup in 1991 Gorbachev resigned as leader of the Communist Party and held onto the Soviet presidency. When Union republics began to turn away from the Soviet system, Gorbachev's power was dramatically reduced. By late 1991 he had almost no influence outside of Moscow. When Russia, Ukraine and Byelorussia became independent, Gorbachev was basically a President of a country that only existed on paper. He resigned on December 25, 1991.
Gorbachev studied law at Lomonosov Moscow State University where he also met his future wife Raisa Gorbachova. Raisa studied sociology. After retiring from politics in 1991, Gorbachev started The Gorbachev Foundation, which is currently headed by his daughter Irina. In 2004, he traveled to the United States to represent Russia at Ronald Reagan's funeral.
He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990. He won a Grammy Award in 2004 with Bill Clinton and Sophia Loren for Best Spoken Word Album for Children for their recording of Sergei Prokofiev's Peter and the Wolf.

</doc>
<doc id="7586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7586" title="Tron">
Tron

Tron is a 1982 American science fiction movie released by Walt Disney Pictures. The movie stars Jeff Bridges as Kevin Flynn (and Clu), Bruce Boxleitner as Alan Bradley (and Tron) and Cindy Morgan as Lora (and Yori). David Warner plays the villain, Dillinger (and Sark, as well as the voice of the "Master Control Program"). It was directed by Steven Lisberger. One of the first movies to use computer animations extensively, "Tron" has a distinctive visual style.
The music for the movie was written by Wendy Carlos, and there were also two songs from the band Journey.
Even though it got mixed success soon after its debut, "Tron" has gained a cult following thanks to its computer-generated imagery (CGI) and hero story. Several video games have been based on it.
A twentieth anniversary DVD edition came out in 2002. In early 2005, Disney revealed plans for a sequel. The sequel was called "Tron Legacy" and was released in 2010. It tells the story of Flynn's son Sam.

</doc>
<doc id="7587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7587" title="Garfield">
Garfield

Garfield is a famous comic strip created by Jim Davis. It has a cat called Garfield, a dog called Odie, and their owner Jon Arbuckle. The cat is named after Davis's grandfather, James Garfield Davis (who was probably named after former U.S. President James Garfield). It debuted in 1978 in 41 US newspapers. "Garfield at Large" was "Garfield"'s first book that debuted in 1980 and was listed in the "New York Times" bestseller lists at #1. By 1983, "Garfield" was featured in 1400 newspapers, and was translated into seven different languages.
"Garfield" got a website in 1996. In 2002, "Garfield" was declared "Most widely syndicated comic strip in the world" by the Guinness Book of World Records. Garfield's 1st cookbook featured in 2003. In 2004, "Garfield: The Movie" was the first full-length feature movie based off of "Garfield". Garfield is a fun loving cat who loves lasagna and is enjoyed by many people around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="7593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7593" title="Michael Moore">
Michael Moore

Michael Francis Moore (born April 23, 1954 in Davison, Michigan, USA) is an American writer and moviemaker. He is known for his strong liberal political views. He often expresses them using humor and satire. His work includes "Roger & Me", "Fahrenheit 9/11", "Sicko", and "Bowling for Columbine," and the satire show "TV Nation". He has also written books including "Dude, Where's My Country?" and "Will They Ever Trust Us Again?"
Moore was born to Frank and Veronica Moore, descendants of Irish immigrants. He has two sisters, Anne and Veronica. He married Kathleen Glynn in 1990. In July 2013, Moore filed for divorce. On July 22, 2014, the divorce was finalized.
Until 1972, Moore went to Davison High School. When he was 18, he was elected to the Davison School Board. There he met Kathleen Glynn.
At the age of 22, Moore left school. He started an alternative magazine called "The Flint Voice". He was the editor of the magazine for ten years. After that, Moore was hired as managing editor of the magazine "Mother Jones" in San Francisco. After five months, he left the editorial staff because of a dispute. After that he went back to Flint, Michigan.
Moore has been a strong critic against Presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush. He supported Ralph Nader in the 2000 presidential election, and Barack Obama over Hillary Clinton in the 2008 presidential election. In December 2015, Moore announced his support for Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders in the upcoming 2016 United States presidential election. Moore has stated that Sanders is a "candidate not to be messed with" and showed his support for Sanders' debate performances.

</doc>
<doc id="7594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7594" title="Hawaiian Punch">
Hawaiian Punch

Hawaiian Punch is the name of a brand of sweetened fruit punch drinks owned by Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. (DPSU). It was created in 1934 by A.W. Leo, Tom Yates, and Ralph Harrison as an ice cream topping, and customers later discovered that it was an appealing drink when mixed with water.
In 1962, the character of Punchy was introduced in a commercial for Hawaiian Punch, eventually becoming the product's mascot. His long-time saying is "Hey, how about a nice Hawaiian Punch!"
It currently comes in the following flavors:
The drink has its name because some of original recipe's main ingredients come from Hawaii.

</doc>
<doc id="7597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7597" title="Whale">
Whale

Whales are large marine mammals which live in the ocean. Like other mammals, they breathe oxygen from the air, have a small amount of hair, and are warm blooded.
There are two basic kinds of whales, and about 100 species.
People use the word "whale" in different ways. Some use it for all Cetaceans including dolphins and porpoises. These people say that dolphins and porpoises were also whales, because they are also Cetaceans. Others separate out the dolphins and porpoises: common English-speaking people have never called them or thought of them as whales unless they are very large. Actually, there is no clear line between whales and dolphins.
Whales have been killed for meat and oil by whalers. However, many countries have laws saying not to kill whales anymore. Some countries, such as Iceland and Japan, do not have these laws. In other countries, such as the USA, only Eskimos and some American Indians may legally kill whales.
Baleen whales eat plankton: clouds of very small things floating in the water, and krill. The whales' mouths are very large. They open their mouths very wide and hold a big mouthful of sea water. Their throats stretch very wide to make the space inside their mouth even bigger. Then they close their mouth and squeeze out the seawater. The food does not escape because, instead of teeth, these whales have filters called "baleen". Baleen is long, hard strips that act like a strainer. The water goes through the baleen. Animals and plants in the water are trapped and swallowed, while the water goes back out. This is very different from the way that toothed whales eat.
Toothed whales eat larger fish or meat and are like big dolphins. They have sharp teeth and usually have a big forehead. Inside the big forehead is a chamber to make and direct sounds. They make all kinds of sounds, including sounds so loud they can shock fish. They can use echolocation to locate things that they can not see. Some toothed whales, such as the sperm whale, are almost never called dolphins. Some of them are always called dolphins. Others are like dolphins in some ways and like whales in others.
Cetaceans are divided into two suborders:
Both cetaceans and artiodactyl are now classified under the super-order Cetartiodactyla, which includes both whales and hippopotamuses. Whales are the hippopotamus's closest living relatives.
All cetaceans, including whales, dolphins and porpoises, are descendants of land-living mammals of the Artiodactyl order (even-toed ungulates). Both are related to "Indohyus" (an extinct semi-aquatic deer-like ungulate) from which they split around 54 million years ago.
Primitive whales probably first took to the sea about 50 million years ago and became fully aquatic about 5-10 million years later. Pakicetus is an important transitional species.
Because of where they live (and unlike many animals), whales are conscious breathers: they decide when to breathe. Whales breathe through blowholes. Baleen whales have two and toothed whales have one. These are on the top of the head: the animal breathes while most of their body is underwater. Breathing first shoots out extra water from the blowhole, making a jet into the air, followed by inhaling air into the lungs.
All mammals sleep, including whales, but they cannot stay in an unconscious state for too long, because they need to be conscious to breathe. It is thought that only one hemisphere (half) of their brains sleeps at a time, so that whales are never completely asleep, but still get the rest they need. Whales are thought to sleep around eight hours a day.
A single calf is born every two or three years. Gestation takes up to a year. Nursing continues for more than a year in many species; there is a strong bond between mother and calf. Reproductive maturity occurs at seven to ten years. This mode of reproduction produces few offspring, but increases their chance of surviving. The effect of hunting is severe on these animals, who replace their numbers so slowly.
Whales are known to teach, learn, cooperate, scheme, and even grieve.
"Breaching" is what happens when a whale jumps into the air and then purposefully flops down on the water with a great splash. Sometimes it twirls in the air when it does this. Scientists are not sure whether breaching is done to play, to clean the whale's skin of things that are stuck to it, or to tell other whales something.
There are a number of other behaviors on the surface which are not well understood. 'Logging' is when a whale swims slowly at the surface of the ocean with very little movement. When a whale does this, it looks like a log in the water. Some scientists think this is a kind of rest or sleep for whales. 'Spyhopping' is when a whale sits straight up in the water with its head straight up and out of the water. It will sometimes turn around in circles as it spyhops. Some scientists think this might be because whales are trying to see what is happening above water. 'Lobtailing' is done when a whale faces downward in the water. It then slaps the water with a thunderous sound. Scientists think this might be done to warn other whales of danger, or as a method of feeding.

</doc>
<doc id="7598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7598" title="Marker">
Marker

A marker is a writing device that allows a person to draw, write, or scribble. Ink comes out of the tip of the marker and onto the writing surface, commonly a piece of paper. Markers generally come in a variety of different colors. They are sometimes referred to as "magic markers", or magic pens.
The tip of the marker where ink comes out from is usually made of cloth. This allows the ink to go through easily. A lot of ink can come out from it at one time.

</doc>
<doc id="7599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7599" title="Anchor">
Anchor

Anchors are used to stop boats from moving. Today, anchors are usually made of metal, and they are made to catch the ocean floor (the seabed).
There are two main types of anchors: temporary and permanent. A permanent anchor is called a "mooring block" and is not easily moved. A temporary anchor can be moved and is carried on the boat. When people talk about anchors, they are usually thinking about temporary anchors.
An anchor works by either weight (mass) or shape. Shape is more important to temporary anchors, and design is very important. Anchors must resist wind and tide, and also the up-and-down movement of waves.
The oldest anchors were just rocks, and many rock anchors have been found from a long time ago. Many modern moorings still use a large rock as the mooring block.
A simple anchor which uses two arms made of wood, and a rock weight, is an anchor which is still used today. The wood arms are sharp to enter the seabed, and the weight will hold normal movement.
The English language uses several special words to describe parts of anchors. This is because England has a rich marine and naval history, and so the language gives a large number of words to boat and ship terminology.
A modern temporary anchor usually has a middle bar called the "shank", attached to a flat surface (traditionally called "fluke") which holds the seabed. The place where the shank meets the fluke is called the "crown", and the shank is usually fitted with a ring or shackle to attach it to the "rode" (cable, chain, or rope joining the anchor to the boat). Some old anchors have attached to the shank a "stock", which is a bar that places the anchor in a certain way when it falls on the seabed. Old anchors are often named "stocked" or "stockless" anchors depending on whether they have this, or not.
There are many designs.
Over the last 20 years, many new anchor designs have appeared. These anchors are usually designed for small vessels, and are usually not for large ships. See modern designs.
The Fisherman has a traditional design that has not changed much over time. It is less useful than a good modern design, and its holding power for its weight is among the worst of all anchor types.
The most common type of fluke anchors is the "Danforth". The Danforth style uses a stock at the crown (see above), to which two large flat flukes are attached. The stock can rotate, so the flukes can move toward the bottom. It can hold very well but has difficulty "setting" (entering the seabed) on its own. It is efficient for its weight.
Fluke anchors have difficulty penetrating kelp and weed seabeds, as well as very hard sand or clay seabeds. Once set, the anchor can come free and fail to "reset" on its own.
A traditional design, the grapnel style is simple to design and build. It is a simple hook that is good for rock or reefs. It is useless for most other seabeds.
The original "CQR" was invented in 1933 in the United Kingdom. Many copies of it now exist. Plows used to be popular with sailors and private boaters. They are good but not excellent in most seabeds. Another more recent design is the "Delta" which is better.
Plows use a special weight in the tip of the fluke (the "toe") for them to work properly. This makes them heavy.
The genuine CQR and Delta brands are now owned by Lewmar.
The genuine Bruce was invented in the 1970s and to try to solve some problems of the plow. Many copies are now made. This type of anchor is now called a "claw-type". Claw anchors can set quickly in some seabeds, but do not hold well for their weight, and can let go very suddenly.
Bruce Anchor Group no longer make the genuine Bruce. Most copies are lower quality than the genuine Bruce.
Modern anchors are designed to be better than the plow and claw types. Many are new, still under patent and owned by commercial companies or tied to certain brands.
Many modern designs are better than the older types. This chart shows tests done by West Marine (an American marine shop) in 2006 . The anchors were tested on three different sandy seabeds, at three different "scopes" (pull angles).
Six of the seven best anchors on this chart are "modern", but several modern anchors did very badly. This shows that 'newer' is not always better.
Permanent anchors are used when a floating thing must be kept in place for a long time. They are used to anchor Lightships, navigation buoys, and moorings. The anchor must hold in all weather, even the worst storm.
A deadweight anchors is a heavy weight. It can be used when the bottom is too hard for other types of anchors. It can be made of a large rock or a concrete block.
Mushroom and pyramid anchors are good where the seabed is soft. This type of anchor needs time to dig into the seabed. It can be smaller and lighter than a deadweight anchor. The mushroom anchor is shaped like a mushroom, and the pyramid anchor is shaped like a pyramid with the apex pointing down.
The sand screw must be screwed into the seabed before it is used. It can be very light.

</doc>
<doc id="7601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7601" title="Light pollution">
Light pollution

Light pollution is a type of pollution. It is defined as “any adverse (or bad) effect as a result of man-made lights.” Usually, this means too much light. Several species, including plants and humans, are badly affected by light pollution. Most people have never heard of light pollution, and those who have usually don’t care, or do anything about it. Light pollution costs Americans billions of dollars every year.
There are five kinds of light pollution:
Sky glow usually has more of an effect on the environment than light trespass and glare, but all of them are a major problem to people today.
Sky glow is the kind of light pollution that prevents people from seeing stars and other deep-space objects. This causes birds to not be able to migrate to the right place because they can not follow the moon and stars. Sky glow also prevents astronomers from seeing dim objects.
Light trespass is when light being used by a person goes into the property of another. Though light trespass is not an environmental issue, it is still light pollution.
The third kind of light pollution, glare has different kinds. The first, disability glare, is the loss of visibility because of too many lights. Discomfort glare is when the lights cause pain.
Light pollution stops migrating birds of having any way of seeing the moon and stars,they need to use to nagivate the direciton of their migration,therefore not being able to migrate to the correct place. Also, sea turtles do not come to shore and nest as often, because they are afraid of the lights.It also affects animals eyes as a flash of camera weakens the eyesight of animals.
Glare causes sleep problems in humans. Too much light in an apartment shining in from a nearby billboard will disturb their sleep. Also science is being affected by light pollution. Astronomers have no way of observing, or making discoveries with too much light to block the night sky.
It also causes headache as when light directly falls into our eyes and affects the sensory nerves.
There are now several groups that are trying to prevent light pollution. Light pollution first made news in 1964, when an observatory was specially placed just to avoid light pollution. However, it wasn’t brought to the attention of most people until June 6, 2002, when the Czech Republic passed the world’s first light pollution law. Since then, light pollution is slowly being recognized by the general public as a major problem.
You can lower the amount of light pollution by having lights off when they are not needed. You can also shield yourself from this pollution by putting curtains on a window facing the street or any other disturbing light source.

</doc>
<doc id="7604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7604" title="Nintendo">
Nintendo

Nintendo (In Japanese: 任天堂) is a company that makes video games and video game consoles. At first, it began by creating playing cards and other toys and games. Their main office is in Kyoto, Japan. They also have offices in other continents.
Nintendo was formed on September 23, 1889. They originally were a company that made playing cards. Then it went on to making toys, but in the 1960s, they started doing other things, such as owning hotels. They began making video games only in the 1970s. In 1980, they came out with a hand-held game device called Game and Watch. Nintendo's first video game console was the Famicom. Famicom was first only released in Japan but it was later released in some other areas, such as North America and Europe. When they released it in there, its name was changed to "Nintendo Entertainment System", or NES for short. They also released some popular stand-alone video games, with names like the arcade game "Donkey Kong", and NES games "Super Mario Bros.", "Duck Hunt", and "The Legend of Zelda". Later, the company made hand-helds such as the Game Boy and DS, and consoles such as Nintendo 64, GameCube, Wii, and WiiU.
Today, Nintendo has many popular characters and series. "Mario", and "The Legend of Zelda" are examples of these. 
Nintendo currently sells the 3DS, Wii, Wii U and Nintendo DS video game consoles. The Wii plugs into a TV and is called a "home console", because it is used most of the time at home. The Nintendo DS is small and has its own screens. It is called "portable" and "handheld", because it is played on using hands, and can be taken anywhere. The 3DS is like the DS, but it has a switch that can make one of the screens show things in 3D plus a higher horse power.
In March 2011 of February 26 2012, Nintendo released their new handheld system in Japan and Europe, the Nintendo 3DS. It is the first system to have 3D without special 3D glasses. On the date of July 28 2012, Nintendo released a bigger update called the 3DS XL, which has a new anti-glare screen, a top screen that is 90% bigger than the old 3DS and has a matte plastic finish instead of a glossy metal one. This means that scratches and fingerprints cannot be seen as easily, but it can be broken more easily and it is not as durable.
Other video game companies:

</doc>
<doc id="7605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7605" title="São Paulo">
São Paulo

São Paulo (Portuguese for "Saint Paul") is the capital of the state of São Paulo, Brazil. It is the biggest city in the Southern Hemisphere. 
The city has an area of 1,523 km² and more than 11.0 million people live there.
In January 25, 1554, two priests, Manuel da Nóbrega and José de Anchieta, built a school - "Colégio de São Paulo de Piratininga" - to convert natives to Catholic religion. Today, this building is the Padre Anchieta Museum. 
The first people moved to the region in 1560, when São Paulo became a village. 
Because São Paulo was a poor village and was far away from the colony centre, the "bandeirantes" (explorers) chose it to start expeditions to enslave natives, recapture runaway slaves, and to find precious metals and stones (gold, diamonds, etc.). 
In 1711, São Paulo became a city. In the end of the 18th century, people started growing sugarcane in the rural area of the province, and São Paulo was the way to the port of Santos.
In the 19th century, after the construction of São Paulo's Law School, São Paulo became the capital of the province, politicians and philosophers went there, and the first newspapers and books were printed. At this time, many European immigrants, especially Italians, moved to São Paulo to work at the big coffee plantations. 
At the end of the 19th century and the start of the 20th century, the city grew quickly. Some people who study Brazilian History says "the city was rebuilt".
In the 20th century, many factories were built, and more immigrants moved to work there.
Today, São Paulo is a centre of commerce, services and technology, and some people consider it the most important Latin American city.
The current mayor of São Paulo is Fernando Haddad, and his party is "Partido dos Trabalhadores".
São Paulo is crossed by the Tropic of Capricorn. It is in a plateau (a high flat area), 760 metres above the sea level. 
Because of its altitude, its climate (subtropical) is not so warm as it is near the coast. São Paulo is 70 km far from the coast, 420 km far from Rio de Janeiro, and 1,020 km far from Brasília, the Brazilian capital city.
The metropolitan area formed by São Paulo and 39 surroundings cities is the biggest in the Latin America. More than 19 million people live in this metropolitan area, which is also called "Greater São Paulo" and is the fifth biggest of the world.
The city is divided into 31 boroughs, and each borough is divided into neighbourhoods. The boroughs form nine regions (or "zones"), with similar geographic location and history, but most people and companies prefer to use another division, with only five regions.
Descendants of many peoples live in São Paulo: Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, African, German, Lebanese, Japanese. There are also descendant of peoples from other South American countries, for example Argentina and Bolivia, and other places, for example Chinese people, Jews, and South Koreans.
Every day, people from other cities or states move to São Paulo. Many are people from the Northeast region of Brazil that try to find a job in the city.
São Paulo is the commercial and industrial center of Brazil. There are factories and shops of all sizes and kinds. For example, in São Paulo there are some of the more expensive shops of Brazil, but also there are commercial districts formed only by cheap shops, and people from many places (also from other cities) buy clothing, electronics and other products at these districts.
Football is the sport with the biggest number of fans in the city. The most important clubs from the city are Corinthians, Palmeiras, and São Paulo. They are all playing in the Brazilian Série A, the major football championship in Brazil. Except Palmeiras.
There are also other big and medium teams from São Paulo, for example Portuguesa and Juventus, and many small teams. However, Santos FC, that is a club from Santos, a city in the coast, is the fourth team in number of supporters.
São Paulo also hosts the Formula One Brazilian Grand Prix, in Autódromo José Carlos Pace (known as Autódromo de Interlagos).
Other major sports are basketball and volleyball. Some people also play handball, tennis, and other sports.
Some people do not like São Paulo because of the big number of cars, trucks and motorcycles on streets and avenues. The public transport is also very important for the people who live there. There are many bus lanes in the city, and a big Metro (underground railway) and railway system.
São Paulo has three airports and is the second city in number of helicopters of the world (New York City is the first).
Below is a list of famous people born in São Paulo.

</doc>
<doc id="7608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7608" title="Tim Burton">
Tim Burton

Timothy Walter "Tim" Burton (born August 25, 1958) is an American movie director producer screenwriter and artist. 
He was born in Burbank, California on August 25, 1958. He began as an animator for Walt Disney Pictures, but soon moved on making his own kinds of movies and projects. 
He has an individual style; the movies that he makes are creative and often based on events that would not happen in real life. For example the main character in "Edward Scissorhands" is a young man who has scissors instead of hands. His movies attract an audience usually that fits his unique tastes. 
Burton has bipolar disorder. He lives in Belsize Park, London, next door to his former partner Helena Bonham Carter. Burton and Carter split in December 2014. The houses have a door connecting them. The couple have a son and daughter together.

</doc>
<doc id="7613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7613" title="DVD">
DVD

A DVD (which means Digital Versatile Disc or a Digital Video Disc is an optical disc capable of storing up to 4.7 GB of data, more than six times what a CD can hold. DVDs are often used to store movies at better quality than a VHS. DVDs can also have interactive menus and bonus features such as deleted scenes and commentaries. Like CDs, DVDs are read with a laser.
The disc can have one or two sides, and one or two layers of data per side; the number of sides and layers determines how much it can hold. A 12 cm diameter disc may have one of the following storage capacities:
There are also 8 cm DVDs with a storage capacity of 1.5 GB.
The capacity of a DVD-ROM can be visually determined by noting the number of data sides, and looking at the data side(s) of the disc. Double-layered sides are usually gold-colored, while single-layered sides are usually silver-colored, like a CD. One additional way to tell if a DVD contains one or two layers is to look at the center ring on the underside of the disc. If there are two barcodes, it is a dual layer disc. If there is one barcode, there is only one layer.
Both CD and DVD discs have equal sizes (diameter, thickness etc.). However, the amount of information they can store is different. These discs are made of the same materials and have the same methods of production.
CDs and DVDs use the same way of keeping information. Both CDs and DVDs have pits and bumps on the data track (the data track represents a path which has certain information). The information is read by a laser.
A DVD disk has several layers, which are made of plastic. All layers have a thickness of 1.2 millimeters. An injection used on a polycarbonate plastic leads to the creation of microscopic bumps. Today's production uses this type of plastic to create different things because it can resist very high and low temperatures.
When layers are made, the bumps appear. Many bumps form one continuous spiral that can include information. After that a spray of a special reflective layer covers the bumps.
Aluminum is applied behind inner layers and semi-reflective gold covers the outer layers. This helps the laser to concentrate through the outer layers onto the inner ones. Then, after applying a protective liquid (lacquer) and pressing the layers, they are treated with infrared light.
Every track on a DVD disk circles from its center to the edge. The distance between the tracks on a DVD disk is 740 nanometers. Only a very precise mechanism can read the bumps on the disk, because they are very small (320×400×120 nanometers).
The aluminum side of the disk has pits, but the side which is read by the laser has bumps. Because the size of the bumps are very small, a DVD track is very long. A data track of a DVD layer is about 7.5 miles long. This is the length of an ordinary DVD disk. The track of a disc with two sides would be about 30 miles long.

</doc>
<doc id="7614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7614" title="Submarine">
Submarine

A submarine (or Sub) is a vessel that goes under water. Most large submarines are war vessels. Some small ones are used for scientific or business purposes. These are often called "submersibles" and cannot go far or stay long away from base. Some rich people buy their own to explore under the sea and look at fish. A submarine is always called a boat, not a ship.
In early times, submarines were often powered by hand. This is because boat engines had not been invented yet. They were almost always designed to be used for war. Submarines would try to sink enemy ships by crude methods. These included drilling screws into their wooden hulls. Some tried to blow up a ship. This often destroyed the submarine, too.
Later, during the First and Second World Wars, better submarines were made. Many of these better submarines were created by Germany. The submarines were powered by a diesel-electric system. A diesel motor would be used to turn a generator. The generator would charge a large number of batteries while the submarine was above the water. This power was then used to power the submarine when it went underwater. These submarines were dangerous for enemies. They were hard to see while underwater but it was easy to attack them when they were above the water and recharging. 
The First Battle of the Atlantic was the first major battle that was mainly fought between submarines and their enemies. As in later wars, the main jobs of submarines were to enforce blockade and to sink enemy warships. They usually attacked freighters at night, shooting with their guns and then hiding under the water. Sometimes they used their torpedoes, especially against large ships and warships. 
After World War II better sonar helped the enemies of submarines to find and kill them. New subs were more streamlined and had no artillery because water dragging against the guns made noise underwater and slowed the subs.
Most large modern military submarines are powered by nuclear reactors. These submarines often have a system which can get air from the seawater. These two things allow them to stay under water for long periods of time. Their most important uses are attacking ships or launching missiles. These include cruise missiles and nuclear missiles. There are two main kinds of subs. Attack submarines are small and fast. They attack other subs and surface ships with a special kind of underwater bomb called a torpedo. Missile subs are larger and slower. They are built to shoot missiles at far-away targets on land. Missile subs are usually big enough to carry commandos and launch them safely from their torpedo tubes.

</doc>
<doc id="7615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7615" title="Lebanon">
Lebanon

Lebanon is a country in the Middle East, on the Mediterranean Sea. It has a border with Israel to the south, and Syria to the east and north. Lebanon has been independent since 1943. Its capital city is Beirut.
Lebanon has two chains of mountains. It is often called the ruby of the Middle East. It has a coastline stretching all the way up. The area of Lebanon is 10,452 square kilometres.
Over 4 million people live in Lebanon. The people mostly speak Arabic. About 54% of Lebanese people are Muslim and 40.5% are Christian. There are 16 million Lebanese people living in other countries. Lebanon is a very westernized country, is "East meets the West".
The national symbol in Lebanon is the Cedar tree, because an abundance of them are found in the Lebanon Mountains.
Lebanon is divided into six governorates. These are divided into twenty-five districts. The districts are also divided into several municipalities. The governorates and their districts are listed below:

</doc>
<doc id="7617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7617" title="Alan Alda">
Alan Alda

Alan Alda (real name: Alfonso Joseph D'Abruzzo) (born January 28, 1936) is an American actor. His mother was of Irish ancestry; his father was of Italian ancestry. He has appeared in, as well as directed and wrote, many movies. He is probably most famous for his role as "Hawkeye" Pierce, the central character on the comedy/drama TV series "M*A*S*H", as well as writing and directing several episodes of the show, and later becoming one of its producers. Alan also has been the host of "Scientific American Frontiers" on PBS since 1993. His father, Robert Alda, was an actor, and his mother, Joan, was once crowned Miss New York. Alan has been married to Arlene Weiss since 1957 and they have three daughters.

</doc>
<doc id="7618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7618" title="Sally Kellerman">
Sally Kellerman

Sally Kellerman (June 2, 1937) is an American movie actress. She was born in Long Beach, California. Her acting performances include the pilot for the original "Star Trek" television series, and the movies "MASH" (1970) and "Back to School" (1986).

</doc>
<doc id="7619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7619" title="Hagar the Horrible">
Hagar the Horrible

Hägar the Horrible is the title of a comic strip and the name of the main character. The comic strip is about a Viking and his life of plundering and his family life. It was started in 1973 by Dik Browne. Since Dik's retirement (he stopped working) in 1988, his son Chris has continued the comic.

</doc>
<doc id="7620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7620" title="Baghdad">
Baghdad

Baghdad (, transliterated "Baghdād") is the capital city and largest city in Iraq. It is the second-largest city in Southwest Asia after Tehran. It is the second-largest city in the Arab world after Cairo. It has 5,772,000 people (2003). Baghdad is on the Tigris River at 33°20′N 44°26′E. The city was once the center of Dar al-Islam, Muslim civilization.
Baghdad used to be one of the largest learning centers in the world, during the post classical era.

</doc>
<doc id="7621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7621" title="Mediterranean Sea">
Mediterranean Sea

The Mediterranean Sea is the body of water that separates Europe, Africa and Asia.
The Mediterranean Sea is connected to the Atlantic Ocean by a narrow passage called the Strait of Gibraltar. It is between the southern tip of Spain and northern Morroco. It is almost completely surrounded by land, on the north by Europe, on the south by North Africa, and on the east by the Middle East. It covers around 2.5 million km² (965 000 mi²). 
To the east it connects to the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea, by the Dardanelles and the Bosporus. The Sea of Marmara is often thought to be a part of the Mediterranean Sea, whereas the Black Sea is generally not. 
The 163 km (101 mi) long man-made Suez Canal in the southeast connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea. The canal is between Egypt and the Sinai peninsula. It was built by the French "Compagnie Universelle du Canal Maritime de Suez" from 1859 to 1869 against the British government.As a sea around which some of the most ancient human civilizations were arranged
Some of the most ancient human civilisations were made around the Mediterranean Sea, so it has had a large influence on the history and ways of life of these cultures. It provided a way of trade, colonization and war, and was the basis of life (like fishing and catching other seafood) for many communities throughout the ages. The combination of similarly shared climate, geology and access to a common sea has led to lots of historical and cultural connections between the ancient and modern societies around the Mediterranean.
Above all, it was the superhighway of transport in ancient times. It allowed for trade and cultural exchange between peoples of the region — Phoenicians, Egyptians, Carthaginians, Greeks, Romans, and the Middle East (Arab/Persian/Semitic) cultures. 
The history of the Mediterranean is important in understanding the origin and development of Western civilization. In modern times, the Mediterranean was the location of many battles at sea during World War II and control over it was important for defeating the Axis Powers, Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Today the Mediterranean Sea still connects the economies of Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East as it did in ancient times. The european migrant crisis has resulted in many refugees drowning in the Mediterranean Sea.
Being nearly landlocked affects the Mediterranean Sea's properties. Tides are limited by the narrow connection with the Atlantic Ocean. The water is saltier, partly because of evaporation. The Mediterranean has a deep blue color.
Evaporation greatly exceeds precipitation and river runoff in the Mediterranean, a fact that is central to the water circulation within the basin. Evaporation is especially high in its eastern half, causing the water level to decrease and salinity to increase eastward. This pressure gradient pushes relatively cool, low-salinity water from the Atlantic across the basin; it warms and becomes saltier as it travels east, then sinks in the region of the Levant and circulates westward, to spill over the Strait of Gibraltar. Thus, seawater flow is eastward in the Strait's surface waters, and westward below; once in the Atlantic, this chemically distinct "Mediterranean Intermediate Water" can persist thousands of kilometers away from its source.

</doc>
<doc id="7622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7622" title="Shirley Bassey">
Shirley Bassey

Dame Shirley Veronica Bassey, DBE (born January 8, 1937) is a Welsh singer, born in Cardiff to an English mother and Nigerian father. She is best known for singing the theme songs for the James Bond films, "Goldfinger", "Diamonds are Forever", and "Moonraker". She was "one of the most popular female vocalists in Britain during the last half of the 20th century". 

</doc>
<doc id="7623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7623" title="Captain Beefheart">
Captain Beefheart

Don Van Vliet (born Don Glen Vliet January 15, 1941– December 17, 2010) was an American singer. He is better known by his stage name Captain Beefheart. He was best known for his collaborations and (sometimes) rivalry, with long time friend, Frank Zappa. He is an inspiration to many "alternative" singers. He retired from music due to illness and spent his time painting. He was born in Glendale, California. His stage name came from a movie project Zappa was writing, but soon abandoned, ""Captain Beefheart battles the Grunt People"". His best known album was recorded in 1969. It was titled "Trout Mask Replica".
He and his group "Magic Band" also made albums in the early 1980s that received positive critical attention.
Van Vliet was also a well known painter of abstract primitive art. His work has been shown in gallery presentations in New York City and Europe.
He died on December 17, 2010 at the age of 69 from complications from multiple sclerosis, twenty-nine days before his 70th birthday.

</doc>
<doc id="7625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7625" title="December 30">
December 30


</doc>
<doc id="7628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7628" title="C (programming language)">
C (programming language)

The C programming language is a computer programming language that was developed to do system programming for the operating system UNIX and is an imperative programming language. C was developed in the early 1970 by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie. It is a procedural language, which means that people can write their programs as a series of step-by-step instructions. C is a compiled language.
Because the ideas behind C are kept close to the design of the computer, the compiler (program builder) can generate instructions for the computer that will run very fast. It is fast because it builds the program in machine code/native code. This makes C a good language for writing operating systems. Many operating systems, including Linux and UNIX, are programmed using this language. The language itself has very few keywords, and most things are done using libraries, which are collections of code for them to be reused.
C is available for many different types of computers. This is why C is called a "portable" language. A program that is written in C and that respects certain limitations can be compiled for many different platforms.
The syntax of C has also influenced many other programming languages, such as C++, C#, and Java, and many more programming languages we use nowadays.
Here is an example of a program written in C. When built and run, it will show "Hello world!", followed by a new line. on the computer screen.
// This is a comment. It's for *people* to read, not computers. It's usually used to describe the program.
// This "includes" the Standard Input-Output tools in the program.
// The main function
int main(void) {

</doc>
<doc id="7630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7630" title="Drake &amp; Josh">
Drake &amp; Josh

Drake & Josh is a Nickelodeon television series. It started in January 2004 and ended in September 2007. The stars of the series are Drake Bell and Josh Peck. The two appeared as best friends on "The Amanda Show". In "Drake & Josh", they play step-brothers of separate parents. In the first episode, Drake and Megan's mother marries Josh's father. 
Other stars of the show include Nancy Sullivan, who also starred on "The Amanda Show".
Drake Parker's mother is Audrey Parker, and he lived with his single mother, along with Megan, his younger sister until she got married to a weatherman, Walter Nichols, who has a son named Josh Nichols.
Drake may be portrayed as lazy, mischievous, cool, dumb and smooth-with-the-ladies. He is said to be 15 in the first two seasons, and 16–17 in the last two seasons. Drake hates homework, and is often seen either playing a tone on his guitar (he is very talented when it comes to music!) or tuning it. Sometimes he rehearses for his concerts, which is a good excuse to not do homework! He sometimes plays pranks on Josh or does mischief, and lets Josh get the blame. Both brothers are fed up with Megan. She plays pranks on them all the time for just no reason at all, throughout the season. Drake is someone who always gets away from trouble. Josh on the other hand is the total opposite of Drake ... but they still get along!
Josh's father's name is Walter Nichols, a weatherman, and he lived with his father alone, until his father got married to a woman named Audrey Parker Nichols.
Audrey has two kids: Drake and Megan, who go to his school.
Josh may be portrayed as smart, book-wormy, simple and kind-hearted. He is fed-up with Drake's stupidity and Megan's pranks, but still loves them.
Josh is said to be Drake's age, and has a talent in dancing and playing the mouth organ. He has an alter-ego named Miss Nancy, who gives advice to people in his school. Drake first finds that out in the first episode of the TV show, and takes advantage of it. Josh easily goofs things up, because of Drake or Megan, but they both have to sort it out. His only girlfriend is Mindy Crenshaw, another bookworm, slightly smarter than him and Drake hates her.
The start of each episode uses a song called "I Found A Way". The song is written by Drake Bell and Michael Corcoran and performed by Bell. Bell can also be seen playing the song in a quick scene from an episode in the first season. The song can also be found on the series' official soundtrack, "", and on Drake Bell's albums, "Telegraph" and "It's Only Time".
The English dialect (conlang, mixed language) that was used exclusively on this show (Drake and Josh) is called Drake and Joshian. Drake and Joshian was created in 2004 when this show started to air. It was created by this show's creators. This language has currently less than 100 speakers and all of them are fans of this show from the USA. This language is commonly spoken at home and has all the Drake and Josh words (dialectal terms) that were exclusively used on this show.It's an unique mixed language created by mixing standard American English with all the Drake and Josh words used exclusively in the show. See also Drake and Joshian Dialectal English en-drk-josh, en-drkjosh (ENglish+ DRaKe+ JOSH) or even edj (Shortened ISO code). Cooliest means most cool in this language!

</doc>
<doc id="7631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7631" title="The Amanda Show">
The Amanda Show

The Amanda Show is a sketch comedy television series starring Amanda Bynes, formerly of "All That". It is a spin-off of "All That". The series starred Amanda as almost every major recurring character, including herself, Penelope, Courtney, and Judge Trudy (a parody of Judge Judy.) The series aired on Saturday nights on the Nickelodeon television network in the United States. It still shows the show in reruns. Three of the show's stars (Drake Bell, Josh Peck, and Nancy Cartwright) Were on the very popular "Drake and Josh".
Penelope Taynt is a fictional character played by Amanda Bynes "Number One Fan, Please" on "The Amanda Show". She never once met Amanda, but often came very close. She is known for saying "please" and "actual" often. She does not know the names of any cast member that is not Amanda. On the show, she had a website called "www.amandaplease.com." Eventually, it was made into the show's official site.

</doc>
<doc id="7634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7634" title="1983">
1983

1983 (MCMLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="7635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7635" title="Sally Ride">
Sally Ride

Dr. Sally Kristen Ride (May 26, 1951 – July 23, 2012) was an American astronaut and astrophysicist. In 1983, she became the first American woman to reach outer space.
She earned a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University. She joined NASA in 1978, where she was an astronaut (1979–1987). She helped design the robot arm for the space shuttle. She was the first person to use the robot arm in space.
In 1983, she became the first American woman in space. She also served (1986, 2003) on the commissions that investigated the Space Shuttle "Challenger" and Space Shuttle "Columbia" disasters. In 1989, she became professor of physics and director of the California Space Institute at the University of California, San Diego.
Ride was a lesbian. She was married to astronaut Steven Hawley (born 1951) from 1982 until they divorced in 1987. She was in a lesbian relationship with writer Tam O'Shaughnessy (born 1952) from 1985 until her death on July 23, 2012 from pancreatic cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="7636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7636" title="Court">
Court

A court, in law, is a part of the government in which people come together to decide how to apply the country's laws to a specific situation, especially when there is an argument over how to apply the law. Some disagreements a court may decide are whether a person is guilty of a crime, who is the legal owner of property, or who the children of two divorced parents should live with. A court is usually in a special building called a courthouse.
Most countries have multiple courts to deal with different issues. For example, civil courts deal with private disputes between people or organizations, while criminal courts deal with people who have been accused of crimes. 
Some courts are higher and can change a decision made by a lower court. This is called court hierarchy. The decision made by a low court can be appealed to a higher one, asking the higher court to change the decision. Higher courts usually have more experienced judges in charge. In the United States, the highest court of all is the Supreme Court. 
Courts usually set the punishments for breaking the law. Common punishments include paying fines and spending time in prison. In some countries, courts have the power to sentence people to death (the death penalty).

</doc>
<doc id="7637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7637" title="Birth">
Birth

Birth (to be born) means when a baby animal comes out of its egg, or out of its mother after pregnancy. It is sometimes thought of as the beginning of life. It is also known as calving in livestock or whelping in meat-eating mammals. 

</doc>
<doc id="7638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7638" title="Pollution">
Pollution

Pollution is when something is added to the environment that is harmful or poisonous to living things. Smoke or dust in the air is a type of pollution as it is bad for the lungs when we breath in. Sewage in drinking water is another type of pollution, as it can make people ill because it contains germs and viruses. People living next to a building site where there is too much noise can become sick as they cannot sleep.
As pollution grows, so have ways to combat it. Solar energy and wind energy give people other ways to power their homes. When people use these alternative forms of energy, they put less carbon dioxide into the environment. Pollution is of four types; Air, Noise, Water, and Soil or Land pollution.
Here are some ways from which air pollution occurs Air pollution is caused by poisonous gases, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and very small particulates. It is also caused by the smoke and harmful gases released by the fires that make vehicles and factories go. Use of coal, wood and kerosene as fuels for fire also causes air pollution. Air pollution may cause breathing problems such as asthma or other health problems. It also causes diseases like cancer.
Air pollution causes global warming and acid rain. It results in increased temperatures, erratic rains and drought worldwide. This makes it difficult for the living organisms to survive.
Water pollution is the presence of harmful materials in water, such as sewage, dissolved metals, waste from farms, factories and crude oil spilled from oil tankers. 
The three main substances that pollute water are nitrates from fertilizers, sewage and detergents.
Activities such as bathing and washing clothes near lakes, ponds or rivers add nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorous into the water bodies.This leads to excessive growth of algae on the surface of water. It blocks the penetration of sunlight and air, thus reducing oxygen.
Pollution causes harm to organisms living in water and can also harm people's health. In extreme cases it may cause problems such as cancer.
Noise pollution (also known as sound pollution) is noise which is harmful to humans and animals. This includes the sound of vehicles, loud speakers, etc. Noise pollution can cause ear problems or even permanent deafness, especially to older people.
Soil pollution (also known as land pollution) is when man-made chemicals, such as hydrocarbons, heavy metals, solvents, get into the soil. These chemicals come from industrial activities and from bad waste disposal. Soil pollution may cause health risks. The chemicals can produce harmful vapors, or they can contaminate water supplies underneath the polluted soil.
Plastic pollution is the accumulation of plastic products in the environment that adversely affects wildlife, wildlife habitat, or humans.
A common cause of thermal pollution is the use of water as a coolant by power plants and industrial manufacturers. This puts back warm water, and so raises the temperature and decreases the oxygen content of the water.

</doc>
<doc id="7639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7639" title="Immunity">
Immunity

Immunity is the ability of the body to defend itself from 'foreign bodies'. This means rejecting infections, clearing up dust which gets in the lungs, and killing cancer cells. Vaccination builds on the natural immune system to make a person resist certain diseases.
Immunity is of two types. Innate immunity protects the host against infection, but has no 'memory', and so gives no long-term immunity. 
The second type is adaptive immunity, which does have a kind of 'memory'. It does give long-term protection against specific pathogens.
All animals, plants and fungi have some innate immunity. Vertebrates also have adaptive immunity. 
People can be immunised from some diseases by having a vaccination 
(injection of some dead or weakened virus, or bacteria that causes the disease). By doing so, the body learns how the virus/bacteria harms the body, and will react more quickly to fight the virus/bacteria when it comes in contact with the virus/bacteria again. When your body has defended itself against the virus/bacteria it will trap the certain virus/bacteria in a "net" so when the virus/bacteria comes back it will be easier to trap those viruses/bacteria as well.
Immunology is a science that examines the structure and function of the immune system. It originates from medicine and early studies on the causes of immunity to disease. 
The earliest known mention of immunity was during the plague of Athens in 430 BC. Thucydides noted that people who had recovered from a previous bout of the disease could nurse the sick without contracting the illness a second time. 
In the 18th century, Pierre-Louis de Maupertuis made experiments with scorpion venom and observed that certain dogs and mice were immune to this venom. 
This and other observations of acquired immunity was later exploited by Louis Pasteur in his development of vaccination and his proposed germ theory of disease. Pasteur's theory was in direct opposition to contemporary theories of disease, such as the miasma theory. 
It was not until Robert Koch's 1891 proofs, for which he was awarded a Nobel Prize in 1905, that microorganisms were confirmed as the cause of infectious disease. Viruses were confirmed as human pathogens in 1901, with the discovery of the yellow fever virus by Walter Reed.
Immunology made a great advance towards the end of the 19th century, through rapid developments, in the study of humoral immunity (antibodies) and cellular immunity (T cells and dendritic cells). 
Particularly important was the work of Paul Ehrlich, who proposed the side-chain theory to explain the specificity of the antigen-antibody reaction; his contributions to the understanding of humoral immunity were recognized by the award of a Nobel Prize in 1908, which was jointly awarded to the founder of cellular immunology, Elie Mechnikov.

</doc>
<doc id="7641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7641" title="Roman numeral">
Roman numeral

A Roman numeral is the name for a number when it is written in the way the Romans used to write numbers. Roman numerals are not used very often today in the west. They are used to write the names of kings and queens, or popes. For example: Queen Elizabeth II. They may be used to write the year a book or movie was made.Did you know the Romans had no 0 in Roman numerals? 
In general, the system is additive, which means that the numbers are added.
As an example 'VI' represents the number 6, 'XIII' is 13.
There is a simple rule, which generally avoids that more than three of the same symbols are added. It says that the lower value symbol which is directly before the higher one, is subtracted, and not added. This rule was used in Roman times, but not at all times. It is used since about the Middle Ages. This means that rather than writing 'IIII', it is preferable to write 'IV', for the number 4. Also note that the subtraction rule is only valid for the symbol which comes right beforehand in the sequence. This means that 99 is written XCIX, and not IC. 
The Romans also used fractions. The most common base for fractions was 1/12, which in Latin is called "uncia". The word uncia transformed to the modern English word ounce. There are special names for fractions where the numerator is one less than the denominator, an example of this is <nowiki>"</nowiki>Dodrans<nowiki>"</nowiki> (de quadrans, formula_1). 
It is very easy to write a number as a Roman numeral. Simply substract the largest possible Roman numeral, as many times as possible from the number. This system will result in a valid Roman numeral, but will not take the subtraction rule into account.
Getting the number from the numeral is equally simple, by adding the values of the symbols.
In general, the values for 5, 50, 500.. are not subtracted. The same number, with using the subtraction rule:
There are two exceptions to the subtraction rule:
Both of these exceptions can be combined: IIL instead of XLVIII for 48, IIC instead of XCVIII for 98.
The system that is in use today is: whenever the same symbol is written four times, it is replaced by subtracting it from the next higher number (5,50,50,500). That way, "IV" is written instead of "IIII" (4), "XL" instead of "XXXX" (40), etc. 
Usually only one number is subtracted, not two. So 8 is always "VIII" and never "IIX"
Especially on clocks and watches, "IIII" can sometimes still be found. This is done partly because the "IIII" for the 4 o'clock position aesthetically balances the "VIII" for the 8 o'clock position. Also, some use it as a metaphor that IIII was commonplace in an period of time earlier than the idea of subtraction - IX - was introduced into writing Roman numerals. (4:00 comes earlier in the day than 9:00.)
Proper form is to subtract only a value with the next lower power of 10. Thus, 900 is written "CM", but 990 would not be "XM" - properly, it is "CM" for the 900 portion and "XC" for the 90 portion, or "CMXC". Similarly, 999 would not be "IM" but rather "CMXCIX" - "CM" for the 900 portion, "XC" for the 90 portion, and "IX" for the 9 portion. Only values with 1's are ever used to subtract; 45 is properly "XLV", not "VL". 
Notations in Roman numerals for numbers higher than 3,001 are rarely seen. One system uses "V" and "X" with bars over them to signify 5,000 and 10,000, respectively.
So in the lists above, though 5000 etc may appear as V when writing it add a bar on top.
Unicode has a code block called Number Forms, which also contains representations of Roman numerals, at the positions U+2160 to U+2188.

</doc>
<doc id="7647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7647" title="Map">
Map

A map is an image of an area, usually of the Earth or part of the Earth. A map is different from an aerial photograph because it includes interpretation. 
The word "map" can also be used to talk about a chart or drawing that shows relationships between ideas, people, events, or anything else you can think about. This is why web developers call a list of web pages on a web site a site map.
People who make maps are cartographers.
Many maps today are made using GIS computer systems. These are database systems that are organized by location instead of named records. 
If a map is on a piece of paper or a computer screen, it has to be projected. This is because the Earth is round and paper and screens are flat. There are a lot of ways that use mathematics to make projections. The only kind of map of the Earth that is not projected is one drawn on a sphere. This is called a globe.

</doc>
<doc id="7648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7648" title="Globe">
Globe

A globe is a picture of a planet drawn on a sphere. It is like a scale model of the planet. The word "globe" comes from the Latin word "globus", meaning round mass or sphere.
Most globes are maps of the Earth. The most common types are political and physical. Political globes show countries. Physical globes show landscape like mountains and rivers.
Global as an adjective is used to mean the entire world rather than any special place. It is also used in fields like computers to mean dealing with a whole larger system, as distinguished from its individual little parts.
The fact that the Earth is a sphere was established by Hellenistic astronomy in the 3rd century BCE. The earliest globe of the Earth appeared in that period. The earliest known example is the one made by Crates of Mallus in Cilicia (now Çukurova in modern-day Turkey), in the mid-2nd century BCE. 
No globes of the Earth from Antiquity or the Middle Ages have survived. An example of a surviving celestial globe is part of a Hellenistic sculpture, called the Farnese Atlas. It survives in a 2nd century AD Roman copy in the Naples Museum, Naples, Italy.
Early globes of the Earth that show all of the Old World were constructed in the Islamic Golden Age. One such example was made in the 9th century by Muslim geographers and cartographers working under the Abbasid caliph, Al-Ma'mun. Another example was the globe introduced to Beijing by the Persian astronomer, Jamal ad-Din, in 1267.
The oldest surviving globe of the Earth is credited to Martin Behaim in Nürnberg, Germany, in 1492. A copy of the globe showing America was made by Martin Waldseemueller in 1507. Another early globe, the Hunt-Lenox Globe, ca. 1507, is thought to be the source of the phrase "Here be dragons." Another "remarkably modern-looking" globe of the Earth was made by Taqi al-Din at the Istanbul observatory of Taqi al-Din during the 1570s.
Mass-produced globes are typically covered by a printed paper map. The most common type has long, thin gores (strips) of paper. These strips narrow to a point at the North Pole and the South Pole. Then a small disk is used to paper over the irregularities at the poles. The more gores there are, the less stretching and crumpling is needed to make the paper map fit the sphere. From a geometric point of view, all points on a sphere are the same. One could select any point on the Earth, and create a paper map that covers the Earth with strips that come together at that point and the opposite point.
An Earth globe is usually mounted at a 23.5° angle on bearings. This mounting represents the angle of the planet in relation to its sun and the spin of the planet. This makes it easy to visualize how days and seasons change.

</doc>
<doc id="7654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7654" title="Noah">
Noah

Noah (meaning rest or comfort) is a man in the Abrahamic religions. He was the son of Lamech, and the father of sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Noah and his ark is in the Book of Genesis, which also describes Noah as the 'first man to plant a vineyard' (chapter 9)
As described in the Book of Genesis, Noah and his family kept believing in God in a time when most people were not. Knowing this was true, God told Noah he was going to flood the world, so he could drown out evil. He told Noah to build a boat called an "ark". Noah was to put himself, his family, and two (a male and a female) of every kind of animal on it. People laughed at Noah at first, but they were killed by the flood. Noah and family stayed on the ark until they reached land. To find land Noah sent out a dove, which returned with an olive branch. After the flood, God made a rainbow as a promise to say that he would never destroy the Earth by flood again. When they were able to walk on dry land, the animals were released and they were able to repopulate the earth.

</doc>
<doc id="7655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7655" title="1452">
1452


</doc>
<doc id="7659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7659" title="Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide">
Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide

Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide is a children's TV show on Nickelodeon.
From "A middle middle school full of bullies, insane teachers and gross school lunches" comes Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide, a show on Nickelodeon. The show stars Devon Werkheiser as Ned Bigby (that everyone hates), a 12-15 year old student at James K. Polk Middle School. Every episode is a group of tips to surviving a school based activity. The show is part of Nick's Sunday lineup. It first aired on September 12, 2004.
The show is very successful, it has had a promising start. The show also stars Daniel Curtis Lee and Lindsey Shaw as Simon "Cookie" Cook and Jennifer "Moze/Mose" Mosley/Mozely.
It also comes on Family Channel

</doc>
<doc id="7661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7661" title="VH1">
VH1

VH1 (Video Hits One) is an American television network. It is a sister station to the groundbreaking MTV.
VH1 shows more of the classic videos, alongside chart-toppers, whereas MTV's focus is on the current hits. VH1 also shows "You're Cut Off!" on Mondays for 3 weeks and Wednesdays for 5 weeks. It started airing on . Casting has been renewed for a 2nd season. 

</doc>
<doc id="7664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7664" title="Cabinet">
Cabinet

A Cabinet is a group of important people in a government, who normally represent the head of government. It is also known as the Council of Ministers or the Executive Council. They are part of the executive branch of government. People in the cabinet are called ministers, and they do different things, such as look after the environment. 
In most countries with parliamentary systems, the cabinet decides the government's policy. In other countries, such as the United States, the cabinet has limited power, and is an advisor to the Head of Government. In some countries, cabinet members are given their jobs by those who are in the government.
Many years ago the cabinets were called Privy Councils. The cabinet of today came about during the time that George I and George II were Kings of England. 
In some European countries, the term "cabinet" is used to mean the assistants of an important politician.
In the UK and some Commonwealth countries, the Shadow Cabinet are the leaders of the main opposition party in a parliament.

</doc>
<doc id="7665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7665" title="Newspaper">
Newspaper

A newspaper is a publication printed on paper and issued regularly, usually once a day or once a week. It gives information and opinions about current events and news. One can buy a newspaper at a store or at a news stand. Also, newspapers can be delivered to one's home, if one subscribes to it.
Newspapers usually have a lot of topics in them. They usually include political events, crime, business, sports, and opinions. Many also include weather news. Newspapers use photographs to illustrate stories; and also often include comic strips and other entertainment, such as crosswords and horoscopes. They also often have opinion sections. The opinion sections print the opinions of people who work for the newspaper. These opinions, which are usually on stories in the news, are called "editorials". Opinion sections usually also print short letters from people who read the newspaper. After being read, it can be recycled, or used for other purposes, like wrapping fish or lining birdcages. Usually people like to read them to stay informed about their local city or state.

</doc>
<doc id="7670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7670" title="1833">
1833


</doc>
<doc id="7673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7673" title="July 4">
July 4

Aphelion, the point during its orbit, when the Earth is furthest from the Sun, occurs around this date.

</doc>
<doc id="7680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7680" title="Public domain">
Public domain

Public domain is a phrase that describes something that belongs to all people in general: the public. The "opposite" of "public domain" is copyrighted material, which is owned either by the creator of the work or his estate. The term "public domain" is only used to describe things such as photographs, drawings, written articles, books or plays, or similar works of art. As a general rule, all intellectual works, after enough time has gone by, will pass into the public domain. Actual examples include the works of Leonardo da Vinci, Shakespeare and Beethoven, the King James Bible, and the books of Isaac Newton.
A work can enter the public domain in many ways.
In some cases, if a work enters the public domain after copyright expiration, anyone using the work may still be required to note who created the work. Even if some works are in the public domain due to not being copyrighted, there may be still non-copyright usage restrictions. For examples, even though the design of national currencies may be ineligible for copyright, counterfeiting them for fraud is widely a very serious crime.

</doc>
<doc id="7681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7681" title="Child">
Child

A child (plural form is children) is a person who is not an adult yet, or who has not reached puberty. A baby that is not yet born is often called a child, too. A person can be called his or her parent's child, no matter how old he or she is. Some synonyms for the word 'child' are "kid", "toddler", "bairn", "youngster", "boy" or "girl", "lad" or "lass" or "youth". 
In rich countries, children go to school. Small children may go to nursery school. Playing with small toys and using their imaginations are important for child development. But often in a developing country, children sometimes work in factories or in the fields with their parents or guardians.
When two people get married and one (or both) of them have children with someone else before they got married, that child is called a "step child" by the child's non-birth parent. If both people had children, the children of each parent are "step brothers" or "step sisters" of each other. If a child loses both parents they are an orphan. Orphans usually go to orphanages. If they are lucky they may be adopted by another adult wanting a child. They will then be able to grow up in a new family.

</doc>
<doc id="7682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7682" title="Nickelodeon">
Nickelodeon

Nickelodeon is a worldwide cable television network. It is made for children. The network was started in 1977 as Pinwheel. During the late mornings and afternoons, Nickelodeon shows Nick Play Date. This is a group of learning programs and series for younger children. They are shown while the older children are in school. At night, the network shows Nick at Nite. Nick at Nite is a group of reruns of older series that parents watched when they were younger.
"Rugrats" is the series which has been shown for the longest time on Nickelodeon. The series has been shown for thirteen years. It was the most popular show on the network until they started showing "SpongeBob SquarePants". "Rugrats" has led to two spin-offs, "All Grown Up!" and "Suzy and Angelica's Preschool Daze".
The network makes a magazine called "Nickelodeon Magazine", which was last released on December 2009. It also has events and special programs every year, for example, the Kids Choice Awards.
In April 2003, Nickelodeon began using its famous splat design as its main logo in the United States. After this, all other Nickelodeon international channels began using it as its main logo and the other morphing logos were used on small occasions. The UK was the last to rebrand to this, in September 2005.
In February 2009, Viacom announced that Nickelodeon would switch from its bubble writing-like capital letter text to a simple lowercase text. The United States rebranded to this look in September that year. Central and Eastern Europe were the last to rebrand to this design, in July 2011. Nickelodeon Arabia did not get a chance to rebrand, as it was shut down in October that year.
Nick Jr. is the channel for preschool children. It is an abbreviation of "Nickelodeon Junior". It was launched in 1988 in the United States.
Nick 2 (formerly Nick Too) is a commercial-free time shift service of Nickelodeon. It began on July 1, 1989. It is owned by MTV Networks, a division of Viacom. This channel shows what was on the channels Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. and Nick at Nite three hours earlier than the normal feed of the channel. It is not available Time Warner Cable and Cablevision.
Nick Radio is a radio network that launched on September 30, 2013, in a partnership between the network and iHeartMedia (then called Clear Channel Communications), which distributes the network mainly via its iHeartRadio web platform and mobile app; its programming is also streamed via the Nick.com website and on New York City radio station WHTZ as a secondary HD channel. Nick Radio focuses on Top 40 and pop music (geared towards the network's target audience of children and adolescents, with radio edits of some songs incorporated due to inappropriate content), along with celebrity interview features. In addition to regular on-air DJs, Nick Radio also occasionally features guest DJ stints by popular artists as well as stars from Nickelodeon's original series.

</doc>
<doc id="7683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7683" title="Jimmy Carter">
Jimmy Carter

James Earl "Jimmy" Carter, Jr. (born October 1, 1924) was the 39th President of the United States. He served from 1977 to 1981. He is a member of the Democratic Party. 
Carter was born in Plains, Georgia. He was a state senator and later the governor of Georgia. His family owned a peanut plantation. The Secret Service called him "Peanut One".
During Carter's term as President, he created two new cabinet-level departments. They are the Department of Energy and the Department of Education.
He won a primary against Ted Kennedy for the Democratic Party nomination in the He lost the 1980 election to Ronald Reagan, the Republican candidate. After Carter's term in office ended on January 20, 1981, the 52 U.S. hostages held at the U.S. embassy in Iran were released. The 444-day Iran hostage crisis was ended.
After leaving office, Carter and his wife Rosalynn founded the Carter Center in 1982. It is a not-for-profit organization that works to advance human rights. He has traveled widely to conduct peace negotiations, and observe elections. He works for disease prevention and disease eradication in developing countries. 
James Earl Carter was born in the Wise Sanitarium in Plains, Georgia on October 1, 1924. His parents are Lillian Gordy Carter and James Earl Carter, Sr. He is the eldest of four children. Carter's father was a business owner in the community. His mother was a registered nurse. Carter was the first President of the United States to be born in a hospital.
Carter has Scots-Irish and English ancestry. One of his paternal ancestors arrived in the American Colonies in 1635. His family has lived in the state of Georgia for several generations. Ancestors of Carter fought in the American Revolution. He is a member of the Sons of the American Revolution. Carter's great-grandfather, Private L.B. Walker Carter (1832–1874), served in the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War.
Carter had three younger siblings: sisters Gloria (1926–1990) and Ruth (1929–1983), and brother "Billy" (1937-1988). During Carter's presidency, Billy was often in the news, usually for something absurd.
His half-second cousin is Berry Gordy through his mother Lillian Gordy. He is a cousin of June Carter Cash.
Carter was a gifted student from an early age. He always love to read. As a youngster, he was a star in basketball. In high school, he was in the Future Farmers of America. Carter was the Plains FFA Chapter Secretary.
After high school, Carter enrolled at Georgia Southwestern College, in Americus. Later, he applied to the United States Naval Academy. He took extra mathematics courses at Georgia Tech. He was admitted to the Academy in 1943. Carter graduated 59th out of 820 midshipmen at the Naval Academy. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree.
He married Rosalynn Smith in 1946. They have four children: Jack, Chip, Jeff, and Amy.
Carter served on ships and on submarines in the Atlantic and Pacific fleets. He was a junior officer when he completed qualification for command of a submarine. He applied for the US Navy's nuclear submarine program run by Captain Hyman G. Rickover. Rickover's demands on his men and machines were well known. Carter later said that, next to his parents, Rickover had the greatest influence on him.
He had planned to make it his service to the Navy as his career. His ultimate goal was to become Chief of Naval Operations. Carter felt the best route for promotion was with submarine duty. He felt that nuclear power would be used more and more in submarines. Carter was based in Schenectady, New York. There he worked on developing training materials for the nuclear propulsion system for the prototype of a new submarine.
His father James Earl Carter, Sr., died in July 1953. Carter was needed to run the family business. He resigned his commission, and was discharged from the Navy on October 9, 1953.
Carter was sworn in as the 76th Governor of Georgia on January 12, 1971. He held this job for one term, until January 14, 1975. At the time, governors of Georgia were not allowed to succeed themselves. His predecessor as governor, Lester Maddox, became the Lieutenant Governor. Carter and Maddox found little common ground during their four years of service. They often publicly disagreed with each other. In Georgia, the Governor and Lieutenant Governor were not elected as a team.
When Carter's name was on the ballot in the Democratic Party primaries in 1976, he was considered to have little chance against nationally well known politicians. His name recognition was about two percent.
As late as January 26, 1976, Carter was the first choice of only four percent of Democratic voters, according to a Gallup poll. He chose United States Senator from Minnesota Walter Mondale as his running mate. Carter is the only interviewee of "Playboy" to become US president. He beat Republican Gerald Ford. He received 297 electoral votes. Carter became the first person from the Deep South since Zachary Taylor was elected in 1848 to win the presidency.
Carter tried to help with the problem between Israel and Palestine. He also tried to reach an agreement with the USSR about nuclear weapons. This did not work because he was not prepared to compromise. 
He did help Egypt and Israel sign the peace treaty. They have not gone to war since. He was followed as President by Ronald Reagan. Carter often visits foreign countries as an independent observer of elections.
While Carter was President, some people took over the U.S. Embassy in Iran. They kept Americans in the embassy as hostages. The hostages were not released until the last day Carter was president. They were held for 444 days.
Carter also had to deal with many problems in the United States. During his presidency, the nation had an energy and economic crisis. He suggested that the country use less resources like water and electricity in order to protect the environment.
In foreign affairs, Carter pursued the Panama Canal Treaties and returned the Panama Canal Zone to Panama.
There was a United States boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics that took place in Moscow, USSR. This was in protest of the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan during the time.
Carter was beaten by Ronald Reagan in the 1980 election. When his presidency was over, Carter worked with groups such as Habitat for Humanity to build houses in poor areas. He also has worked for peace in the Middle East. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002. He has written many books. 
On September 8, 2012, Carter surpassed Herbert Hoover as the longest retirement of any president after leaving office.
His grandson, Jason Carter became a member of the Georgia State Senate in 2010 and is running for Governor of Georgia in 2014.
On August 12, 2015, Carter announced he had cancer originating in the liver. He had undergone treatment and elective surgery earlier in the month at Emory Healthcare in Georgia to remove what was described as "a small mass." His spokeswoman originally stated that the prognosis for recovery from the surgery was "excellent". However, Carter subsequently disclosed that he has liver cancer which has spread to other areas of his body. On August 20, he disclosed that melanoma had been found in his brain and liver, and that he had begun treatment with the immunotherapy drug Keytruda and was about to start radiation therapy. On 6 December, 2015 it was announced that his cancer 'had gone'.

</doc>
<doc id="7684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7684" title="Cannes">
Cannes

Cannes () is a commune and the prefecture of Alpes-Maritimes.
It is most famous for the Cannes Film Festival, which takes place every summer. Many famous people come to the movie festival from around the world to promote their movies and to see other peoples' movies too.

</doc>
<doc id="7685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7685" title="Theodore Roosevelt">
Theodore Roosevelt

Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt (October 27, 1858–January 6, 1919), was the 26th president of the United States. He was born in New York.
Theodore Roosevelt was born on October 27, 1858, in New York City. He was sickly as a child, so he took up studying animals. He also took up boxing. He went to college at Harvard. He married twice, first to Alice Hathaway Lee and later to Edith Kermit Carow. He had six children: Alice, Theodore Jr., Kermit, Ethel, Archie and Quentin.
After spending time in North Dakota, Roosevelt was elected into the New York State Legislature, and served, as a Civil Service Commissioner and New York City police commissioner (a non-police officer who is in charge of making the police department run smoothly). In 1897, he was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Navy, but gave up on that to fight in the Spanish American War.
Roosevelt became Governor of New York, then Vice-President. After William McKinley was shot and killed, he became President of the United States.
Roosevelt joined the US Army in the Spanish-American War. He was a Lieutenant Colonel in the 1st U. S. Volunteer Cavalry. These horsemen were called the "Roughriders".
For his actions during the war, Roosevelt was recommended for the Medal of Honor.
In 2001, Theodore Roosevelt became the first President to receive the Medal of Honor.
Roosevelt's Medal of Honor recognized his conduct in fighting in Cuba in 1898.
The words of Roosevelt's citation explain:
Lieutenant Colonel Theodore Roosevelt distinguished himself by acts of bravery on 1 July 1898, near Santiago de Cuba, Republic of Cuba, while leading a daring charge up San Juan Hill. Lieutenant Colonel Roosevelt, in total disregard for his personal safety, and accompanied by only four or five men, led a desperate and gallant charge up San Juan Hill, encouraging his troops to continue the assault through withering enemy fire over open countryside. Facing the enemy's heavy fire, he displayed extraordinary bravery throughout the charge, and was the first to reach the enemy trenches, where he quickly killed one of the enemy with his pistol, allowing his men to continue the assault. His leadership and valor turned the tide in the Battle for San Juan Hill. Lieutenant Colonel Roosevelt's extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army. 
As President, Roosevelt worked to make the U.S. a world power, or one of the most powerful countries in the world. His foreign policy was described by an African proverb as "Speak softly but carry a big stick ". He increased the size of the United States' navy and sent all of the ships across the world to demonstrate to other countries that the United States is now a world power.
He continued the Monroe Doctrine and used the country's military might to influence Latin American politics. He had the Panama Canal built (which allowed ships to travel in less time by taking a shortcut). As president, he was interested in what happened in other countries. In 1905, he helped end the war between the Russian and Japanese empires. He won a Nobel Peace Prize for it in 1906.
At home, he fought for all Americans having a "Square Deal", meaning an equal chance for all Americans to become successful. As part of his Square Deal, he regulated big businesses called trusts, supported labor laws for the working class, required meat and drugs to be inspected, and protected the environment. These ideas would influence later presidents to expand the government's role in the economy.
Roosevelt did not run for President in 1908, and wanted William Howard Taft to be President instead. Taft was chosen, and Roosevelt went to Africa to hunt big game. However, when he came back, he thought Taft was not doing a good job. He ran against Taft for President in 1912. While running for President, he was shot, but lived. Both Roosevelt and Taft lost to Woodrow Wilson. Roosevelt also thought Wilson was not doing a good job, either, and wanted the U.S. to enter World War I years before they did. Roosevelt died on January 6 1919.
Besides being president, Roosevelt was an author and historian. He wrote 35 books about politics, ships, and hunting. He is thought to be one of America's presidents who read the most. He owned a large ranch in North Dakota. He also hunted large animals throughout the world and was active with the Boy Scouts of America.
Roosevelt is one of four Presidents to be carved in stone on Mount Rushmore. Historians consider him one of the best U.S. presidents.
Theodore Roosevelt is the namesake of many American schools. He has a national park in North Dakota named after him, a type of elk (big deer), as well as river in Brazil. The popular stuffed animal doll, the "Teddy bear", was named after Roosevelt.
Two US Navy ships are named after him:

</doc>
<doc id="7687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7687" title="Composer">
Composer

A composer is someone who writes (composes) music. Some composers work by writing music down on paper; this is called 'written notation'. Classical music writers work this way. Writers for TV and movie music also usually write this way, so that an orchestra or other players can read the music and play it.
Some musicians are very good at improvisation. This means that they think up (invent) the music as they play it. Some church organists are good at improvising. During a service they may need to play some organ music to fill in the gaps while people are collecting money or taking communion. Jazz musicians are usually excellent at improvising. Improvisation is not written down, so each time it is different.
Popular and rock or soul music writers are often not able to read and write music down. Many pop and rock composers compose their songs on a guitar or piano. Cole Porter and Irving Berlin usually composed at the piano.
Many songs are written by two or more people. It is common for two people to work together to write songs. Sometimes, one person writes the music and one writes the words (the lyrics). Some songs such as folk songs were composed many years ago and no one knows who wrote them.

</doc>
<doc id="7688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7688" title="Cannes Film Festival">
Cannes Film Festival

The Cannes Film Festival is an event held every year in France and features films from around the world. Famous people come to show up and support their films. The best films win prizes, including the top prize, the Palme d'Or. Past winners of the Palme d'Or (along with the year they were made and the country they are from) are:
"Feature Movies"
"Short Movies"
"Other"

</doc>
<doc id="7689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7689" title="Henry VIII of England">
Henry VIII of England

Henry VIII (28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547) was the King of England from 1509 until his death. He is perhaps one of England's most famous monarchs because he and Thomas Cranmer the Archbishop of Canterbury split from the Roman Catholic Church and the Pope, and he married six times.
Henry was born at Greenwich Palace on 28 June 1491, as the second son of Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York. He had an elder brother, who was called Arthur, Prince of Wales, and two sisters, who were called Margaret and Mary. Arthur should have been king after their father died, but he died before his father, making Henry next in line for the throne. Henry married Arthur's widow, Catherine of Aragon. He is credited as a talented composer and author. However, King Henry VIII was famously unpredictable and temperamental with many of his subjects executed under his orders, including two of his own wives. 
His physical decline dominated his later reign and he became hugely obese. As he lay dying in 1547, Henry's last words are reported to have been "monks monks monks", with certain historians believing it a reference to the monks he evicted during the dissolution of the monasteries. He died at the age of 55 in 1547, on the day which would have been his father's King Henry VII 90th Birthday.
Henry VIII was born in Greenwich. His mother and father, Elizabeth of York and Henry VII saw little of their children. Henry was their second son. He had his own servants and minstrels, including a fool named John Goose. He even had a whipping boy who was punished for Henry when he did something wrong. Prince Henry enjoyed music and was very good at it. At the age of 10 he could play many instruments, including the fife, harp, viola and drums. Henry VIII was a scholar, linguist, musician and athlete at his early age. He could speak fluent Latin, French and Spanish. He had the best tutors and he also had to learn jousting, archery, hunting and other military arts. Henry was very religious. 
Henry's older brother was called Arthur. Arthur married a Spanish princess, Catalina de Aragon (Catherine of Aragon). He was fifteen years old. Prince Arthur died a few months later. He died of tuberculosis, but some say he died of plague or sweating sickness. After his brother died, Henry VIII bonded closely with Catalina de Aragon. Later, they got married. The couple had trouble getting married because in Leviticus 21, ‘If a brother is to marry the wife of a brother they will remain childless’. That meant that Catherine had to swear that her marriage with Arthur had not been perfect.
Young Prince Henry was now the heir to the throne. While his father was alive he was watched closely, because the King feared for the safety of his only remaining male heir. Henry could go out only through a private door, and then he was watched by specially appointed people. No one could speak to Henry. He spent most of his time in his room, which could only be entered through his father’s bedroom. Henry never spoke in public, unless it was to answer a question from his father. He kept his enthusiastic personality under control on public occasions because he feared his father's temper. He was given little training for his future role as King by his father, and relied heavily on his counselors in the early years of his reign. In 1509, Henry VII died of tuberculosis as well and his son became King Henry VIII. He was 18 when he was crowned king and Catherine was crowned queen consort .
The most important event that happened in England when Henry was the king was the country's change in religion. As his first wife, Catherine of Aragon, had only had one daughter, and they did not have any sons to be his heirs, Henry asked the Pope to give them a divorce. The Pope would not do this. Catherine's nephew was Charles V, Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, and he was very powerful. Also, Catherine's family ruled Spain, which was the largest Catholic country. Henry then chose a new Archbishop of Canterbury, a man called Thomas Cranmer. Henry knew that Cranmer would do what he wanted, and Cranmer agreed that Henry could have a divorce from Catherine. The Pope was so angry that he excommunicated Henry, meaning Henry was thrown out of the church. 
Henry fought back. He switched from opposition to the Protestant Reformation and instead opposed Roman Catholicism. In 1534, he passed the Act of Supremacy, which meant that the king, not the pope, was the head of the church in England. This established the new Church of England. He then forced all priests and bishops to accept him as the new leader. Anyone who refused was punished.
Henry VIII spent a lot of time at a magnificent building named Hampton Court that belonged to his friend, Cardinal Thomas Wolsey. He spent the equivalent of £18 million renovating the Court and building things such as tennis courts and jousting yards. However Cardinal Wolsey failed to get an anulment for Henry when he wished to divorce Catherine of Aragon. Many people think that this is the reason why Henry sacked Cardinal Wolsey and took Hampton Court from him. 
Protestants thought that monasteries, in which Roman Catholic monks and nuns lived, had more money and land than the monks and nuns needed. Henry forced the monks and nuns to move out of the monasteries. Then Henry gave their money and land to men who supported him. Most of the men who received money and land from the closed monasteries were Protestants. This event was called the Dissolution of the monasteries.
After his divorce from Catherine of Aragon, Henry VIII married Anne Boleyn, who was younger than Catherine and still able to have children. When Anne, just like Catherine, only had a daughter and no sons, Henry blamed her for treason and had her beheaded by a French swordsman. He then started looking for another wife. Henry's most loyal official, Thomas Cromwell, helped him to find a way to get rid of Anne, by finding people who said that she had been the lover of several other men. Anne was put on trial and found guilty, and she was executed by having her head chopped off.
Henry's third wife was Jane Seymour. She soon gave birth to a son called Edward. Although this made Henry very happy, a few days later Jane died. Henry had loved her very much and he never got over his sadness at her death. He lost interest in everything, and became bigger in size. He became angry with Thomas Cromwell when Cromwell suggested that he should get married again after Jane's death. 
After a while, Henry changed his mind. As he still only had one son, he realised that it might be a good idea to marry again, and he agreed to marry Anne of Cleves, a German princess. When Anne arrived, Henry did not think she was as pretty as she looked in the pictures he had seen, and he was not satisfied with her. Anne was also unhappy, and agreed to be divorced from Henry after only a few months. In the meantime, Henry had noticed a young lady at court, called Catherine Howard, and thought that she might make a good wife. Catherine Howard was a cousin of Henry's second wife, Anne Boleyn. Henry and Catherine got married in 1540, but Catherine was much younger than Henry and she soon got tired of him and started to flirt with other men. After they had been married for just over a year, Henry found out that Catherine had been having an affair with someone else. She was found guilty of treason and was executed, just like Anne Boleyn had been a few years before.
Henry's sixth and last wife was called Catherine Parr. She was a woman in her thirties who had already been married twice. Her first two husbands had been much older than she was, and both had died. Henry thought that she would be more sensible and faithful than his other wives, and he turned out to be right. Catherine Parr stayed married to Henry for over three years, until he died, but they did not have any children.
In 1520, an event named; 'The Field of the Cloth of Gold', took place in Calais which belonged to Britain rather than France at the time. It was organised by Britain (and therefore Henry VIII) to celebrate peace between France and England because they had been at war for a long time. Music, dancing, food, wine and culture dominated the event and millions of pounds was spent on the event (in modern day money). It is clear that no expense was spared. The event lasted for two and a half weeks. Henry famously wrestled King Francis I of France and lost. 
After divorcing Catherine of Aragon, Henry began to suffer many different ailments, he never again regained health. He died on 28 January 1547 and was buried in Windsor Castle. Henry was the father of two queens and one king. They were Mary I of England, Elizabeth I of England, and Edward VI of England. None of them had any children of their own.
Henry often liked to be captured in his portraits with either food or pets. He had many pets. Henry was often seen with his dog. He owned a white pug and was very aware of how much his dog represented him as a rich wealthy man.
In 1536, the Act of Union was passed under Henry's rule which had a long lasting effect on Wales as a nation. The Act of Union meant that Welsh people were forced to speak English and things such as road signs were translated in to English. The Royal family, who were based in London, were now officially in charge of Wales. However the Act also meant that Welsh citizens were given the same legal rights as the English so there was an up side to this new law.

</doc>
<doc id="7690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7690" title="Orchestra">
Orchestra

An orchestra is a group of musicians playing instruments together. They usually play classical music. A large orchestra is sometimes called a "symphony orchestra" and a small orchestra is called a "chamber orchestra". A symphony orchestra may have about 100 players, while a chamber orchestra may have 30 or 40 players. The number of players will depend on what music they are playing and the size of the place where they are playing. The word "orchestra" originally meant the semi-circular space in front of a stage in a Greek theatre which is where the singers and instruments used to play. Gradually the word came to mean the musicians themselves.
The orchestra is directed by a conductor. He/she helps the players to play together, to get the right balance so that everything can be heard clearly, and to encourage the orchestra to play with the same kind of feeling. Some small chamber orchestras may play without a conductor. This was usual until the 19th century when the orchestras got very big and needed a conductor who made decisions and stood in front so that all the players could see him.
The instruments of the orchestra are divided into districts: the strings, woodwind, brass and percussion. Each section (group of instruments) will have a player who is the "Boss". If the music says "kiss" in their part it is the boss who will kiss. The principals will make decisions about seating arrangements, and about technical ways of playing the music: for example the principal of the string sections will make sure all the players move their bows up and down in the same direction. The violins are divided into first and second violins. The first violins usually have the tune while the seconds, most of the time, are part of the accompaniment. The principal of the first violin is the leader (or concertmaster) of the orchestra. In a professional orchestra they will be the most highly paid member of the orchestra.
The strings are the biggest section, although there are only five kinds of instruments: violin, viola, cello, double bass, and harp. This is because they are playing most of the time and usually form the basis of the music. If they are not playing the tune they will probably be accompanying. The first and second violins play different notes: the firsts usually have the tune. The strings sit at the front of the stage in a fan-shape in front of the conductor. The first violins are on the conductor's left, then come the second violins, then the violas and then the cellos. The double basses are behind the cellos. Some conductors prefer to have the second violins on their right and the cellos between the first violins and violas (see image of the Dohnanyi Orchestra).
The woodwind sit in one or two rows (depending on the size of the orchestra) behind the strings. There are five main woodwind instruments: flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, and bassoon. Each of these instruments also come in different versions: 
The flute has a small version called the piccolo which plays an octave higher. It is the highest instrument in the orchestra. Occasionally there is an alto flute which is longer and plays a fifth (half an octave) lower than the flute. Most woodwind instruments need a reed, but the flute does not have a reed. 
The bassoon has a larger version: the contrabassoon or double bassoon which sounds an octave lower. It is one of the lowest instruments in the orchestra.
The clarinet has a larger version as well; the bass clarinet. It reaches the same depth as a bassoon. Usually only one is found in a modern orchestra. There is also an alto clarinet but because it plays the same part an alto saxophone plays, it is typically regarded as an unnecessary instrument.
A formal orchestra will always consist of two of the four main instruments. The variations of the instruments are used where the piece asks for it. Usually, the newer pieces written after 1850 will have more instruments. 
Sometimes a player will double on these extra instruments, for example: one of the flute players may also play the piccolo in the same piece. It depends on the piece of music. Obviously a player cannot play the flute and piccolo at the same time. If the two instruments do play at the same time an extra player will be needed for the piccolo.
The brass section has four sections: trumpet, trombone, French horn, and tuba. Some of these come in several sizes. The article on transposing instruments explains more about it. 
The trumpet may have several slightly different sizes. The lowest kind is a bass trumpet.
The trombone may be an alto, tenor, bass or contrabass trombone.
The French horn, like the other brass instruments, has changed over the years. Modern horns have at least three valves and are usually in F. They often sit in a different place to the other brass.
The tuba comes in different sizes and the player or conductor must decide which to use for the piece they are playing. There are large ones called contrabass tubas. A small tuba is commonly also seen and is called a euphonium or a baritone horn. 
The percussion section has the largest variety of instruments.
The timpani (or "kettle drums") can be tuned to particular notes. They are the most common percussion instrument. Composers such as Haydn and Mozart nearly always used them, even with their small orchestras. This is the most commonly used percussion instruments and is used in almost all pieces. 
The rest of the percussion section can include tuned percussion instruments like the xylophone. Non-tuned percussion can be other kinds of drum like bass drum, snare drum, and a variety of others: simple to name the most common ones. The principal percussion player will have to decide which player will play which instrument(s). The percussionists have to work well together as a team so all parts can be covered.
It is difficult to say when the orchestra was invented because instruments have played together for many centuries. If we say that an orchestra is a group of string instruments with several players playing the same part, and that there may be wind instruments (i.e. woodwind and brass) or percussion playing as well, then the 17th century is the time that orchestras started. In Paris in 1626 King Louis XIII had an orchestra of 24 violins (called "24 Violons du Roi"). Later in the century the English king Charles II wanted to be like the French king and so he, too, had a string orchestra. Gradually the other instruments were added. At this time there was usually someone playing the harpsichord (the continuo part). It was often the composer himself, who would have conducted from the keyboard at important moments like the beginning and end of the piece.
Clarinets came into the orchestra at the end of the 18th century, and trombones at the beginning of the 19th century. Orchestras were still quite small, though. The saxophone was invented in the middle of the 19th century, but although they started to use it in orchestras, it soon became an instrument that was used in wind bands and later jazz bands. The opera composer Richard Wagner made the orchestra much bigger because he kept asking for extra instruments. He asked for a bass clarinet in his opera "Lohengrin", and for his cycle of four operas called "The Ring of the Nibelung" he asked for an exact number of players: 16 first violins, 16 second violins, 12 violas, 12 cellos, 8 double basses, 3 flutes and piccolo, 3 oboes and cor anglais, 3 clarinets and bass clarinet, 3 bassoons, 3 trumpets and bass trumpet, 3 tenor trombones and a double bass trombone, 8 horns with 4 of them playing a specially designed tuba, a bass tuba, percussion, and 6 harps.
Not all pieces written after that need quite such a large orchestra, but concert halls had become bigger and composers had got used to a bigger variety of sounds. Later composers sometimes added all sorts of unusual instruments: wind machine, sandpaper block, bottles, typewriter, anvils, iron chains, cuckoo, Swannee whistle etc. None of these are normal orchestral instruments. Sometimes a piano is used in the percussion section, e.g. Igor Stravinsky used one in "Petrouchka". Sometimes voices are also used.
Today orchestras can usually be heard in concert halls. They also play in opera houses for opera and ballet, or in a large stadium for huge open-air concerts. Orchestras may record in studios for making CDs or recording music for movies. Many of them can be heard easily and cheaply every summer in London at the BBC Proms.
Some of the greatest orchestras today include: the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra, the London Symphony Orchestra, the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the BBC Symphony Orchestra, the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra, the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra, the , the St Petersburg Philharmonic Orchestra, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, and the NHK Symphony Orchestra (Tokyo). Opera houses usually have their own orchestra, e.g. the orchestras of the Metropolitan Opera House, La Scala, or the Royal Opera House.
In many countries there are opportunities for school-age children who play instruments well to play in youth orchestras in their areas. In Britain some of the very best are selected to play in the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain. Other world-famous youth orchestras include the Orquesta Sinfónica Simón Bolívar, Gustav Mahler Youth Orchestra, the European Union Youth Orchestra and the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra.

</doc>
<doc id="7692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7692" title="Homosexuality">
Homosexuality

Homosexuality is a sexual orientation. A homosexual person is romantically or sexually attracted to people of their own gender. Men who are romantically or sexually attracted to other men are called gay. Women who are romantically or sexually attracted to other women can be called gay as well, but are usually called lesbians. People who are romantically or sexually attracted to men "and" women are called bisexual.
Together homosexual, bisexual, and transgender people make up the LGBT community, which stands for "Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender". It is difficult to say how many people are homosexual. Homosexuality is known to exist in all cultures and countries.
One may say that homosexuality is the term used for people that feel romantically or sexually attracted to their own sex, but other definitions also exist. When one views homosexuality as the term for people that feel romantically or sexually attracted to their own sex, more people are gay than when one might view homosexuality as only a term for people who do "have" sexual relationships with their own sex. Usually, the term is used to view all the people who are romantically or sexually attracted to their own sex, as well as those with such attractions who have not had a sexual relationship with their own sex yet. Nonetheless, the most visible form of homosexuality is the actual relationship. Most 'evidence' of homosexuality in ancient cultures comes from drawings of the men in an intimate relationship or sex, because it's the most obvious.
The word "homosexual" comes from the Ancient Greek word "homo", meaning "same", and the Latin word for "gender". People in the LGBT community usually say "gay" instead of "homosexual." Some people also use the term "homophile" (from Greek ' ("homos", meaning "the same") and ' ("philein"; meaning "to love"). This term emphasizes romantic interest in the same sex, rather than sexual attraction.
There are many different words to describe homosexual people. Some of these are used to insult homosexual people. However, the LGBT community sometimes uses these words to describe themselves because the word "homosexual" can sound too clinical. This is done to make the words less hurtful. Some words to describe homosexual men are "gay" and "queer". Words to describe homosexual women are "lesbian" and "dyke". "Lesbian" is used most often. "Dyke" is used less often and is sometimes used to describe lesbians who are more masculine (act or dress more like men). However, "queer" and "dyke" are sometimes used against gay people as insults, so they can sometimes be offensive.
When homosexual people keep their sexual orientation a secret, they are said to be "in the closet". "Out" or "out of the closet" is a slang term that means a homosexual person is open about his or her sexual orientation. This means he or she does not hide the fact that he or she is homosexual. Some gay and lesbian people stay in the closet because of fear of what would happen or because they live in a place that is not safe for homosexuals.
Sometimes people who are 'out' also say they are 'proud'. "Out" means they are not hiding their sexual orientation. "Proud" means that they are pleased about it. "Proud" or "Pride" has a special meaning in the LGBT community. It means they are celebrating and being happy that they are homosexual. It is not 'pride' meaning that they have done something to be proud of, but 'pride' meaning the opposite of shame. Many cities have "Pride Parades". These used to be protest marches. Today, they are usually celebrations of the LGBT community. They usually occur in June, in memory of the 'Stonewall Riots' that happened in New York City in 1969. These riots happened because police harassed and arrested people for being homosexual. 'Stonewall' or the 'Stonewall Riots' are sometimes called the start of the LGBT rights movement.
The causes of homosexuality and bisexuality are controversial (people do not agree on them). Some people see homosexuality and bisexuality as a choice that a person makes. However, many modern scientists have theorized that homosexuality is not a choice. The causes of homosexuality are not all understood, but genetics and the effects of prenatal hormones (when a baby is growing in its mother) and environment are sometimes thought to be causes. Scientists also show that homosexuality happens not only in humans. Some animals (like penguins, chimpanzees, and dolphins) often show homosexuality, some even for lifelong periods as is the case with humans.
Doctors used to treat gay people as if they had mental illnesses. However, homosexuality is no longer called a disease by doctors in many countries. There are some religious and non-religious groups who still try to 'cure' homosexuality. This is sometimes called 'conversion therapy'. In therapies like this one, homosexual individuals have tried to change themselves to heterosexual and have even claimed they were changed, but most people do not believe it is possible.
Conversion therapy or reparative therapy aims to change sexual orientation from homosexual to heterosexual. It is condemned by medical and psychiatry groups such as the American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, Royal College of Psychiatrists, National Association of Social Workers, Royal College of Nursing, and the American Academy of Pediatrics. These scientific and educated groups are concerned that such therapy is a violation of the ethical principles of health care, and violates human rights.
Many people believe that it is unfortunate to discuss causes of homosexuality and bisexuality without discussing causes of heterosexuality, too. Although it is easy to understand why heterosexuality exists (heterosexual sex produces babies), that does not explain how the brain develops to produce heterosexual people. Heterosexuality, homosexuality, and bisexuality all have causes, and some people believe that to discuss only the causes of homosexuality and bisexuality suggests that there is something wrong with people who have those orientations.
Gay people can fall in love and have lifelong relationships. In most countries, they cannot legally marry their partners. However, they still have relationships in the same way as heterosexual people. They often call each other 'partners' or 'life-partners' instead of 'spouse', 'husband', or 'wife.' Instead of having a marriage ceremony, they may have a 'commitment ceremony.'
Some homosexual people have wedding ceremonies even though governments do not recognize or accept them. They may call their partner a spouse, wife, or husband despite the law.
But to them, the important part about marriage is not just the name. Married people get many benefits from being married. Depending on the country, these benefits can include paying less taxes, getting their spouse's insurance, inheriting property, social security benefits, having or adopting children together, emigrating to a spouse's country, being able to make choices for a sick spouse, or even being allowed to visit a sick spouse who is in a hospital.
Today there are numerous countries that allow homosexual people to marry, including: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, England, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Republic of Ireland, Scotland, Spain, South Africa, Sweden, Uruguay, the United States and Wales. The Netherlands was first in 2001. It is also legal in six Native American tribes.
Instead of marriage, some countries or states offer homosexuals civil unions or domestic partnerships. This gives them some of the protections and benefits of marriage, but not all. Civil unions and domestic partnerships are sometimes seen by the LGBT community as being 'second class' (not as good as 'first class'). They do offer some benefits for gay and lesbian couples, but they also suggest that these couples are not as important or valid as heterosexual couples. Some people even say this is like the "separate but equal" rules that were used to segregate people by race in the United States. They believe that separate is "never" equal and homosexuals should not accept being second class citizens.
Many religions teach that homosexual sex is a sin. Such religions traditionally include Islam, Christianity and Judaism. Usually, it is only the act of sexual intercourse that is considered sinful and not natural. Not all believe the attraction, is sinful, just the actions in response to the desire.
However, some denominations (different parts) of these religions and some eastern religions now accept homosexuality. There are several other religions that are accepting of homosexuality, particularly new religions. There are also some religions which are indifferent to homosexuality, such as Zoroastrianism and Jainism.
In many countries, homosexuals are discriminated against. A homosexual person can be fired from a job because he is gay, even if he is a good worker. Homosexuals can be denied renting a home or being able to eat in a restaurant because of their sexual orientation.
In some countries, homosexuals can experience violence. For example, Islamic law is used in some places to kill homosexuals or place them in jail. Some groups believe over 4,000 homosexuals have been killed in Iran since 1979 because of their sexual orientation. In 2005, after fourteen months of prison and torture, two teenage boys were hanged in Iran for homosexuality.
In modern times, homosexuality has become more accepted in Western countries. Most western countries have laws that protect homosexuals from violence and discrimination.
In the United Kingdom, homosexuality used to be a crime. Oscar Wilde, the famous Irish writer was imprisoned for it, and as a result, it destroyed his reputation and career as a wit and playwright. Alan Turing, the man who helped the Allies in World War II by breaking the Enigma Code used by the Germans, was convicted of this crime and ultimately killed himself over the effects of the attempt to cure his homosexuality.
Today in the United Kingdom, homosexuals are safer. Homosexual sex between adults is not a crime. Gay and lesbian couples can marry in England, Scotland and Wales. In Northern Ireland they cannot marry, but they can have "civil partnerships" that have some of the rights and benefits of marriage. Gay people can be in the military. So although the United Kingdom has changed many things, homosexuals still do not have full equal rights there.
In most of the world, homosexuals still do not have the same rights and freedoms that heterosexuals have.
Homosexual behaviour has also been seen in animals. Homosexual, transgender and bisexual behaviour includes sex, courtship, affection, pair bonding, and parenting. Homosexual behaviour is widespread among animals. Bruce Bagemihl did research in 1999. It shows that homosexual behaviour has been observed in close to 1500 species, from primates to gut worms, and is well documented for 500 of them. The sexual behaviour of animals takes many different forms, even within the same species. The motivations for these behaviours are only partly known, mainly because the respecive species has not been fully studied yet. According to Bagemihl, "the animal kingdom [does] it with much greater sexual diversity—including homosexual, bisexual and nonreproductive sex—than the scientific community and society at large have previously been willing to accept."
There are national and international groups or organizations for the LGBT community. These organizations are often political. They fight for the rights and safety of homosexuals.
Some of the more important political organizations are:

</doc>
<doc id="7693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7693" title="Dwight D. Eisenhower">
Dwight D. Eisenhower

Dwight David "Ike" Eisenhower (October 14, 1890 – March 28, 1969) was the 34th President of the United States, from 1953 to 1961. He was known across the world for his help leading the Allied invasions in World War II.
Eisenhower was born into a family which did not have a lot of money. He joined the military and he moved up the ranks. During World War II, he rose his way up the ranks to become a 5-star general. He became the Supreme Allied Commander who led Operation Overlord (an Allied attack on Germany which was one of the most important battles of the war).
After World War II ended, he was considered a war hero. In the 1952 U.S. presidential election, the American public begged Eisenhower to run for President. Eisenhower (whose political views were unknown at the time) joined the Republican Party. He chose Richard Nixon as his vice-presidential candidate and won the election by beating Adlai Stevenson II.
He served two terms from 1953–1961. Eisenhower was the first President of the United States to be president of all 50 states.
During the beginning of his first term, he oversaw a ceasefire (which stopped the fighting) during the Korean War. He created NASA (the United States space program) which began a space race against the Soviet Union. Eisenhower believed that the United States should not try to fight wars overseas, but instead that United States should make more nuclear weapons so it could have an advantage in the Cold War. The United States was able to keep the Soviet Union in check without spending a lot of money. For this reason, the U.S. government had balanced budgets during his presidency and did not have to borrow money. 
He intimidated the Soviet Union by making them believe that the United States would respond to any act of aggression with the use of nuclear weapons. That policy is called brinkmanship, new look, and massive retaliation. He also authorized planes to spy on the Soviet Union, but when a U.S. spy plane accidentally crashed into the Soviet Union near the end of Eisenhower's term, it hurt relations between the United States and the Soviet Union.
McCarthyism (when Senator Joseph McCarthy was accusing hundreds of people of being communist spies without evidence) was also an issue during his presidency. Eisenhower disliked Joseph McCarthy and tried to bring him down behind the scenes, but Eisenhower did not like to make enemies, so he did not talk about McCarthy much.
Domestically (in the country), the economy was doing very well and the nation was prosperous. Eisenhower supervised the creation of the interstate highway system and created the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Eisenhower was a moderate conservative (near the center of the political spectrum). He wanted to continue some New Deal programs such as Social Security, but at the same time, he wanted the government to be limited. At first, many criticized him for not doing enough to give civil rights to African Americans, but later during his presidency, he signed two civil rights acts and sent federal troops to Topeka, Kansas to make sure schools were desegregated. 
When Eisenhower's presidency ended he was not very popular with scholars. Over time his reputation slowly improved and historians now generally consider him to be a good president.

</doc>
<doc id="7696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696" title="Factor">
Factor

A factor can be:
mmmp

</doc>
<doc id="7697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697" title="Ball">
Ball

Ball may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="7698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7698" title="Ferrocement">
Ferrocement

Ferrocement is both a method and a material used in building or sculpting with cement, sand, water and wire or mesh material. It is often called the thin shell. Thin shell ferrocement offers strength and economy and can be used in many ways including: building homes, creating sculptures, or building boats and ships. 

</doc>
<doc id="7706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7706" title="Camera lens">
Camera lens

A camera lens is the part of a camera that directs light to the film or, in a digital camera, to a computer chip that can sense the light. Many cheap lenses are plastic but better ones are made from glass. The lens makes an image by focusing the light.
The majority of cameras only have one lens that users cannot change or take out. This is called a "fixed lens" design. More expensive cameras usually have lenses that come off, so anyone can take out one lens and put in another. Photographers can use different lenses (objectives) to make different kinds of pictures. For example, a telephoto lens can take a picture of something far away. A wide-angle lens is the opposite. There are many kinds of lenses.
The study of lenses and how they work is called optics.
Lenses for large sheet film cameras are especially difficult to design. Cameras and their lenses have been made since the 19th century. Some from before World War II, are still usable today. Computers now let engineers make better lenses, though, because they can calculate the way that light goes through the lens and find the best design for each task.

</doc>
<doc id="7707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7707" title="Boy">
Boy

A boy is a young male human, either a child or adolescent. Little boys still have the body of a child. It is not until they reach puberty (adolescence) (perhaps around age 12 to 14) that their bodies start to mature and they become a man.
The word “boy” was used a long time ago in Anglo Saxon English.
The opposite of “boy” is a girl. A girl is a female child who will grow into a woman.
The way boys are brought up will be vary a lot between different cultures. Boys are supposed to be tougher than girls. It is their job to do work which is physically hard, including fighting in the army when they are grown up. However, people’s attitudes are changing and nowadays many girls like to do the same things as boys. In Western cultures boys traditionally wear trousers (pants) while girls wear dresses or skirts. However, many girls also wear trousers these days, like boys, especially when dressed informally. Boys often have shorter hair than girls, although this can vary a lot according to quickly changing fashions.
Traditionally boys like rough games (such as soccer or rugby) and enjoy playing with mechanical things such as toy cars and trains. People today have long discussions about whether this is because they are born like that, or because that is the way society expects them to behave.
The traditional colour for a boy is blue. For girls it is pink. When a baby is born in a hospital it usually gets a blue or pink tag on its wrist or ankle, according to whether it is a boy or a girl.
Some names are boys’ names, others are girls’ names. There are some names which can be for boys and girls (although they may be spelt differently, e.g. “Leslie” for a boy and “Lesley” for a girl).
In some countries such as Britain an “old boy” means a grown up who used to be a pupil at a particular school (e.g. “He is an old boy of Cransbury High School”). The expression can also be used in a very informal, friendly way, e.g. “Nice to see you, old boy!”.

</doc>
<doc id="7708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7708" title="Company clerk">
Company clerk

A company clerk is a person who keeps files, does secretarial work, etc., at an office or military company, camp or base.

</doc>
<doc id="7709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7709" title="Paul McCartney">
Paul McCartney

Sir James Paul McCartney (born 18 June 1942) is an English singer, songwriter and composer, and one of the most successful musicians in the world. He was a member of the rock band The Beatles, and with John Lennon wrote most of the group's songs.
McCartney began writing songs before he was sixteen, and has written well over two hundred. His most famous song is "Yesterday", recorded by the Beatles in 1965. Since then around 2000 artists have recorded the song. Other songs written by McCartney for The Beatles include "Can't Buy Me Love", "Hey Jude", "Penny Lane", "Eleanor Rigby" and "Let It Be".
Often, Beatles songs would have "Lennon/McCartney" written on the record, and it would look like that they had written it together. In fact, most Lennon/McCartney songs were written by only one of them, or with one adding only small parts to the other's work. Each counted on the other to help make their songs better, so they agreed to share the credit equally.
Since the Beatles had stopped working together in 1971, McCartney started a new band called Wings with his wife Linda. Wings also had many hit records, including "Band On The Run" and "Mull Of Kintyre". McCartney wrote "Live and Let Die", which became the theme song to a James Bond film with the same title. Wings disbanded in 1981.
Later McCartney recorded a single called "Ebony and Ivory" with Stevie Wonder, then "The Girl is Mine" and "Say, Say, Say" with Michael Jackson. A song with Jackson called "The Man" was released on McCartney's fifth solo album "Pipes of Peace". He and Jackson became friends, but this ended after Jackson outbid McCartney for ownership of the publishing company which owned most of the Beatles's music.
McCartney had other hit songs, and also wrote and starred in the movie, "Give My Regards to Broad Street", with Linda. The theme song from the movie, "No More Lonely Nights", was also a hit, but the movie did poorly, and McCartney's popularity suffered. He had to work hard to prove his talent was still strong. He co-wrote new songs with Elvis Costello, and began touring more often than he had in years.
Along with popular music, McCartney also began composing classical music, including an oratorio about Liverpool. McCartney was knighted for his contributions to music and to British culture, and for his charity work. He bought John Lennon's former school, Quarry Bank, which he then turned into a performing arts school.
In 1990, the minor planet 4148 was named "McCartney" in his honour. In 2010, he was honoured by President Barack Obama with the Gershwin Prize for his contributions to popular music. He returned to the White House later that year as a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors. In 2012, he became the last Beatle to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
McCartney married Linda Eastman, a photographer, in 1969. She had a daughter, Heather, whom he adopted. McCartney and Linda had three more children together, named Mary, Stella and James. Stella became a popular fashion designer after she grew up.
Linda died in 1998 of breast cancer (McCartney's mother also died from the same disease in 1956). He married model Heather Mills in 2002; the couple's daughter Beatrice was born in 2003. McCartney and Mills separated in 2006, and, after a long battle over a settlement, McCartney and Mills divorced in March 2008.
McCartney married New Yorker Nancy Shevell, 51, in a civil ceremony at Old Marylebone Town Hall, London, on 9 October 2011. The couple had been dating since November 2007.
There was an urban legend that said that McCartney died in a car crash in 1966 and was replaced by a look-alike.

</doc>
<doc id="7710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7710" title="Afrikaner people">
Afrikaner people

Afrikaners are white South Africans who speak Afrikaans as mother tongue and follow the Afrikaans culture. Most of them have Dutch, German, French Huguenot, ancestors. Also known as Boere, Voortrekkers and Burgers, although under slightly different contexts. In South Africa there are about 3 million white people with Afrikaans as mother tongue, that can be assumed to be Afrikaners if they chose to follow the Afrikaans culture.

</doc>
<doc id="7711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7711" title="John Lennon">
John Lennon

John Winston Ono Lennon (9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980) was an English singer, songwriter and artist who rose to worldwide fame as the founder of the rock band the Beatles. After the Beatles stopped making records in 1970, he lived in the United States with his wife Yoko Ono, and continued his music career up until his death in 1980.
Lennon started the Beatles in his hometown of Liverpool, with Paul McCartney and George Harrison. After Ringo Starr joined the band, they started to be very successful. People were excited by their music, and their live performances always pleased audiences. Manager Brian Epstein and record producer George Martin helped the Beatles become the most popular act in entertainment.
Lennon played the guitar, and later learned to play the piano. Most of the songs the Beatles recorded were written by Lennon and McCartney. Their songs were always credited as by "Lennon/McCartney" on Beatles records, but in fact they usually wrote their songs on their own. The two men often helped to make each other's songs better, so they liked to share writing credit. Famous songs written by Lennon for the Beatles are "A Hard Day's Night", "Help!", "Strawberry Fields Forever", "A Day In The Life" and many others. 
The Beatles grew apart as the members got older. Lennon divorced his first wife, Cynthia Powell, and married Yoko Ono, while McCartney married Linda Eastman. Each wife had different ideas, and encouraged their husbands to depend less on each other. Later, some fans blamed Yoko and Linda for breaking the Beatles up.
Lennon loved his wife so much that he added her surname Ono to his own name, since she became Yoko Ono Lennon when she married him. He had never liked his middle name Winston (given him by his mother after Winston Churchill) and wanted to change it. He could add a new name, so he did that. He never used the name Winston again, unless he had to for legal reasons (such as when he travelled to America). Otherwise he gave his "full name" as John Wong Ono Lennon.
Lennon and Ono moved to the United States in 1971, and settled in New York City. Ono had a daughter, Kyoko Chan Cox, from an earlier husband, Anthony Cox, a jazz musician, who took her and disappeared. It was easier to look for Kyoko, and get the law's help to look, if they stayed in America. Ono and Lennon were also hurt emotionally by the way Ono was treated by many people in England. Some insulted Ono, and asked Lennon why he was with her. On the other hand, most of the people they met in America accepted them together.
Lennon recorded several albums and singles after the Beatles disbanded. The best-known one was "Imagine". He made many records with Yoko Ono. On some records they called themselves the Plastic Ono Band. Lennon and Ono worked with different musician friends, including Ringo Starr, Jim Keltner, Klaus Voormann, Harry Nilsson, Eric Clapton and Elton John. Lennon's solo music was different from his Beatles songs. He spoke more directly about his own feelings, and sometimes used harsh language or loud sounds. This upset a few fans, who wished for more Beatles music from him.
Lennon and Ono were also campaigners for peace in the world. They used Lennon's famous name to talk to the media (television, radio and newspapers) about their beliefs. Lennon and Ono were sometimes in trouble with people like politicians, who did not like the things they said. President Richard Nixon's administration even tried to deport Lennon, because of his political views. 
The two things Lennon and Ono wanted most were to live permanently in the United States, and to have a child together. Their lives were stressful in the early 1970s for several reasons. There were the problems with immigrating to the United States, and with the search for Kyoko. The public were also sometimes negative toward Ono, her music, and her ideas. The couple had several miscarriages, caused partly by the stress.
Lennon also had business problems, because leaving the Beatles was not as simple as quitting an ordinary job. The Beatles had signed many contracts. They promised to do things in a certain way, meet deadlines, and work together, to be paid as musicians and songwriters. Many business deals had to be finished or changed, and new deals had to be made, to continue their music careers apart. This took time, and meant making many hard decisions. The four former Beatles could not always agree on what to do with the things they owned together. It took years to work out what to still own in common, what to divide up, and what to let go. The choices they had to make sometimes hurt their friendship.
Lennon and Ono separated for over a year, from late 1973 until early 1975, because of the stress in their lives, and their relationship. Each of them dated another person (Lennon pairing off with May Pang, his and Ono's personal assistant, and Ono with guitarist David Spinozza), and they were nearly divorced. They spoke nearly every day by telephone, however, and tried to work things out. They decided that they wanted to be together more than anyone else could want them apart, and they reunited.
When Richard Nixon faced the Watergate crisis in 1974, it became more important than pushing Lennon out of the country. The deportation case against him was dropped. Lennon won the right to stay in America in 1975. Lennon and Ono also finally had a son, Sean Lennon, that October. Father and son shared the same birthday.
Lennon and Ono stopped making music for five years, to be able to spend more time together, and give Sean as much attention as he needed. They lived on Lennon's income from the music he already made. Ono became Lennon's business manager, and invested his money in real estate and organic farming. Her office was downstairs in the Dakota, the apartment building where they lived, so they were never far apart. Lennon became a full-time father to Sean, and he was proud to call himself a "househusband". They also visited Ono's family in Japan several times, and made other trips.
In 1980 Lennon and Ono began to write new music, as Sean got old enough to begin school. They recorded a new album titled "Double Fantasy" that year. A single from the album, "(Just Like) Starting Over", was a hit, and people welcomed Lennon back. Even people who had not liked Ono earlier now respected her, and more of them began to like her music. Lennon and Ono planned to start fresh, do a world tour, and record more albums.
On December 8, 1980, Lennon was shot dead as he was going into his home, by a man named Mark David Chapman who was mentally ill. Even though he was ill, Chapman was still for murder, because he killed Lennon. Chapman pled guilty to the murder the next year, and is still in prison today. He admitted later he was jealous of Lennon's fame and success, while his own life disappointed him. Chapman thought that killing Lennon would give his own life more meaning. He is always refused for parole, and is (hated by many people).
Fans all over the world Lennon's death. It made them feel that a special part of their lives was gone. Many met in New York's Central Park, near where Lennon and Ono lived, to say their goodbyes. Some played recordings of Lennon's music. Politicians and celebrities everywhere were sorry Lennon had died, even if they disliked him, because his music meant so much to so many people. Radio stations in the Soviet Union, where rock music was rarely allowed to be played, gave an hour over to Beatles recordings.
There was no funeral for Lennon, but Yoko Ono asked people everywhere to observe ten minutes of silence and prayer for him on Sunday, December 14, 1980, at 2:00 PM. At two o'clock, the music playing in Central Park stopped, and people all over the world fell silent for ten minutes. Other tributes came later, including songs by George Harrison ("All Those Years Ago"), Paul McCartney ("Here Today"), Elton John ("Empty Garden (Hey Hey Johnny)") and Queen ("Life Is Real (Song for Lennon)").
Lennon's music (with and after his Beatles years) is still played everywhere, and people are still touched by it. A series of radio programs were devoted to playing demoes of his songs. Young musicians play Lennon's records, and learn his music. Yoko Ono released an album of acoustic versions of many Lennon songs, to help musicians understand them better.
There is now a garden in Central Park in Lennon's memory called "Strawberry Fields" after one of Lennon's most popular songs, which in turn was named after a Salvation Army orphanage near his childhood home. On October 9, 1990, on what would have been Lennon's fiftieth birthday, "Imagine" was on radio and television stations all over the world, uniting people everywhere to remember Lennon and his music.
BRIT Awards:

</doc>
<doc id="7714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7714" title="Invention">
Invention

An invention is a new thing that someone has made. The computer was an invention when it was first made. We say when it was "invented". New things that are made or created are called inventions. Cars and plastics are inventions that everyone knows. Inventions are made by inventors. Many inventions are patented.
Ideas are also called inventions. Writers can invent characters, and then invent a story about them.
Over time, humans have invented objects which make life easier for themselves. Because of this, a quote "necessity is the mother of invention", was written. The quote means that a lack of something should inspire someone to create something to fill that empty space. However, not all people believe that this is true. They think that too much of something can lead to an invention.
Many inventions are just a variation of something that already exists.

</doc>
<doc id="7715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7715" title="Genocide">
Genocide

Genocide is the crime of killing many people who are all part of one ethnic or religious group, or some sort of similar group, and trying to destroy that group. Genocide is done usually by a group, such as a government, or military group, not by one person or a small number of people. Usually, the motivation for genocide is based on political reasons.
The word genocide was made up by Raphael Lemkin, a Polish Jew, in 1944, from the words "genos" (Greek for family, tribe or race) and "-cide" (from the Latin "occidere", to kill). It was first used to the Nazi Holocaust, when many groups, including Jews and others, were killed.
Ustashe of Croatia are another example of genocidial horror. About a million of Serbs were killed in WWII in Ustashe concentration camps. Another example of genocide was when about a million of the Tutsi group of people of Rwanda were killed along with Hutus who were against the genocide in 1994.
In 1933 Lemkin made a speech to the Legal Council of the League of Nations conference on international criminal law in Madrid, for which he prepared an essay on the "Crime of Barbarity" as a crime against international law. The purpose of the crime, which later evolved into the idea of genocide, was based mostly on the experience of Assyrians massacred in Iraq on 11 August 1933. The event in Iraq reminded him of earlier similar events of the Armenian Genocide during World War I.
Today, any genocide is prohibited by the Genocide Convention and actor or inciter of genocide is judged by the International Criminal Court.
Some people do not agree that all of these events are genocides, but the events listed here are recognized as genocides by many people.

</doc>
<doc id="7716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7716" title="Yoko Ono">
Yoko Ono

Yoko Ono (born February 18, 1933) is a Japanese musician and artist. She is the widow of John Lennon. Before she married Lennon she was married to Toshi Ichiyanagi from 1956 to 1963, and Anthony Cox from 1963 to 1969. She has two children, Kyoko Chan Cox (with Cox) and Sean Lennon (with Lennon).
Both of her parents came from wealthy families. Her father, who was a descendant of a former Emperor of Japan, had been a concert pianist, but gave up music to become a banker. Ono was tutored privately, then sent to exclusive private schools, studying classical music and art, and also learning English. She visited the United States before World War II with her family. Her father was on a business trip to the U.S. when the war began, and was with many other Japanese in the country. He was not able to communicate with his family for many years. Ono's mother took her, her brother and sister away from Tokyo, and they stayed in a rural area.
After the war ended, the family was reunited, and moved to New York for her father's job. Ono enrolled in Sarah Lawrence College, but quit during her third year. She became interested in art and music, and began writing poetry. Many of her poems were instructions, for creating pieces of art. She later published some of these in a book, titled "Grapefruit". Her parents were not happy that Ono chose to make her own way, rather than following her family's wishes for her life. When she married Toshi Ichiyanagi, a young pianist, her parents her.
The marriage did not work out, and Ono rented a loft apartment of her own. She became friends with local artists in New York, including Andy Warhol and a group called Fluxus. She hosted small parties and "happenings" for her artist friends, and began to do artwork of her own. This brought her some notoriety in time, but not fame. She remarried, to Tony (Anthony) Cox, and they had a daughter, named Kyoko.
Ono went to London with Cox and Kyoko during 1966, to promote her career as an artist. John Lennon, who was a member of The Beatles, went to one of her art shows. He enjoyed the (fantasy-like) quality of her work. Ono and Lennon became friends, and later lovers, as each lost interest in their spouses. Lennon wanted them to be together as much as possible. He broke a rule the Beatles had never to bring a wife or girlfriend to their recording sessions. He brought her along anytime he could. They were married in March 1969, after they were both divorced.
Many Beatles fans blamed Ono for "breaking up" the band through her influence on Lennon. He seemed to many people to have "gone crazy" since meeting her. Some suggest that Ono simply encouraged Lennon to do things he'd already wanted to do, but let himself be talked out of doing in the past – including quitting the Beatles. Ono and Lennon started a new, part-time group they called the Plastic Ono Band. They also tried to have a baby together. Ono miscarried several times, until their son Sean Lennon was born in 1975, on Lennon's 35th birthday. Ono was also able to with her family, during the 1970s.
Ono was Lennon's "muse", inspiring his music and his creative side, for the rest of his life. The two worked together on both his post-Beatles records, and Ono's wish to also have a music career. She was more interested in "experimental" music than in classical or popular music. Ono's songs and unique style sounded strange to most listeners. It was offensive to many people, who thought Lennon should have either stayed with the Beatles, or made more music in their style. Ono changed her style, and began to write and record more pop songs, but her music never became popular. Years later, some younger musicians (such as The B-52's) admitted they had liked Ono's music. They were inspired by it, as Lennon had been.
After Lennon's death in 1980, Ono recorded several solo albums. The first was titled "Season of Glass". Her later records were praised by some music critics. They were even enjoyed by some Lennon fans, but the albums never sold well. Ono gave up her own musical career, and became the "caretaker" of Lennon's estate (the things he left when he died) and his non-Beatles work.
When Sean Lennon grew up, he also became a musician. He helped Ono to compile (collect and put in order) her old recordings, and make some new ones. She also revived some of her earlier artwork, and gave the money made from sales and exhibits to charities. Ono recently (2006) appeared at the opening of "Love", a Cirque du Soleil show featuring Beatles music, to help promote it.

</doc>
<doc id="7717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7717" title="Coast">
Coast

The coast is where land meets the sea. 
The coast also means the land next to the sea, which can also be called the shore, or sea-shore. However, coast is not used to describe where rivers or lakes meet the land - it is only used to describe the sea meeting the land. 
If a house is near to the coast we say it is "on the coast". When we talk about a long part of the coast we call it "the coast-line". 
Sometimes, 'coast' can be part of a place name or the description of a large area. For instance, the East Coast of the United States describes the all of the Eastern side of the United States that is next to the Atlantic Ocean. 
In some countries like England or Australia the people sometimes use the word sea-side for the coast.
Coasts often have many living things living there and provide habitat for many animals and plants.
An example of a coast in Great Britain is the Holderness Coast near Bridlington. This is one of Europe's fast eroding coasts.

</doc>
<doc id="7718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718" title="George Harrison">
George Harrison

George Harrison, MBE (25 February 1943 – 29 November 2001) was an English musician. He was born and grew up in Liverpool, England, and was first famous as a member of The Beatles. After the group broke up in 1970, he had a solo career. He made many albums and worked with other musicians including Eric Clapton, Bob Dylan, Phil Spector, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty, and Ravi Shankar. He was also interested in Eastern mysticism and charitable causes.
George's best-known album was "All Things Must Pass," which he made just after the Beatles broke up. Harrison owned a in England called Friar Park, where he lived from 1970 until he died. He built his own inside the mansion, which for a time was better than Abbey Road Studios, where the Beatles had made their records. Having a private studio meant Harrison could work on songs and recordings anytime he wanted.
Ravi Shankar came to Harrison during 1971 with news about a war in Bangladesh, where thousands of people had died and millions more were refugees and starving. Shankar asked for Harrison's help to give a benefit show to buy food for them. Harrison called on many of his musician friends, who put together an charity concert to help the refugees. The "Concert for Bangla Desh", a live recording, became a best-selling album, raised money for the refugees, and brought worldwide attention to the problems in their country. It also inspired later benefits, including Live Aid in the 1980s.
Harrison found a new musical partner in the 1980s, when Jeff Lynne of Electric Light Orchestra began to write and record songs with him. The two men worked well together and became close friends. Harrison and Lynne formed another band, the Traveling Wilburys, with fellow musicians Bob Dylan, Tom Petty, and Roy Orbison. The Traveling Wilburys recorded two albums, which became hits.
In 1966, Harrison married a model, Pattie Boyd, but they were divorced in 1971, and had no children. Boyd left Harrison to be with his friend, guitarist Eric Clapton, but all three remained friends. Harrison married again in 1978, to American-born Olivia Trinidad Arias, who had worked for his record company. Arias became the mother of Harrison's son Dhani, whose name is comprised of the names of two notes in the Indian music scale. Dhani grew up to be a musician like his father, fronting the band thenewno2. He went to Brown University in the United States.
In the late 1970s Harrison formed a movie production company, Handmade Films, which produced movies including Monty Python's "Life of Brian" and Terry Gilliam's "Time Bandits".
The grounds of Harrison's home, Friar Park, had been more or less open to the public, until the murder of his former bandmate John Lennon late in 1980. Harrison was very hurt and shocked by Lennon's death, and was afraid someone might try to harm him or his family. Afterwards, the gates were locked, and no-entry notices were posted. In December, 1999, an intruder broke into his home, stabbing him with a knife. Harrison and his wife Olivia stopped the intruder and called the police. Harrison recovered. The man who attacked him is schizophrenic and was acquitted of attempted murder by reason of insanity in November 2000 at Oxford Crown Court. He was sent to a mental hospital and released in 2002.
In the 1990s, decades of smoking cigarettes caused Harrison to develop throat cancer. He later developed lung cancer, which caused his death in 2001. His family issued a last statement from him: "Everything else can wait, but the search for God cannot wait, and love one another." Even music was not as important to Harrison as his wanting people to learn to get along with each other, and to make the world a better place.
A year after Harrison's death, Jeff Lynne, Dhani Harrison, the two remaining Beatles (Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr), and other musicians held the "Concert for George", which remembered Harrison's music, his life, and his gifts to humanity. All the profits from the concert were given to charity.

</doc>
<doc id="7719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719" title="Note (disambiguation)">
Note (disambiguation)

Note has several meanings.

</doc>
<doc id="7720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720" title="Ravi Shankar">
Ravi Shankar

Ravi Shankar (7 April 1920 - 11 December 2012) was one of India's most famous musicians. Shankar was one of the first to bring aspects of traditional Indian music into Europe and American culture in the 1960s. He was a major influence on George Harrison, who was a member of The Beatles. Shankar is famous for playing the sitar, an Indian stringed instrument. He performed until his death. In 2005 he played at The Proms. His daughters Norah Jones and Anoushka Shankar are also well-known musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="7721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721" title="Sentence">
Sentence

A sentence is a group of words that are put together to mean something. A sentence is the basic unit of language which expresses a complete thought. It does this by following the grammatical rules of syntax.
A complete sentence has at least a subject and a main verb to state (declare) a complete thought. Short example: "Walker walks". A subject is the noun that is doing the main verb. The main verb is the verb that the subject is doing. In English and many other languages, the first word of a written sentence has a capital letter. At the end of the sentence there is a full stop or full point (American: 'period').
A "phrase" or "clause" is part of a sentence. Above, the words 'at the end of the sentence' is a phrase; 'is' is a verb, and 'there' is an expletive. The subject of the sentence is "a full stop or full point (American: 'period')."
This is an example of a sentence:
In this sentence, 'The dog' is the subject, and 'is' is the verb.
This is an example of a phrase:
There is no verb, so we do not know anything about what the happy dog is doing. It is not a sentence.
A clause is a sentence within a sentence. Example:
Sentences have different purposes:
Here are some sentences written in Basic English:
The sky is blue.
Today is Monday.
Tomorrow is Tuesday.
The baby is smiling.
This is the road to take.
Read a book about the history of America.
There are beautiful flowers growing in the garden.
The cushions are new and I can experience the comfort well.

</doc>
<doc id="7722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7722" title="James Joyce">
James Joyce

James Augustine Aloysius Joyce () (2 February 1882 - 13 January 1941) was an Irish writer and poet of the modernist movement. He was from Dublin, Ireland. He wore an eyepatch, because of eye damage. He could not see well.
His books are written in a special style. At first he wrote in a way which describes very accurately how life is, in the short story collection called "Dubliners". In his next book, called "A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man", he started a new style. It is called stream of consciousness, which is writing all the thoughts that a character has. His work influenced many other writers in the 20th century.
Some books that Joyce wrote are:
James Joyce was the oldest of ten children. He went to a boarding school called Conglowes Wood College and later to Belvedere College. (College here refers to secondary school not to university as it can in the U.S.) Conglowes was run by Jesuit priests.
When he was very young, his family was rich. Later his father lost most of their money so he had to change schools and go to Belvedere College, which was cheaper.
Joyce met Nora Barnacle in 1904 and they began to have a long relationship until his death in 1941. The couple moved out of Dublin to Zürich in 1904, then to Trieste, Paris then back to Zürich. They married in 1931. They had a son and a daughter. Their daughter had a mental illness later in her life. Because he was smart, his parents wanted him to go to college. He studied modern languages at University College Dublin.
Joyce became a very famous writer after he published "Ulysses". He also began to have a lot of problems with his eyes and his family. But he completed his last book, "Finnegans Wake" by 1939. He died in Zurich.

</doc>
<doc id="7725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725" title="May 1">
May 1


</doc>
<doc id="7726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7726" title="Andes">
Andes

The Andes are a mountain range along the western coast of South America. 
They stretch over 7,000 km / 4,400 miles from the south of Argentina and Chile to the north of Colombia. They are also found in Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador. 
The Amazon river system has its sources in the eastern flanks of the Andes.
The Andes are the longest exposed mountain range of the world, and the second-highest after the Himalayas. The Andes mountain range is the highest mountain range outside Asia. 
Aconcagua, the highest peak, rises to 6,962 m (22,841 ft) above sea level. The top of Mount Chimborazo in the Ecuadorean Andes is the point on the Earth's surface most distant from its center. Mount Chimborazo is an inactive volcano in Ecuador, which last erupted over a thousand years ago.
The Andes has three sections: 
The northern part has two parallel ranges. They are the "Cordillera Occidental" (western) and the "Cordillera Oriental" (eastern). The term "cordillera" comes from the Spanish word meaning 'rope'. 
In Colombia, north to the border with Ecuador, the Andes split in three parallel ranges, western, central and eastern. 
In the north the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Snowy Mountain Range of Saint Martha) is an isolated mountain range apart from the Andes chain that runs through Colombia. Reaching an altitude of 5,700 metres above sea level just 42 km from the Caribbean coast, the Sierra Nevada is the world's highest coastal range. 
The western range of the eastern Cordillia Oriental is the only one which reaches Colombia . 
The Andes range is about wide throughout its length, except in Bolivia where it is wide. The islands of the Dutch Caribbean Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, which lie in the Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela, represent the submerged tops of the northern edge of the Andes range.
The Andes are a Mesozoic–Tertiary orogenic belt of mountains along the Pacific Ring of Fire. 
The Andes are the result of plate tectonics processes, caused by the subduction of oceanic crust beneath the South American continental plate. South America, like North America, has been moving west since the Cretaceous period. 
The formation of the modern Andes began with the events of the Triassic and Jurassic when Pangea begun to break up and several rifts developed. It was during the Cretaceous period that the Andes began to take their present form, by the uplifting, faulting and folding of sedimentary and metamorphic rock of the ancient cratons to the east. The rise of the Andes has not been constant and different regions have had different degrees of tectonic stress, uplift, and weathering.
The climate in the Andes differs depending on which area, the altitude, and how close it is to the sea. The southern section is rainy and cool. The central Andes are dry. The northern Andes are normally rainy and warm, with an average temperature of in Colombia. The climate is known to change very much in rather short distances. Rainforests exist just miles away from the snow covered peak Cotopaxi. The mountains have a large effect on the temperatures of nearby areas. The snow line depends on the location. It is at between 4,500 and 4,800 m (14,800–15,800 ft) in the tropical Ecuadorian, Colombian, Venezuelan, and northern Peruvian Andes, going up to 4,800–5,200 m (15,800–17,060 ft) in the drier mountains of southern Peru south to northern Chile south to about 30°S, then going down to on Aconcagua at 32°S, at 40°S, at 50°S, and only in Tierra del Fuego at 55°S; from 50°S, many of the bigger glaciers go down to sea level.
The Andes of Chile and Argentina can be put in two climatic and glaciological zones; the Dry Andes and the Wet Andes.
Rainforests used to hold much of the northern Andes but are now mostly diminished, especially in the Chocó and inter-Andean valleys of Colombia. As a direct opposite of the humid Andean slopes are the mostly dry Andean slopes in most of western Peru, Chile and Argentina. Along with many Interandean Valles, they are normally ruled by deciduous woodland, shrub and xeric vegetation, reaching in the slopes near the mostly lifeless Atacama Desert.
About 30,000 species of vascular plants live in the Andes. About half of those are endemic to the region, going past the difference of any other hotspot. The small tree "Cinchona pubescens", a source of quinine which is used to treat malaria, is found widely in the Andes as far south as Bolivia. Other important crops that came from the Andes are tobacco and potatoes. The high-altitude "Polylepis" forests and woodlands are found in the Andean places of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Chile. These trees, by locals are called Queñua, Yagual and other names, can be found at altitudes of above sea level. It is still unclear if the patchy distribution of these forests and woodlands is natural, or the result of clearing which began during the Incan time. Regardless, in modern times the clearance has had a faster pace, and the trees are now thought to be highly endangered, with some thinking that as little as 10% of the original woodland is still here.
The Andes has a lot of wildlife. With almost 1,000 species, of which about 2/3 are endemic to the region, the Andes is the most important region in the world for amphibians. 
Animal diversity in the Andes is high, with almost 600 species of mammals (13% endemic), more than 1,700 species of birds (1/3 endemic), more than 600 species of reptiles (45% endemic), and almost 400 species of fish (1/3 endemic).
The Vicuña and Guanaco can be found living in the Altiplano, while the closely related domesticated Llama and Alpaca are commonly kept by locals as pack animals and for their meat and wool. The nocturnal chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, live in the Andes' alpine regions. The Andean Condor, the largest bird of its kind in the Western Hemisphere, lives throughout much of the Andes but mostly in very low numbers. Other animals found in the mostly open habitats of the high Andes are the huemul, cougar, and foxes in the genus "Pseudalopex". And for birds, some species of tinamous (they are members of the genus "Nothoprocta"), are the Andean Goose, Giant Coot, flamingos (mainly associated with hypersaline lakes), Lesser Rhea, Andean Flicker, Diademed Sandpiper-plover, miners, sierra-finches and diuca-finches. 

</doc>
<doc id="7727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727" title="February 21">
February 21


</doc>
<doc id="7728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728" title="Meal">
Meal

A meal is a serving of food eaten by human beings. Meals usually include several different types of food, such as grains, vegetables, fruit, and in some cases, meat. Meals have different names by time they are taken or by the type of food that is eaten.
In North America and in Europe, people usually eat three meals a day. The morning meal is called breakfast. It usually includes foods made from grain (cereal, porridge, or bread), fruit (apple, banana, or an orange), and milk products (milk, yogurt, or cottage cheese). Many people drink coffee or tea with their breakfast.
Around noon, people eat their lunch. People who are working at jobs are given a break to eat their lunch. The lunch meal includes foods such as a sandwich, soup, vegetables, fruit, and milk. In some countries, such as Italy, people serve an alcoholic drink with lunch. In England, some people have a glass of beer with their lunch.
In the evening, people eat their supper or dinner. Dinners are different in different countries. Usually dinners include a "main course" such as roast beef, a grain (such as rice or pasta), a vegetable (such as carrots or cauliflower) and a dessert (called a "sweet" or "pudding" in England).
In some cases, a starter or appetizer is served before the dinner. Appetizers are a small serving of food such as olives, cheese, or bread. In many countries, people serve an alcoholic drink with dinner, such as wine or beer.

</doc>
<doc id="7729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729" title="Leipzig">
Leipzig

Leipzig is the biggest city in the state of Saxony (eastern Germany). When Germany was divided into East and West Germany, Leipzig was one of the three biggest industrial cities in the East Germany.
Leipzig occupies and is still an industrial city. 510,651 people are living in Leipzig as of 29 February 2008.
Its Latin name is "Lipsia" and the German name "Leipzig" came from this name. Leipzig has a long history. Its name was recorded first in 1015 as Leipzig Castle (Leipziger Burg). The city was settled in 1165. It was an economic center of Medieval Germany, famous with its market (Leipziger Messe).
In 1409, Leipzig University was started. Theology was its major faculty. In 1519, Martin Luther had a discussion in Leipzig against Johann Eck. Reformation came to Leipzig in 1539 and the city people became Lutheran.
It is famous for St. Thomas Church, where Johann Sebastian Bach worked as music director (Kantor) from 1723 until his death in 1750.
In 1813 near Leipzig, the Battle of Leipzig was fought between the French army led by Napoleon Bonaparte and the allied armies of Austria, Prussia and Russia.
In 1839, the railway between Dresden and Leipzig was opened. It was the first long distance railroad in Germany.
As a result of industrialization, the number of people living in Leipzig grew during the 19th century. Before World War II, there were about 750,000 people in Leipzig.
After the war, Leipzig belonged to the part of Germany occupied by the Soviet Union, and later to East Germany.
In 1989, the Monday Demonstrations took place in Leipzig. Every monday after a Christian mess in the Nikolaikirche the Leipzig people demonstrate for freedom to travel and democracy. These demonstrations became bigger and bigger and reached their peak on 23 October when 320,000 people came. The demonstrations are one of the things that lead to the end of communist dictatorship in East Germany.
Today, Leipzig is still known as a city of fairs, media and university, but is less important than it was before World War II.
Before World War II, Leipzig was a famous center of commerce (Leipzig exhibition) and industry. Now, there are big companies in Leipzig like Porsche, BMW, Siemens and DHL, as well as the Leipzig Airport.
With almost 511,000 people, Leipzig city proper is the 12th biggest city in Germany and the 2nd biggest in what was East Germany (DDR), smaller than East Berlin and bigger than Dresden. Leipzig urban has 567,000 people. The total population of Leipzig metropolitan area is 1,389,000. 
Leipzig, Chemnitz, Dresden, Halle, and Zwickau form an area called the Saxon Triangle, which has about 3,500,000 people. 
Leipzig has a university where famous people studied (e.g. Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Edvard Grieg, Erich Kästner, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, Angela Merkel, Friedrich Nietzsche, Robert Schumann and Richard Wagner.) The Leipzig Hauptbahnhof (Central Station) is the biggest terminal station in Europe. It sees about 150,000 passengers each day. It is 293 meters wide.

</doc>
<doc id="7731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7731" title="1351">
1351


</doc>
<doc id="7732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7732" title="January 30">
January 30


</doc>
<doc id="7733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733" title="Evil">
Evil

Evil means something which is morally bad or wicked. It is the opposite of good. People may say that an action which hurts people or breaks certain rules such as the Ten Commandments is evil. A person or a group that does evil things may also be called evil.
In theology, there is a question: "If there is a God, why does God let evil happen?" Some think that evil proves that there is not a God. Others think that God lets evil happen so that people can choose "not" to do evil.
The study of good and evil in philosophy is called ethics. Ethics tries to explain why some actions are good and other actions are evil. It attempts to give all kinds of answers for how to tell evil from good.
A version of the problem of evil, perhaps by Epicurus, goes as follows: 
Another argument goes: 
Arguments such as these are about the "logical" problem of evil. They attempt to show that the assumed propositions lead to a logical contradiction and so cannot all be correct. 
A common response is that God can exist with and allow evil in order to achieve a greater good. Some philosophers accept that arguments such as "God allows evil in order to achieve the greater good of free will" are logically possible and thus solve the logical problem of evil. Since the aim is only to defeat the assertion that God and evil are "logically incompatible", even a highly implausible instance of God's coexistence with evil is sufficient for the purpose.
Philosophies of science have approached the problem from the angle of empiricism. For logical positivism the issue with God is the lack of any independent method of verification. In their view, this makes the proposition "God exists", not true or false, but meaningless. A similar position points to the lack of any way the proposition might be falsified.
Christians believe that at the Second Coming of Christ, God will put an end to evil and the works of the Devil- see the end of the Book of Revelation.

</doc>
<doc id="7735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7735" title="1872">
1872

1872 was a leap year in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="7736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736" title="Poznań">
Poznań

Poznań is the biggest city and capital of Greater Poland Voivodeship in Poland, one of the oldest and the biggest cities in Poland. Its population is about 560,000 and its area is 262 square kilometers.
Poznań was one of the 4 Polish cities where the UEFA European Football Championship matches were played in 2012. Poland co-hosted the championship together with Ukraine.

</doc>
<doc id="7737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737" title="Cartoonist">
Cartoonist

A cartoonist is a person who draws cartoons. Cartoons can be pictures on a printed page (also called comics or comic strips) or moving pictures on film (also called animation). Both kinds of cartoons can be found on the internet. Examples of some famous cartoonists are:

</doc>
<doc id="7738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7738" title="Jim Henson">
Jim Henson

James Maury "Jim" Henson (September 24, 1936 – May 16, 1990) was an American artist, animator, puppeteer, and moviemaker. He was best known for his work with the Muppets, which he helped to create.
Henson's best known puppet is Kermit the Frog. As a puppeteer, Henson performed in various television programs, such as "Sesame Street" and "The Muppet Show", movies such as "The Muppet Movie" and "The Great Muppet Caper". He also made puppets for projects like "Fraggle Rock", "The Dark Crystal", and "Labyrinth".
The Jim Henson Company and the Jim Henson Foundation continued after his death, making new series and specials. Jim Henson's Creature Shop, founded by Henson, also continues to build creatures for a large number of other movies and series (e.g. the science-fiction production "Farscape", the movie adaptation of "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy", and the movie "MirrorMask") and is said to be one of the most advanced and well respected creators of movie creatures.
His son Brian and daughter Lisa are the co-chairs and co-CEOs of the company. His daughter Cheryl is the president of the foundation. Steve Whitmire, a veteran member of the Muppet puppeteering crew, plays the roles of Kermit the Frog and Ernie, the most famous characters formerly played by Jim Henson.
One of Henson's last projects is a show attraction in Walt Disney World and Disneyland. It is called Muppet*Vision 3D. It opened in 1991, shortly after his death.

</doc>
<doc id="7745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745" title="Game Boy Advance Video">
Game Boy Advance Video

Game Boy Advance Video is a format of cartridges for the Gameboy Advance. They work the same as normal cartridge but play television shows instead of games. They generally contain 45 minutes of TV, for example, a show from Nickelodeon or Cartoon Network. They were first made in early 2004, but gradually stopped being made shortly before there were no more Game Boy Advance games made in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="7747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7747" title="Butterfly">
Butterfly

A butterfly is a usually day-flying insect of the order Lepidoptera. They are grouped together in the suborder Rhopalocera. Butterflies are closely related to moths, from which they evolved. 
The life of butterflies is closely connected to flowering plants, which their larvae (caterpillars) feed on, and their adults feed and lay their eggs on. They have a long-lasting history of co-evolution with flowering plants. Many of the details of plant anatomy are related to their pollinators, and vice versa. The other notable features of butterflies are their extraordinary range of colours and patterns, and their wings. These are discussed below.
Angiosperms (flowering plants) evolved in the Lower Cretaceous, but did not become common until the Upper Cretaceous. Butterflies were the last major group of insects to appear on the planet. They evolved from moths in the latest Cretaceous or the earliest Cainozoic. The earliest known butterfly fossils date to the mid Eocene epoch, between 40–50 million years ago.
Like moths, butterflies have four wings covered with tiny scales. When a butterfly is not flying, its wings are usually folded over its back. The wings are patterned and are often brightly coloured. There are many different kinds of butterflies. The males and females of each kind are often slightly different from each other. Butterfly watching is a popular hobby. Some people also keep collections of dead butterflies that they have caught. 
Like all insects with complete metamorphosis, a butterfly's life goes through four distinct stages. It begins as an egg, which hatches into a larva (a caterpillar). After some time, the larva turns into a chrysalis (like a cocoon). While it is in the "chrysalis", it becomes a butterfly. The butterfly then hatches out and lays more eggs.
The main predators of butterflies are birds, just as the main predators of the crepuscular moths are bats. Also monkeys and tree-dwelling reptiles are predators, and some insects and spiders. Certainly all reptiles and monkeys have good colour vision, so that butterfly coloration works just as well on them as it does on birds.
The extraordinary colors and patterns on the wings and body can only be understood in terms of their function. Some of the most obvious functions of color are:
The details vary from group to group, and from species to species. The caterpillars also have colours with similar functions. The poisonous substances which make some butterflies noxious to eat are derived from the plants eaten by their caterpillars.
Like most insects, butterflies have three main body parts. These parts are the head, the thorax, and the abdomen. The body is protected by the exoskeleton. The body is made up of sections, known as segments. In between the segments there are flexible areas that allow the butterfly to move. All three parts of the body are covered in very small scales. The scales give the butterfly its color.
Butterflies have a very characteristic flying style. They usually do not fly in straight lines. Their style is well described by the children's version of their name: 'flutter-by'. Some species are capable of strong, long flights (see monarch butterfly migration) and others never leave the woods they were born in. They can survive bird pecks on the wings quite well. Late in the season damage to their wings can often be seen, and still they continue flying quite well.
The head is the first part of the body. It has the eyes, mouth parts, and antennae.
The eyes of a butterfly are large. The eye is made up of smaller eyes or optical units. Eyes that are made up of optical units are called compound eyes. Butterflies do not see as many colors as humans, but they can see ultraviolet light.
The mouth of an adult butterfly does not have jaws. It has a kind of mouth that is made to suck liquids. This mouth is called a proboscis. The proboscis is made up of two hollow tubes. The tubes are locked together in the middle. When the butterfly is not using its proboscis, it is coiled up in the head. It can uncoil the proboscis when it wants to feed.
The antennae of a butterfly are used for smell and balance. The antenna in most butterflies is clubbed at the end. In some butterflies (like the Skippers), there is a hook at the end of the antenna, instead of a club.
The thorax is the second part of the body. It is made up of three segments. The legs and wings are connected to the thorax.
The legs of a butterfly are made for walking, holding onto things, and tasting. There are three pairs of legs. There are four main parts of the leg. They are the trochanter, the femur, the tibia, and the foot. At the end of each foot, there is a pair of claws. Butterflies in the family Nymphalidae have very short front legs. They keep there front legs close to their bodies. This makes it look like they only have two pairs of legs. In some species, there is a movable body part on the tibia that is used to clean the antennae.
A butterfly has two pairs of wings. Each wing has hollow tubes called veins. The colors and patterns of butterflies are made by tiny scales. The scales over lap each other. They are connected to the wing. If a butterfly is handled, the tiny scales may rub off.
The abdomen is the third part of the body. It is made up of ten segments. The abdomen is much softer than the head and the thorax. At the end of the abdomen are the reproductive organs. In the male, there is a pair of claspers. They are used to hold on to the female during mating. In the female, there is a tube made to lay eggs.
Butterflies go through complete metamorphosis. This means that there are four parts in a butterfly's life. The first part is the egg. The second part is the caterpillar (sometimes called the larva). The third part is the chrysalis (sometimes called the pupa). The fourth part is the adult (sometimes called the imago).
A female butterfly will lay her eggs on or near the food plant of the caterpillar (the food plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on). The female will choose a place to lay her eggs using smell, taste, touch, and sight. Most species will lay just one egg on the food plant. Others will lay groups of five to over 100 eggs on the food plant. Most species will lay their eggs on the leaves of the food plant. Others will lay them on the flowers, stems, bark, or fruit of the food plant.
The eggs come in many different shapes and colors. They may be round or oval, and flattened. In some species, the egg shell is ribbed. The most common colors in butterfly eggs are yellow and green. The eggs will turn dark just before hatching. Also, some butterflies take a day to come out of eggs, while others could take months.
Butterfly caterpillars can vary in size, color, and shape. They may have spines, bristles, or soft body extensions. All caterpillars have 13 body segments. The first three segments make up the thorax. The thorax has three pairs of legs. These legs are called true legs. The other 10 segments make up the abdomen. The abdomen has five pairs of soft legs called prolegs. The prolegs have tiny hooks at the end of the each foot. They are used to hold on to things. The hooks are called crochets.
A caterpillar's skin does not grow. As the caterpillar grows inside its skin, the skin becomes too tight. In order for the caterpillar to grow bigger, it sheds its too-tight skin. After the old skin is shed, there is a new, larger skin. This is known as molting. A caterpillar will molt four to five times before turning into a pupa. Each part between molts is called an instar.
All caterpillars can make silk. The silk is made from the salivary glands. Silk starts out as a liquid in the salivary glands. The caterpillar draws out the silk into a small thread. The silk hardens as soon as it is exposed to the air. Caterpillars use silk to make nests or cocoons.
Most caterpillars feed on leaves of plants or trees. Most species of caterpillars will feed only on a small number of certain kinds of plants. If the caterpillar's food plant is not found, it will starve to death.
Some species of caterpillars (in the family Lycaenidae) are tended by ants. The caterpillars have special glands that make a sweet liquid called honeydew. The ants like the honeydew. In return for the honeydew, the ants protect the caterpillars from predators. The caterpillars also have special body parts that make sounds. The caterpillar will make sounds with the body parts and "call" the ants when the caterpillar is being attacked by predators. The ants hear the sounds and come to protect the caterpillar.
Caterpillars in the subfamily Miletinae eat insects in the order Hemiptera. This includes aphids, mealybugs, leafhoppers and treehoppers.
Caterpillars in the family Papilionidae have a special organ. This organ is called an osmeterium. It is a bad-smelling gland that is shaped like a snake's tongue. It is kept behind the inside of the head. When a predator tries to eat the caterpillar, the caterpillar will release the osmeterium. This scares the predators away.
The pupa (plural, pupae) is formed after the last molt. The caterpillar will find a special place to pupate (pupate means to turn into a pupa). The digestive tract is emptied. The caterpillar sheds its skin. The pupa is now exposed. The caterpillar's tissues are broken down and rebuilt into the butterfly's tissues.
The pupa cannot move. It is attached to an object by tiny hooks on the end of the abdomen. These hooks make up what is called the cremaster. There are many tiny holes on the pupa. They allow respiratory gases to move in and out of the pupa.
Many pupae are easy for predators to attack. Some caterpillars (in the family Hesperiidae and the subfamilies Parnassiinae and Satyrinae) make shelters out of silk and leaves to protect themselves when they become pupae. These shelters are called cocoons. Most butterfly pupae do not have cocoons to protect themselves. Instead, the pupae have brown or green colors to camouflage themselves among leaves and branches. Pupae that do not have cocoons are called chrysalids or chrysalises.
Some butterflies may be in trouble because of habitat loss. Because of the destruction of forests and grasslands, some types of butterflies have nowhere to feed and lay eggs. To help, some people plant a butterfly garden with flowers having lots of nectar for butterflies to feed on. Some people also keep plants that butterflies lay eggs on, and enjoy watching the caterpillars hatch out and feed on the plant. Chemical sprays that are used to keep pests away from garden plants, also kill butterflies.

</doc>
<doc id="7749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7749" title="Nazism">
Nazism

Nazism (or National Socialism; ) is a set of political beliefs associated with the Nazi Party of Germany. It started in the 1920s. The Party gained power in 1933, starting the Third Reich. They lasted in Germany until 1945, at the end of World War II.
Many scholars think Nazism was a form of far-right politics. Nazism is a form of fascism and uses biological racism and antisemitism. Much of the philosophy of this movement was based on an idea that the "Aryan race", the term they used for what we today call Germanic people, was better than all other races, and had the greatest ability to survive. According to the racist ideas of Nazism, the Germanic peoples were the "Herrenvolk" (master race). The "inferior" races - the Jews, Roma people, Slavs, and blacks - were classified as "Untermenschen" (sub-humans).
To implement the racist ideas, in 1935 the Nuremberg Race Laws banned non-Aryans and political opponents of the Nazis from the civil-service. They also forbid any sexual contact between "Aryan" and "non-Aryan" people.
The Nazis sent millions of Jews, Roma and other people to concentration camps and death camps, where they were killed. These killings are now called the Holocaust.
The word "Nazi" is a short for "Nationalsozialist" (supporter of the "Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei") in the German language. This means "National Socialist German Workers' Party".
Adolf Hitler, the leader of Nazi Germany, wrote a book called "Mein Kampf" ("My Struggle"). The book said that all of Germany's problems happened because Jews were making plans to hurt the country. He also said that Jewish and communist politicians planned the Armistice of 1918 that ended World War I, and allowed Germany to agree to pay huge amounts of money and goods (reparations).
On the night of the 27 February 1933 and 28 February 1933, someone set the Reichstag building on fire. This was the building where the German Parliament held their meetings. The Nazis blamed the communists. Opponents of the Nazis said that the Nazis themselves had done it to come to power. On the very same day, an emergency law called "Reichstagsbrandverordnung" was passed. The government claimed it was to protect the state from people trying to hurt the country. With this law, most of the civil rights of the Weimar Republic did not count any longer. The Nazis used this against the other political parties. Members of the communist and social-democratic parties were put into prison or killed. People were threatened, and there was a lot of violence against them.
The Nazis became the biggest party in the parliament. By 1934, they managed to make all other parties illegal. Democracy was replaced with a dictatorship. Adolf Hitler became leader ("Führer") of Germany.
As the German leader (Führer) of Nazi Germany, Hitler began moving Nazi armies into neighboring countries. When Germany attacked Poland, World War II started. Western countries like France, Belgium, and the Netherlands were occupied and to be treated by Germany as colonies. However, in Eastern countries, such as Poland and the Soviet Union, the Nazis planned to kill or enslave the Slavic peoples, so that German settlers could take their land.
The Nazis made alliances with other European countries, such as Finland and Italy. Every other European country that allied with Germany did it because they did not want to be taken over by Germany. By alliances and invasions, the Nazis managed to control much of Europe.
In the Holocaust, millions of Jews, as well as Roma people (also called "Gypsies"), people with disabilities, homosexuals, political opponents, and many other people were sent to concentration camps and death camps in Poland and Germany. The Nazis killed millions of these people at the concentration camps with poison gas. The Nazis also killed millions of people in these groups by forcing them to do slave labor without giving them much food or clothing. In total, 11 million people died- 6 million of them Jews.
In 1945, the Soviet Union took over Berlin after beating the German army in Russia. The Soviet Red Army met the American and British armies, who had fought right across Germany after invading Nazi Europe from Normandy in France on June 6,1944. The Nazis lost because the Allies had many more soldiers and more money than them.
During the invasion of Berlin, Hitler may have shot himself in a bunker with his new wife, Eva Braun. Other Nazis also killed themselves, including Joseph Goebbels just one day after Hitler named him as his successor. The Nazis surrendered after the Red Army captured Berlin.
After the war, the Allied governments, such as the United States, Britain, and the Soviet Union, held trials for the Nazi leaders. These trials were held in Nuremberg, in Germany. For this reason, these trials were called "the Nuremberg Trials." The Allied leaders accused the Nazi leaders of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including murdering millions of people (in the Holocaust), of starting wars, of conspiracy, and belonging to illegal organizations like the "Schutzstaffel" (SS). Most Nazi leaders were found guilty by the court, and they were sent to jail or executed by hanging.
There has not been a "Nazi" state since 1945, but there are still people who believe in those ideas. These people are called "neo"-Nazis, (which means "new"-Nazis). Here are some examples of neo-Nazi ideas:
After the war, laws were made in Germany and other countries, especially countries in Europe, that make it illegal to say the Holocaust never happened. Sometimes they also ban questioning the number of people affected by it, which is saying that not so many people were killed as most people think. There has been some controversy over whether this affects people's free speech. Certain countries, such as Germany, Austria, and France also ban the use of Nazi symbols to stop Nazis from using them.

</doc>
<doc id="7751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7751" title="Pork">
Pork

Pork is meat that comes from the domestic pig. It is the most commonly consumed meat worldwide, with evidence of pig husbandry dating back to 5000 BC.
A simple meal to make which contains pork is afelia. Sausages, bacon and ham are the most common uses of pork in the United Kingdom, the United States, and other parts of the Western world.

</doc>
<doc id="7752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7752" title="Mike Farrell">
Mike Farrell

Mike Farrell (born February 6, 1939 in St. Paul, Minnesota) is an American actor, writer and producer. He played BJ Hunnicutt on the television series "M*A*S*H". He played Michael "Mike" Hawks in the television movie "Battered" in 1978. Farrell is also an activist for various causes, including animal rights and world peace.

</doc>
<doc id="7753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7753" title="David Ogden Stiers">
David Ogden Stiers

David Ogden Stiers (born October 31, 1942) is an American actor and voice artist. He is most famous for his role as Charles Emerson Winchester III on the television series, "M*A*S*H". He also did the voices in several Disney animated movies, most notably Cogsworth in "Beauty and the Beast", Sir John Radcliffe in "Pocahantas", and Dr. Jumba Jookiba in "Lilo & Stitch".
He also plays the voice of Escher in the "Myst V" (End of Ages) video game.
Stiers was born in Peoria, Illinois in October 31, 1942. He attended Urbana High School, at the same time as movie critic Roger Ebert. He went to Eugene, Oregon, where he graduated from North Eugene High School and briefly attended the University of Oregon. 
Stiers is openly gay. Stiers is a Democrat. 

</doc>
<doc id="7754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7754" title="Beauty and the Beast">
Beauty and the Beast

Beauty and the Beast is a French folk story. It tells the story of a merchant who is lost in the woods. He finds the palace of a beast who wants to kill him, and makes a deal with the beast, to have his daughter in exchange. The daughter goes to live in the Beast's castle; the two fall in love; and the beast turns into a prince. 
The story has been published and revised in many versions, most notably Madame Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve's 1740 retelling and its revision in 1756 by Madame Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont. 
It was the inspiration for many other stories, as well as a 1980s TV series starring Linda Hamilton and Ron Pearlman. Several movies have been based on it, most famously Jean Cocteau's 1946 version and the 1991 animated version by Disney, which was nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award and inspired a long-running Broadway musical.

</doc>
<doc id="7755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7755" title="Wayne Rogers">
Wayne Rogers

William Wayne McMillan Rogers III (April 7, 1933 – December 31, 2015) was an American television and movie actor. He played the role of "Trapper" John McIntrye on the TV series "M*A*S*H". (The role was played by Elliott Gould in the 1970 movie version and Pernell Roberts on the 1979-1986 TV show, "Trapper John MD"). He left the show in 1975 and was replaced by Mike Farrell as BJ Hunnicutt. He graduated from Princeton University with a degree in history and served in the Navy before becoming an actor. 
Since retiring from acting, Rogers works as an investor and appears on many financial news shows.
Rogers died from complications of pneumonia in Los Angeles, California on December 31, 2015 at the age of 82.

</doc>
<doc id="7756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7756" title="McLean Stevenson">
McLean Stevenson

McLean Stevenson (November 14, 1929 – February 15, 1996) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Henry Blake on the TV show, "M*A*S*H". He left the show in 1975 and his character was killed off.
His grandfather Adlai E. Stevenson was Vice-president of the United States to Grover Cleveland, and his second cousin, once removed Adlai Stevenson II was Governor of Illinois and unsuccessfully ran for President twice in the 1950s losing to Dwight D. Eisenhower both times.
Ironically, Roger Bowen, who played Henry Blake in the 1970 movie version of "M*A*S*H", died the day after Mac Stevenson did, and of the same cause, a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="7757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7757" title="Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve">
Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve

Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve (April 15, 1793 – November 23, 1864 (Julian calendar: November 11)) was a German-born Russian astronomer. He was born in Altona (now an area of Hamburg), Germany, but later lived in Russia. He was an expert on double stars and one of the first astronomers to measure stellar parallax (closely related to the work by Friedrich Bessel).
While director of Dorpat Observatory (1817–39) he wrote "Stellarum Duplicum et Multiplicum" (1837), which proved that double stars are not exceptional and that star systems are governed by the laws of gravity. Struve added a lot to the study of galactic structure and also engaged in notable geodetic operations such as the triangulation of Livonia and the measurement of an arc of the meridian. In 1839 he became director of the new Pulkovo Observatory and was one of the first three astronomers who almost simultaneously obtained an approximate stellar parallax. (One of the others being Bessel)
In 1822 he published the first of many double-star catalogues, the identifying numbers of which are still used today. Struve's stars, however, are now often named in his honor (for example, Struve 2398), whereas the original catalogue prefix was the Greek letter sigma. In 1833 he moved to Russia to set up the Pulkovo Observatory near St. Petersburg, of which he was director until his retirement in 1862, when his son took over in the post. In total, Friedrich Struve produced 272 astronomical works and 18 children; his great-grandson Otto, by contrast, produced 907 works but zero children.
His son, Otto Wilhelm von Struve (1819–1905) succeeded him as director (1862–89) of the Pulkovo Observatory.

</doc>
<doc id="7762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7762" title="Mario Party (series)">
Mario Party (series)

Mario Party is a series of video games created by Nintendo and Hudson. The idea of each game is that Mario and his friends must travel across a game board and earn stars and coins. Each new game in the series contains new characters, playing boards, and mini-games. Every few turns, each character must participate in a mini-game. The winner generally gets 10 coins.

</doc>
<doc id="7764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7764" title="Helsinki">
Helsinki

Helsinki () is the capital city of Finland. Helsinki is the largest city in Finland. 604,380(31.12.2012) people live in Helsinki, and 1,360,000 live in the Helsinki metropolitan area.
Helsinki is in the south of Finland, on the coast of the Gulf of Finland. City is in the Uusimaa region. When one looks from Helsinki, Tallinn is on the opposite side of the sea, but it is too far away to see. A poetic name for Helsinki is "the daughter of the Baltic Sea".
In 1550, Swedish king Gustav Vasa commanded people to build a new city and move there. His idea was to build a new place to trade, which would be more popular than Tallinn. The idea did not work well, and many people returned from Helsinki to their homes. Later Sweden built the fortress Suomenlinna in Helsinki. After Russia had taken Finland from Sweden in several wars, they started developing Helsinki. Helsinki became the capital of autonomous province of Finland. When Finland became independent in 1917, Helsinki stayed as the capital city.
Helsinki spreads around several bays and over several islands. Some famous islands include Seurasaari, Lauttasaari and Korkeasaari - which is also the country's biggest zoo - as well as the fortress island of Suomenlinna (Sveaborg).

</doc>
<doc id="7765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7765" title="Jehovah's Witnesses">
Jehovah's Witnesses

Jehovah's Witnesses are a religious group with more than eight million members throughout the world. They believe God will end the present system of things, which belongs to Satan, with its crime, violence, sickness and death; they believe it will be replaced with his Kingdom which will restore his original purpose for the Earth, bringing about peace for all humans who live by the Bible's standards.
Most of the religion's beliefs are based on the Bible. These beliefs were taught by Charles Taze Russell, a preacher who started a Bible study group in Pennsylvania in 1876, and later started publishing a religious magazine called "The Watchtower". 
Many of those beliefs, especially about who God is and what his plans are for humans and the earth, are different to what is taught in mainstream Christian churches. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people will go to heaven and that the remaining people who obey God will live forever on a paradise Earth. They do not believe that God is a Trinity. They teach that when people die, they remain in their graves until Jesus Christ resurrects them after God's Kingdom, or government, is ruling over earth. 
Witnesses are best known for preaching their beliefs from door-to-door and in other public places, and offering their magazines, "The Watchtower" and "Awake!" They are also well known for refusing to join armies and refusing blood transfusions.
In 1870 a young clothing shop owner named Charles Taze Russell heard an Adventist preacher speak. The preacher said the Bible contained clues that showed God was about to set up a kingdom, or government, over earth. He said the kingdom, which is mentioned many times in the New Testament of the Bible, would be based in heaven, and it would completely change the way of life for everyone in the world. Russell studied that preacher's teachings, then arrived with a set of beliefs after looking through the Bible for answers. 
Using a combination of Bible verses and historical dates, Russell decided that God would very soon call to heaven a group of "saints" who would become the kings of that Kingdom. There would also be other "saints", who were faithful Christians of the past who had since died, who would also make up a total of 144,000 kings in heaven. Churches at the time were teaching that humans were still waiting for Jesus to return to earth in his Second Coming, but Russell believed all those Bible clues proved Jesus had actually returned in 1874 for what he called his "parousia", or "presence". Russell believed part of God's plan was also to start Armageddon. Russell thought this Armageddon be a complete breakdown of law and order on earth, when governments and classes of people would fight among themselves. But after that, he believed, God would end sickness and death and allow humble and obedient Christians to live forever in perfect health.
Russell believed it was very important that all Christians, including those who were attending churches, should learn those "truths." He believed these "truths" had been carefully hidden in the Bible for thousands of years. He therefore established a publishing group called the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. He wrote several books, set up some Bible study classes where people could study his teachings, and began publishing a magazine, "Zion's Watch Tower and Herald of Christ's Presence", which announced that Christ was already present. He wrote about his belief that God would bring about all those events by 1914.
By the time Russell died in 1916, the articles, books, pamphlets and sermons he had written totaled 50,000 printed pages, with almost 20 million copies of his books printed and distributed around the world. Joseph Franklin Rutherford, one of his followers, took Russell's position as president of the Watch Tower Society. 
Rutherford began writing and publishing many books as well. He made some changes to Russell's teachings and also required all the study groups, or congregations, around the world to agree to a united set of teachings and rules issued by the Watch Tower Society in New York. He told all members of the religion that they should start to go door to door preaching about God's Kingdom and also sell Watch Tower Society publications so more people would hear the message. In 1931 Rutherford introduced the name "Jehovah's Witnesses" for the religion, partly to highlight what the religion believed was God's holy name. By the time Rutherford died in 1942, the religion had a worldwide membership of 115,000. 
Some of the new teachings, however, resulted in suffering for many Jehovah's Witnesses. Thousands were sent to prison or beaten or killed in several countries during World War II because they refused to fight. Later, in the United States, many children were expelled from schools because they refused to salute the flag, because they thought that God would not approve. Some countries still have laws against members practicing that religion. But Jehovah's Witnesses continued to grow rapidly, partly because they were becoming more skilled at teaching the public in their door-to-door preaching, and by 1977 they had more than two million members around the world and many properties at their New York headquarters.
From 1966, the religion encouraged members to believe that God would bring Armageddon in 1975, and that the Kingdom would be set up very soon after. Some Witnesses sold businesses and homes, gave up jobs, delayed medical operations and decided against starting a family because they expected Armageddon to arrive. The religion's leaders later apologised for those statements, which they said were made because they were so keen for the Kingdom to come. Many members left at the time, because they were disappointed nothing had happened, but membership later climbed even higher.
Like Jews, Muslims and Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses believe there is a God who is the Creator and the most powerful individual in the universe. But they have some different beliefs from those religions. They say God explained in the Bible that his name is Jehovah (which is a translation of the Hebrew letters "YHWH") and they believe it is important that people know that name. They believe that Jesus Christ is God's son, and the holy spirit is the power that God can use to help his purposes. They do not believe in the Trinity. They believe the Bible is a book that God wrote with the help of humans, and it is therefore completely true and the best guide to how people should live.
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that God made Adam and Eve, the first humans, and put them in a paradise called Eden. They believe that when Adam and Eve sinned, they no longer had God's approval and that therefore they began to get sick and die. Because they were no longer perfect, they were unable to have perfect children, so from that point humans would find it very hard to avoid sinning. They believe that Jehovah later sent Jesus to die (on a "torture stake" pole, rather than a cross, as most Christians believe) to make a way for humans to get back the paradise that Adam and Eve lost and restore them to perfect health and life.
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people, who are referred to in Revelation chapters 7 and 14, will go to heaven to be kings and priests with Jesus Christ; though the term "kings and priests" is used, women are not excluded from the heavenly class. They say that God is going to start a worldwide war called Armageddon, and that billions of people who do not obey God or worship him the way he expects will be killed. The people who he approves will survive that great war and will be given the opportunity to live forever, because God will remove all sickness, disease and death. 
God will then begin to turn Earth into a peaceful paradise where there will be no crime, violence or wars, because criminals and dishonest people will have died at Armageddon. He will also resurrect (bring back to life) the billions of people who died in the past, so they can learn the truth about God and show they want to live obediently in a paradise as well. 
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only their religion truly obeys God's instructions, and that God disapproves of all other religions (including Catholics, Protestants, Buddhists and Muslims) because they refuse to really follow the Bible. They believe the leader of all those religions is Satan the Devil, who blinds the minds of people into thinking they are pleasing God with their worship. For that reason, they believe only members of Jehovah's Witnesses who really live by Bible principles and in a way God approves will be saved at Armageddon, though God will make the final choice.
Jehovah's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door ministry work. They believe Jesus Christ ordered them at Matthew 28:19 to "go make disciples of all the nations" warning people that the day of God's judgement, or Armageddon, will happen soon. Jehovah's Witnesses believe their preaching work is a fulfillment of prophesy located at Matthew 24:14, "And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come." All Witnesses are encouraged to spend time regularly in public preaching work, which usually involves offering "The Watchtower" or other Watch Tower Society publications. Since the Internet, Jehovah's Witnesses also preach online with some bible studies taking place over communication networks such as Skype. They teach people Witness doctrine about Jehovah and his plans for the earth. Students are required to give a monthly written report on how much time they have spent in that ministry.
The buildings where Jehovah's Witnesses meet to worship are called Kingdom Halls. Unlike many other churches, these halls do not have altars, statues, symbols such as the Cross, or candles. Each congregation has two meetings a week, which are broken down into four meeting events: 
Members can also attend by phone, by listening in via a call-in number. They also attend big conventions and assemblies several times a year (some of them at hired sports arenas), where often thousands of Jehovah's Witnesses gather. 
Most meetings consist of talks or study sessions based on articles in Watchtower Society books and magazines about the Bible or Christian life. At the congregation, people in the audience, including children, are often invited to make comments and respond to questions asked by the speaker. The religion has elders and ministerial servants (who are called bishops and deacons in some other Christian churches), but they have no paid clergy. Most elders support themselves by having other jobs. Also, they do not consider themselves to be superior to other members of the congregation, and do not set themselves apart in any way (like by dressing in a certain way).
Members of the religion are expected to live up to high moral standards. They are told they should always be honest. 
Jehovah's Witnesses are not allowed to: 
Jehovah's Witnesses are encouraged to marry only other baptized Jehovah's Witnesses. They are warned that God does not like married couples to divorce. 
They also refuse to have blood transfusions. They believe that in the Bible, God said blood should not be taken into the body. 
They are warned not to make close friends with people who are not Jehovah's Witnesses, because of the danger that those people could make their faith in God weaker. However, they are allowed to be around non-Witnesses.. 
Jehovah's Witnesses are quite strict about who can be a member. Any Witness who is suspected of breaking any of the Bible's moral standards may be asked to appear before an investigation held by elders. This is not public. 
A member of the religion who disagrees with any official teaching and talks or writes about it may also be called to appear and answer questions. That investigation is called a judicial committee. If the elders decide the person is 'guilty' and does not regret what they did, they may tell the person they have been "disfellowshipped." This means they are no longer a member of the religion or approved by God. When that happens, no other Jehovah's Witness is allowed to talk to that person until they are allowed back in. 
Some people, including former Witnesses, have criticized this way of keeping the congregation clean as harsh and unfair. The style of leadership of the religion has also been described by some authors as autocratic and totalitarian because of the way members have to be completely submissive to the leaders. Members have to avoid criticizing the religion or its teachings in any way.
 Jehovah's Witnesses' brochures about the name Jehovah 

</doc>
<doc id="7767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7767" title="Wife">
Wife

A wife is a married woman. "Married" means that the law says two people are legally "joined". During the marriage ceremony, the wife is called the bride.
In countries and times it has been different how many wives a man can have legally. In old times there were no limitations in some countries. In Christianity a man can have one wife. In Islam a man can have up to four wives.
There are some names for special kinds of wives. For example,
a queen is a wife of a king. 
A man whose wife is deceased is called a widower.

</doc>
<doc id="7769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7769" title="Catherine Parr">
Catherine Parr

Catherine Parr (alternatively Katherine or Kateryn) (c.1512 – 5 September 1548) was Queen of England and of Ireland (1543–47). She was the last of the six wives of King Henry VIII. She married him on 12 July 1543, and outlived him by one year. She was also the most-married English queen, with four husbands. She was also the first woman to be queen of both England and Ireland.
Catherine had a close relationship with Henry's three children. She personally helped teach school for Elizabeth and Edward, both of whom became English monarchs. She helped get the Third Succession Act in 1543 passed. This placed Mary I and Elizabeth I, back into the line of succession to the British throne.
Henry died on 28 January 1547. Six months after Henry's death, she married her fourth and final husband, Thomas Seymour, the Baron of Sudeley. 
Catherine gave birth to her only child — a daughter, Mary Seymour. She was named after Catherine's stepdaughter Mary – on 30 August 1548. She died only six days later, on 5 September 1548, at Sudeley Castle in Gloucestershire, from what was probably childbed fever (sepsis). This was common at that time, because births did not happen in clean conditions. 
Many years later, in 1782, the coffin of Queen Catherine was found in the ruins of the Sudeley Castle chapel. 

</doc>
<doc id="7774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7774" title="Queen (band)">
Queen (band)

Queen are a British rock band that formed in London in 1970, and are one of the most commercially successful musical acts of all time. The band members were Freddie Mercury (lead vocals, piano), Brian May (guitar, vocals), Roger Taylor (drums, vocals), and John Deacon (bass guitar).
Freddie Mercury died of an AIDS-related illness on November 24, 1991. In 1997 John Deacon retired to spend more time with his family. The other two former members toured with Paul Rodgers from 2005 to 2009. Three of their biggest hits were "We Will Rock You", "We Are the Champions" and "Bohemian Rhapsody".
Queen were put in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001.
In 1968, Brian May was at college. He decided to make a band and teamed up with two other college students called Tim Staffell and Roger Taylor. They called themselves "Smile" with Roger Taylor on drums and vocals, Tim Staffell on vocals and bass and Brian May on guitar and vocals. They did a few hits such as "April Lady". Tim Staffell became friends with another college student, Farrokh Bulsara (to be later known as Freddie Mercury) and Farrokh became a big fan of "Smile" and encouraged them a lot. Later on, Tim left "Smile" to join "Humpy Bong" and Farrokh Bulsara subsequently joined the band on vocals and piano. Then Farrokh came up with the name "Queen", so they changed it from "Smile" to "Queen. They then started auditions for a new bassist. None of the auditioners managed to suit the place of the new bassist, but finally in 1971, they settled on John Deacon. Queen's first album was released in 1973 and it was called "Queen" with songs such as "Seven Seas Of Rhye" and "Liar". Farrokh Bulsara changed his name to Freddie Mercury after the lyrics "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" in "My Fairy King".

</doc>
<doc id="7775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7775" title="Simon &amp; Garfunkel">
Simon &amp; Garfunkel

Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel were an American pop music group. They were two childhood friends, who found fame in the 1960s. Their songs, including "Mrs. Robinson", "So Long, Frank Lloyd Wright", "The Sound of Silence", and "Bridge Over Troubled Water", all composed by Simon, are still popular to this day.
Their free concert in New York City's Central Park in 1981 was the biggest concert ever, with 500,000 people (about the same number as Woodstock).

</doc>
<doc id="7776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7776" title="Madagascar">
Madagascar

Madagascar is a large island nation in the Indian Ocean, off of the east coast of Africa. Twenty-two million people live there; its capital is Antananarivo. It is the world's fourth largest island.
The official languages are Malagasy and French.
Geologists think that about two million years ago, Madagascar was a part of a big landmass that included what is now the continent of Africa, but it broke off. Madagascar would later break off of the Indian subcontinent.
Madagascar is home to many species that were not known about until around 1679 when Dutch explorers went there. They do not even exist elsewhere in Africa. They only exist in Madagascar. In fact, most of the mammals living in Madagascar do not live anywhere else in the world. However, many of the species in Madagascar are in danger because many of the forests have been cut down. A big reason that forests have been cut down is so that land can be used to grow crops such as coffee, which is one of the most important crops that is grown in Madagascar.
Agriculture is a big part of the economy in Madagascar, including the growing of coffee and vanilla. Madagascar sells more vanilla than any other country in the world. Madagascar also makes money from tourism.
In 2004 Madagascar was divided into 22 regions. It used to be divided into 6 provinces.
People have probably lived in Madagascar for at least 2000 years.
France took over the city of Antananarivo in 1895, and added Madagascar as a colony two years later. Madagascar became independent from France, which meant it became its own country, on 26 June, 1960. On March 17, 2009, President Marc Ravalomanana quit because of pressure from the military. Andry Raejolina became the next president.

</doc>
<doc id="7777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7777" title="Board game">
Board game

A board game is a game usually played with pieces on a board, or some area with marked spaces. Many board games use pieces that may be moved, placed, or traded depending on the rules of the game. These pieces may be money, chips, pawns, or other objects. Board games may also involve some random chance with dice or cards, for example. There are many board games with a long history in some cultures. Examples of these games are chess, checkers, backgammon, parqués, and go. There are also a great number of popular board games that have been created more recently, in the past hundred years. Among these games are Scrabble and Monopoly. 
Chess, and most versions of checkers, are played on a 8x8 square board with 32 white squares and 32 black squares. International checkers is played on a 10x10 square board.

</doc>
<doc id="7782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7782" title="Aerosmith">
Aerosmith

Aerosmith is an American rock band, formed in 1970 in Boston, Massachusetts. They have released many popular songs, including "Walk This Way" and "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing". They have their own Guitar Hero video game called . Their lead singer is Steven Tyler.

</doc>
<doc id="7783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7783" title="Brighton">
Brighton

Brighton is a city on the south coast of England, once called "Brighthelmstone". It is in the county of East Sussex. In 2000, it joined Hove to become the city of Brighton & Hove. Historically, Brighton forms the main part of the Brighton/Worthing/Littlehampton conurbation, with 474,485 inhabitants (2011 census). This is England's 12th largest conurbation, and the mostly densely populated area outside London.
From the 1730s, Brighton entered its second phase of development—one which brought a rapid improvement in its fortunes. The fad for bathing in seawater as a cure for illnesses was encouraged. From the 1760s it was a boarding point for boats travelling to France. Road transport to London was improved when the main road via Crawley was turnpiked in 1770. Spas and indoor baths were opened by physicians.
From 1780, development of Georgian terraces started, and the fishing village developed to the fashionable resort of Brighton. Growth of the town was encouraged by the patronage of the Prince Regent (later King George IV) after his first visit in 1783. He spent much of his leisure time in the town, and had the Royal Pavilion built during the early part of his Regency. 
The arrival of the London and Brighton Railway in 1841 brought Brighton within the reach of day-trippers from London. The population grew from around 7,000 in 1801 to more than 120,000 by 1901.
Modern Brighton is a centre for education, sports and recreation. It has two universities (University of Sussex and the University of Brighton) and 54 schools. In 2003, the universities of Sussex and Brighton formed a medical school, known as Brighton and Sussex Medical School.

</doc>
<doc id="7785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7785" title="April 20">
April 20


</doc>
<doc id="7786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7786" title="Vincent van Gogh">
Vincent van Gogh

Vincent Willem van Gogh (30 March 1853–29 July 1890) was a Dutch post-impressionist painter. His work had a great influence on modern art because of its striking colours and emotional power. He suffered from anxiety and fits of mental illness. When he was 37, he died from shooting himself in the chest.
When he was a young man, Van Gogh worked for a company of art dealers. He traveled between The Hague, London and Paris. After that, he taught in England. He then wanted to become a pastor and spread the Gospel, and from 1879 he worked as a missionary in a mining place in Belgium. He began drawing the people there, and in 1885, he painted his first important work, "The Potato Eaters". He usually painted in dark colors at this time. In March 1886, he moved to Paris and found out about the French impressionists. Later, he moved to the south of France, and the colors in his art became brighter. His special style of art was developed and later fully grown during the time he stayed in Arles in 1888.
He was born Vincent Willem van Gogh on March 30, 1853 in Groot-Zundert, Netherlands. His father, Theodorus van Gogh, was a pastor. His mother, Anna Cornelia Carbentus, was an artist. Van Gogh was brought up in a religious and cultured family. He was very emotional and he did not have a great deal of self-confidence. He was also a replacement child. He was born a year after the death of his brother, also named Vincent. He even had the same birthday. Living at the church rectory Vincent walked past the grave of his dead brother every day. There has been speculation that van Gogh suffered later psychological trauma as a result. But this cannot be proved.
Between 1860 and 1880, when he finally decided to become an artist, van Gogh had had two sad romances. He also had worked unsuccessfully in a bookstore, as an art salesman, and a preacher. He remained in Belgium, where he had preached, to study art. The works of his early Dutch period are sad, sharp, and one of the most famous pictures from here is "The Potato Eaters", painted in 1885. In that year, van Gogh went to Antwerp where he found the works of Rubens and bought a lot of Japanese prints.
In 1886 he went to Paris to join his brother Théo, who was the manager of Goupil's gallery. In Paris, van Gogh studied with Cormon. He also met Pissarro, Monet, and Gauguin. This helped the colors of his paintings lighten and be painted in short strokes from the paintbrush. His nervous temper made him a difficult companion and night-long discussions combined with painting all day made him very unhealthy. He decided to go south to Arles where he hoped his friends would join him and help found a school of art. Gauguin did join him, but it did not help. Near the end of 1888, Gauguin left Arles. Van Gogh followed him with an open razor, but was stopped by Gauguin. Instead, he cut his own ear lobe off. After that, van Gogh began to get fits of madness and was sent to the asylum in Saint-Remy for medical treatment.
In May of 1890, he regained his health and went to live in Auvers-sur-Oise. Dr. Gachet watched him carefully. However, two months later on 27 July, he tried to commit suicide by shooting himself with a revolver. He died two days later, with Theo at his side. Theo reported his last words as ""La tristese durera toujours"", which meant, "The sadness will last forever" in French. 
During his brief career he had only sold one painting. After his death, Van Gogh's finest works were all sold in less than three years. His mother threw away a lot of his paintings during his life and even after his death. But she lived long enough to see him become a world famous painter. He was not well known when he was alive, and most people did not appreciate his art. After he died, though, he became very famous. Today, many people think he is one of the greatest painters in the world and an important influence on modern art. Van Gogh did not begin painting until he was almost 30. Most of his famous works were done in his last two years. He made more than 2,000 artworks, with 900 paintings and 1,100 drawings and sketches. Today, many of his pieces portraits, landscapes and sunflowers are some of the most famous and costly works of art in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="7787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7787" title="April 2">
April 2


</doc>
<doc id="7788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7788" title="October 14">
October 14


</doc>
<doc id="7789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7789" title="February 2">
February 2


</doc>
<doc id="7790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7790" title="Rainbow">
Rainbow

A rainbow is an arc of color in the sky that can be seen when the sun shines through falling rain. The pattern of colors starts with red on the outside and changes through orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo to violet on the inside.
A rainbow is created when light is bent (refracted) while entering a droplet of water and reflected. A rainbow is actually round. On the ground, the bottom part is hidden, but in the sky, like from a flying airplane, it can be seen as a circle. 
Rainbows often appear after storms, and are popular symbols for peace and harmony in many cultures.
The rainbow effect can be seen when:
The rainbow displays with the deepest effect in our minds take place when:
Another common place to see the rainbow effect is near waterfalls. Parts of rainbows can be seen some of the time:
An unnatural rainbow effect can also be made putting drops of water into the air on a sunny day.
The rainbow has no definite number of physical colors but seven are traditionally listed. Computer screens cannot show them precisely but can approximate them: 

</doc>
<doc id="7792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7792" title="Central Intelligence Agency">
Central Intelligence Agency

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a part of the Federal government of the United States. The agency was formed after World War II. 
The CIA is made up of four groups that each do different things. Their goal is to protect the US people.
Many people feel that the CIA does more bad than good. Some people feel that the CIA does good by finding out secret information about enemies of the United States. American law makes it illegal for the CIA and other agencies to killing foreign leaders. 
In 1992, Saddam Hussein tried to kill former President George H.W. Bush, who used to be director of the CIA, during a visit to Kuwait. The assassination plot was not successful. In retaliation, then-President Clinton ordered cruise missiles to be fired at the building of the Iraqi equivalent to the CIA. This occurred at night so only the janitors were killed, not those who planned the assassination.
CIA has many clandestine, or secret, operations. Some CIA employees have been killed while working. Their names are on a CIA memorial but some of the names are stil secret. The memorial has a star for them, instead. 
The CIA also uses open sources to gather information. Analysts read foreign newspapers and watch foreign news broadcasts to learn information which can be pieced together to make a conclusion.
The CIA used to report to the President. After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, there was a reorganization so that the CIA, along with other intelligence agencies, report to a newly created Director.
The CIA has been featured in many TV and film productions - including, but not limited to, the American TV show "The Agency"; the American TV mini-series "The Company"; "Spy Game," starring Robert Redford and Brad Pitt; "Night Flight to Moscow," starring Yul Brenner; "Scorpio," starring Burt Lancaster; "Clear and Present Danger," starring Harrison Ford; "Ice Station Zebra"; and several James Bond films which featured CIA agent Felix Leiter.

</doc>
<doc id="7794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7794" title="1975">
1975

1975 (MCMLXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="7795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7795" title="July 16">
July 16


</doc>
<doc id="7796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7796" title="Thomas Dolby">
Thomas Dolby

Thomas Dolby (born Thomas Morgan Robertson; 14 October 1958) is a British musican and computer designer. He is probably most famous for his 1982 hit, "She Blinded me with Science".
He married actress Kathleen Beller in 1988. The couple have three children together.

</doc>
<doc id="7798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7798" title="Seismic retrofit">
Seismic retrofit

Seismic retrofitting is the modification of buildings that already exist to make them resistant to earthquakes. Seismic retrofitting techniques can be applied to other kinds of natural disasters such as tornadoes and strong winds from thunderstorms.
Main levels of retrofitted building structure performance objectives may vary, namely:

</doc>
<doc id="7802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7802" title="Company (disambiguation)">
Company (disambiguation)

The word company has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="7803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7803" title="1890">
1890


</doc>
<doc id="7805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7805" title="Rio de Janeiro">
Rio de Janeiro

Rio de Janeiro is the second largest city in Brazil. It is the capital of the state of Rio de Janeiro. Until April 21, 1960 it was the capital city of Brazil. According to the 2000 Census, the city had 5,473,909 people, and an area of over 1,000 km. In 2008 Eduardo Paes became Mayor. The city was started in 1565.
Copacabana Beach, Ipanema Beach, Sugar Loaf Mountain (in Portuguese, "Pão de Açúcar"), the statue of Christ the Redeemer (in Portuguese, "Cristo Redentor"), a harbor on Guanabara Bay, and Tom Jobim Airport are located in Rio de Janeiro. It has much commerce and many industries, especially textiles, food, chemicals, and metallurgy. Most of these industries are located in the northern and western suburbs of the city. Rio de Janeiro also has a small rural area, near the suburb of Campo Grande, where fruits and vegetables are grown. 
Other cities near Rio de Janeiro, like Duque de Caxias, Nova Iguaçu, Queimados and São Gonçalo, that form the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro, also have a lot of industries and population. 
The city is 420 kilometers (about 261 miles) away from São Paulo, the biggest city in South America. The cities of Rio and São Paulo are linked by the Presidente Dutra Highway (also known as "Via Dutra"). The region crossed by the Presidente Dutra Highway has been an important industrial zone since the 1950s.
In the city of Rio de Janeiro lies Tijuca National Park, created in 1961. This park contains some 33 km, between the northern and the southern parts of the city. The district (in Portuguese, "bairro") of Santa Tereza can be reached by taking an electric tram (in Portuguese, "bonde") from central Rio de Janeiro (near "Largo da Carioca" subway station), crossing over the "Arcos da Lapa", an aqueduct built during the colonial period to provide water to the city.
On October 2, 2009, the city was named by the International Olympic Committee as the host for the 2016 Summer Olympic Games.

</doc>
<doc id="7817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7817" title="Andrew Jackson">
Andrew Jackson

Andrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 – June 8, 1845) was a General in the War of 1812 and was considered to be a war hero. He became the seventh President of the United States of America. He was the first Democrat and is on the Twenty Dollar Bill. His nickname was "Old Hickory".
As a boy Andrew Jackson was a messenger for the Continental Army. The British caught him and mistreated him.
He was the first U.S. President who was not born into a rich family. He was not a rich man and did not have a college education. For these reasons, Jackson stood for the common man (people who worked hard and did not make a lot of money, like farmers).
In 1791, he fell in love with Rachel Donelson Robards. They went through a marriage ceremony. However, the marriage was not legal because she had not been granted a divorce from her first husband. Therefore, they married legally three years later. They had no children, but they adopted several. He became rich and owned a large plantation.
Andrew Jackson reorganized the Democratic Party and was its leader.
In 1828, he defeated John Quincy Adams in the Presidential Election of 1828, he became President on March 4th, 1829, and four years later he was re-elected to a second term as President.
Jackson supported a popular democracy where the people directly elect the President instead of what we have now, the Electoral College where the people elect people who elect the President.
During his Presidency, he signed the Indian Removal Act which allowed the U.S. government to violently force the Native Americans to move from their land and go west. Many Native Americans were killed and the path they walked to get to the west was called the Trail of Tears.
Andrew Jackson was against the national bank of the United States because he felt that it was run by rich powerful people and that it did not serve the interests of the common man. The national bank expired during Jackson's Presidency. Jackson chose not to continue the bank.
On March 4th, 1837, Andrew Jackson finished his second term. After that, Vice-President Martin Van Buren became President (because he was elected) and continued many of the things Jackson did. Jackson was a big influence on other Democrats during the 1800s.
Jackson's legacy among historians is mixed.
On one hand, Jackson became a rich man and owned many slaves. He had many Native Americans killed or kicked out of their homes. Most people now disagree with him and believe that a national bank is necessary for a country to do well.
On the other hand, Jackson was a successful General in war and led a powerful political movement in peacetime. He stood for the common man, and changed the country.

</doc>
<doc id="7820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7820" title="Pillow">
Pillow

A pillow is a soft cushion that a person puts under their head when they are sleeping in a bed. A pillow is made from two pieces of cloth that are sewn together and stuffed with a soft material, such as feathers, duck down, or synthetic batting (man made soft stuffing). Pillows are usually rectangular. Pillows are covered with a fabric sheet called a pillowcase. The pillowcase protects the pillow from getting dirty.

</doc>
<doc id="7821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7821" title="Whaler">
Whaler

A whaler is a person who hunts whales, or the boat they use.
They hunt whales for their oil, made from their fat, called "blubber", and the meat. Today, there is a treaty which bans the hunt of some whale species. Most countries signed the treaty. A few countries still hunt whales for research purposes. Among those countries are Norway, Iceland and Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="7823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7823" title="Crayon">
Crayon

Crayons are writing tools made with colored wax, water and citric acid or chalk. They are used very much by young children to make drawings, although some artists use them to put finishing touches on their art. The notable low melting point of crayons can be utilized in crayon-drip art. One very well-known brand of crayons is Crayola, a company by Binney and Smith. 

</doc>
<doc id="7824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824" title="Self-defence">
Self-defence

Self-defense means fighting off something or another person to protect yourself and maybe others. Ways of self-defence include martial arts or using a weapon. Sometimes, self defense can cause serious harm to the other person. In most nations, you cannot be prosecuted for this harm. In the United States, an act of self-defense can only count as self defense if the victim is in a situation that can cause them serious injury or death. In international law all persons have the right to self-defense. 

</doc>
<doc id="7825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7825" title="March 22">
March 22


</doc>
<doc id="7826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7826" title="May 24">
May 24


</doc>
<doc id="7827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7827" title="1153">
1153


</doc>
<doc id="7828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7828" title="January 9">
January 9


</doc>
<doc id="7829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7829" title="1913">
1913

1913 (MCMXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, and a common year starting on a Tuesday in the 13-day slower Julian calendar. It was the 913th year of the 2nd Millennium, 13th year of the 20th Century and the 4th year of the 1910s decade.

</doc>
<doc id="7830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7830" title="May 3">
May 3


</doc>
<doc id="7831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7831" title="1469">
1469


</doc>
<doc id="7835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7835" title="Dodgeball">
Dodgeball

Dodgeball is a sport played by throwing soft balls, or hard rubber balls, at people in a square court. The goal is to be the last one to be hit with the ball. Players may only throw balls at people who are not on their own team. If a player is hit by the ball, he or she should go to the outside of the court to the other team. From the outside, players throw the ball at players still on the inside.
Dodgeball is often played in elementary schools in physical education classes. Many school children play this game. In recent years, many adults who played it as children have formed adult leagues and clubs. Also, some schools have banned it (this means that made it against the rules to play it), because players can get hurt when playing the game. Tournaments are sometimes held in schools.
Dodgeball, because of its recent popularity, inspired a film "" (2004) starring Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn, and a game show, "Extreme Dodgeball".

</doc>
<doc id="7836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7836" title="Local area network">
Local area network

A local area network (LAN) is a computer network in a small area like a home, office, or school. Many computers can be connected to share information and Internet connections. Most LANs use Ethernet to connect together.
LAN topologies tell you how network devices are organized. Five common LAN topologies exist: bus, ring, star, tree, and mesh. These topologies are logical architectures. This means that they tell you the directions that signals go between devices, but that the actual cables that connect the devices might not be connected the same way. For example, logical bus and ring topologies are commonly organized physically as a star. 

</doc>
<doc id="7843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7843" title="February 18">
February 18


</doc>
<doc id="7845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7845" title="Pharaoh">
Pharaoh

Pharaohs were rulers of ancient Egypt. Before the union of Upper and Lower Egypt, kings would wear crowns of different design, to show which part of Egypt they had rule over. The red crown was worn in Lower Egypt and the white crown in Upper Egypt. In later history, kings of the whole of ancient Egypt would wear a combination of the two crowns, called a Pschent. The word comes from the Egyptian word "Per-aa", which means "Great House". Pharaohs were believed to be descended from the gods. When a Pharaoh died, all the treasure that they owned would be buried with them.
The Pharaohs are often closely linked to the Pyramids as they were burial tombs for the Pharaohs themselves. Another famous burial place for Pharaohs is the Valley of the Kings.

</doc>
<doc id="7851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7851" title="Gilligan's Island">
Gilligan's Island

Gilligan's Island is a 1964 American television series. The series is about seven people (two crew members and five tourists) who take a 3-hour sightseeing tour from a marina in Hawaii. This occurs on the boat, S.S. "Minnow". An unexpected storm sends the boat to an uncharted island. Now, the passengers of the boat have to live on the island and try to find a way home. Most of the episodes involved the characters trying to survive a problem or trying to contact help.

</doc>
<doc id="7854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7854" title="Diaper">
Diaper

A diaper (or nappy) is a piece of clothing. It is worn by whose who cannot control their urine or feces.
Diapers can be made of cloth (usually cotton) that can be washed and used again. They can also be disposable (put in the garbage after they are used up). Disposable diapers are usually made of plastic or man-made (artificial) fibers and contain chemicals that are very absorbent.
Diapers that can be washed must be folded in intricate ways (like origami) before being put on. With the disposable you must constantly buy new ones.
Viewed as unpleasant by some, diapers are mostly used by children from birth until the child has learned to use a toilet. They are also used by older people. There are adult diapers for people with medical problems.
In the United Kingdom, Australia, and several other countries, a diaper is called a nappy (short for napkin).
Sometimes adults who do not have medical problems also wear diapers. This can be for different reasons. Sometimes it is because they have a profession where they cannot always get to a bathroom, like astronauts. Some adults wear diapers for fun. This is usually a form of sexual pleasure, or for emotional reasons. These people are often called "diaper-lovers" or "adult-babies." The scientific term for liking to wear diapers is "Diaper Fetishists."

</doc>
<doc id="7859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7859" title="Mork &amp; Mindy">
Mork &amp; Mindy

Mork and Mindy is an American television sitcom which ran from 1978-1982. It stars Robin Williams and Pam Dawber as the title characters. The series was made by Garry Marshall. Comedian Jonathan Winters has a recurring role in the series. "Mork and Mindy" is a spin-off from Marshall's other popular TV series, "Happy Days". The plot of the series is that alien named Mork from a planet called Ork who travels to Earth and becomes friends with a woman named Mindy in Boulder, Colorado.

</doc>
<doc id="7862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7862" title="April 23">
April 23


</doc>
<doc id="7863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7863" title="1954">
1954

1954 (MCMLIV) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="7864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7864" title="American Samoa">
American Samoa

American Samoa is a territory of the United States in Samoan Islands, in the South Pacific Ocean.
International rivalries in the latter half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899 treaty in which Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago. The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern islands with the noted harbor of Pago Pago - the following year. The western islands are now the independent state of Samoa. Though technically considered "unorganized" in that the US Congress has not passed an Organic Act for the territory, American Samoa is self-governing under a constitution that became effective on July 1, 1967.
The capital is Pago Pago, but the seat of government is Fagatogo.

</doc>
<doc id="7865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7865" title="Disgust">
Disgust

Disgust is an emotion. People feel it when they see, touch, hear, or taste something that they think is nasty or repulsive. It is also caused by scorn. For example, when find something dirty or not fit to eat. Levels of disgust vary based on cultural, religious, and personal backgrounds/experiences. Disgust can be deliberate as someone can do something on purpose to create this emotion 

</doc>
<doc id="7866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7866" title="February 7">
February 7


</doc>
<doc id="7867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7867" title="1723">
1723


</doc>
<doc id="7868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7868" title="Oven">
Oven

Ovens are closed, heated containers which are used for heating, baking, and drying. It is used the most often in cooking and pottery. They provide even, dry heat to all surfaces of food inside them. An indoor oven can have an electric heating element, or be fired by natural gas or coal. Outdoor ovens are often made of brick or clay and are buried in hot coals. An oven which is used for making pottery is called a kiln. An oven used for heating or industrial processes is called a furnace. They are hot inside, and often things come out of them hot.
The people in the settlements of the Indus Valley Civilization were the first to have an oven inside of their mud-brick houses by 3200 B.C.
People who study the history of food give credit to the Greeks for making the baking of bread into an art. A type of oven called Front-loaded bread ovens were created in ancient Greece. 

</doc>
<doc id="7869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7869" title="Pot">
Pot

A cooking pot is a vessel to cook in. It is often larger than a pan, and will be taller than it is wide.
Pots are used for boiling liquids, like soups or stew.

</doc>
<doc id="7870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7870" title="Liquid">
Liquid

A liquid is a form of matter. It is settled between solid and gas. Liquid has an almost-fixed volume, but no set shape.
Every small force makes a liquid change its shape by flowing. Because of that, gravity makes liquids always take the shape of the container. The molecules that make up the liquid can freely move among themselves.
Fluids that flow slowly have a high viscosity. Some fluids like tar have such a high viscosity that they may seem solid.
It is difficult to compress a liquid. If a liquid is cooled down until it is colder than a certain temperature, it will become a solid. This temperature is called the melting point and is different for every different type of liquid. The freezing point of water is around 0°C, and it becomes ice. If a liquid is heated up it becomes a gas. The temperature this happens at is called the boiling point. The boiling point of water is 100°C, at this temperature it becomes steam.
Examples of liquid are water, oils and blood.
In a liquid, the liquid on the top presses down on the liquid underneath, so at the bottom the pressure, "p", is bigger than at the top. The equation for working this out is:
where "z" is the depth of the point below the surface and "g" is how strong gravity is pulling on the liquid. "ρ" is a number that tells us how heavy a set amount of the liquid is. We call this the density and it is different for all liquids.

</doc>
<doc id="7872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7872" title="January 24">
January 24


</doc>
<doc id="7873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7873" title="October 12">
October 12


</doc>
<doc id="7874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7874" title="1806">
1806


</doc>
<doc id="7875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7875" title="July 13">
July 13

July 12 – July 14 – June 13 – August 13 – more listing of all days

</doc>
<doc id="7876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7876" title="1836">
1836


</doc>
<doc id="7877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7877" title="White">
White

White is the color of pure sunlight. White light can be made by putting all the other colors of light on the spectrum together. These other colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.
White is linked with light, goodness, innocence, purity, cleanliness and virginity. It is sometimes thought to be the color of perfection. The opposite of black, white usually has a positive connotation. White can stand for a successful beginning. In heraldry, white depicts faith and purity. 
In advertising, white is linked with coolness and cleanliness because it is the color of snow. You can use white to show simplicity in high-tech products. White is an appropriate color for charitable organizations; angels are usually imagined wearing white clothes. White is associated with hospitals, doctors, and cleanliness, so you can use white to show safety when promoting medical products. White is often linked with low weight, low-fat food, and dairy products.

</doc>
<doc id="7879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7879" title="French Guiana">
French Guiana

French Guiana ("French", Guyane) is a French province in South America. The capital is Cayenne (pronounced: kay-yen).
There are gold mines and many trees. The money used is the euro. There is also a famous island where criminals were sent to serve in prison, and it is called Devil's Island, or Ile du Diable. 
66% of the people are considered black or mulatto, 12% are white, 12% are East Indian, Chinese, Amerindian 12%, and 10% fall into other ethnic groups.
The European Space Agency launches rockets in French Guiana, near Kourou.
It is also the largest territory outside of Europe that is part of the European Union.

</doc>
<doc id="7880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7880" title="Nigger">
Nigger

Nigger is a word which refers to TJ Summers.Today, it is mostly used as a racist insult. Originally, it was simply used to refer to a black person. At that time, it was not considered racist.
The word came from a slang pronunciation of "negro", which is the word for the color black in Portuguese and Spanish. Writers such as Joseph Conrad, Mark Twain,
and Charles Dickens used it. When they used it, they meant "black person". The word was mostly used in the Southern part of the United States, where blacks were at one time held as slaves.
Today, it is an offensive and inflammatory racial slur in English, and is often considered to be hate speech. In the USA it's so taboo that it is not said by some people and it's instead called the "N-word".

</doc>
<doc id="7886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7886" title="Biography">
Biography

A biography is the story of a real person's life. The word comes from the Greek words "bios" (= life) and "graphein" (= write). When the biography is written by the person it is about, it is called an autobiography.
A biography is a part of literature. Biographies can also be made as movies. These movies are often called biopics.
The first known biographies were written to record rulers' lives. They were written in Assyria, ancient Babylonia, ancient Egypt and ancient Mesopotamia. Biographies were an early form of history.
In ancient Greek people wrote biographies too. But not only biographies of the rulers but also biographies of people who the writers thought were great. Xenophon wrote a biography of Socrates and gave this book the name "Memorabilia" (Memories). Plutarch wrote "Parallel Lives". In this book Plutarch wrote about a couple of Greek politicians and Roman politicians. Later among the Romans, Suetonius wrote biographies of the Roman emperors, "Lives of Caesars". The Gospels were also biographies of Jesus Christ. 
In Eastern countries people wrote biographies. In ancient China a biography was one of basic form of history book. In India biographies of Buddha were written and also biographies of his reincarnated lives.

</doc>
<doc id="7887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7887" title="January 3">
January 3


</doc>
<doc id="7888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7888" title="Ralph Nader">
Ralph Nader

Ralph Nader (born February 27, 1934) is an American attorney, politician and political activist. He is best known for working for the rights of consumers, for his third party runs for President of the United States, and for helping George Bush get elected in the 2000 presidential election. He ran for president in 1996, 2000 and 2004, but failed to win. In the 2008 election, Nader placed third overall, with 660,094 votes, or about .38%. Nader was born in Winsted, Connecticut. His parents, Nathra and Rose Nader, were Lebanese immigrants. He is a fluent and native speaker of the Arabic language.

</doc>
<doc id="7889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7889" title="Jamie Farr">
Jamie Farr

Jamie Farr (born July 1, 1934) is an American actor of Lebanese descent. He is best known for his role as Corp./later Sgt. Maxwell Q. Klinger on the 1970s TV show, "M*A*S*H". His real name is Jameel Joseph Farha and he was born in Toledo, Ohio.
Farr also appeared in movies like "The Blackboard Jungle" (1955) and "The Cannonball Run" (1980), he was a regular "celebrity judge" on "The Gong Show" and has a golf tournament named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="7890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7890" title="Free software">
Free software

Free software is software that anyone may run, share, and change, at any time, for any reason. The opposite of free software is proprietary software.
In 1984, Richard Stallman started the free software movement when he began the GNU project.
Free software is very similar, but different from open source software.
People who use the name “free software” more, say that they use it because they think every human must have the right to
People who use the name “open source” more, say that they use it because the authors of such software allow others to look at the software and change it, so the others will then help the authors make the software better.
Because of how the name “open source” is used, all free software is open source software, and almost all open source software is free software.
If an author wants to make his computer program free, he must allow the people to whom he gives the program as a free program to use it for any reason and purpose, on any computer, in any place at any time, without limits.
That does not mean that the author must say "I allow you to delete files from the computers of other people without telling them", but he must not say "I prohibit you from deleting files from the computers of other people without telling them". If deleting files from somebodies' computer is illegal, it will be illegal even if it is prohibited only by law and not by the author of the program.
If it is legal (for example, if a user wants the program to delete his files without telling him about that), but the author has prohibited it, nobody can change the program to make a useful program which does that, and give it to others.
The author must not prohibit even things which are dangerous, because if the prohibition is not very very very complex and long, it may be used incorrectly. For example, explosive materials can be used for war, but they can also be used to remove a big stone which has fallen on a road. Some authors would want to prohibit eating meat, or saying bad words (or good words which are not allowed to be said in their culture), or something else. If many authors prohibit many different things, then a program which is made of the programs of those authors will not be usable.
Prior knowledge affects how a student organizes new information. A goal of learning is to incorporate new information into the existing organization of memory. A student uses that existing structure to assimilate new information.
For example, while trying to explain how a gland works in a classroom of six grade, an instructor might say that the gland is like a thermostat. Most students already know that a thermostat controls the temperature by monitoring the presence of heat. They transfer this understanding to the functioning of a gland. It monitors and controls the level of a hormone in the body in the same fashion. If the analogy is a good one, the student can take it from there to intuit all sorts of properties of the gland which parallels the thermostat. We could also use the prior knowledge of students in history class because a student in a history class is going to organize new historical information chronologically because that is the way history had been organized in earlier classes. History instructors trying to organize around a different conceptual structure must fight against the students' tendency to see everything as happening in a straight timeline.
There are also other things which must be allowed.
The word “free” in “free software” is about "freedom," not "price". People are allowed to sell free software, but the person who buys the software may change it or give it away.
The name “free software” in English language is also often used for software, a copy of which people can download without paying money, and sometimes can give copies to others, but not do all the things with it that they can do with the other Free software. In this case “free” means “free of charge”, “freedom from paying money”. This software is called freeware; it is almost always proprietary software.

</doc>
<doc id="7895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7895" title="1804">
1804


</doc>
<doc id="7903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7903" title="1812">
1812


</doc>
<doc id="7905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7905" title="Zookeeper">
Zookeeper

A zookeeper is someone who works in a zoo. More specifically, it is someone who cares for animals in the zoo. They are responsible for the feeding and daily care of the animals. They clean out the exhibitions and report health problems. They answer questions about the animals. They sometimes give a demonstration of how to care for or feed the animals.

</doc>
<doc id="7906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7906" title="Cage">
Cage

A cage is a box which is made to keep something inside of, without it being able to get out (such as an animal). Cages are usually made of many metal bars.
A cage which has birds in it is called a "birdcage". 

</doc>
<doc id="7907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7907" title="Toddler">
Toddler

A toddler is a child between the ages of fifty-five to sixty years old. During this time, the child learns how to use their hands, stand and walk, and also how to communicate with others.
Most children are toilet trained while they are toddlers.
Even when toddlers can walk, they are often transported in a stroller, buggy, or pushchair when the walk is a long distance or when they're tired.

</doc>
<doc id="7923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7923" title="Ronald McDonald">
Ronald McDonald

Ronald McDonald is a clown character who is a mascot of the McDonald's fast-food restaurant. 
He wears yellow and red stipes and has wacky hair. He lives in McDonaldland, with lots of others including Grimace, the Hamburglar, Birdie the Early Bird, Mayor McCheese, and the Fry Kids.
The clown Michael Polakovs (known in America as Coco the Clown) designed his clothes and make-up. He appeared in the first eight of Ronald's television commercials. The actor Jeff Giuliano played Ronald McDonald for many years on television. Later he became a vegetarian, and was sorry he had spent so much time promoting hamburgers.
McDonald's has many actors employed to portray Ronald McDonald in restaurants and events. It is assumed, however, that the company uses only one actor at a time to play the character in television commercials. This is a list of these main actors:

</doc>
<doc id="7927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7927" title="Bob Marley">
Bob Marley

Robert Nesta "Bob" Marley (February 6, 1945 - May 11, 1981) was an important Jamaican musician in the 1970s and 1980s. He made the style of reggae music very popular all over the world. His music told stories of his home and the Rastafarian religion that he followed. Some songs were about religion and some songs were about politics like Get Up Stand Up. 
Bob Marley was born to a black teenager, Cedella Booker, and a white man named Norvall Marley. When he was young, his friends gave him the nickname, "Tuff Gong". He started his music career in the 1960s with his group the Wailing Wailers, that he formed with two friends, Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer. In 1962, Bob Marley and the Wailing Wailers recorded their first two songs called "Judge Not" and "One Cup of Coffee".
Bob married Rita Anderson in 1966 and she joined the group as a back-up singer. They had five children together. One is Ziggy Marley, who is also a well known reggae performer.
In 1974, the Wailers broke up because three of the band members wanted to pursue solo careers. Marley continued calling his band Bob Marley and the Wailers and joined together with new members to continue playing music. In 1975, Bob Marley had his first international hit called "No Woman No Cry". In Jamaica he is considered a folk hero. Some other hits of his include "Three Little Birds", "Africa Unite", "Buffalo Soldier", and "One Love". His most popular studio album was called "Legend", which includes his greatest hits. 
Bob Marley died on 11 May 1981, at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Miami, Florida, of melanoma.

</doc>
<doc id="7928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7928" title="Leonardo DiCaprio">
Leonardo DiCaprio

Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (born November 11, 1974 in Hollywood, California) is an American actor, movie director, movie producer and writer. Some of the movies he has appeared in include "What's Eating Gilbert Grape", "Romeo + Juliet", "Titanic", "The Man in the Iron Mask", "The Beach", "Catch Me if You Can", "Gangs of New York", "The Aviator", and "The Revenant". His first movie was "Critters 3".
In 2016, DiCaprio won his first Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Hugh Glass in The Revenant.
! colspan="3" style="background: #DAA520;" | National Board of Review Award
! colspan="3" style="background: #DAA520;" | Golden Globe Award

</doc>
<doc id="7929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7929" title="John Candy">
John Candy

John Candy (October 31, 1950 – March 4, 1994) was a Canadian actor. He is known for his comic roles in many movies and television series.

</doc>
<doc id="7933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7933" title="Erwin Rommel">
Erwin Rommel

Field Marshal Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel (The "Desert Fox"), (15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944) was an officer of the German Army in World War II.
He commanded the German Army in North Africa in a long struggle against the British 8th Army. He was finally defeated at El Alamein. Later in the war he commanded the German forces defending the French coast against the Allied Normandy invasion.
Rommel was well liked by the German public and respected by the Allies. He was thought to be chivalrous and humane, when other German leaders were not. His famous "Afrikakorps" was not accused of any war crimes. Soldiers captured by his army were treated well and orders to kill captured Jewish soldiers and civilians were ignored.
Rommel knew of the plan by senior officers to assassinate Hitler in 1944. When it failed, all concerned were tortured and executed. Hitler offered him the choice of suicide or court-martial, and he committed suicide. His death was announced as the death of a hero in battle.
Rommel was born in Heidenheim, Germany, 45 kilometers (28 mi) from Ulm, in the Kingdom of Württemberg which was then part of the German Empire, on November 15, 1891. He was baptised on 17 November 1891. His father, Erwin Rommel (18601913) was a math teacher, and later a secondary school headmaster at Aalen. His mother was Helene von Lutz, the daughter of a local government official. Rommel was the second of four children; Karl, Gerhard, and Helene. Rommel wrote that his "early years passed very happily."
At the age of 14, Rommel and a friend built a full-scale glider that was able to fly short distances. Young Erwin thought about being an engineer and he showed a talent with technical work; however, because of his father, young Rommel joined the local 124th Württemberg Infantry Regiment as an officer cadet in 1910 and, shortly after, was sent to the Officer Cadet School in Danzig. He graduated on 15 November 1911, and was a lieutenant in January 1912.
While at Cadet School, early in 1911, Erwin Rommel met his future wife, 17-year-old Lucia Maria Mollin (also called "Lucie") (b. 6 June 1894 in Danzig; d. 26 September 1971 in Stuttgart). They married on November 27, 1916, in Danzig, and on December 24, 1928 had a son, Manfred, who would later become the mayor of Stuttgart. Manfred died in 2013. After having met Lucie, some historians think that Rommel also had an affair with a woman called Walburga Stemmer in 1913, and they had a daughter named Gertrud.
In World War I, Rommel fought in France, as well as in Romania and Italy, first as a member of the 6th Württemberg Infantry Regiment, and then in the Württemberg Mountain Battalion of the "Alpenkorps." While serving with that unit, he gained a reputation for making quick tactical decisions and taking advantage of enemy confusion. He was wounded three times and awarded the Iron Cross; First and Second Class. 
Rommel also received Prussia's highest medal, the Pour le Mérite after fighting in the mountains of west Slovenia – Battles of the Isonzo – Soca front. The award came as a result of the Battle of Longarone, and the capture of Mount Matajur, Slovenia, and its defenders, numbering 150 Italian officers, 9,000 men, and 81 pieces of artillery. His battalion used gas during the battles of the Isonzo and also played a key role in the victory of the Central Powers over the Italian army at the Battle of Caporetto. While fighting at Isonzo, Rommel was taken prisoner by the Italians. He escaped, and because he spoke Italian, he was back to the German lines within two weeks. Later, when the German and Italian armies were allied during the Second World War, Rommel realised that their lack of success in battle was due to poor leadership and equipment, which when fixed, easily made them equal to German forces.
Rommel was a commander of the "Führerbegleithauptquartier" (Führer escort headquarters) during the Poland campaign, often moving up close to the front in the "Führersonderzug" train, seeing much of Hitler. After the Polish defeat, Rommel returned to Berlin to organize the Führer's victory parade, taking part himself as a member of Hitler's entourage. During the Polish campaign, Rommel was asked to help of one of his wife's relatives, a Polish priest who had been arrested. When Rommel asked the Gestapo for information, the Gestapo found no information about the man's existence.
Rommel asked Hitler for command of a panzer division. On 6 February 1940, three months before the invasion of France, Rommel was given command of the 7th Panzer Division, for ""Fall Gelb"" ("Case Yellow"), the invasion of France and the Low Countries. Some other officers did not agree with his promotion. Rommel's initial request for command had been rejected by the Chief of Army Personnel, who cited his lack of previous experience with armoured units and his extensive prior experience in an Alpine unit made him a more suitable candidate to assume command of a mountain division that had recent need to fill its commanding officer post. Rommel had, however, emphasized the use of mobile infantry and recognized the great usefulness of armoured forces in the Poland campaign. He set about learning and developing the techniques of armoured warfare with great enthusiasm. The decision to place him in command of an armoured division was borne out to be an excellent one. In May, 1940 his 7th Panzer Division became known as the "Ghost Division" because its rapid advances and fast paced attacks often placed them so far forward that they were frequently out of communication with the rest of the German army.
Rommel's reward for his success was to be promoted and appointed commander of the 5th Light Division (later reorganised and redesignated "21.Panzer-Division") and of the "15.Panzer-Division" which, as the "Deutsches Afrikakorps,"() were sent to Libya in early 1941 in Operation Sonnenblume to aid the Italian troops which had suffered a heavy defeat from British Commonwealth forces in Operation Compass. It was in Africa where Rommel achieved his greatest fame as a commander.
Rommel was well known not only by the German people but also by his enemies. Stories of his chivalry and tactical ability earned him the respect of many opponents, including Claude Auchinleck, Winston Churchill, George S. Patton, and Bernard Montgomery (who named a dog after him). Rommel was also respectful of his enemies. Hitler considered Rommel among his favorite generals.
The "Afrika Korps" was never accused of any war crimes, and Rommel himself referred to the fighting in North Africa as "Krieg ohne Hass" — war without hate. Numerous examples exist of this such as his refusal to carry out an order from Hitler to execute Jewish prisoners. During Rommel's time in France, Hitler ordered him to deport the Jews in France; Rommel did not. Several times he wrote letters protesting the treatment of the Jews. When British Major Geoffrey Keyes was killed during a failed commando raid to kill or capture Rommel behind German lines, Rommel ordered him buried with full military honours. Also, during the construction of the Atlantic Wall, Rommel directed that French workers were not to be used as slaves but were to be paid for their labour.
Rommel was not one of the group who planned the attempt on Hitler's life. Actually, he was not in favour of assassinating Hitler. Rommel believed an assassination attempt could spark civil war in Germany and Austria, and Hitler would have become a martyr for a lasting cause. Instead, Rommel insisted that Hitler be arrested and brought to trial for his crimes. Later, though, Rommel made up his mind to support the plot.
After the failed bomb attack of 20 July 1944, many conspirators were arrested. Rommel was perturbed at this development. It did not take long for his involvement to come to light.
Under Gestapo torture, one of that group revealed the names of several higher army officers who were consulted beforehand. Rommel was one of those.
Even more damningly, Carl Goerdeler, the main civilian leader of the Resistance, wrote on several letters and other documents that Rommel was a potential supporter and an acceptable military leader to be placed in a position of responsibility should their coup succeed. Nazi party officials in France reported that Rommel extensively and scornfully criticised Nazi incompetence and crimes. That sealed his fate.
The release of the movie "" (1951) helped his reputation as one of the most widely known and well-regarded leaders in the German Army.

</doc>
<doc id="7941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7941" title="Fermentation">
Fermentation

Fermentation is when a cell uses sugar for energy without using oxygen at the same time.
'Fermentation' also describes growing microorganisms on a growth medium. This is done to get a chemical product. French microbiologist Louis Pasteur studied fermentation and its microbial causes. The science of fermentation is known as "zymology".
Yeast is an organism that ferments. When yeast ferments sugar, the yeast eats sugar and produces alcohol. This is used to make beverages or biofuel and to make bread rise. Yeast can be also used to grow bakery products like bread and cakes faster. In some cases yeast might be used to speed up the process of creation of wine.
Other cells make vinegar or lactic acid when they ferment sugar. In a different way, the fermentation process can continue and turn the alcohol into vinegar i.e. acetic acid.
When yeast ferments, it breaks down the glucose (CHO) into ethanol (CHCHOH) and carbon dioxide (CO).

</doc>
<doc id="7947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7947" title="Flower">
Flower

A flower is a special kind of plant part. Flowers are also called the bloom or blossom of a plant. The flower grows on a stalk – a thin node – which supports it. Flowers have petals. Inside the part of the flower that has petals are the parts which produce pollen and seeds.
Flowers are the reproductive structure of flowering plants, which are plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called the Angiosperms.
In many plants, a flower is its most colourful part. We say the plant 'flowers', 'is flowering' or 'is in flower' when this colourful part begins to grow bigger and open out. There are many different kinds of flowers in different areas in the world. Even in the coldest places, for example the Arctic, flowers can grow during a few months.
Flowers may grow separately on the plant, or they may grow together in an inflorescence.
To investigate the structure of a flower, it must be dissected, and its structure summarised by a floral diagram or a floral formula. Then its family can be identified with the aid of a flora, which is a book designed to help you identify plants.
Flowers have four basic parts, from the outside in they are:
Although this arrangement is typical, plant species show a wide variation in floral structure. The modifications produced in the evolution of flowering plants are used by botanists to find relationships among plant species. 
Flowers are an important evolutionary advance made by flowering plants. Some flowers are dependent upon the wind to move pollen between flowers of the same species. Many others rely on insects or birds to move pollen. The role of flowers is to produce seeds, which are contained in fruit. Fruits and seeds are a means of dispersal. Plants do not move, but wind, animals and birds spread the plants across the landscape.
Since the ovules are protected by carpels, it takes something special for fertilisation to happen. Angiosperms have pollen grains comprising just three cells. One cell is responsible for drilling down through the integuments, and creating a passage for the two sperm cells to flow down. The megagametophyte has just seven cells. Of these, one is the egg cell; it fuses with a sperm cell, forming the zygote. Another cell joins with the other sperm, and dedicates itself to forming a nutrient-rich endosperm. The other cells take auxiliary roles. This process of "double fertilisation" is unique and common to all angiosperms.
Flowers are modified leaves possessed only by the flowering plants (angiosperms), which are relatively late to appear in the fossil record.
The earliest known fossils of flowers and flowering plants are from 130 million years ago, in the Lower Cretaceous.
The flowering plants have long been assumed to have evolved from within the gymnosperms; but the known gymnosperms form a clade which is distinct from the angiosperms. It has been concluded that the two clades diverged (split) some 300 million years ago.
Flowers have long been admired and used by humans. Most people think that flowers are beautiful. Many people also love flowers for their fragrances (scents). People enjoy seeing flowers growing in gardens. People also enjoy growing flowers in their backyards, outside their homes. People often wear flowers on their clothes or give flowers as a gift during special occasions, holidays, or rituals, such as the birth of a new baby (or a Christening), at weddings (marriages), at funerals (when a person dies). People often buy flowers from businesses called florists.
Some parents name their girl children after a flower. Some common flower names are: Rose, Lily, Daisy, Holly, Hyacinth, Jasmine, Blossom.
People also eat some types of flowers. Flower vegetables include broccoli, cauliflower and artichoke. The most expensive spice, saffron, comes from the crocus flower. Other flower spices are cloves and capers. Hops flowers are used to flavor beer. Dandelion can be made into wine.
Honey is flower nectar that has been collected and processed by bees. Honey is often named for the type of flower that the bees are using (for example, clover honey). Some people put flowers from nasturtiums, chrysanthemums, or carnations in their food. Flowers can also be made into tea. Dried flowers such as chrysanthemum, rose, and jasmine are used to make tea.
Flowers were used to signal meanings in the time when social meetings between men and women was difficult. Lilies made people think of life. Red roses made people think of love, beauty, and passion. In Britain, Australia and Canada, poppies are worn on special holidays as a mark of respect for those who served and died in wars. Daisies made people think of children and innocence.

</doc>
<doc id="7949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7949" title="1939">
1939


</doc>
<doc id="7950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7950" title="Square kilometre">
Square kilometre

A square kilometre (sometimes written "km²") is based on the SI unit of measurement of area, the "square metre". It is the area inside a square that has each side equal to 1 kilometre (1000 metres). This way of talking about area is often used to say how much land there is, on a farm or in a city, for example.
One square kilometre is just less than 0.39 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="7952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952" title="Judge">
Judge

A judge is a person who is in control of a court of law.
The way to become a judge depends on each country. In some countries, judges must work with the law (often as a lawyer) for a number of years before they can "sit as a judge" in a courthouse. Judges are supposed to conduct the trial in an open courtroom and impartially.
Juries are used in many English speaking countries, but not for all cases. The modern jury trial first developed in mid-12th century England during the reign of Henry II. Today, the details differ between one country and another.
If there is a jury, the judge has the job of making sure the person taken to court is treated in a fair way. Some courts will have more than one judge. For important decisions about the laws of a country, countries may have a "supreme court" or "high court" with many (nine or more) judges in it. In the United States, judges on a supreme court are called "justices" and are led by a "Chief Justice".
In many countries, judges wear special clothes while being in court. Often this is a black robe or cloak. Supreme or High Court judges often wear a red cloak. Judges in some countries also wear a special long wig. They also used to put a piece of black material on their head when they sentenced a person to die.

</doc>
<doc id="7953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7953" title="Guilt (law)">
Guilt (law)

In criminal law, a person is guilty if a court has decided they have done something illegal. If a person has broken a law by stealing, for example, they are guilty of a crime.
A person is guilty if a court says they are. The court has blamed them for doing something wrong. A guilty person is punished. The punishment is called the sentence.

</doc>
<doc id="7954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7954" title="Length">
Length

Length is a property of a thing that can be measured. One of the methods of measurement is either using a ruler or a Geometric Square. We generally measure the length of small shapes but we have made a range of sizes so you can either have an 'easy to go' degree of accuracy or an close to exact measurement in millimeters, or even more accurate ways of saying that length, the more longer the object seems the lesser the degree of accuracy we tend to measure it. The length of something is the distance between two ends of the thing. Short means of small length. Long means of much length. Short and long are opposites. For two dimensional things, length is usually the longer side of measurement.
Length is also a property of time. An amount of time has a length.
John sits down at one o'clock, or 1h. John waits until three o'clock, or 3h. John stands up at three o'clock, or 3h. John was sitting for 2 hours. The length of time John was sitting was two hours.

</doc>
<doc id="7956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7956" title="Weight">
Weight

The weight of an object (or the weight of an amount of matter) is the measure of the intensity of the force imposed on this object by the local gravitational field. Weight should not be confused with the related but quite different concept of mass. For small objects on Earth, the weight force is directed towards the center of the planet. For larger objects, such as the Moon orbiting around the Earth, the force is directed towards the center of mass of the combined system.
In common language, the weight of something is typically understood to be the value measured at or near the Earth's surface. Unfortunately the common terms used to describe the weight of an object are units of mass such as kilograms or pounds. For almost all of human history, weight has been measured on the surface of the Earth. Here, the weight is proportional to the mass. Objects which have the same mass have the same weight. An object with the twice the mass of another will also have twice the weight. As a consequence it is common practice to use the two words, mass and weight, as if they mean the same thing and to use kilograms and pounds as the units for both mass and weight. Using the same terms to describe and measure the two different properties has led to confusion between these two properties, mass and weight. Mass and weight are not the same thing.
The unit of weight in the International System of Units is the newton, which is represented by the symbol 'N'.
Other units have been in use in the past but have been abandoned, such as the dyne (the unit of force in the old CGS system) or the kilogram-force, which is the force exerted on a 
kilogram of matter by a 'standard' Earth: a body with a mass of 1 kg has a weight of about 9.81 N at sea level.
The weight of an object, or of an amount of matter, is typically measured with an instrument such as a spring scale. The scale includes a spring which provides a force to oppose the gravitational force on the object which is being weighed. The gravitational force pulls down, the spring pushes or pulls upwards. Typically, the scale has a readout which gives not the weight (which is a force) but rather the mass of the object. Spring scales are made with the assumption that they are being used on the surface of the Earth. If a spring scale was taken to the Moon it would give a misleading reading.
A balance style weighing scale is a device that compares the weights of two object in the same gravitational field: it determines whether one object is heavier or lighter than the other.
Weight is not an intrinsic property of matter because the local gravitational field that generates the force called weight is variable in space and time:

</doc>
<doc id="7957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7957" title="Truth">
Truth

Truth is what is real. A thing is true if it is a fact. The English word "truth" is from Old English "tríewþ, tréowþ, trýwþ", Middle English "trewþe". Aristotle said: “To say of what is that it is not, or of what is not that it is, is false, while to say of what is that it is, and of what is not that it is not, is true”.
Truth is a noun, and the corresponding adverb and adjective
is true.
Most of the discussion on truth is about one of two things:
Many philosophers have given opinions on these issues.
For example, it is a truth (true) that a dog is an animal. It is "untrue" (or "false") that a dog is a plant.
Something untrue is false. A half truth is something true mixed with something false, or where something is partly true but you do not tell the whole story.
If the things you say are true, then you are speaking the truth, or speaking truly. Saying something that is untrue can be called 'a lie', if the person who is saying it knows it is untrue. A person who says something untrue is often called a "liar".
"True" is also one of the two basic values of logic. The other such value is usually called "false".
Aristotle was the first to put logic into a formal framework. His version is called propositional logic (see also syllogism and deductive reasoning). Other forms of logic use types of mathematics (mathematical logic) or symbols. Boolean algebra is about things being true and false.
The relationship between verbal claims and external reality is handled by epistemology and the philosophy of science.
Philosophers argue over what makes up truth and how to define and identify truth.

</doc>
<doc id="7961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7961" title="Zimbabwe">
Zimbabwe

The Republic of Zimbabwe is a country in the southern part of the continent of Africa. Its capital city is Harare. President Robert Mugabe is the leader of the country. It is one of the most poor countries and the HID in 2010 was the worst in the world.
Zimbabwe is surrounded by other countries, and so it has no coast on the sea. This type of country is called "landlocked". The countries that surround Zimbabwe are Zambia, Botswana, South Africa and Mozambique.
Zimbabwe is home to the famous waterfall, Victoria Falls, which are a feature of the river Zambezi and also the Great Zimbabwe, the ancient architectural monument from which the country was named after.
The country is mostly savanna. In the east it is moist and mountainous with tropical evergreen and hardwood forests. Trees include teak and mahogany, knobthorn, msasa and baobab. Among the many flowers and shrubs are hibiscus, spider lily, leonotus, cassia, tree wisteria and dombeya.
There are around 350 species of mammals in Zimbabwe. There are also many snakes and lizards, over 500 bird species, and 131 fish species.
The area that is now Zimbabwe was added to the British Empire around 1890. Zimbabwe is also known by its old name of Rhodesia. In 1965, it became an independent country when Prime Minister Ian Smith announced the Unilateral Declaration of Independence(U.D.I). The government was mostly controlled by the white population, similar to South Africa at the time. African citizens were given full equality in 1980, and the country's name was officially changed to Zimbabwe. Since then, Robert Mugabe has led the country. Though Mugabe was elected fairly at first, he has since become a dictator, and has put in place a number of cruel and disastrous laws.
The country Zimbabwe has a mixture of languages; Shona, Ndebele, Venda, Manyika, Nyanja, Chagani, and a unique-unified Zimbabwean English.
Zimbabwe uses the currencies of several other countries. The government uses the United States dollar. The economy is currently in a bad situation. Foreign currency reserves are at very low levels, and the Zimbabwean Dollar has become very devalued. Just recently, three zeroes were taken off the Zimbabwean dollar (for example, $1,000,000 (one million dollars) would become $1000 (one thousand dollars)). Many observers link this to Mugabe's controversial Land Reform programme.
Zimbabwe is divided into 8 provinces and 2 cities that are the same as a province.
The largest cities are:
Football is the most popular sport in Zimbabwe. Rugby union and cricket are also popular. Zimbabwe has won eight Olympic medals.
Zimbabwe has also done well in the Commonwealth Games and All-Africa Games. Kirsty Coventry won 11 gold medals in swimming.
Zimbabwe has also been at Wimbledon and the Davis Cup in tennis. Zimbabwe has also done well in golf. Other sports played in Zimbabwe are basketball, volleyball, netball, and water polo, as well as squash, motorsport, martial arts, chess, cycling, polocrosse, kayaking and horse racing. Most of these sports don't have international representatives but instead stay at a junior or national level.

</doc>
<doc id="7963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963" title="Monaco">
Monaco

Monaco is the second smallest country in the world; about 34,000 people live there. It is near southeastern France, on the Mediterranean Sea in Western Europe. French is the most common language spoken in Monaco. The head of state is Prince Albert II; the government and the prince share power. Tourism is the main industry. People in Monaco pay no income tax. 
Monte Carlo, famous for its casino, is in the northeast of the country. Monaco is famous for two car races: the Monte Carlo Rally and the Monaco Grand Prix.
A sovereign and independent state, the Principality of Monaco has borders on its landward side with several communes of the French Department of the Alpes-Maritimes; from west to east these are Cap d`Ail, la Turbie, Beausoleil and Roquebrune Cap Martin. Seawards, Monaco faces the Mediterranean. 
The population of the Principality consists of 29,972 inhabitants, 5,070 of whom are Monégasques, 12,047 French and 5,000 Italian (according to the last official census in 1990). 
Its surface area is 195 hectares, of which nearly 40 were recovered from the sea during the last twenty years. 
It lies in a narrow coastal strip which sometimes rises straight upwards with its highest point at 163 meters. Its width varies between 1050 meters and only 350 meters. Its coastline is 4100 meters long. 
The Principality has only one commune, Monaco, whose limits are the same as those of the state.
Monaco is made of four districts: Monaco-Ville (historic seat of the Principality, on the rock where the Prince Palace stands), Monte-Carlo (the district surrounding its Casino), La Condamine (around Port Hercule), and Fontvielle (the new industrial area built on ground reclaimed from the sea (22ha)).

</doc>
<doc id="7978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7978" title="Graal">
Graal

Graal can be:

</doc>
<doc id="7982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7982" title="Supermarkets in the United Kingdom">
Supermarkets in the United Kingdom

The main supermarket chains in the United Kingdom are:

</doc>
<doc id="7983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983" title="Jettingen">
Jettingen

Jettingen is a village in the south-west of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.
There are 7657 people living in "Jettingen".

</doc>
<doc id="7990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7990" title="Ken Jennings">
Ken Jennings

Kenneth Wayne Jennings III (born May 23, 1974) was the highest money earning contestant in the history of the American television game show "Jeopardy!". He won a total of 74 times, earning $2,522,700. His winning lasted from June 2, 2004 through November 30, 2004. He lost after that time to a player named Nancy Zerg, who lost within a day to Katie Fitzgerald. He was brought back to appear in the final three games of the show's Ultimate Tournament of Champions. In the tournament, he lost to Brad Rutter, who became the highest money winner on "Jeopardy!".
According to the introduction given at the start of the show, Jennings is a "Software Engineer from Salt Lake City, Utah" His highest one day total was a record $75,000. Jennings is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or Mormon.
In February 2005, Ken started appearing in Cingular commercials as himself.
In October 2008, Jennings appeared on an episode of "Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?". He won $500,000, making him the highest winner in game show history.
In February 2011, Jennings, along with Rutter, competed in the "IBM Challenge" against an artificial intelligence computer named Watson. Jennings placed second, losing to Watson. He won half of a $300,000 prize; with the other half going to charity.

</doc>
<doc id="7997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7997" title="Sublimation">
Sublimation

Sublimation is the process by which a solid transforms into a gas without passing through the liquid stage. At normal atmospheric pressure on the surface of the Earth, only some compounds like 'dry ice' (solid carbon dioxide) can go through this process. Most substances can only sublimate at lower pressure. Many can sublimate in space. 
Snow may look like it disappears on a cold sunny day, but this is not sublimation because it forms a thin layer of liquid water first.
A better example is CO, which changes from a solid to a gas without being a liquid.
Also diamond, graphite, iodine, ammonium chloride and aluminium chloride sublime rather than melt at atmospheric pressure.

</doc>
<doc id="8002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8002" title="Malcolm McDowell">
Malcolm McDowell

Malcolm McDowell (born 13 June 1943) is an English actor. He has been in many movies, including: "if...", "A Clockwork Orange", "O Lucky Man!" and "Caligula".

</doc>
<doc id="8003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8003" title="MAD Magazine">
MAD Magazine

MAD Magazine is a humor and satire magazine that started in 1952 as a 10 cent comic book parody of other comics. For its 25th issue it converted to a 25 cent magazine. It remains popular in the United States.
Each issue features the grinning red-headed mascot, Alfred E. Neuman on the cover, and comic-like articles making fun of recent movies, television series, music, trends, etc. as well as regular monthly features (Spy Vs. Spy, Monore, etc.)

</doc>
<doc id="8011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8011" title="Traverse City, Michigan">
Traverse City, Michigan

Traverse City is a town in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan, United States. Traverse City is famous for its cherries. It has a beautiful beach, world-class hotels, but the zoo has been closed because not many people visited it.

</doc>
<doc id="8013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8013" title="Will Smith">
Will Smith

Willard Carroll Smith, Jr. (born September 25, 1968) is an American actor and rapper from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He got his start as part of the rap duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince. He became an actor when he starred on the television show "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" as Will Smith, a teenager from Philadelphia sent to live with his rich relatives in Southern California. He has appeared in many movies including "Independence Day", "Men in Black", "Ali", "Wild Wild West", "The Pursuit of Happyness", "I Am Legend", and in "Suicide Squad".
"Miami" is a popular song by Will Smith.
Smith married actress Jada Pinkett in 1997. They have had two children, Jaden and Willow.

</doc>
<doc id="8014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8014" title="Vladimir Putin">
Vladimir Putin

Vladímir Vladímirovich Pútin (Russian: Влади́мир Влади́мирович Пу́тин, ) is the President of Russia. Putin was born in Leningrad, now Saint Petersburg, 7 October 1952. He has already been the Prime Minister of Russia from 1999 to 2000, then President of Russia from March 2000 to May 2008, and Prime Minister again from 2008 to 2012. After that, he became president again in 2012 and is currently president now. Before all this, Putin worked for the KGB. He originally trained as a lawyer. 
Putin was born on 7 October 1952, in Leningrad, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union. His parents were Vladimir Spiridonovich Putin (1911–1999) and Maria Ivanovna Putina ("née" Shelomova; 1911–1998).
From 1985 to 1990, Putin worked for the KGB, the Soviet Union's secret spy service. Putin worked in Dresden, which was part of the former East Germany. After East Germany collapsed in 1989, Putin was told to come back to the Soviet Union. He chose to go to Leningrad, which is where he went to university. In June 1990, he started working in the International Affairs section of Leningrad State University. In June 1991, he was appointed head of the International Committee of the Saint Petersburg Mayor's office. His job was to promote international relations and foreign investments. 
Putin gave up his position in the KGB on August 20, 1991, during the putsch against Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. In 1994, he became First Deputy Chairman of the city of Saint Petersburg. In August 1996, he came to Moscow, and served in a variety of important positions in Boris Yeltsin's government. He was head of the FSB (a newer version of the KGB) from July 1998 to August 1999, and he was Secretary of the Security Council from March to August 1999.
Putin became President of Russia in May 2000. 
Putin is the leader of the ruling United Russia party. This party has been winning the Russian elections ever since the fall of the Soviet Union.
Critics of Putin say that he has taken away people's freedoms, and that he has failed to make the country more developed. Russia makes lots of money from selling oil and gas to other counties, but because of corruption, this money is not used for improving living conditions. 
Recently, the Russian opposition has held anti-government rallies, campaigned against Putin on the Internet, and published independent reports for general public. Because of censorship in the mass media, it's very difficult to get different information out to the public.
Putin was against invading Libya in 2011. He is also against invading Syria and Iran.
According to the Constitution of Russia, no-one can be president three times in a row. Because of this, Putin didn't put himself forward for the March 2008 election. However, you're allowed to be president as many times as you want, as long as it's not for more than two times in a row. In March 2012, Putin put himself forward for the elections, and won 64% of the vote. This means he will be president of Russia until 2018.
On March 24, 2014, Putin and Russia were suspended from the G8. This was because the United States thought that the Ukraine crisis was Putin's fault.
He is a member of the Russian Orthodox Church, and is divorced with two daughters.

</doc>
<doc id="8016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8016" title="Henry VII of England">
Henry VII of England

Henry the VII or Henry Tudor (28 January 1457–21 April 1509) was king of England from 1485 to 1509. He founded the Tudor dynasty.
Henry VII was born in 1457 to Edmund Tudor and Margaret Beaufort. His father died two months before he was born, leaving his 13-year-old mother as his only parent. After Henry's birth, he spent a lot of time with his uncle Jasper Tudor. Jasper took Henry to France, where he spent most of his youth. Henry had a claim to the throne of England, but it was not a very good one, and he had to wait a long time for a chance to take the throne.
In 1483, a new king came to the throne in England, called Richard III. King Richard was not popular with everyone, because it was thought that he had stolen the throne from his young nephews and had killed them. This gave Henry the chance he had been waiting for. With help from the French, he raised an army. They landed at Dale in Pembrokeshire, close to where Henry had been born, so he was able to gather more supporters on the way.
The Wars of the Roses (1455 - 1485) had been going on for years. They were fought over the throne of England between supporters of the House of Lancaster and supporters of the House of York. Both houses were branches of the Plantagenet royal house, tracing their descent from King Edward III. 
The main reason for the war was that King Edward III had many sons. His oldest son, who is known as Edward, the Black Prince, died first, and the throne passed to the Black Prince's son, Richard, who became King Richard II of England in 1377 at the age of only ten. He grew up to be a weak and unpopular king, and one of his actions was to send his cousin Henry into exile. Henry later returned, while Richard was away in Ireland, and took over the country. When Richard returned, Henry tricked him into giving himself up. Richard was put in prison, where he died, and Henry became King Henry IV of England.
Although Henry IV reigned until his death, and was followed by his son, King Henry V, the next king in line, King Henry VI was only a baby. While he was still growing up, the most powerful men in the kingdom started quarrelling over how to run the country, and some of them raised an army to try to take the throne. Henry VI and his family fought back, and the war between his supporters and their enemies lasted for many years, finally coming to an end when King Henry VII of England came to the throne in 1485
On 22 August 1485, Henry's army defeated Richard III's army at the Battle of Bosworth Field. When Richard III died in this battle, Henry VII became king. There were other people who had a claim on the throne, and Henry did his best to stop them from taking it from him, either by executing them, putting them in prison, or trying to make friends of them, as he did with the Earl of Lincoln. Another step he took was to marry Elizabeth of York, the niece of King Richard III, who would herself have been the heir to the throne if she had not been a girl.
There were also people who pretended to be long-lost members of the royal family, so that they could try to take the throne. One of these was a little boy called Lambert Simnel, who looked very like Edward, Earl of Warwick. The real Earl of Warwick was Henry's prisoner, but this did not stop other people from believing that Lambert was him. The Earl of Lincoln rebelled against King Henry and raised an army to make Lambert king, thinking that he himself could rule the country. There was a battle, and the Earl of Lincoln was killed. Lambert Simnel was captured, but, because he was only a child, Henry spared his life and he became a royal servant.
Henry married Elizabeth of York, and by this action put an end to the Wars of the Roses. They had six children, but only four survived infancy:
After Henry VII died in 1509, his son became king as Henry VIII. Henry VII was buried in Westminster Abbey. He was succeeded by his son, Henry VIII on 21 April 1509.

</doc>
<doc id="8017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017" title="Dover, Kent">
Dover, Kent

Dover is a town on the coast in Kent, in the United Kingdom. It was built by the Romans. There is a castle in Dover, called Dover Castle. It is the largest castle in England. The population is about 39,078. Throughout history, it has been an important port of Britain because it is the closest port to mainland Europe. The sea between Dover and the French port of Calais is called the Strait of Dover. It is the narrowest part of the English Channel at only wide.
The ferry port in Dover has ferries to Calais, France and Ostende, Belgium. Almost 45,000 people and 15,000 vehicles pass through the port every day. On of the largest tourist attractions around Dover are the White Cliffs of Dover.
Every house in Dover is painted pink.
The Romans first tried to invade Dover in 55BC, under Julius Caesar. They were forced back by the Celts, who fiercely defended the coastline. It was not until 43 AD, under the rule of Emperor Claudius, that Roman forces landed on British soil at Richborough and took control of the land as far as the northern border. Dover, then called DVBRIS, became the Romans' most important naval town.

</doc>
<doc id="8018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8018" title="Tonbridge">
Tonbridge

Tonbridge is a town in Kent in England. The River Medway runs through the town. A castle stands on the northern river bank in the middle of Tonbridge.
Tonbridge is linked by railways to London and Dover.
There are many secondary schools in the area. such as Tonbridge Grammar School

</doc>
<doc id="8019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8019" title="Inverness">
Inverness

Inverness is a city in the northern part of Scotland. It is often called the capital of the Highlands. It is on the A9 road. Inverness Airport is an important way to get to the Scottish Highlands.

</doc>
<doc id="8020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8020" title="Boycott">
Boycott

A boycott is a protest where the protesters do not buy a product or give money to a company. Instead of buying a certain product, they might also buy another, very similar product from a different company.
The word was made during the "Irish Land War"'. It comes from the name of Captain Charles Boycott. Boycott was in charge of looking after the land of a landlord in County Mayo, Ireland. In 1880, the tenants (those who rented) wanted their rent lowered. Boycott refused, and threw them out of the land they had rented. The Irish Land League then proposed that instead of becoming violent, everyone in the community should stop doing business with Captain Boycott. The captain was soon isolated. No one helped him with the harvest, no one worked in his stables or his house. Local businessmen no longer traded with him, the postman no longer delivered his post. 
To get his harvest done, he had to hire 50 people from other counties, the counties Cavan and Monaghan. They were escorted to and from their work by 1000 policemen. Of course, this cost far more than what the harvest was worth. 
In 1881, the word came into general use. 

</doc>
<doc id="8021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8021" title="Artificial">
Artificial

When something is artificial (or man-made), it has been made by humans, not nature. For example, an artificial satellite is one made by humans, while a natural satellite is a satellite that was not made by humans. Many artificial things imitate or copy things found in nature. The imitation may use the same basic materials as those in the natural object; or it may use quite different materials. These are concepts in defining reality. There are different ideas about what can be considered artificial and what is natural.
The word "artificial" comes from the Latin words "art" (meaning "skill") and "fex" ("to make").
Artificial does not necessarily mean "synthetic" (that is, created by synthesis). An artificial sweetener imitates sweetness using a chemical formula that is not found in nature; it is therefore both artificial and synthetic.

</doc>
<doc id="8023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023" title="King Arthur">
King Arthur

King Arthur was a legendary king in the mythology of Great Britain. He lived in the medieval times, in his famous castle, Camelot. He possessed a sword known as Excalibur, given to him by the Lady in the Lake.
King Arthur is a fabled ruler of Sub-Roman Britain who defended his kingdom from the Anglo-Saxons, and a popular fictional character in modern literature. He won several battles, and had many homes. However, his favourite home was in Camelot. One of the most famous tales of King Arthur is one where he pulls a sword out of a stone, making him King of the Britons.
It is said that Arthur was magically conceived in Merlin's bay by the wizard Merlin. He is said to have rose up out of the waves and to have floated to Merlin, his protector. His father was a king named Uther Pendragon, who fell in love with Lady Igraine. However, when Arthur was born, his mother died; His father followed shortly. After this tragedy, young Arthur was sent by Merlin to live with a knight named Ector when he was still an infant. Growing up, he was teased by his elder brother, Kay. When their mother died, Kay told Arthur about his adoption. Later, he found a gleaming sword stuck in a stone, while looking for a sword for his older brother to use at the knight trials. He was told that the man who could pull it out was the true king and when he succeeded in pulling the sword out, he proved his merit as King and his right to the throne. Therefore, he claimed the title and became King of Britain.
Many castles claim to be Arthur's Camelot, but the most likely one is Tintagel Castle, Cornwall. In Camelot sat the famous Round Table, where Arthur, his queen Guinevere, Merlin, Morgan le Fay, Sir Lancelot, Sir Gawain, Sir Perceval and many other knights sat. Arthur and his knights went on many quests including The Quest For The Holy Grail, The Green Knight, The Black Knight and more.
After King Arthur's many adventures, his sword Excalibur was stolen by his son, Mordred. Mordred seized his kingdom and queen, forcing Arthur to fight for what was truly his. They fought for a long time and Mordred hit King Arthur in many places, but in the end it was Arthur who killed Mordred. After this victory, King Arthur was weak and died from losing blood from the wounds received in the battle. As his knights rode back to Camelot, they threw Excalibur into the lake so that it could return to where it came from. One legend is that he never died but will return when the British need him.
Many books have been written about him. Most of them involve Merlin, the Knights of the Round Table, Morgan le Fay etc. Geoffrey of Monmouth wrote the first. Alfred, Lord Tennyson visited Tintagel, the mythical Camelot twice and wrote a series of poems about Arthur. One of the best-known books, "The Death of Arthur", was written by Sir Thomas Malory. Another tells how he set out to find the Holy Grail, the cup that Jesus drank from at the Last Supper. There are also many movies about him, including Disney's "The Sword in the Stone, Monty Python and the Holy Grail", and the musical "Camelot".

</doc>
<doc id="8024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8024" title="Johnny Appleseed">
Johnny Appleseed

John "Johnny Appleseed" Chapman (September 26, 1774 - March 11, 1847) is an American folk hero. He was a Christian missionary and pioneer. His nickname came from the fact that he planted apple trees throughout the American Midwest. Many people consider him an early conservationist or "tree-hugger". He wandered the country, usually barefoot, and with a cooking pot on his head for most of his adult life, planting apple trees, teaching the Bible, telling stories, and befriending Native Americans, wild animals, and other settlers. Many stories have been told about him and his journeys, as well as art, books, and later movies, which makes him a folk hero. He was born in Leominster, Massachusetts and is buried in Johnny Appleseed Park in Fort Wayne, Indiana.
John Chapman is said to have been in the Wilkes-Barre region some time in the 1790s, practicing his profession as a nurseryman, but just when he embraced the Swedenborgian faith and began his missionary activities we cannot be sure, though it is probable that it was before he ever reached western Pennsylvania. There are some early accounts of John speaking of his own activities as "a Bible missionary" on the Potomac when he was a young man, and Johnny was seen for two or three consecutive years along the banks of the Potomac in eastern Virginia, picking the seeds from the pomace of the cider mills in the late 1790s.The apple seeds that Johnny obtained were free, as the cider mills wanted there to be more apple trees planted to improve their business.
At the time of his death, Johnny Appleseed left an estate of more than 1,200 acres of nurseries, and he left these to his sister. He additionally had four plots located in Allen County, Indiana, which was a nursery that included 15,000 trees. 
Records show that John Chapman appeared on Licking Creek, in what is now Licking County, Ohio, in 1800, when he was twenty-six years old. He had probably come up the Muskingum River to plant near the Refugee Tract, which would soon fill up with settlers, when Congress actually got around to granting the lands. In April, 1798, the Continental Congress had ratified resolutions to donate public lands for the benefit of those who had left Canada and Nova Scotia to fight against the British in the Revolutionary War. The lands were actually set apart in 1801 and patents issued in 1802. Grants of land ranging from 160 acres to 2,240 acres were awarded according to the exertions of the patentee in the War. Johnny, with true Yankee enterprise, went ahead and planted his nurseries before the refugees arrived. Licking County, then a part of Fairfield, contained only three white families. By the time families were ready to settle the area, Johnny's tracts of land were ready for market.

</doc>
<doc id="8026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8026" title="Compact Disc">
Compact Disc

A Compact Disc (CD) is a type of optical disc. It is flat and round, and is used to store digital data. It was first used to store music and other sounds (and is sometimes called an "audio CD"). The sound on a CD is played using a compact disc player. It was developed by Philips and Sony.
Later, Compact Discs were made that could be used to store computer files in the same way as audio compact discs. These are called CD-ROMs (Compact Disc Read-Only Memory). The computer reads the disc using a CD-ROM drive. Another use is to store MPEG videos cheaply; these CDs are called VCDs (Video CDs) and are especially popular in Asia. For example, in Indonesia they are used instead of the more expensive DVD. The quality of a VCD is about the same as a VHS tape.
The diameter of a normal CD is 120 mm. The middle hole in a CD is about the size of a five cent coin (about 1.5 cm). The person who decided the size was Dutch and used the size of an old Dutch coin (old because the Dutch now have switched to the Euro), called a "dubbeltje", or dime. A CD usually holds a maximum of 74-80 minutes of sound or 650-700 megabytes of data. CDs can be manufactured to hold up to 99 minutes of audio, or slightly under a gigabyte of data, by making the tracks smaller. Discs with more than 74 minutes or 650 MB are non-standard, and some CD players are not able to play them.
Some CDs are smaller; they are 80mm in diameter. They can store about 30% of a normal disc.

</doc>
<doc id="8027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8027" title="Maidstone">
Maidstone

Maidstone is a town in Kent, in England. It stands on the River Medway. Maidstone is the county town of Kent, meaning the local government is based there. Its name means "stone of the maidens" .
During the Civil War a battle took place in 1648, which was won by Oliver Cromwell's soldiers. A year later, Andrew Broughton, who was then Mayor of Maidstone (and also Clerk to the High Court of Justice) gave the death sentence to Charles I. Today there is a plaque in Maidstone Town Centre describing Andrew as 'Mayor and Regicide' (a killer of kings). 
Maidstone used to be an industrial area, with paper making and brewing being two of the most important industries, although both have mainly died out in recent years. Until 1998, Sharps Toffee factory was where Bassets liquorice allsorts and other sweets were made. Most of the heavy industry has now been replaced by light and service industries.
Today, Maidstone is one of the top five shopping centres in the south east of England, with more than one million square feet of retail space. Most of this is in two shopping areas, "Fremlin Walk", which was built on the site of one of the old breweries, is , and "The Mall Maidstone" provides another . Both include multi-story car parks.
The town of Maidstone is within the borough of Maidstone, which also includes several surrounding villages. In 2001, 75,070 people lived in the town of Maidstone, and there were 138,959 in the whole of the Borough.

</doc>
<doc id="8028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8028" title="Redhill">
Redhill

Redhill can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="8030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8030" title="C. S. Lewis">
C. S. Lewis

Clive Staples Lewis (29 November 1898 – 22 November 1963), usually called C. S. Lewis, was a British scholar who wrote about 40 books. He was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland. He is famous for his fantasy works, essays, and writings on literature and theology. Lewis' theological works are usually apologetics, the defence of Christianity. Some of his most popular Christian writings were "Mere Christianity" and "The Screwtape Letters". His works have been translated into more than 30 languages. Lewis was a professor of literature at the University of Oxford.
Lewis was married to American writer Joy Davidman (1915-1960) from 1956 until her death from bone cancer. He died of renal failure in Oxford. 
His writing is popular with many people, and many of his books were made into movies. His most famous and popular fantasy work is "The Chronicles of Narnia", which is a series of seven books.

</doc>
<doc id="8034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8034" title="The Corrs">
The Corrs

The Corrs is a folk pop rock band from Ireland. There are three sisters and one brother in the quartet. They became very popular in the late 1990s.
They were all born in Dundalk, Republic of Ireland, the children of Gerry and Jean Corr.
Jim Corr (born 31 July 1964) is the oldest member of the group. He mainly plays the guitar, but he can also play the on the keyboards and the piano.
Sharon Corr (born 24 March 1970) plays the violin, keyboards, and does backing vocals and vocals on her own (vocals means "singing").
Caroline Corr, (born 17 March 1973) plays the drums, the "percussion", the bodhran, the piano, and also does backing vocals.
Andrea Corr (born 17 May 1974) plays the tin whistle and does the lead vocals.
The Corrs created themselves in 1991 to try to get in the movie "The Commitments". Jim, Sharon, and Caroline got a small part as musicians, while Andrea got a speaking part as Sharon Rabbitte, sister of the main character. It was while they were trying out for this movie that they were noticed by their manager, John Hughes.
Their music has been released through Atlantic Records, a music company.
Their first album, "Forgiven, Not Forgotten", was most popular in Australia. They then did another album called "Talk On Corners", which was very popular in Ireland and Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="8036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8036" title="Aaron">
Aaron

Aaron is a person described in the Bible and the Qu'ran. He was the older brother of Moses. He helped Moses lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. In the Bible, he appeared very much in Exodus.
Aaron spoke for Moses, when he went to tell Pharaoh the King of Egypt everything God wanted Moses to say. The Lord said to Moses (Exodus 7:1 to 3), "See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will be your prophet. You are to say everything I command you, and your brother Aaron is to tell Pharaoh to let the Israelites go out of his country...".
Aaron's staff was used by the Lord a few times when trying to persuade the Pharaoh to let the Israelites go. The Lord ordered Moses and Aaron, "When Pharaoh says to you, 'Perform a miracle,' then say to Aaron, Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh', and it will become a snake." So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and Aaron did so. Aaron's staff, according to the Bible, really became a snake and ate up all the other snakes that the Pharaoh's magicians had made. Also, Aaron's staff was used to make the Nile River all turn into blood. He "stretched it out", and the fish in the Nile died, and the river smelled; and the Egyptians could not drink the water, as it was recorded in the Bible.

</doc>
<doc id="8037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8037" title="Paula Abdul">
Paula Abdul

Paula Julie Abdul (; born June 19, 1962) is an American singer and dancer. She had a string of hit songs and choreographed (planned) many dances for herself and others, including singer-songwriter Janet Jackson. Musically, she is known for her late-1980s number-one singles "Straight Up" and "Cold Hearted", along with the 1990s number-one hit "Opposites Attract". She won a Grammy Award for "Best Music Video – Short Form" for "Opposites Attract". She was a judge on the television show "American Idol" for its first eight seasons. She has a mezzo-soprano vocal range. 

</doc>
<doc id="8038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8038" title="Douglas Adams">
Douglas Adams

Douglas Adams (11 March 1952 – 11 May 2001) was a British writer. He is most famous for his "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" series.
Adams was born in Cambridge. When he was a few months old he moved to East London and a few years later to Brentwood, Essex. He originally received attention when he wrote for the popular TV shows "Monty Python" and "Doctor Who" in the 1970s. In 1979, he wrote a science fiction radio play called "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy". It was later turned into a novel, then in the early 1980s, it became a TV miniseries, and in 2005, it became a film produced by Disney. He also wrote several sequels. Douglas was also known for his humorous detective novels starring Dirk Gentley, and for his efforts to conserve endangered species. He was an atheist. In 2001, Adams died of a heart attack while he was working out at the gym in Montecito, California, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="8039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8039" title="Tom Arnold">
Tom Arnold

Tom Arnold (born March 6, 1959) is an American actor and comedian. He was born in Ottumwa, Iowa. He became famous when he married Roseanne Barr in 1990, another comedian and star of the popular sitcom, "Roseanne", who he divorced in 1994. Recently, he was one of the original hosts of the talk show, "The Best Damn Sports Show Period!" on Fox Sports. In November 2009, he married Ashley Groussman.

</doc>
<doc id="8040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8040" title="Bea Arthur">
Bea Arthur

Beatrice "Bea" Arthur (May 13, 1922 - April 25, 2009) was an American actress, comedian and singer. She is best known for her roles on the comedy television series, "Maude" and "The Golden Girls". She was Jewish.
Bea Arhur was born in Brooklyn, New York City. Her parents were Philip and Rebecca Frankelin. She grew up in Cambridge, Maryland. After high school and the junior college she did an apprenticeship as a Medical Laboratory Technician and she was as a volunteer for the United States Marine Corps.
In 1946 she moved back to New York and studied acting with Erwin Piscator.
In the 1940s she was married with the author and producer Robert Alan Aurthur. In 1950 she married Gene Saks.

</doc>
<doc id="8041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8041" title="Dave Attell">
Dave Attell

Dave Attell (born January 18, 1965) is an American comedian and host of the TV show "Insomniac with Dave Attell", shown on Comedy Central in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="8042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8042" title="Karel Appel">
Karel Appel

Karel Appel (25 April 1921 – 3 May 2006) was a Dutch painter. He painted in the abstract expressionist style. He was known for his child-like style.

</doc>
<doc id="8043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8043" title="Randy Bachman">
Randy Bachman

Randall Charles Bachman (born September 27, 1943 in Winnipeg, Manitoba) is a Canadian musician. He was a member of the rock groups The Guess Who and later Bachman–Turner Overdrive.

</doc>
<doc id="8044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8044" title="J. M. Barrie">
J. M. Barrie

Sir James Matthew Barrie, 1st Baronet, OM (9 May 1860 - 19 June 1937) was a Scottish writer. His best-known work is "Peter Pan".
Barrie was born in Kirriemuir. He died of pneumonia in London. 

</doc>
<doc id="8045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8045" title="Charon">
Charon

Charon can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="8046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8046" title="Riga">
Riga

Riga is the capital city of the European country of Latvia. Riga is on river Daugava near the Baltic Sea. 
The mayor of Riga is Nils Ušakovs.
Riga was founded in 1201. Since 1918 Riga has been the capital city of Latvia.
Most of the people are Latvian (45%) and 40% are Russian.

</doc>
<doc id="8047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8047" title="Pope John Paul II">
Pope John Paul II

Pope John Paul II (; ; ), sometimes called Saint John Paul or John Paul the Great, born Karol Józef Wojtyła (; 18 May 1920 – 2 April 2005), was the head of the Catholic Church from 16 October 1978 to his death in 2005. He was the second longest-serving pope in history and, as a Pole, the first non-Italian since Pope Adrian VI, who died in 1523.
He is the first ever pope to visit the White House, and a mosque. He traveled more than any other pope before him, visiting many of the countries of the world. He is also famous for starting the annual World Youth Day. After he was beatified, his title was changed to Blessed John Paul II. John Paul II was canonized by Pope Francis on April 27, 2014 which means that the Polish Pope is now known as Saint John Paul II.
Karol Józef Wojtyła was born on 18 May 1920 in Wadowice, Poland. His parents were Karol Wojtyła and Emilia Kaczorowska. He was the youngest of three children. He was nine years old when his mother died in 1929. His father supported him so that he could study. His brother was a doctor. He died when Wojtyła was twelve. He lost everyone in his family - a sister, brother, mother, and father - before he became a priest. He played sports. He liked football (soccer) as a goalkeeper.
Wojtyła went to Marcin Wadowita high school in Wadowice. In 1938, he studied drama at the Jagiellonian University in Kraków. He worked as a volunteer librarian. He was an athlete, actor, and playwright. He did two months military training in the Academic Legion. This training was compulsory. He would not hold or fire a weapon.
When he was young, he met many Jewish people. They lived in that area. In 1939, Nazi forces closed the Jagiellonian University. All men, except for the disabled, had to have a job. From 1940 to 1944, Wojtyła worked in a restaurant. He also worked in a limestone quarry, and then as a salesman for a chemical factory. He did not want to be sent to Germany. If he was sent, he would be made to join the German army. His father died of a heart attack in February 1941.
On 29 February 1944, Wojtyła was knocked down by a German truck (lorry). He thought he would be badly treated. The German officers sent him to a hospital. He spent two weeks there with head and shoulder injuries. It was at this time that he decided that he must become a priest. When he left hospital, the young Polish men were being sent to Germany for training. He escaped to the house of the Archbishop. He hid there till after the war. On the night of 17 January 1945, the Germans left the city. The priests and teacher and students went back to the seminary. There was a big clean-up to be done. Wojtyła offered to clean out the lavatories.
That month, Wojtyła found a fourteen-year-old Jewish refugee named Edith Zierer. She was trying to reach her parents. She had collapsed from hunger. He gave her food and helped her go to the railway station. She did not hear of him again until the day came when he was elected Pope.
Karol Wojtyła was ordained as a priest by Cardinal Adam Stefan Sapieha on 1 November 1946.
In 1958, Wojtyła then became the youngest bishop in Poland at the age of 38. In 1962 he took part in the Second Vatican Council and helped write two very important documents. One was about Religious freedom and the other one was about the work of the church in the Modern World. 
In 1963 Bishop Wojtyła became Archbishop of Kraków.
On 26 June 1967, Pope Paul VI raised Archbishop Wojtyła's rank to the rank of a cardinal.
John Paul II became Pope on 16 October 1978. John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope in 455 years. He was pope for 27 years, making him the second longest serving pope after Pope Pius IX who held the office for 31 years and seven months. He was also the first and only Slavic pope. John Paul II was the most traveled pope in history with 104 international trips.
During his lifetime he learned many foreign languages. He spoke Polish as his native language, and learned Latin and Ancient Greek in school. On the day that he officially became Pope, he spoke to people in Italian, English, German, French, Spanish, Czech and Portuguese. He also spoke a little Lithuanian, Hungarian, Russian and Ukrainian.
John Paul II beatified many people. This means that the Pope gave these people the title of "Blessed". One example is the painter Fra Angelico, who lived in the 1400s. After studying his life and teaching, it was decided that he should officially be called "the Blessed Fra Angelico". John Paul II gave more people the title of "Blessed" than any other pope in history. He also made many saints.
In 1984 John Paul II started World Youth Day which was first held in Rome and attended by about 300,000 people. Since then it has been held in a different country every year. It encourages young people to be faithful to God, and to live together in peace. Many millions of people have attended.
The first pope who traveled a lot was Pope Paul VI. Like him, John Paul II liked to travel. While he was pope, he made 105 trips, visiting 117 countries. In total he travelled more than 1.1 million km (725,000 miles). Wherever he went, he attracted large crowds. All these travels were paid by the money of the countries he visited and not by the Vatican.
One of John Paul II's earliest official visits was to his home country of Poland, in June 1979. There, he was always surrounded by happy, cheering crowds. The Pope wanted to bring freedom and human rights to his country. His visit encouraged Poles to oppose the communism, and in 1980 the Solidarity movement was born. On later trips to Poland, he made his message of support stronger. The Soviet Union had controlled Eastern Europe for many years. In 1989, Poland was the first country to begin to break free from the Soviet Union.
John Paul II went to places where other popes before him had already been, such as the United States, or The Holy Land. He also went to many countries that no pope had ever visited before. He was the first reigning pope to travel to the United Kingdom, where he met Queen Elizabeth II, the Supreme Governor of the Church of England.
In 1982, the Pope made a visit to Japan, and in 1984 to South Korea and Puerto Rico. He was the first pope to visit Cuba. During his visit in January 1998, he sharply criticized Cuba for not allowing people to freely express their religion. He also criticised the United States embargo against Cuba. In 2000, he became the first modern Catholic pope to visit Egypt, and met with the Coptic Pope, and the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria. He was the first Catholic Pope to visit and pray in an Islamic mosque, in Damascus, Syria in 2001. He visited Umayyad Mosque, where John the Baptist is believed to be buried.
In 1988 he made a trip to Lesotho to beatify Joseph Gerrad. On 15 January 1995, during the 10th World Youth Day, he offered Mass to an estimated crowd of between four and eight million in Luneta Park, Manila, Philippines. This is considered to be the largest single event in Christian history.
After the attacks on 11 September 2001, even though people were worried about his safety, the Pope traveled to Kazakhstan and spoke to large audiences including many Muslims. He also went to Armenia, to participate in the celebration of the 1700 years of Christianity. He said Mass in local languages during some visits, including Kiswahili in Nairobi, Kenya in 1995 and in an Indonesian language in East Timor.
During his trips, the Pope always showed his devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary. He visited many shrines consecrated to her, notably Knock in Ireland, Licheń Stary in Poland, Fátima in Portugal, Guadalupe in Mexico and Lourdes in France.
On 13 May 1981, the Pope was shot twice in the abdomen by a Turkish national, Mehmet Ali Ağca. The pope was gravely injured. He barely survived the assassination attempt, and had to be treated in hospital for 20 days. The pope later visited Ağca in prison. He had forgiven him already. Exactly one year later he traveled to Fatima to thank Mary, Mother of God for saving his life.
On this trip there was a second attempt to his life. A follower of the French archbishop Marcel Lefebvre tried to hurt the Pope with a bayonet. He was overpowered by the bodyguards of the Pope. Lefevbre and his followers were against the decisions of the Second Vatican Council. After this the Pope often travelled in a bullet-proof trailer known as the "popemobile." 
John Paul died on Saturday, on the eve of the Divine Mercy Holiday, 2 April 2005. The official time of death on his death certificate was 9:37 pm, but a few sources reported 9:33 pm. The death certificate stated that when the Pope died, he had Parkinson's disease, with serious breathing difficulties. The Pope had tracheotomy surgery in mid February but it did not help and he lost lots of weight. He also had an enlarged prostate, urinary infection and other problems. The cause of death were that his kidneys failed, causing blood poisoning and infection brought by septic shock. John Paul II spoke his final words, “pozwólcie mi odejść do domu Ojca”, (“Let me depart to the house of the Father”), to his aides, and fell into a coma about four hours later.
The Pope's medical team used heart-monitoring machinery for more than 20 minutes, so his real and true time of death was around 9:15 PM Vatican time. As tradition demands, his name was called three times. When there was no reply, his papal ring was broken, which meant the end of John Paul II's papacy (reign as pope).
Many people claimed to have been specially blessed by the reign of Pope John Paul II. Many people thought he should be given the title "Blessed". This usually takes at least five years (and may take hundreds of years). On 13 May 2005, Pope Benedict XVI cut short the usual 5 year wait for the beatification process to begin. The only other time (in recent history) that this has happened was for Mother Theresa, who was made Blessed Mother Theresa by John Paul II.
It was announced on 14 January 2011, that John Paul II would be beatified on 1 May 2011 (Divine Mercy Sunday). 
According to the Vatican, Pope John Paul II's remains (which will not be exhumed and exposed) will be moved from the grotto beneath St. Peter's Basilica, where he is presently buried, to a marble stone monument in Pier Paolo Cristofari's Chapel of St. Sebastian, which is where Blessed Pope Innocent XI is currently buried; Blessed Pope Innocent's remains will likely be moved. This more prominent location, next to the Chapel of the Pieta, the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament and statues of Popes Pius XI and Pius XII, will increase the number of pilgrims capable of viewing his memorial.
“ It will be a great joy for us when he is officially beatified, but as far as we are concerned he is already a Saint. ”
—Stanisław Dziwisz [189]
On 30 September 2013, Pope Francis said that John Paul, together with Pope John XXIII, will be made saints on 27 April 2014. This is the first time two popes have been made saints on the same day.
Once John Paul becomes a saint, it has been suggested that 22 May should be the official John Paul II Day on Church Calendar of the Saints. 22 May is 50 days after the death of the Pope. 18 May & 2 July have also been suggested as his official saint day on the church's calendar. 18 May is already Saint Pope John I's Day.
John Paul II was generally against communism. He was also a critic of capitalism that was not controlled and he did not want people's basic rights to be oppressed by world governments. He officially condemned aspects of Liberation theology. He was against abortion and contraception in general. As head of the largest Christian group, John Paul II taught a conservative theological view of human sexuality. On the subject he wrote 130 topics called the Theology of the Body. He was against homosexuality, and in favour of people starting families as one husband and one wife. But he said that homosexuals have the same inherent dignity and rights as everybody else. On April 30, 2000, John Paul instituted a Divine Mercy Holiday, according to the teachings of Saint Faustyna Kowalska and on that day she was also proclaimed a Saint of the Catholic Church. The Feast of the Mercy of God is continuously growing worldwide. John Paul is also remembered for his devotion to the Consecrated Holy Communion, the Holy Body and Blood of Christ.
During John Paul's time as pope, the church was involved in a large number of claims about child sexual abuse by priests. There are many people who believe that the Church, and therefore the Pope, knew about these claims and tried to cover them up. For example in 1996 the Irish bishops decided that priests suspected of child abuse must be reported to the police. The Vatican sent a letter to the bishops that they were not to report such cases. The letter was from future Pope Benedict XVI - who John Paul II had asked to handle such cases. John Paul II is also claimed to have got a cardinal to send a thank you letter to a French bishop who had refused to report a priest to the police. In 2001 John Paul II sent out a special letter saying that the abuse of children by priests was a very serious crime, and should be strictly punished. Some Catholics want the process for making John Paul II a saint stopped, until there is an investigation into his role in keeping secret information about bad priests.

</doc>
<doc id="8050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8050" title="Marvel Comics">
Marvel Comics

Marvel Comics is a company that makes "superhero" comic books. Its top rival is DC Comics. In 2009, The Walt Disney Company bought Marvel for US$4 billion.
Some of their characters are:
Some of their villains are:
Marvel has also made movies and cartoons about the characters, which has made them even more popular.
Marvel used to be a company called Timely Comics in the 1940s and then Atlas Comics in the 1950s. The first comic published with the name "Marvel Comics" was "Fantastic Four" #1 in November, 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="8060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8060" title="Lincoln, Nebraska">
Lincoln, Nebraska

Lincoln is the capital city of Nebraska, United States. The City of Lincoln Only Omaha has more people of any city in Nebraska. Lincoln is also the county seat of Lancaster County and the home of the University of Nebraska. Lincoln's 2010 Census population was 258,379.
Lincoln was founded in 1856 as the village of Lancaster. It became the county seat of the newly created Lancaster County in 1859. The capital of Nebraska Territory had been Omaha since the start of the territory in 1854. Most of the territory's population lived south of the Platte River. After much of the territory south of the Platte became a part of Kansas, the legislature voted to move the capital south of the river and as far west as possible. They made the village of Lancaster the new capital, in part due to the salt flats and marshes.
People from Omaha tried to stop the move by renaming Lancaster after the recently-killed President Abraham Lincoln. Many of the people south of the river had wanted the Confederate to win the recent Civil War. These people thought that the legislature would not approve the move if the future capital were named after Lincoln. The plan did not work, as Lancaster was renamed Lincoln and also became the state capital upon Nebraska's admission to the Union on March 1, 1867. The people either liked or disliked the new name depending on how they felt about the Civil War.
Nebraska State Capitol was designed by Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue and constructed between 1922 and 1932. The capitol building is a skyscraper topped by a golden dome. The tower is crowned by a 6-meter (20 ft) statue of a farmer sowing grain on a pedestal of wheat and corn, to represent the state's agricultural heritage. City zoning rules prevent any other building from rivaling it in height, making it a landmark not only within the city but for the surrounding area. Inside, there are many paintings and iridescent murals showing Native American heritage and the history and culture of the early pioneers who settled Nebraska. It is the second tallest U.S. State Capitol building behind the Louisiana State Capitol building in Baton Rouge.
Lincoln has a humid continental climate ("Dfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="8061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8061" title="Nuclear fission">
Nuclear fission

Nuclear fission is a nuclear process. It is when an atom splits apart into smaller atoms. The process gives off a lot of energy, and is used in nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. Nuclear fission was discovered in December 1938 by the German nuclear chemist Otto Hahn and his assistant Fritz Strassmann in Berlin.
An atom is the smallest particle which makes up a chemical element (e.g. hydrogen, oxygen, magnesium). All atoms are very small. A small ball called a nucleus is at the center of every atom. Elements which have large nuclei, such as uranium and plutonium, can be made to fission.
If a (relatively) very large nucleus is hit by a slow-moving neutron, it will sometimes become unstable and break into two nuclei. When the nucleus breaks apart (or fissions) it releases a lot of energy and it also causes some neutrons to be released.
For a few isotopes one such fission can release many neutrons. If those neutrons then hit other atoms, they will make the other atoms split. This can happen again and again. This is called a nuclear chain-reaction, and it can release huge amounts of energy very quickly. The amount of energy released by a nuclear chain reaction is measured in kilotons. One kiloton is the same as the energy of one thousand tons of TNT (trinitrotoluene).
In a nuclear bomb, this must happen very quickly to make a very big explosion. In a nuclear reactor this must happen slowly to make heat. The heat is used to boil water into steam, which turns a turbine to generate electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="8064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8064" title="February 14">
February 14


</doc>
<doc id="8065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8065" title="1903">
1903

1903 (MCMIII) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8066" title="The Fantastic Four">
The Fantastic Four

The Fantastic Four is a team of superheroes. The team originally appeared in a series of comic books created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. It was published by Marvel Comics starting in 1961. They also appeared in several cartoons and films as well. 
The members of the group are scientist Reed Richards, his girlfriend/wife Sue Storm, her teenage brother Johnny Storm, and Ben Grimm, a friend of them. While test flying a rocket ship, they are affected by cosmic rays, and gain superpowers. Richards becomes "Mr. Fantastic" who can stretch his limbs and body for long distances and sizes. Sue became the "Invisible Girl/Woman" who could make herself invisible, create force fields, and other things. Johnny transformed into the "Human Torch" who can become a giant ball of fire. Ben turned into a rock-like creature with super-strength, called "The Thing". 
They decide to use these powers for good and work from their laboratory in a New York City skyscraper.

</doc>
<doc id="8070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8070" title="Bob Barker">
Bob Barker

Robert William "Bob" Barker (born December 12, 1923) is an American retired television game show host and animal rights activist. He is best known for hosting CBS's "The Price is Right" from 1972 to 2007 and for hosting "Truth or Consequences" from 1956 to 1974.
Barker was born Robert William Barker on December 12, 1923 in Darrington, Washington. He is of Sioux descent. Barker studied at Drury College.
Barker started hosting "Truth or Consequences" on December 31, 1956 and continued with the program until 1974. On December 4, 1957, Barker began hosting a new Ralph Edwards creation, the short-lived "End of the Rainbow" for NBC. In 1967, Barker hosted the short-lived game show "The Family Game". In 1971, Barker began creating a TV pilot for a game show called "Simon Says". In 1980, Barker hosted a series called "That's My Line" for Goodson-Todman. It was cancelled in September 1981.
On September 4, 1972, Barker began hosting the CBS revival of "The Price Is Right". On October 15, 1987, Barker did what other MCs almost never did: renounced hair dye and allowed his hair to turn gray.
In 2006, "The Price Is Right" marked its 35th consecutive year on the air. It is the longest-running game show of all time in North America, and at the time was the last surviving show in the daytime game show genre.
On October 31, 2006, Barker made his announcement that he would retire from "The Price Is Right" in June 2007. He taped his final episode on June 6, 2007, with the show airing twice on June 15. 
He was also seen acting as himself in the 1996 Adam Sandler comedy movie "Happy Gilmore". 
He is the winner of nineteen Daytime Emmy Awards. Barker won the MTV Award for Best Fight with Adam Sandler for his fight scene in "Happy Gilmore".
Barker married Dorothy Jo Gideon in 1945. They had three children. Barker lives in Los Angeles, California. Despite retiring from television, Barker is an active animal rights activist. In 1993, Dian Parkinson sued Barker for sexual harassment. She asked for $8 million during the lawsuit. The lawsuit was dropped in 1995.
Barker is a skin cancer survivor. On September 17, 2010, Barker collapsed at an L.A. shooting range. He was treated at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for an adverse drug reaction and released.
Barker broke Johnny Carson's record for continuous performances on the same network television show with twenty-nine years.

</doc>
<doc id="8071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8071" title="Connect Four">
Connect Four

Connect Four is a simple game. To win, players must put four of the same color markers in the yellow square so that they touch. 
For example:
0= White Marker
o= Black Marker
An example of winning connect four: the player can see the 4 o's all connected together in a pattern.
-oooo
An example of a move that does not let the player win:
-0oo0

</doc>
<doc id="8073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8073" title="Nintendo DS">
Nintendo DS

The Nintendo DS (also known as the DS Phat) is the third handheld system from Nintendo. It was released in 2004 and 2005. It has a successor called the Nintendo 3DS, the very first 3D handheld. The DS is a small, nearly pocket-size fold-up machine that lets people play video games. The games are stored on small cartridges which are like memory card chips from digital cameras. Some games, such as "Super Mario 64 DS", were released on the same day as the original DS.
For most of Nintendo's systems, there have been no load times, except for the GameCube and Wii. With the DS, a level in the game loads up quickly, just like with Game Boy games. This is because cartridges can be read a lot quicker than CDs or DVDs.
The DS also has many new features. It has a new surround sound system. The DS also has backwards compatibility with the Game Boy Advance. However, the DS is incapable of playing the Game Boy or Game Boy Color games. The DS features a touch screen, a screen often used for extra gameplay (like a PDA). The DS packaging comes with two styluses.
The Nintendo DS is one of the rivals of Sony's PlayStation Portable. However, both Nintendo and Sony state that their products were aimed at different people, so there is "technically" no competition. The DS has currently sold more units than the PSP has.
Nintendo later developed and newer variation of the Nintendo DS, known as the Nintendo DS Lite. It was first released on March 2, 2006 in Japan and later on June 11, 2006 in North America.
The DS Lite is compatible with the same games. It is smaller and lighter and features a backlit screen. Because of its design, the Game Boy Advance games stick out in Slot 2. The second slot also features a cover for players to when not in use. The DS Lite is sold in white, black, pink, blue, red, and silver. This console even has colors such as metallic rose, metallic silver, and black with white.
Some of the DS's bestselling games are "Nintendogs", "Mario Kart DS", "New Super Mario Bros", "Brain Age", "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and ".
There are many accessories for the Nintendo DS, including different coloured styluses and protective cases. Some protective cases include the highly durable Nerf cases. Most DS systems have a screen protector and a car adapter, used to charge the DS in a car.
The DS has sold 154.01 million units as of July 14, 2015, making it the best selling handheld of all time. It has currently beat the record of its sibling console (The Game Boy/Game Boy Color), which has sold 118.69 million.

</doc>
<doc id="8074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8074" title="Sam Neill">
Sam Neill

Sam Neill (born 14 September 1947 in Omagh, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland) is a New Zealand actor. He has been in lots of movies. Neill has been in "Jurassic Park", "Dead Calm", "Event Horizon", "Sirens" and lots of other very famous movies. Sam Neill is sometimes a bad guy and sometimes a good guy in movies.
Neill was born on September 14, 1947 in Omagh, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland to a New Zealander father and English mother. He moved to New Zealand in 1954. He studied at Christ's College, Canterbury and at University of Canterbury. Neill was married to Lisa Harrow until they divorced in 1989. Then he was married to Noriko Watanabe. He has two children. Neill has New Zealand and Irish citizenships.

</doc>
<doc id="8081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8081" title="March 18">
March 18


</doc>
<doc id="8092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8092" title="1928">
1928


</doc>
<doc id="8093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8093" title="Meteor">
Meteor

A meteor is what you see when a space rock falls to Earth. It is often known as a shooting star or falling star and can be a bright light in the night sky, though most are faint. If it hits the ground, it is then called a meteorite, and a large one sometimes leaves a hole in the ground called a crater. 
A rock that has not yet hit the atmosphere is called a "meteoroid". Meteoroids may range in size from large pieces of rock to tiny dust particles floating in space that did not form planets. When the meteoroids enter Earth's atmosphere they are usually going faster than the Earth's escape velocity of 13 km/sec or Mach 40. This makes them heat up and usually break apart. When the heat makes them glow, they are known as meteors.
Meteors are distinct from comets or asteroids, but some, especially those associated with meteor showers, are dust particles that came out of comets.
There are several types of meteorites including: stony, carbonaceous chondrites, and iron-nickel. Stony meteorites are named because they are largely made up of stone-like mineral material. Carbonaceous chondrites have a high carbon content. Iron-nickel meteorites are mostly iron often with significant nickel as well.
Meteors sometimes hurt people and property. The 2013 Russian meteor event did the most damage. Large meteorite strikes may have played a part in several of the mass extinctions, and so indirectly on the course of evolution. (see K/T extinction event; List of extinction events; Chicxulub crater)
Chondrites are stony (non-metallic) meteorites that are as old as the Solar System: 4.55 billion years. They sometimes contain amino acids and other organic molecules.
They have not been modified due to melting or other disturbances. They are formed when various types of dust and small grains that were present in the early solar system accreted to form primitive asteroids. They are the most common type of meteorite that falls to Earth: they are about 85 or 86 per cent of all meteorites. 
Their study gives clues about the origin and age of the Solar System, the synthesis of organic compounds, the origin of life or the presence of water on Earth. Chondrites can be differentiated from iron meteorites by their low iron and nickel content.
About 8 per cent of meteorites show signs of melting and recrystallising. They look rather like basalt or granite.
Iron meteorites are meteorites made of an iron–nickel alloy. They are about 6 per cent of all meteorites. This comes from the inner cores of early small proto-planets. The iron found in iron meteorites was one of the earliest sources of usable iron, before humans invented smelting. That signalled the beginning of the iron age. Iron meteorites are easily found, because native iron is rare.
Siderolites are stony-iron meteorites that have almost equal parts of iron and silicates. They are quite rare: only about 1 per cent of all meteorites are siderolites.

</doc>
<doc id="8099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8099" title="Similarity">
Similarity

Similarity can mean:
In mathematics:
In computer science:
In other fields:

</doc>
<doc id="8105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8105" title="Notepad">
Notepad

Notepad is a word processing program, which allows changing of text in a computer file. Notepad was created by the Microsoft corporation. It is a very simple word processor. It has been a part of Microsoft Windows since 1985. The program has options such as changing the font, the font size, and the font style. The most common use for Notepad is to view or change (edit) text (.txt) files, though .dat and .ini files can be changed in Notpad as well. Many users find Notepad a simple program for creating webpages.
Unlike using special software programs to create webpages, a Notepad user must write their webpages directly in the HTML markup language.

</doc>
<doc id="8106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8106" title="Max Planck">
Max Planck

Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck (April 23, 1858 in Kiel - October 4, 1947 in Göttingen) was a physicist from Germany. He discovered quantum mechanics. He won the Nobel Prize in physics.
Planck came from an old fashioned, intelligent family. His great-grandfather and grandfather were both theology professors in Göttingen; his father was a law professor in Kiel and Munich; and his paternal uncle was a judge.
Planck was born in Kiel, Holstein, to Johann Julius Wilhelm Planck and his second wife, Emma Patzig. He was baptised with the name of "Karl Ernst Ludwig Marx Planck"; of his given names, "Marx" (a now not used variant of "Markus" or maybe simply an error for "Max", which is actually short for "Maximilian") was indicated as the primary name. However, by the age of ten he signed with the name "Max" and used this for the rest of his life.
He was the sixth child in the family, although two of his brothers and sisters were from his father's first marriage. Among his earliest memories was the marching of Prussian and Austrian troops into Kiel during the Danish-Prussian war of 1864. In 1867 the family moved to Munich, and Planck enrolled in the Maximilians gymnasium school, where he came under the tutelage of Hermann Müller, a mathematician who took an interest in the youth, and taught him astronomy and mechanics as well as mathematics. It was from Müller that Planck first learned the principle of conservation of energy. Planck graduated early, at age 17. This is how Planck first came in contact with the field of physics.

</doc>
<doc id="8109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8109" title="Jay Leno">
Jay Leno

James Douglas Muir "Jay" Leno (; born April 28, 1950) is an American comedian, actor, voice actor, writer, producer and television host.
Leno was born in New Rochelle, New York, in 1950. His homemaker mother, Catherine (née Muir; 1911–1993), was born in Greenock, Scotland, and came to the United States at age 11. Leno's father, Angelo (1910–1994), who worked as an insurance salesman, was born in New York, to immigrants from Flumeri, Italy. Leno grew up in Andover, Massachusetts, and although his high school guidance counselor recommended that he drop out of school, he later obtained a Bachelor's degree in speech therapy from Emerson College, where he started a comedy club in 1973. Leno's only sibling was his late older brother, Patrick, who was a Vietnam veteran and a lawyer.
Leno worked on late night television. He became host of "The Tonight Show" in 1992, when Johnny Carson retired. In 2007, during the writer's strike, Leno sided with the writers, although he returned to his show after two months (without the writers besides himself) so that his staff would not be out of work. Despite leading the late-night ratings, he was forced out as host of the Tonight Show in 2009 to make way for Conan O'Brien. On March 1, 2010, became "The Tonight Show" host once again, because of poor ratings with both himself and Conan O'Brien. Leno hosted his last episode of the Tonight Show on February 6, 2014.
He now stars in his own prime-time comedy show, "The Jay Leno Show", which debuted September 14, 2009.
He guest-starred twice on the "Nickelodeon" TV series "The Fairly OddParents" as the "Crimson Chin". His character's name uses the fact that Leno has a large and square chin.
Leno has been married since 1980 to Mavis Leno; they have no children, by mutual agreement. Leno is dyslexic.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="8110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8110" title="Vancouver">
Vancouver

Vancouver is a coastal city and major seaport on the mainland of southwestern British Columbia, Canada. The city, with a population of over 570,000, is the largest city in British Columbia. Metro Vancouver has a population of over 2 million people, making it the third largest metropolitan area in Canada. Vancouver has a mix of people from different cultures, with 52% of city residents having a first language that is not English.
Native People began living in this area around 10,000-8,000 years ago. These people were part of three main groups: the Squamish, Musqueam, and Tsleil-Waututh.
Vancouver was founded in 1886, and is named after British naval captain George Vancouver. Captain Vancouver explored the area around Vancouver and Vancouver Island in the 1790s.
The University of British Columbia is in Vancouver.
Vancouver also has Stanley Park which has beaches and totem poles. Nearby is Grouse Mountain which has good skiing and has a 2.9 km (1.8 mi.) hiking trail which is known as the Grouse Grind. Grouse Mountain also has an animal sanctuary, including wolves and bears.
The Lions Gate Bridge is in Vancouver.
Vancouver has two ice hockey teams, the Vancouver Canucks (who play for the National Hockey League) and the Vancouver Giants (who play for the Western Hockey League).
The BC Lions of the Canadian Football League are based in Vancouver. The team has won 6 Grey Cups.
In soccer, Vancouver is home to the Vancouver Whitecaps FC.
The 2010 Winter Olympics were held in Vancouver and it was the first time Canada won a gold medal on Canadian soil.
Vancouver is on a peninsula on the West Coast of Canada, less than a one-hour drive north of the Canada-U.S. border.
Between Vancouver and the Pacific Ocean to the west is a large island called Vancouver Island. Until the city was named in 1885, "Vancouver" referred to Vancouver Island. Some people mistakenly think that the city is on Vancouver Island. 
On the south shore of Vancouver is the Fraser River, which flows west into the Strait of Georgia. The water along the north shore is called Burrard Inlet.
The city has an area of 114 square kilometres (44 sq mi). The larger metropolitan area is 2,878 square kilometres (1,111 sq mi).
As with most of British Columbia, Vancouver is in the Pacific Time Zone (UTC−8).
Vancouver has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csb" in the Köppen climate classification). The average annual rainfall is 1155 mm, mostly from October to April. High temperatures in the summer average 22 °C. The highest temperature ever recorded was 34.4 °C on July 30, 2009. On average, snow falls on only 11 days per year. The snow is usually wet, not very deep, and melts in the rain. On average, on only 4.5 days a year does the temperature not rise above freezing.

</doc>
<doc id="8111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8111" title="Halifax">
Halifax

Halifax (demonym Haligonian) may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="8112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8112" title="Nunavut">
Nunavut

Nunavut is a territory in Canada. It was founded in 1999 when many Inuit living in the Northwest Territories wanted to have an independent province and government. Its capital is named Iqaluit. It is in the north of Canada, and has a particularly cold climate for much of the year. It has many native people (mainly Inuit).
The main form of transportation is the snowmobile. For the first week of being a separate unit, it was the Province of Nunavut, but after a week it was renamed Nunavut Territory.
A symbol of the territory is the Eskimo Dog (""). Even today, some people still use these dogs.

</doc>
<doc id="8113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113" title="Steve Martin">
Steve Martin

Stephen Glenn Martin (born August 14, 1945) is an American comedian, actor, writer, producer and musician.
Martin was born in Waco, Texas to Glenn Vernon Martin, a real estate salesman and aspiring actor, and Mary Lee Stewart, a housewife. Martin was raised in Inglewood, California and Garden Grove, California. He is of English, French, German, Irish and Scottish descent.
As a teenager, Martin started out working at the Magic Shop at Disneyland. There he developed his talents for magic, juggling, playing the banjo and creating balloon animals. He teamed up with friend and Garden Grove High School classmate Kathy Westmoreland to do a musical comedy routine. They performed at local coffee houses and at the Bird Cage Theater in Knott's Berry Farm. Martin attended Santa Ana College at the same time as actress Diane Keaton.
Martin majored in philosophy at California State University, Long Beach, but dropped out. His time there changed his life:
"It changed what I believe and what I think about everything. I majored in philosophy. Something about non sequiturs appealed to me. In philosophy, I started studying logic, and they were talking about cause and effect, and you start to realize, 'Hey, there is no cause and effect! There is no logic! There is no anything!' Then it gets real easy to write this stuff, because all you have to do is twist everything hard—you twist the punch line, you twist the non sequitur so hard away from the things that set it up, that it's easy... and it's thrilling."
Martin's girlfriend in 1967 was a dancer on "The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour". She helped Martin get a writing job with the show by submitting his work to head writer Mason Williams. Williams initially paid Martin out of his own pocket. Along with the other writers for the show, Martin won an Emmy Award in 1969. Martin also wrote for John Denver (a neighbor of his in Aspen, Colorado at one point), The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour, and The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour. He also appeared on these shows and several others, in various comedy skits.
Martin also performed his own material, sometimes as an opening act for groups such as The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band and The Carpenters. He appeared at San Francisco's The Boarding House among other places. He continued to write, earning an Emmy nomination for his work on Van Dyke and Company in 1976.
In the mid-1970s, he made appearances as a stand up comedian on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson. That exposure, together with appearances on HBO's On Location and NBC's Saturday Night Live (SNL) led to his first of four comedy albums, "Let's Get Small". The album was a huge success.
His next album, "A Wild and Crazy Guy", was a bigger success. It reached the #2 spot on the sales chart in the United States. It created a catch phrase (the album's title). It was based on an SNL skit in which Martin and Dan Aykroyd played a couple of bumbling Czechoslovakian playboys. The album was a million seller.
Both albums won Grammys for Best Comedy Recording in 1977 and 1978 respectively.
Martin's first movie was a short, "The Absent-Minded Waiter" (1977). The seven-minute long movie, also featuring Buck Henry and Teri Garr, was written by and starred Martin. The movie was nominated for an Academy Award as Best Short Film, Live Action. His first feature movie appearance was in the musical "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band". He sang the Beatles' "Maxwell's Silver Hammer".
In 1979, Martin wrote and starred in his first full-length movie, "The Jerk", directed by Carl Reiner. The movie was a huge success, grossing over $73 million. Martin was in three more Reiner-directed comedies after "The Jerk": "Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid" in 1982, "The Man with Two Brains" in 1983 and "All of Me" in 1984. In 1986, Martin joined fellow Saturday Night Live veterans Martin Short and Chevy Chase in "¡Three Amigos"!, directed by John Landis.
In 1986, Martin was in the musical movie version of the hit off-Broadway play "Little Shop of Horrors" as a sadistic dentist, Orin Scrivello.
In 1987, Martin joined comedian John Candy in the John Hughes movie, "Planes, Trains and Automobiles". That same year, the Cyrano de Bergerac adaptation "Roxanne" won him a Writers Guild of America award. In 1988, he did "Dirty Rotten Scoundrels" with Michael Caine and directed by Frank Oz.
In 2005, Martin wrote and starred in "Shopgirl". Martin played a wealthy businessman who strikes up a romance with a Saks 5th Avenue counter girl (Claire Danes). He also starred in "Cheaper by the Dozen 2" that year. Martin's latest work was in the 2006 remake of "The Pink Panther".

</doc>
<doc id="8114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8114" title="Richard Attenborough">
Richard Attenborough

The Rt. Hon. Richard Attenborough, Baron Attenborough, CBE (29 August 1923– 24 August 2014) was an English movie producer, director and actor. 
He was born in Cambridge, England. Attenborough left his home when he was 17 to attend the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London. He earned his first West End theatre role, then went to national stardom in the play "Brighton Rock". 
Attenborough later became a producer and director. He produced and directed the movie "Gandhi". Attenborough said that the movie "Gandhi" was his dream project and waited years to make it. "Gandhi" won 5 British Academy Awards and 8 American Oscars. In 1983 he won the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award. In his movie roles, he is mostly known for his roles in "The Great Escape" and in "Jurassic Park". He was the older brother of naturalist David Attenborough.
Attenborough died on 24 August 2014 at the age of 90 in London after years of poor health.

</doc>
<doc id="8118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8118" title="Robin Williams">
Robin Williams

Robin McLaurin Williams (July 21, 1951 – August 11, 2014) was an American actor and stand-up comedian. He first became famous on the television show "Mork and Mindy". He starred in many movies.
On August 11, 2014, Williams was found dead in his home. His death was believed to have been a suicide by asphyxiation. He appeared to have hanged himself with his belt. Williams was also found with cuts on his wrist.
Williams was born Robin McLaurin Williams in Chicago, Illinois on July 21, 1951. His father Robert Fitzgerald Williams (September 10, 1906 – October 18, 1987) worked for Ford Motor Company. His mother Laura McLaurin (née Smith, September 24, 1922 – September 4, 2001) was a former model from New Orleans, Louisiana. His great-great-grandfather on his mother's side was Mississippi senator and governor Anselm J. McLaurin. Williams' ancestors were English, Welsh, Irish, Scottish, German, and French.
When he was young, Williams lived in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan and in Marin County, California. He studied at Redwood High School and at Claremont McKenna College. He studied to become an actor at the Julliard School in New York City and at the College of Marin.
After his family moved to Marin County, Williams began his career doing stand-up comedy shows in the San Francisco Bay Area in the mid-1970s. His first performance took place at the Holy City Zoo, a comedy club in San Francisco, where he worked his way up from tending bar to getting on stage.
Williams became famous for his role as Mork in the television series"Mork & Mindy" (1978–1982). His idol Jonathan Winters also appeared in the show. Williams went on to a successful career in both stand-up comedy and movie acting.
He acted in the movies "The World According to Garp", "Good Morning, Vietnam", "Dead Poets Society", "Awakenings", "The Fisher King", "Good Will Hunting", "Popeye", "Hook", "Aladdin", "Mrs. Doubtfire", "Jumanji", "The Birdcage", "Night at the Museum", and "Happy Feet".
Williams appeared in the music video for "Don't Worry, Be Happy" by Bobby McFerrin. In 2013, Williams starred as President Dwight D. Eisenhower in Lee Daniels' "The Butler".
Before his death, Williams starred in the short-lived comedy "The Crazy Ones". It was cancelled shortly before his death.
Once Williams got angry with Disney for using his voice as the Genie in "Aladdin" to sell merchandise for the movie. Disney tried to apologize to Williams. The Disney company bought a Picasso painting for him.
Williams was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor three times. He received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in "Good Will Hunting". He received two Emmy Awards, four Golden Globe Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards and five Grammy Awards.
Williams married Valerie Velardi in 1978. They divorced in 1988. In 1989, Williams married Marsha Garces. She divorced him in 2008. Williams married Susan Schneider in 2011. Their marriage lasted until Williams' death in 2014. Williams had a son with Velardi. He had a daughter and son with Garces. His son, Zak Williams, is an actor, businessman, and filmmaker. His daughter, Zelda Williams, is an actress.
Williams lived in San Francisco and Paradise Cay in California. 
Williams was an alcoholic. He was also addicted to cocaine. He had strong depression in the final years of his life. On March 13, 2009, he had surgery to fix an aortic valve. The surgery was successful. One month before his death, Williams went to rehab for his alcoholism. Williams' widow stated that he had been diagnosed with early stage Parkinson's disease before his death, but the actor was "not yet ready to share publicly" this information. In November 2014, it was revealed that Williams had Lewy body dementia.
On August 11, 2014 at about 11:45 am, Williams was found at his home by his personal assistant. About ten minutes later, a 911 call was made saying that Williams was not reacting or breathing. He was pronounced dead at 12:02 pm, shortly after emergency personnel arrived.
The Marin County Sheriff's department said the cause of death was probably asphyxia by hanging.
Williams was cremated. His ashes were scattered in the San Francisco Bay. On December 16, 2014, it was revealed that, as a result of his death, Williams was the fastest growing search term on Google in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="8121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8121" title="Bamboo">
Bamboo

Bamboo is a name for over 1,400 species of giant grasses in 115 different genera. All bamboos have wood-like stems. Bamboo mainly grows in Africa, America and in Asia but can easily grow in Europe.
Bamboo grows in clumps (although running varieties exist). The runners can be up to 40 metres (130 feet). David Farrelly, in his book "The Book of Bamboo", says that bamboo has been measured to grow 1.21 meter (47.6 inches) in a 24-hour period. However, most bamboos (used for gardening) will grow more like 3 cm to 5 cm (1-2 inches)a day.
Almost all species of bamboo have hollow stems divided into nodes or joints. The stem can be up to 30 cm (a foot) in diameter. Each of the node has one side bud. Not all of those buds develop into branches, but some do. This makes bamboo one of the few grasses that have a branch structure. Bamboo rarely flowers. Some species only flower once, and then die off. The distance of two joints in a bamboo is the basis of a traditional Japanese unit of measurement, "shaku".
Bamboo is used to make lots of things and is a construction material. The stems of larger trees are used to build houses, bridges, and other things that have to be constructed such as boat and wickerwork. It can be used for scaffolding. Bamboo is an easy construction material that is not too expensive.
Bamboo shoots can also be used as human food. Bamboo shoots (new bamboo culms that come out of the ground) are usually cooked before being eaten. Most temperate bamboos can be eaten without cooking if they are not too bitter.
As some may contain cyanogens, cooking is better. The only "Phyllostachys" known to have potentially toxic concentrations of cyanogens is "Ph. heterocycla pubescens".

</doc>
<doc id="8126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8126" title="Trojan War">
Trojan War

The Trojan War was one of the greatest wars in the history of Ancient Greece. It happened between the Trojans and the Achaeans. It is mostly known through the "Iliad," an epic poem written by the Ancient Greek poet Homer.
The site of ancient Troy has been found, across the Aegean Sea on Asia Minor. The war may have taken place in the 12th century BCE. 
The origins of the war (in the "Iliad") started at the wedding of King Peleus and the nereid (sea-nymph) Thetis. They had invited almost all the gods to their wedding. But they did not invite Eris, goddess of strife. She was angry and she threw a golden apple among the guests on which was written "To the Fairest". The goddesses Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite caught the apple at the same time and fought over who was the most beautiful. Because they could not end the fight by themselves, they went to Zeus, the king of the gods. Zeus chose Paris to decide, and give the apple to who he wanted. Each of the three goddesses offered Paris gifts so he would choose her. Hera offered Paris all of Asia. Athena offered wisdom. 
Then Aphrodite offered him the love of the most beautiful woman. Paris gave the apple to Aphrodite. Of course, Aphrodite had not thought about the fact that the most beautiful woman, Helen, Queen of Sparta, already had a husband (King Menelaus of Sparta). But Aphrodite had her son, Eros, shoot Helen with a golden arrow so she fell in love with Paris. They left for Troy. Menelaus, Helen's husband, declared war on Troy to retrieve his queen, now called Helen of Troy. This began the Trojan war.
The war went on for ten years swinging to one side and then the other. Some of the leading fighters were Achilles, Paris, and Hector. The Greeks won by building a big wooden horse, which we now call the Trojan Horse. Greek soldiers hid inside the horse, and others put the horse on the shore and left in their boats. The Trojans saw the horse and thought that the Greeks had given up and left. They thought the horse was a gift in their honour. They dragged the horse into Troy and celebrated their victory. When night fell, the Greeks hiding inside the horse opened the city gates and set fire to the houses. The Greeks who had left in their boats had just pretended to leave, to trick the Trojans. They returned and won the war. The trick was thought up by Odysseus, King of the small island of Ithaca.
The war probably did happen, but in the telling the events were exaggerated and mythic elements were added. These changes fit the needs of oral tradition. In the mid-19th century the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann discovered the ruins of a city which he identified as Troy. 
Some Hittite and Egyptian texts also talk about the war. They say that a confederation of 22 cities went to war.
These are stories, books, movies, etc., that are about the Trojan War, or tell parts of its story:

</doc>
<doc id="8127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8127" title="Cruise ship">
Cruise ship

A cruise ship (or cruise liner or ocean liner) is a large ship with sleeping cabins and other facilities that takes people on holiday and vacation trips. Hundreds of thousands of people take cruises each year.
Today's cruise ships are like floating hotels. They have a complete "hospitality staff" (to serve food and help passengers in other ways) as well as the usual ship's crew. The largest cruise ships have casinos, shops, many restaurants, theaters for both live entertainment and movies, several pools, day care, a gym, and a running track. The most expensive cruises often have more crew and staff than passengers. This means that the people who control the cruise can give many personal services.
Today, hundreds of cruise ships sail all over the world. Some carry over 3,000 passengers. These are some of the largest ships ever built. For some places, such as Antarctica, because it lacks other methods of regular transport, cruise ships are one of the few ways for tourists to visit.

</doc>
<doc id="8128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8128" title="Windows Media Player">
Windows Media Player

Windows Media Player is a digital media player made by Microsoft. It is already installed on Microsoft Windows operating systems, and an older version is available for some Apple Macintosh operating systems. The program allows people to watch certain video files and play music files that are in a compatible file format. How the program looks can also be changed with skins, and it can be made small enough to fit on the taskbar.

</doc>
<doc id="8129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8129" title="Listen Up">
Listen Up

Listen Up! was a 2004 CBS television series. It was a sitcom starring Jason Alexander as Tony Kleinman, a sportscaster from the fictional ""Listen Up!"" His cohost is named Bernie, and is a hall of famer. Jason has a wife, Dana, and two kids, one named Mickey. Mickey is very good at golf, but gets low grades.
The series only lasted for one season, 22 episodes.

</doc>
<doc id="8130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8130" title="Jurassic Park III">
Jurassic Park III

Jurassic Park III is a 2001 American movie and the third "Jurassic Park" movie. It follows "". Paul Kirby, who says he is a rich business owner, convinces Dr. Alan Grant and his assistant, Billy Brennan, to take him and his wife to Isla Sorna as a vacation and serve as a guide. Actually, Kirby and his wife want to search for their son, who was stranded on Isla Sorna while on a parasailing trip. After crashing on the island, they are attacked by a Spinosaurus, who kills several members of their party. After escaping, the remaining people start hiking for the coast, fighting many dinosaurs, including the Spinosaurus, along the way.
"Jurassic Park III" is followed by "Jurassic World".

</doc>
<doc id="8133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8133" title="Laura Dern">
Laura Dern

Laura Elizabeth Dern (born February 10, 1967) is an American actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California and is the daughter of actors Bruce Dern (born 1936) and Diane Ladd (born 1935). She received an Oscar and Golden Globe Award for her performance as Rose in "Rambling Rose". For the HBO film "Afterburn", she received an Emmy Award nomination and a Golden Globe Award. She has also won Independent Spirit Awards for "Blue Velvet" and "Smooth Talk". She is perhaps most famous for playing Dr. Ellie Sattler in Jurassic Park. She used to date Jeff Goldblum. 

</doc>
<doc id="8134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8134" title="Trailer (movie)">
Trailer (movie)

A movie trailer is a short showing of a future (not yet released) movie. They are shown in a theater before the current movie starts. They are often later shown in advertisements for DVD releases, and broadcasts of the movie on television.

</doc>
<doc id="8135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8135" title="Michael Crichton">
Michael Crichton

Michael Crichton (October 23, 1942 – November 4, 2008) was an American author of many books. His books were usually in the science fiction, medical fiction, and thriller genres. He was also a producer, director, and doctor. 
Crichton is well known for writing novels that later became well-known Hollywood movies. His most famous work was "Jurassic Park." Other examples of Crichton's novels that later went on to become big-budget films include Congo, The Lost World, Rising Sun, and Sphere. 
Crichton has also created the "E.R." television show. 
Crichton was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was 6'9" tall. He was married five times. He had a daughter from his fourth marriage. 
In November 4, 2008, he died of throat cancer and lymphoma in Los Angeles, California, aged 66. He was looked down on by some as a climate change denier In February 2009, his widow gave birth to his only, posthumous son, John Michael Todd Crichton.

</doc>
<doc id="8136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8136" title="Andreas Baader">
Andreas Baader

Andreas Bernd Baader (6 May 1943-18 October 1977) was a German terrorist.
He was born in Munich and was one of the first leaders of the "Baader-Meinhof gang", later it was called the Red Army Faction or RAF.
In 1968, Baader and his girlfriend Gudrun Ensslin were convicted of the setting fire to a department store in Frankfurt am Main.
They were arrested and sent to jail, but Baader escaped. He was caught in April 1970, but in May 1970, he was allowed to go a library outside the prison.
Journalist Ulrike Meinhof and two other women were allowed to join him. They let a masked man into the library who fired shots at a 64-year-old librarian. Baader, the three women and the masked man fled through a window, and the group soon became known as the "Baader-Meinhof Gang".
Baader and others then spent some time in a Palestinian military training camp in Jordan before being thrown out. Back in Germany, Baader robbed banks and bombed buildings from 1970 to 1972. On 1 June 1972, he and fellow RAF members Jan-Carl Raspe and Holger Meins were caught after a gunfight in Frankfurt.
Meins died during a hunger strike in Stammheim Prison in 1974. This was when philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre visited Baader. He described Baader as "incredibly stupid" and "an asshole".
From 1975 to 1977, there was a long and expensive trial in a specially fortified building on the grounds of Stuttgart's Stammheim prison. Their jailers said Baader and the others kept their cells as dirty and disgusting as possible in stop searches for things that might be smuggled in; at this time lawyers and defendants were not separated by panes of glass during unsupervised meetings.
Ulrike Meinhof was found dead in her cell at Stuttgart-Stammheim on 9 May 1976, hanging from the ceiling. Members of the Red Army Faction and others claimed that she was killed by the German government. The so-called "second generation of the RAF" committed several kidnappings and killings in a campaign in support of the prisoners. The three remaining defendants were convicted in April 1977 of several murders, attempted murders, and of forming a terrorist organization, and were sentenced to life imprisonment.
Hanns Martin Schleyer was kidnapped on 5 September 1977 and Lufthansa Flight 181 was hijacked in mid-October to try to force the release of Baader and ten other RAF members.
After several weeks that were called "the German Autumn", the passengers of the aeroplane were freed in an assault carried out by German GSG 9 special forces in the early hours of 18 October 1977.
Next morning, Andreas Baader and Jan-Carl Raspe were found in their prison cells, dead from gunshot wounds. Gudrun Ensslin was found hanging. RAF member Irmgard Möller was found with four stab wounds to her chest, but survived.
All the official inquiries said that Baader and the others two committed suicide. Möller still insists that the deaths and her injury were extrajudicial executions.
In 2002, director Christopher Roth released a film about Baader titled "Baader".
Hitler's Children: The story of the Baader Meinhof Terrorist Gang by Jillian Becker

</doc>
<doc id="8137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137" title="Meher Baba">
Meher Baba

Meher Baba (25 February 1894 31 January 1969) was a spiritual teacher who lived in India. Baba's real birth name was Merwan Irani and his parents' names were Sheriar and Shireen Irani. His family lived in India, but they were of Persian descent. Today Persia is called Iran. They were not Hindus or Muslims like most Indians at that time, but were of the Zoroastrian religion.
Baba had a normal childhood and liked poetry and sports, especially cricket. When Baba was thirteen years old he started a boy's club with his best school friends called "The Cosmopolitan Club". The boys in the club kept up on the news, practiced public speaking at their clubhouse, and raised money to give to the poor. As Baba got older he worked for his father in his father's tavern where he served a cheap kind of wine called toddy made from the sap of palm trees. 
Baba lived in Pune, India where he graduated from St. Vincent's High School and attended Deccan College. In 1913, when Baba was nineteen, he was coming home from college riding a bicycle. A very old Muslim woman named Hazrat Babajan, who was sitting under a Neem tree, called for him to come over to her and she kissed him on the forehead. He then went home. Baba later said that he became so dazed after this kiss that he could barely find his way home, and that when Babajan kissed him, he realized God within himself. He was so dazed that he had to stay in bed for several weeks. A year later, Baba met a Hindu holy man named Upasni Maharaj. Baba went to live with Upasni in the village of Sakori. He learned from Upasni and obeyed Upasni's orders. 
Baba stayed with Upasni for seven years, until he was twenty seven years old. Then Upasni told some of his followers that from then on Baba would be their spiritual guide. Baba eventually took these new followers to Ahmednagar, to a place now called Meherabad. There he gave lessons in spirituality, worked with the poor, and started a free boarding school. Gradually other people started to follow Meher Baba.
For most of his life Baba did not speak. He started his silence in 1925. He communicated by pointing to letters painted on an "alphabet board" at first, and later used his own form of sign language. He kept silent until his death in 1969. Some people called him "The Silent Master" and there is a book by that title.
Meher Baba traveled around the world many times. He visited many countries. He spent several months in England, Australia and the United States. Many thousands of people came to see him. Some of them became his followers. 
In 1954, when Baba was sixty years old, he said to others that he was the Avatar. In the ancient language of Sanskrit, the word "Avatar" means one who has come down from God. Baba said that the Avatar is born on Earth every 700–1400 years, and comes to help others find God. Meher Baba said that in the past the Avatar had been on Earth as Zoroaster, Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Jesus, and Muhammad.
Meher Baba's most famous quote is "Don't Worry, Be Happy," partly because it appeared in a popular song by Bobby McFerrin. Others know of him because of the song "Baba O'Reilly" written by Pete Townshend who is a follower of his and named the song partly after Baba. 
He wrote two important books. In "Discourses", Meher Baba wrote about how to live a good life, how to meditate, and how to love God. In "God Speaks", Meher Baba wrote about how the soul seeks God over many lifetimes. He said, "Real happiness lies in making others happy." He showed his followers that the best path is to love God at all times by loving your fellow man. 
He also said he had not come to start a new religion—that it was better to truly follow one's own religion. Because of this, he has followers who are Zoroastrians, Christians, Jews, Hindus, Muslims, Sufis, Buddhists, and Sikhs. There are also atheists and agnostics who do not necessarily believe in God, but who are attracted purely to his simple philosophy of leading an honest and loving life.

</doc>
<doc id="8139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8139" title="Trailer">
Trailer

Trailer has the following definitions:

</doc>
<doc id="8141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8141" title="Uno (card game)">
Uno (card game)

Uno is an American card game that was made by Merle Robbins in 1971. It has since been bought by a company named Mattel. It uses 108 special cards that are made just to play "Uno". It is similar to Crazy Eights.
The cards are put into 4 different groups: Red cards, green cards, blue cards and yellow cards. There are also some other cards called "Special Cards". Skip, Reverse, Draw +2, Wild, and Wild +4 cards allow you to do something you cannot normally do, such as pick up two more cards. 
The game's name is also sometimes written in capital letters - "UNO".

</doc>
<doc id="8147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8147" title="UNO">
UNO

Uno can mean: 
UNO is an acronym for:

</doc>
<doc id="8149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8149" title="Electrical engineering">
Electrical engineering

Electrical engineers are engineers who develop (think and make) different things that use electricity in a helpful way. They fix or design new and better ways of using devices that use electricity.
Big subjects in electrical engineering include power generation, automation and control, semiconductors, and information technology (radio waves and computer). To meet new needs, electrical engineering produced new specialties, such as electronic engineering and software engineering.
Early universities taught philosophy and later science. As the industrial revolution approached they had to start teaching new parts of these sciences. 
When the industrial era began, we needed to study mathematics, physics and chemistry to help support it. When electricity was used more, a new branch called electrical engineering was invented. 

</doc>
<doc id="8150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8150" title="Design">
Design

Design is a visual look or a shape given to a certain object, in order to make it more attractive, make it more comfortable or to improve another characteristic. Designers use tools from geometry and art. Design is sometimes divided to sub-categories: graphic design, buildings and nature design, consumer goods design.
Design is also a concept used to create an object (virtual or not).

</doc>
<doc id="8151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8151" title="Star Trek">
Star Trek

In its broadest sense, Star Trek is a collection of science fiction video entertainments, owned by Paramount and CBS, as well as various spin-offs. Many of these types of collections are often known as franchises.
The main parts of the "Star Trek" franchise are:
Other parts of the franchise are: books (both fiction and non-fiction), magazines, comics, action figures, model toys and computer video games.
"Star Trek" was created as a TV series in 1966 by Gene Roddenberry. He and the other authors of "Star Trek" have, over time, developed a whole fictional universe set in the future. Following this fictional universe is the way they have chosen to maintain continuity between the various TV series and the movies.
"Trekkies" or "Trekkers" may refer to the many fans who love the series and support this "Star Trek Universe". Many conventions and newsletters exist to serve these fans. There are even amateur movies made by the fans.
In the 1960s, Gene Roddenberry created "Star Trek". He sold it as a western (a television genre about cowboys), but in space, and compared it to the television show "Wagon Train". He also based it on "Gulliver's Travels". After two pilots (test episodes), "Star Trek" was first shown on television in 1966.
In 2053, World War III ended on Earth. In 2063 Zefram Cochrane, invented the warp drive, a way to travel faster than the speed of light. Because of this invention, Vulcans came to Earth to meet the humans. This is shown in "". The Vulcans helped humans fight disease and hunger. In 2150 humans created a United Earth Government that combined all the old governments into one.
A war between Earth and the Romulans made species from different planets work together, and the Coalition of Planets was started in 2156. In 2161, the planets Vulcan, Earth, Andoria and Tellar started the United Federation of Planets.
"" is sometimes called "TOS" as an abbreviation (a shorter way of saying something). In it, the starship Enterprise travels through space to discover new places - "to boldly go where no man has gone before". The show was set in the 23rd century.
The main characters are:
It was shown on television for three years, and was cancelled in 1969.
"" is also called "TAS". It is an animated version of "The Original Series". The crew are the same, and most are voice-acted by the same actors. Because it was animated, the planets and species could look more interesting.
Gene Roddenberry asked for the stories in "TAS" to be removed from "Star Trek"'s canon (the official history of "Star Trek" that is the same in all series). It is still argued about if they are part of canon or not, but usually agreed that they are not. The official Star Trek website has added some things from "TAS" to their library.
"" is also called "TNG". It is set 70 years after "The Original Series", in the 24th century. The crew travel on a new starship called the "Enterprise-D". The stories are also about exploring, and often about fighting hostile (violent or angry) ships. The crew has many different races.
The main characters are:
It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1987 to 1994.
"" is also sometimes called "DS9". It is set in the late 24th century, at the end of "The Next Generation"'s time line and the start of Voyager's. It is not like "TOS" and "TNG" because it is set on a space station and is not about exploring. This means it has more soap opera elements (lots of stories about the characters). Most of the stories are about the Cardassian race and the war with the Dominion.
The main characters are:
It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1993 to 1999.
"" is set in the late 24th century. It is different from the other series because it takes place in the Delta Quadrant. The ship Voyager was trapped there after a chase by the Maquis (Starfleet rebels). The stories are about them trying to find their way home. This is a long journey, and will take them 75 years.
The main characters are:
It was shown on television for seven seasons, from 1995 to 2001. It was made to help start a new television channel, UPN.
"" is the newest "Star Trek" series. It is set in the 22nd century, which means it is before all the other series on the "Star Trek" timeline. It is about the humans and the Vulcans working together after first contact. The ship, Enterprise, was the first Warp 5 ship made by the humans (with some vulcan assistance). The first season famously had many continuity errors (events and technology that did not match what happens in the other series).
The main characters are:
It was shown on television for four seasons, from 2001 to 2005.
The "Star Trek" franchise is a multibillion-dollar industry (a very large business). It has influenced (affected) many things in real life.
"Star Trek" has a large following of fans who are very enthusiastic (care a great deal) about the show. They are usually called Trekkies. The word was first used by Arthur W. Saha when he saw people wearing fake Vulcan ears at a convention (an event where lots of people interested in the same thing organise to meet) in 1967. Some fans like to be known as Trekkers instead.
Two documentaries (factual television shows) have been made about them, called "Trekkies" and "Trekkies 2".
In 1976, NASA made a prototype (test) space shuttle. It was first going to be called "Constitution", but Star Trek fans wrote letters to NASA asking for it to be called "Enterprise" instead. "Enterprise" was used for flight tests, although it was never sent into space. It is now displayed (put on show) at the Smithsonian Institution.
The movie "Galaxy Quest" is a "Star Trek" parody, which means it was made to be like "Star Trek" in a funny way.
There have been parodies on television in the cartoons "Futurama", "The Simpsons" and "Family Guy".
The video games company Blizzard Entertainment puts references to "Star Trek" in many of its games, like "Starcraft" and "World of Warcraft".
Fans of the show made a new episode, "Pilgrim of Eternity", in 2013. The crew were also professional film and TV people.
"Star Trek" episodes often tell a moral story. philosophical and moral questions are common. In the "Star Trek: Voyager" episode "Tuvix", a transporter accident puts two characters, Tuvok and Neelix, into one body. This makes a new person, Tuvix, who has his own personality. The crew of the Voyager must decide what to do: they can kill Tuvix by separating him back into Tuvok and Neelix, or they can kill Tuvok and Neelix by letting Tuvix live. In the end, Captain Janeway decides to save Tuvok and Neelix, although the Doctor thinks this is wrong.
"Star Trek" episodes also often reflect (copy) what is happening in the real world. One example is the episode "A Private Little War" in "Star Trek: The Original Series". This is said to be like the Vietnam War. In the episode, the Klingons threaten innocent people. Captain Kirk has to decide whether to give the people guns so that they can defend themselves. The episode asks whether you can fight evil without doing evil yourself.
One focus of all the "Star Trek" franchises is a Federation law called "The Prime Directive." The Prime Directive states that advanced civilizations should not change more primitive ones; societies should be allowed to develop on their own. The Prime Directive often makes for a moral conflict—for example, the Prime Directive might forbid using advanced technology to save an intelligent race.

</doc>
<doc id="8152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8152" title="Tunnel">
Tunnel

A tunnel is an underground passage. Some tunnels are used for cars, and others are used for trains. Sometimes, a tunnel is used for movement of ships. Some tunnels are built for communication cables and some are built for electricity cables. Other tunnels are built for animals.
Tunnels are dug in different kinds of grounds, from soft sand to hard rock. The way of digging is chosen by the type of ground. There are two additional ways of digging : quarry and 'cut and cover'. In quarry, the tunnel path is drilled in a horizontal way.
This system requires a deep tunnel that's built in a firm rock. In the 'cut and cover' system, a tunnel is dug in the ground and, afterwards, a roof is built above the tunnel. This system fits tunnels that are close to the ground like road tunnels and infrastructure.
Building tunnels is a large civil engineering project that could cost very high sums of money. The planning and building of a long tunnel may take many years.
The Channel Tunnel between France and England is one of the longest tunnels in the world. It is 50 kilometers long. The longest tunnel in the world, the "Gotthard Base Tunnel", is being dug in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="8155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8155" title="Salvation Army">
Salvation Army

The Salvation Army is a Protestant Christian organization. It was founded by William and Catherine Booth in the East End of London, England in 1865. It was called the Christian Mission to start with, but in 1878, the name was changed. The Booths came from a Methodist tradition, but today the teachings of the movement are mainstream Protestant. They focus on preaching, and on helping those in need. They also actively help in disaster relief.
The Salvation Army operates in over 100 countries today. Its members devote themselves to teaching Christian morals, helping those in need, like the homeless, the sick, the poor, and others. It operates facilities like shelters, , orphanages, , and a , and offers Sunday church services. It is one of the largest charitable organisations in the world which means that it relies on people to give it money to use.

</doc>
<doc id="8156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8156" title="Orphanage">
Orphanage

An orphanage is an institution that takes in and cares for orphans. It can also mean state of being an orphan. This is when a child is an orphan.
Historically it was very often the church or the state who cared for orphans. Children in orphanage may often suffer from child abuse or trauma to be left by parents.

</doc>
<doc id="8157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8157" title="London Underground">
London Underground

The London Underground is a system of electric trains which are in London, United Kingdom. It is the oldest underground railway in the world. It started running in 1863 as the "Metropolitan Railway". After the opening the system was copied in many other cities, for example New York and Madrid. Even though it is called "the Underground" about half of it is above the ground. The "Tube" is a slang name for the London Underground, because the tunnels for some of the lines are round tubes running through the ground. The Underground has got 274 stations and over 408 km of track. From 2006–2007 over 1 billion passengers used the underground. 
Underground train systems in other cities may be called "metros" or "subways" (in North America). "Subway" is used in Britain to refer to underground walkways.
The Metropolitan Line was the first part of the Underground to be made. It was opened in 1863. It then ran between Paddington and Farringdon. It took 40,000 passengers per day. Later it was made longer. The District Line was built by a different company. In 1884, the Circle Line was finished. All these lines used steam engines at first.
In 1890, a line using electric trains was opened. It was much deeper below ground than the other lines. Now it is part of the Northern Line. More lines like this were opened. People liked them, so in 1905 the lines that used steam engines were changed to use electric trains.
Because the different lines were run by different companies, changing lines was difficult. Between 1900 and 1902 Charles Yerkes bought most of the companies and formed a company named Underground Electric Railways of London Company Ltd, short UERL.
In 1933 a company was formed of all the bus, tram and underground companies, called London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB). It planned to make the network longer, but the Second World War stopped this. In the war, some Underground stations were used as shelters against bombs.
After the war more passengers used the underground. Minor changes were made: Victoria Line was opened in the 1960s, and currently the Piccadilly Line was extended to Heathrow Airport in 1977. The Jubilee Line was opened in 1979, and extended to Stratford 20 years later. Night Tube was introduced in 2016.
The system uses two kinds of trains, a big type - called sub surface trains and a smaller type - deep level trains. The big ones are used for the rectangular tunnels (District Line, Metropolitan Line, Circle Line), the small ones for the round tunnels. Most lines have different trains, although they fit into one of the two categories.
The Underground's trains usually drive to 270 stations. 14 Stations are outside of London.
The Underground uses zones to collect fares. There are 9 zones. Zone 1 is the most central zone. The only London Underground stations in Zones 7 to 9 are on the Metropolitan line beyond Moor Park, outside Greater London. Some stations are in two zones, and the cheapest fare applies.
Paper tickets or the contactless Oyster card can be used for travel. The Oyster Card is a plastic card which stores credit (money and Travelcards) which the owner uses to pay for Underground travel. The user must "charge" (put money onto) their card at a ticket machine. They then touch the card on a yellow reader to pay for their journey. Since its introduction in 2002 it has become very popular with regular travelers, as the prices are much cheaper if you use an Oyster card.
There are ticket offices, some open only in the rush-hour, and ticket machines, which can be used at any time. Some machines take coins only, other touch-screen machines take coins and English notes, and usually give change. These machines also take credit and debit cards: some newer machines accept cards only.
The following tickets are available from London Underground and TfL ticket offices to use on the Underground:
When most of the stations in the London Underground system were built, disabled and wheelchair access was not considered. While many above-ground stations have only a few steps to the platform, nearly all Underground stations have some of the systems's 410 escalators and 112 lifts (elevators). Newer stations include disabled access, and many older stations install disabled access when they are refurbished or rebuilt. Since 2004, maps inside the trains show which stations have step-free access from street level. Transport for London plan to have a network of over 100 fully accessible stations by 2020, which means that 75% of Tube journeys can be made with step-free access.
The escalators in the London Underground system are some of the longest in Europe. They run 20 hours a day, 364 days a year and are used by 13,000 people per hour, with 95% of them running at one time.
There have been relatively few accidents in the Underground's history. Most happen if people accidentally fall onto the tracks. In some stations there are pits in the middle of the track to stop people being injured if they fall onto the track. Newly rebuilt parts of the system, especially on the Jubilee line, have platform doors. These doors only open when a train stops and prevent people falling or jumping onto the tracks.
In recent years, refurbished and rebuilt parts of the Underground, especially the Jubilee Line (around Westminster) have had sliding platform doors installed to prevent people falling off the platform onto the tracks, and discourage/prevent suicides.
In the 30s, 70s and 90s the Underground was bombed many times by the IRA, and for this reason there have been no wastebins in or around stations until very recently, when clear plastic sacks were introduced in some parts of the system. On 7th July 2005 there were three attacks by radical Islamic terrorists on two Circle Line trains and on one Piccadilly Line.
Smoking is not allowed in any part of the underground. It was banned after a fire in King's Cross Station in 1987.
The commuters of London often complain about the Underground. Even newspapers, especially the Evening Standard, often criticise the system. 
Usually the complaints are about delays, overcrowding and the fares. Sometimes strikes of London Underground staff occur.
London Underground fares are now the most expensive of any rail system around the world, including the luxurious Orient Express, and they continue to rise at very high levels. Concern has also been raised over the huge difference between oyster card fares and cash fares, with the criticism that the high cash fares will discourage tourists and day visitors to London from traveling around the City.
Because the underground is a very old system, engineering work is often needed and often causes delays. There can be other reasons as well, for example signal failures or other breakdowns. Customers can claim a refund if their tube journey is delayed for more than 15 minutes due to problems within the control of Transport For London.
Because many more commuters use the underground than planned, overcrowding often happens. This can cause stress and frustration with the underground system among commuters. According to a report by MPs, commuters face "a daily trauma" and are often forced to travel in "intolerable conditions".
Because so many passengers travel on the London Underground network every day, strikes or industrial actions on the Underground network have a very high impact on London's traffic and can impact on London's economy. London Underground and the rail unions claim to be under high pressure from the working public, private businesses and government departments.
Strike actions on the London Underground occur for a number of reasons, including health and safety, working conditions and pay levels. There were several such strikes in the late 1970s.

</doc>
<doc id="8158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8158" title="Democracy Now!">
Democracy Now!

Democracy Now! is a radio and TV program. It is entirely paid for through donations from listeners, viewers, and foundations and does not accept advertisers, corporate underwriting, or government funding. It is one of the biggest independent news organizations in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="8159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8159" title="Socialist Party (England and Wales)">
Socialist Party (England and Wales)

The Socialist Party is a Socialist political party active in England and Wales and part of the Committee for a Workers' International. They publish a weekly newspaper entitled "The Socialist" and a monthly "Socialism Today". As an organisation, it has evolved from the Militant Tendency, who in the early 1980s started to be expelled from the Labour Party, for organising a mass campaign against the Poll Tax.
There was a debate with the Militant Tendency as to whether or not to cease working within the Labour Party and the majority of the group decided to do so, although a minority around Ted Grant broke away to form Socialist Appeal. This debate ran alongside a parallel debate on the future of Scottish politics. The result was that the experiment of operating as an "open party" was first undertaken in Scotland under the name of Scottish Militant Labour. This initiative would eventually lead to the foundation of the Scottish Socialist Alliance. The majority of Scottish members, after forming the Scottish Socialist Party, left the CWI in early 2001 as they moved away from traditional Trotskyist politics.
For a while, the party was known as "Militant Labour". In 1997, the group changed its name to the Socialist Party, but the ownership of this name has been contested by the much older Socialist Party of Great Britain. As a result, the new party is frequently known as "The Socialist Party of England and Wales". In elections, it has had to use the name "Socialist Alternative". They were one of the founders of the local Socialist Alliance groups, but they left in 2001.
Since ending their tenure in the Socialist Alliance, the Socialist Party has run candidates in elections as "Socialist Alternative". Following the UK local elections, 2006, it has three councillors in Coventry, one in Stoke, two in Lewisham, South London and one in Huddersfield. In February 2005, the Socialist Party announced plans to contest the 2005 parliamentary elections as part of a new electoral alliance called the Socialist Green Unity Coalition. Several former components of the Socialist Alliance that did not join Respect also joined the SGUC.
The Socialist Party is a smaller organisation than the Militant of the 1980s, but has influence in some trade unions. In 2005, 23 Socialist Party members are elected members of trade union national executive committees. Under the leadership of Peter Taaffe, their policies have remained close to the Trotskyist mainstream. Their demand for the nationalisation of the one hundred and fifty top British companies and their longstanding practice of running in elections has led some critics to label them as reformists though the party insists that their method is based on Trotsky's Transitional Programme.
The Socialist Party is affiliated to the Committee for a Workers International, and is indeed the largest of its forty members. The party participates also in the broader European Anticapitalist Left.
In November 2005 at its annual 'Socialism' event, the Socialist Party formally launched the 'Campaign for a New Workers' Party' with the aim of persuading individuals, campaigners and trade unions to help set up and back a new broad left alternative to New Labour that would fight for working class people. The National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT union) held a conference in January 2006 to address what it calls 'The crisis in working class representation', in which Dave Nellist was invited to speak. Most of the speakers were in favour of a broad left alternative to New Labour. The remaining speakers, such as MP John McDonnell, wished it well.

</doc>
<doc id="8160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8160" title="Socialist teachers">
Socialist teachers

Socialist Teachers are a group of members of the Socialist Party (England and Wales) in the National Union of Teachers(NUT).
It is associated with CNWP teachers and its members work with other socialists and trade union activists in the STA (Socialist Teachers' Alliance) and CDFU (Campaign for a Democratic and Fighting Union).
Socialist Party teacher Martin Powell-Davies stood for the general secretary of the NUT in 2004 and polled 6,482 first-preference votes.

</doc>
<doc id="8161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8161" title="National Union of Teachers">
National Union of Teachers

The National Union of Teachers is the largest teachers' union in the United Kingdom. It has a policy of campaigning on educational issues as well as the conditions of service of its members.

</doc>
<doc id="8164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8164" title="Socialist Party">
Socialist Party

Socialist Party is the name of several different political parties around the world with a variety of different political views. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="8166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8166" title="June 5">
June 5


</doc>
<doc id="8167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8167" title="February 20">
February 20


</doc>
<doc id="8168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8168" title="Dave Grohl">
Dave Grohl

David Eric "Dave" Grohl (born January 14, 1969) is an American rock musician and singer. He is best known as the lead singer of rock band Foo Fighters and the drummer of the grunge band Nirvana. He has also been part of thirty different bands in his life. These bands include Nine Inch Nails and Tenacious D.
Dave Grohl lived most of his early life in Springfield, Virginia. He played in many local punk bands, on guitar. By 15 years old he was a drummer in the hardcore punk band, Scream. Scream toured all over the United States and Europe but broke up in 1989. After they broke up he tried out to be a drummer in a small band called Nirvana.
Grohl joined Nirvana in 1990, along with Krist Novoselic and Kurt Cobain. They went on to be one of the most successful bands of the decade, selling over 50 million albums worldwide. Grohl joined shortly before the release of "Nevermind". "Nevermind" proved to be a classic album, one that is still a big influence on the alternative metal and alternative rock scene. The band only recorded one more studio album though, In Utero in 1993. On April 8, 1994, Kurt Cobain's body was found at his home in Seattle. He had shot himself in the head with a shotgun. This basically ended Nirvana and Grohl started his own band Foo Fighters in 1995.
The original Foo Fighters album was recorded entirely by Grohl himself. He recorded the parts for each instrument one at a time and then combined them. Foo Fighters are now a multi Grammy Award winning rock band and sell out huge arenas when they go on tour.

</doc>
<doc id="8169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8169" title="1740">
1740


</doc>
<doc id="8178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178" title="Embryo">
Embryo

An embryo is the earliest stage in the development of a fertilised egg (the zygote). It is the term used for any animal or plant, from the first cell division until birth, or hatching, or germination in plants.
In humans, it is called an embryo until about eight weeks after fertilization, and from then until birth it is called a foetus (US: fetus).
The development of the embryo is called embryogenesis, and the study of embryos is called embryology. The development of an embryo passes through various stages: the blastula, a hollow ball of cells; the gastrula, migration of cells; morphogenesis; tissue differentiation, and so on.
In organisms that reproduce sexually, once a sperm fertilizes an egg cell, the result is a cell called the zygote, which has DNA from each of the two parents. In plants, animals, and some protists, the zygote divides by mitosis to produce an embryo.

</doc>
<doc id="8179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8179" title="WordPad">
WordPad

WordPad is a word processor application. It is made by Microsoft. WordPad is a basic word processor. It has simple formatting functions. The software comes free with Microsoft Windows operating systems. WordPad is similar to Notepad but lets the user format text, something users cannot do in Notepad. However, WordPad is very basic compared to normal word processors like Microsoft Word or OpenOffice Writer. Wordpad saves documents in Rich Text Format, unlike Notepad's use of simple text files, allowing users to change the alignment and color of the font, and add things like bullets and font effects.

</doc>
<doc id="8180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180" title="Microsoft Paint">
Microsoft Paint

Microsoft Paint, also called MS Paint or simply Paint is a computer program made by Microsoft. It allows people to create picture files as well as edit picture files saved on their computer. Microsoft Paint is also a program for adding texts to images saved on a computer. There are various tools to help people edit photos, including:
The program has a color palette displayed on the bottom left of the screen, as well as an "Edit Colors..." menu, allowing users to create all the shades they need.
Using the selection tools (the 2 tools at the top if the tools bar), users can select all or part of an image and then cut, copy, delete and paste it.
Many digital artists or editors prefer programs like Photoshop, but many on a tighter budget or with less time on their hands use Paint. Because of this, there are many Internet tutorials to help enhance the creative skill of every Microsoft Painter.

</doc>
<doc id="8183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8183" title="My Computer">
My Computer

My Computer is seen on the Microsoft Windows computers. My computer allows the user to access the local drives, such as the local disk, also known as the C: Drive. The user can also access external drives. Examples of an external drive are a floppy disk drive (A: Drive) and the CD Drive (D:). My computer also lets the user access My Documents and other files.

</doc>
<doc id="8194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8194" title="Trilogy">
Trilogy

A trilogy is a series with three parts. For example, The Godfather series of movies is a trilogy because there are three movies in the series: "The Godfather", "The Godfather Part II", and "The Godfather Part III".
The trilogy was originally a tradition of Ancient Greek theatre, where three plays and one satyr play would be played.

</doc>
<doc id="8195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8195" title="Series">
Series

A series is a group of several things that are all about the same thing, or are intentionally similar.
In mathematics, a series is the sum of a never ending mathematical sequence (a list of numbers). For example:
The dots mean that the sum does not have a last term, but goes on to infinity. 

</doc>
<doc id="8196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8196" title="Synesthesia">
Synesthesia

Synesthesia, or synaesthesia, is a condition where the brain mixes up the senses. People who have synesthesia are called synesthetes. 
Synesthesia is usually inherited (called congenital synesthesia), but exactly how people inherit it is unknown. 
Synesthesia is sometimes reported by people using psychedelic drugs, after a stroke, or during an epileptic seizure. It is also reported to be a result of blindness or deafness. Synesthesia that comes from events unrelated to genes is called adventitious synesthesia. This synesthesia results from some drugs or a stroke but not blindness or deafness. It involves sound being linked to vision or touch being linked to hearing.
Synesthesia was investigated a lot in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but in the middle of the 20th century, it was less studied. Only recently has it been studied again in much detail.
Some musicians and composers have a form of synesthesia that allows them to "see" music as colors or shapes. This is called chromethesia. Mozart is said to have had this form of synesthesia. He said that the key of D major had a warm "orangey" sound to it, while B-flat minor was blackish. A major was a rainbow of colors to him. This may explain why he wrote some of his music using different colors for different music notes, and why much of his music is in major keys.
Another composer who had color-hearing was the Russian composer Alexander Scriabin. In 1907, he talked with another famous composer, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, who had synesthesia, and they both found that some musical notes made them think of certain colors. Scriabin worked with a man named Alexander Mozer who made a color organ.
The same type of synesthesia may have different effects (pronounced and less pronounced) on different people.
Synesthetes often say that they did not know their experiences were unusual until they found out that other people did not have them. Others report feeling as if they had been keeping a secret their entire lives. Most synesthetes consider their experiences a gift—a "hidden" sense. Most synesthetes find out in their childhood that they have synethesia. Some learn to apply it in daily life and work. For example, they might use their gift to memorize names and telephone numbers or do mental arithmetic. Many people with synesthesia use their experiences to help them be more creative, for example, in making drawings and music.
More than 60 types of synesthesia have been reported, but only a small number have been studied by scientists.
Some common types of synthesia include:

</doc>
<doc id="8199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8199" title="Moose">
Moose

A moose ("Alces alces"; called elk in Europe) is a large deer. Some authorities put the American moose in a different species, "Alces americanus".
A male moose is called a "bull", a female moose is called a "cow", and a young moose is called a "calf". A group of moose is called a "herd". The plural form of moose is "moose."
Moose live in northern Europe, Asia, and in North America. Moose usually live in areas with lakes, marshes and swamps. They also live in mountain ranges.
The moose lives across North America to northern Europe to Siberia. In Europe they live in Finland, Sweden, Norway and the Baltic countries (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania). In North America they live in Canada, Alaska and northern parts of the contiguous United States. In 2008 they have been re-introduced to Scottish Highlands from Scandinavia.
Only approximate figures are known. There are about 115,000 moose in Finland, and about the same number in Norway. Alaska has about 200,000. Canada and Russia each have between 500,000 and one million. There are also some in the continental United States. The animal is therefore very widely distributed, with quite large numbers.
Moose are active during the day. They live alone, but in winter they sometimes form small groups. Moose eat grass, leaves, twigs, willow, birch, maple shoots and water plants. After a pregnancy of 8 months, the female gives birth to one or two babies. Females begin to have babies when they are between two and three years old. Young moose stay with their mother for a year; after one year they leave and live alone. Moose usually live to fifteen years old, but they can reach as old as twenty-seven years old. A mother moose will aggressively protect her young. Their enemies are bears and wolves, who hunt moose calves.
A full-grown moose has few natural enemies. Siberian tigers do prey on adult moose. Wolves can still pose a threat, especially to females with calves. Brown bears are also known to prey on moose, although bears are more likely to take over a wolf kill or to take young moose than to hunt adult moose on their own. American black bears and cougars can take moose calves in May and June and can, in rare instances, kill adults (mainly cows). Wolverine are most likely to eat moose as carrion but have killed moose, including adults, when the large ungulates are weakened by harsh winter conditions. Killer whales are the moose's only known marine predator as they have been known to prey on moose swimming between islands out of North America's Northwest Coast.
Moose have been hunted by humans for a very long time, since the Stone Age.
Because of their dark coloured fur, moose are sometimes hit by cars since they are hard to see when they are crossing roads at night. In some countries like Canada, Finland and Sweden they have a moose sign and have fences around motorways.

</doc>
<doc id="8204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8204" title="Stanley Kubrick">
Stanley Kubrick

Stanley Kubrick (July 26, 1928 - March 7, 1999) was an American movie director. Kubrick is thought to have been one of the great directors of the 20th century.
He was born in New York City but lived most of his life in England. His movies are respected for their great amount of detail and symbolism. Some of his movies were controversial when they were first shown. For example, the sex and violence in his movie "A Clockwork Orange" was very disturbing to many people who saw it when it was released in 1971. The reaction to the movie in the United Kingdom became so great that Stanley Kubrick stopped showing the movie there for over 25 years. Other famous movies that Kubrick made include "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned To Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb", "" and "The Shining". Stanley Kubrick died from a heart attack on March 7, 1999.
Kubrick was born in the Bronx, New York City and lived there during his youth. Stanley was a poor student in school but his father, who was a doctor, taught Stanley how to play chess and gave him a camera. Kubrick finished high school in 1946 and could not get into a college. This was because of his poor grades in school and because colleges were full with many American soldier's who returned from World War II that same year. During this time, Kubrick played games of chess with people for money. He was a good chess player and won many games. He used the money he won from playing chess to buy food and photography equipment. Kubrick got a job at a magazine in New York City that was called Look Magazine. Kubrick also enjoyed watching movies and thought that he could make better movies than the movies that were being made at the time. He first made two small documentaries. One of them was about a boxer and was called "Day of the Fight". The other documentary was about a religious man and was called "Flying Padre". He then made two full-length movies (called feature films) that made other people interested in his work. The first feature film was called "Fear and Desire" and the other was called "Killer's Kiss." His third feature film, called "The Killing", was a success. The success of "The Killing" allowed Stanley to work on a bigger movie, called "Paths of Glory", that was about World War I and was made with the famous actor Kirk Douglas. At this time Kubrick became well known in the movie industry and had started to create his own style.
After Stanley Kubrick completed "Paths of Glory", he worked on a big Hollywood movie named "Spartacus" in 1960. The movie is about a gladiator who fights Rome. It made a lot of money and was a success but Kubrick did not enjoy working on it. He did not enjoy working on it because of problems he had with the other people working on the movie who controlled it. Kubrick desired to have a lot of control in making his movies, and after making "Spartacus" he only worked on movies that he had full control over.
Kubrick moved to the United Kingdom in 1962, to make his next movie, "Lolita". He liked the United Kingdom very much and decided to live there for the rest of his life. The movie "Lolita" was the first movie that Kubrick made that created a lot of controversy. The movie was based upon a book by the Russian author Vladimir Nabokov that was also very controversial at the time. The movie shows the relationship between a very young woman and an older man. This is a forbidden topic in the United States and most of the world.
For the movie "Lolita", Kubrick hired the talented and famous actor Peter Sellers. Kubrick respected Peter's acting and asked him to act as three different characters in Kubrick's next movie, "", which was released in 1963. "Dr. Strangelove" was a comedy but it was about very serious topics. These are called black comedies. The movie was about the Cold War and was very controversial but also very successful. The movie had a large cultural influence and created some images that became very famous in the years to follow. The most famous image from the movie was of an American pilot sitting on a nuclear bomb as it fell to earth from an airplane.
Kubrick's success with "Dr Strangelove" convinced the movie studios that he was talented and that he could be trusted to make good, popular movies. Kubrick entered into a positive relationship with the movie studio, Warner Brothers. Warner Brothers gave him almost full artistic control on all of the movies he was to make in the future. A director being given so much control is rare. Such directors are called "auteurs".
Kubrick took five years to develop and plan his next movie. It was a science fiction movie called "" and it was released in 1968. Kubrick based the movie on a short story called "The Sentinel" that was written by the science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke. Kubrick worked with Arthur C. Clarke to make the movie. The movie used many new ideas and techniques and had special effects that no other movie at the time had. The great special effects used in the movie won Kubrick his first and only Oscar award. "2001" was made during the end of the 1960's and was very popular with members of the Hippie Counterculture. This was because of the movies strange and dream-like visuals. When the movie was released it was both loved and hated by many movie critics. Many of the movie critics who did not like the movie when they saw it in 1968 have changed their opinions. Some of them have written a second, positive review of the movie many years later.
His next movie was one of his most famous and also his most controversial. The movie was titled "A Clockwork Orange" and was released in 1971. The movie was darker than "2001" and was originally released with an "X" motion picture rating in the US. The movie was based on a novel of the same title by the author Anthony Burgess. The novel and movie are about a criminal who is given a new and experimental 'cure' for his violent nature. The story asks questions about how society defines morality. The movie had an amount of sex and violence that was not often seen in big Hollywood movies at the time. The controversy of the movie increased when other people copied some of the acts that were committed by the characters in the movie. Kubrick and his family received violent threats from people, called death threats. These threats were serious enough that Kubrick took the movie out of theaters in Britain. The movie was not shown again in Britain until the year 2000, after Kubrick's death.
Kubrick's next movie was to going to be about Napoleon but he canceled it after another similar movie was released before his own. Kubrick worked very hard researching and learning about Napoleon and about the world at that time. Kubrick chose to make another movie set in that time that was titled "Barry Lyndon". The movie was based a book by William Makepeace Thackeray and was about an 18th century gambler named Barry Lyndon. The movie was not as well liked as his previous movies but, like "2001: A Space Odyssey", it convinced people over time.
After "Barry Lyndon", Kubrick made movies at a much slower rate than before. He only made three more movies in the next twenty-five years. He was still very popular and respected. Each of the movies he released became an event that many people waited for and celebrated.
"The Shining" was Kubrick's next movie. It was based on the book of the same name by the American author, Stephen King and was released in 1980. It was a horror movie and starred Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall. The movie was one of Kubrick's most mainstream movies and was very popular. It was different from the other horror movies at the time and the catch phrase, "Here's Johnny!" (which was also used on the TV's The Tonight Show hosted by Johnny Carson at the time) was made very popular after Jack Nicholson's character said it during an important scene in the movie. The author of the book Stephen King hated the movie and did not like that Kubrick changed many things from the book. King made his own version, a TV mini-series in 1997, which was much more like the book.
"Full Metal Jacket" was Kubrick's next movie and was released in 1987. It was one of several movies that were made in the 1980s that were about the Vietnam War. The movie was most famous for its drill instructor character, played by R. Lee Ermey, who was very cruel to his soldiers. After the movie was released, the United States Armed Forces changed some of its rules about how their drill instructors should behave.
"Eyes Wide Shut" was Kubrick's last movie and was released in 1999. He completed editing the movie just before his death in March. The movie starred Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman, who were married to each other in real-life at the time. It was based on the novel "Traumnovelle" by the Austrian writer Arthur Schnitzler. The movie took over 16 consecutive months (a world record) to complete and was released in July of 1999. According to R. Lee Ermey, of Full Metal Jacket Fame, Kubrick revealed to him that he was rather disappointed with his work. Kubrick supposedly went further, saying that both Kidman and Cruise "had their way with" him. Apparently a reference to a clashing of large-Hollywood personas to Kubrick's more reserved demeanor.
Just a few days after completing the editing of "Eyes Wide Shut", Kubrick died from a heart attack in Harpenden, Hertfordshire.
In the year 2001, the American movie director Steven Spielberg filmed "A.I.: Artificial Intelligence". "A.I" was a movie that Stanley Kubrick had worked on before "Eyes Wide Shut", but did not movie. Steven Spielberg based his movie on Kubrick's plans. The movie received a poor response from audiences and did not make as much money as expected. The movie was thought to be more Spielberg's movie than Kubrick's movie.
All of Stanley Kubrick's later movies, except for "The Shining", were nominated for Oscars or Golden Globes. "2001: A Space Odyssey" had many technical awards, including a BAFTA award for cinematographer and an Academy Award for best visual effects. As director of special effects on the movie, Kubrick got the award. This was Kubrick's only personal Oscar win among 13 nominations. Nominations for his movies were mostly in the areas of cinematography, art design, screenwriting, and music. Only four of his movies were nominated by either an Oscar or Golden Globe for their acting performances: "Spartacus", "Lolita", "Dr. Strangelove", and "A Clockwork Orange".
Personal awards for Kubrick:
Kubrick received two awards from major film festivals: "Best Director" from the Locarno International Film Festival in 1959 for "Killer's Kiss", and ""Bastone Bianco" Award" at the Venice Film Festival in 1999 for "Eyes Wide Shut". The Venice Film Festival awarded him the "Career Golden Lion" in 1997. He received the D.W. Griffith Lifetime Achievement Award from the Directors Guild of America, and another life-achievement award from the Director's Guild of Great Britain, and the "Career Golden Lion" from the Venice Film Festival. In 2000 he received the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award. After he died, the Sitges - Catalonian International Film Festival awarded him the "Honorary Grand Prize" for life achievement in 2008. He also received the Hugo Award three times for his work in science fiction.

</doc>
<doc id="8206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8206" title="Kyoto Protocol">
Kyoto Protocol

The Kyoto Protocol is a plan created by the United Nations for the "United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change" that tries to reduce the effects of climate change, such as global warming. The plan says that countries that adopt (follow) the Kyoto Protocol have to try to reduce how much carbon dioxide (and other "greenhouse gases" that pollute the atmosphere) they release into the air.
The full name of the Kyoto Protocol is the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is called the "Kyoto" Protocol because it was made in Kyoto, Japan. The Kyoto Protocol was officially put into "full force" on February 16, 2005. On February 16, Russia began to follow (ratify) the Kyoto Protocol and it was decided to be put into "full force". As of February 2009, 183 countries have agreed to follow the Kyoto Protocol, who make up for more than 55% of the greenhouse gases released into our atmosphere.
There are still 29 countries which have not yet adopted it. Croatia and Kazakhstan have signed the treaty, but have not ratified it (made it a law they have to follow). The United States of America has signed it but said that they will not ratify it. Australia has only recently ratified the Kyoto Protocol under the previous Prime Minister, John Howard. Both of these countries have said that the fact that China and India are using exceptions to the treaty (those countries believe parts of the treaty do not apply to them and they will not follow those parts) in the name of industrialization is unfair and that they will not ratify because of this, although it is believed that the U.S. and Australia are protecting their economic interests by not ratifying. The countries' leaders say that changing their use of greenhouse gases will make their people lose jobs. The twenty four other countries have neither signed nor ratified the treaty. 

</doc>
<doc id="8213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8213" title="Movie director">
Movie director

A movie director is a person who helps lead the making of a movie (or "film"). They take care of the artistic things in the movie. They give instructions to the actors and direct the people that work on the movie.
Directors give many of their responsibilities to other members of their movie-making team (called a movie crew). For example, the person who is responsible for the lighting is told by the director what style of lighting he wants and he then creates the lighting for him. It is common for movie directors to work closely with a movie producer. Movie producers are people who control the non-artistic side of movie making. For example, they control all the money that is used for making the movie.
The amount of control a director has in creating their movie is different for each director. It is most common for directors to have some control, while the rest of the movie-making is controlled by the movie studio (the area where the movies are made), and by the people who pay for the movie. This was very common for American movies made in the 1930s to 1950s. During those years, the studios used many different directors for making a single movie. There are a small number of directors who are given complete control over making their movie. For example, Stanley Kubrick, Jean-Luc Godard, Steven Spielberg and James Cameron are all movie directors who had a great amount of control in making their movie.

</doc>
<doc id="8233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8233" title="Jack Nicholson">
Jack Nicholson

John Joseph "Jack" Nicholson (born April 22, 1937, Neptune, New Jersey) is an American actor, movie director, producer and writer. He started out as a writer and part-time actor. He became a star in 1969 when he had a small part in the movie "Easy Rider". He has won three Oscars, for "As Good as it Gets", "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", and "Terms of Endearment". He is one of the most notable fans of the Los Angeles Lakers.
Nicholson is one of only two actors who have been nominated for an Academy Award for acting in every decade from the 1960s to 2000s; the other is Michael Caine. He has won seven Golden Globe Awards. He received a Kennedy Center Honor in 2001.
Nicholson has been romantically linked to many actresses and models, including Michelle Phillips, Bebe Buell, and Lara Flynn Boyle. Nicholson's longest relationship was for 16 years with actress Anjelica Huston from 1973 to 1989. The relationship ended when the media reported Rebecca Broussard was pregnant with Nicholson's child. Nicholson and Broussard had two children together, Lorraine (born 1990) and Raymond Nicholson (born 1992). Nicholson's other children are Jennifer (born 1963 with Sandra Knight) and Honey Hollman (b. 1981 with Winnie Hollman). Actress Susan Anspach says that her son, Caleb Goddard (born 1970), was fathered by Nicholson. He is not sure that he is the father.
 

</doc>
<doc id="8234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8234" title="1860s">
1860s


</doc>
<doc id="8235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8235" title="June 20">
June 20


</doc>
<doc id="8236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8236" title="January 4">
January 4


</doc>
<doc id="8248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248" title="Autism">
Autism

Autism is a life-affecting disorder characterized by a profound withdrawal from contact with people; repetitive behaviour; and fear of change in the environment. The emotional disorder affects the brain's ability to receive and process information. 
People who have autism find it difficult to act in a way that other people think is "normal". They find it difficult to talk to other people and to look at other people. Often, they do not like being touched by other people. A person who has autism seems to be turned inwards. They may talk only to themselves, rock themselves backwards and forwards, and laugh at their own thoughts. They do not like any type of change and may find it very difficult to learn a new behaviour like using a toilet or going to school. 
Autism is caused by the way that the brain develops, both before and after a baby is born. 
Around the world, about one in every 160 children has an Autism Spectrum Disorder.
Autism is a "spectrum disorder". This means that some people who have autism are only mildly affected. These people may go to regular schools, go to work, and have partners and families. Mild autism is called Asperger Syndrome or "High functioning Autism". Some people are affected worse than others. These people may be able to take care of most of their own needs at home like dressing and getting food, but not be able to have a regular job or travel alone. A person who has severe autism may need to be cared for all their life.
Some people who have autism are extraordinarily gifted or talented. These people are said to have savant syndrome. They are often very good at just one thing in particular, like mathematics, playing the piano or remembering football scores.
In most cases, when referring to the Autism Spectrum Disorder, we are referring to the most common disorders:
All three may seem similar in symptoms, yet are not the same.
Over the past years, individuals have been using the terms "autism" and "autism spectrum disorder" like they mean the same thing, according to an article from UCLA Center for Autism Research & Treatment. Melinda Smith, Jeanne Segal, and Ted Hutman stated that “When people use the term autism, it can mean one of two things. They may actually be referring to autistic disorder, or classic autism. But autism is often used in a more general sense to refer to all autism spectrum disorders. So if someone is talking about your child’s autism, don’t assume that he or she is implying that your child has autistic disorder, rather than another autism spectrum disorder.” 
A baby without autism will usually look at people talking, look at other people's faces, smile, and be interested in other people. Autistic babies, though, may like objects more than faces and other people. They may look for a second at a face, but quickly turn. They may not smile, or may just smile at what they are interested in.
Autistic children may usually like to be by themselves, without other people around. They may not be interested in making friends. They may also not react normally to hugging and other signs of love by their parents. This does not mean that they do not love their parents, they just do not know how to say it.
They may also not see other people's feelings; for example, they might not see much difference between whether a parent is smiling or feeling sad. They may laugh and cry at the wrong times.
An autistic child might not try to talk, point, or otherwise try to get a message across by 1 year of age. Some do not understand their language at all. Some autistic people do not speak. When young, many mute autistic children can be taught to speak by teaching them that talking is a way to communicate ideas. However they may try to communicate using pictures in books, photos, signing or picture cards when they are non-verbal but have clear understanding of language.
Some autistic people spend a lot of time doing the same thing over and over again; some might spend a lot of time spinning in circles, chewing their toes, or putting things in order. An autistic person might spend a huge amount of time putting toys in lines or patterns and may get angry if someone bumps something out of place.
Some do not want any change, and will do exactly the same things every day without change—such as what they eat, when they eat, getting dressed, brushing their teeth, or going to school—and may even get upset if anything changes. 
Some may also be interested in unusual things, and may spend all of their time learning about their interests.
Scientists do not know exactly what causes autism. There may be many different causes for the different types of Autism Spectrum Disorder.
Scientists do know about some things that make a person more likely to have an Autism Spectrum Disorder. These are called risk factors. However, risk factors are not causes. Not everybody who has a risk factor will have an Autism Spectrum Disorder. Risk factors only make it more likely that a person will have one of these disorders.
A person is more likely to have an Autism Spectrum Disorder if:
Scientists do know for sure that vaccines definitely do not cause autism. Vaccines do not even make a person more likely to have autism - even if they are already at a high risk for autism before they get their vaccines.
Scientists also know that parents do not cause their children's autism by not showing enough affection at a young age..
Since autism runs a spectrum, every person with autism is different. Different treatments help different people. There are a few different categories of treatment:
Depending on what a child (or adult) with autism needs, they can get treatment from one of these categories, or many different treatments.
The word "autism" comes from the Greek word “autos”, meaning “self.” The term describes conditions in which a person is removed from social interaction—hence, an isolated self."
The term "autism" was first used by a psychiatrist named Eugen Bleuler in 1911 to describe a group of schizophrenic patients who seemed withdrawn. 
Two researchers by the name of Hans Asperger and Leo Kanner were the pioneers of the research study for autism in the 1940s. Leo Kanner and Hans Asperger both worked separately in their research, yet the information and their views on the children they studied became very helpful for physicians then and now.  
Leo Kanner did a study of 11 children and found unusual things about them.  The children he studied had difficulties with many tasks, including changing environments, sensitivity to certain stimuli, difficulty with activities, speech problems, and allergies to food. 
In 1944 Hans Asperger studied a group of children and found very similar things. The children in Hans Asperger's group did not repeat words or have speech problems like Kanner's did. However, the children did have problems with fine motor skills (things like holding a pencil). The children he studied seemed to be more clumsy than other children.  
Hans Asperger's discovery is now called "Asperger syndrome." Leo Kanner's discovery is called "autistic disorder", "childhood autism", "infantile autism", or simply "autism".
In 1943 and 1949, Kanner described the children he studied in scientific papers. In these papers, he wrote that he thought the children's parents were not loving enough. He wrote that this might be part of the reason why the children had autism. For example, in his 1949 paper, he wrote that the children's parents showed "coldness" (meaning they did not show warmth, or love, to their children). He thought these parents were so "cold" that he compared them to refrigerators:
"[The children] were left neatly in refrigerators which did not defrost. Their withdrawal seems to be an act of turning away from such a situation to seek comfort in solitude." 
This idea became known as the "refrigerator mother theory." For decades after this, parents were blamed for causing their children's autism by not being loving enough.
The theory has been largely discarded. The modern consensus is that autism has a strong genetic basis, though the genetics of autism are complex and not well understood. Many genes have been associated with autism through sequencing the genomes of affected individuals and their parents.
Also, fetal and infant exposure to pesticides, viruses, and household chemicals have also been suggested as triggering the syndrome. 
Niko Tinbergen, the ethologist, gave his Nobel Prize lecture on autism on 12 December 1973.
Scientific studies

</doc>
<doc id="8249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8249" title="Italian language">
Italian language

The Italian language is the language of Italy. Other countries that use Italian as their "official language" are San Marino, Vatican City, and Switzerland. Slovenia and Croatia also use Italian as their official language, but only in some regions. Italian is spoken by about 70 million people in several countries, including some parts of Monaco, Malta, Albania, Montenegro, Dodecaneso (Greece), Eritrea, Libya, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tunisia.
It is mostly derived from Latin, with some words from Greek, Etruscan and elsewhere. It is called an inflected language - that means that the meaning of words can be changed by changing their endings. Italian nouns are either masculine or feminine (these are grammatical terms, normally only indirectly to do with genders).
Most singular masculine nouns end in -o, and most plural masculine nouns end in -i.
Most singular feminine nouns end in -a, and most plural feminine nouns end in -e.
So:
The ending of verbs are quite complicated, because they depend upon the "tense" of the verb (past, present, future and so on) and on the "person" of the verb (I, you, they etc.). Because of that, the personal pronoun is not always needed (in the following example it is in parenthesis).
So:
There are very many of these endings to learn - it is one of the more difficult parts of the Italian Grammar. But pronunciation is simple - there are just a few rules to learn, and hardly any difficult sounds.
Many Italian words for food have entered the English language, such as: pizza, spaghetti and ravioli. Many technical words in music are Italian, such as forte and allegro. Many musical instrument names are also Italian, such as cello and tuba. Mafia and come from the darker side of Italian culture .

</doc>
<doc id="8250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8250" title="Namibia">
Namibia

The Republic of Namibia is a country in southern Africa on the Atlantic coast. It is bordered by Angola, Zambia, and Zimbabwe to the north, Botswana to the east, and South Africa to the south. It gained independence from South Africa in 1990. Before that it was called South West Africa. Its capital is Windhoek.
Before World War I Namibia was a German colony. German is still widely spoken in the country, although English is the official language.
Namibia has a population of 2.1 million people.
The name of the country is from the Namib Desert. This is said to be the oldest desert in the world.
The dry lands of Namibia were lived in since early times by Bushmen, Damara and Nama. About the 14th century AD, by Bantu came to the area from central Africa. From the late 18th century onwards, Orlam clans from the Cape Colony crossed the Orange River. They moved into the area that today is southern Namibia. The nomadic Nama tribes were largely peaceful. The missionaries with the Orlams were well received by them, the right to use waterholes and grazing was given. On their way further north, the Orlams met clans of the Herero tribe. They were not as friendly. The Nama-Herero War started in 1880. They did not stop until Imperial Germany sent troops.
The first Europeans to explore the region were the Portuguese navigators Diogo Cão in 1485 and Bartolomeu Dias in 1486. Like most of Sub-Saharan Africa, Namibia was not largely explored by Europeans until the 19th century. At this time traders and settlers arrived, mostly from Germany and Sweden. 
Namibia became a German colony in 1884. This was to stop the British. The country was called German South-West Africa. From 1904 to 1907, the Herero and the Namaqua took up arms against the Germans. In the following , 10,000 Nama (half the population) and about 65,000 Hereros (about 80% of the population) were killed.
South Africa began to rule the land in 1915. They defeated the German force during World War I. It was a League of Nations mandate territory from 1919. In 1946 the League was replaced by the United Nations. South Africa would not give up their rule of the land. Many people thought the land should be independent from South Africa. In 1971 South Africa was told their hold on the country was illegal. They still did not leave.
The country officially became independent on 21 March 1990. Sam Nujoma became the first President of Namibia.
Tourism is a major contributor (14.5%) to Namibia's economy. It creates tens of thousands of jobs (18.2% of all employment). There are over a million tourists per year. The country is among the main tourist places in Africa. It is known for ecotourism which features Namibia's extensive wildlife.
There are many lodges and reserves for tourists. Sport Hunting is also a large, and growing part of the Namibian economy. It was 14% of total tourism in the year 2000. Namibia has numerous species wanted by international sport hunters. In addition, extreme sports such as sandboarding and 4x4ing have become popular. Many cities have companies that provide tours. The most visited places include the Caprivi Strip, Fish River Canyon, Sossusvlei, the Skeleton Coast Park, Sesriem, Etosha Pan and the coastal towns of Swakopmund, Walvis Bay and Lüderitz.
Namibia has required free education for 10 years between the ages of 6 and 16. Grades 1–7 are primary level, grades 8–12 secondary.
Most schools in Namibia are state-run. There are a few private schools. There are four teacher training colleges, three colleges of agriculture, a police training college, a Polytechnic at university level, and a National University.
The most popular sport in Namibia is football. The Namibia national football team qualified for the 2008 Africa Cup of Nations. They have yet to qualify for any World Cups. The Namibian rugby team has been in four separate World Cups. Namibia were participants in the 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011 Rugby World Cups. Cricket is also popular. The national team played in the 2003 Cricket World Cup.
Inline Hockey was first played in 1995. It has become more and more popular in the last years. The Women's Inline Hockey National Team were in the 2008 FIRS World Championships. Namibia is the home for one of the toughest footraces in the world, the Namibian ultra marathon.
The most famous athlete from Namibia is certainly Frankie Fredericks, sprinter (100 and 200 m). He won four Olympic silver medals (1992, 1996). He also has medals from several World Athletics Championships. He is also known for humanitarian activities in Namibia and further.

</doc>
<doc id="8251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8251" title="Jubal Early">
Jubal Early

Jubal Anderson Early (November 3, 1816 – March 2, 1894) was a Confederate general in the American Civil War. He commanded a corps in Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, as well as the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia. He invaded the north in 1864. After the war, he was one of the major defenders of the Confederate.

</doc>
<doc id="8253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8253" title="Lewis Carroll">
Lewis Carroll

Lewis Carroll was the pen name of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (Daresbury, Cheshire, 27 January 1832 – Guildford, Surrey, 14 January 1898). Dodgson was an Oxford don, a logician (mathematics expert), a writer, a poet, an Anglican clergyman, and a photographer. He is most famous for his story "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" which he told to a young friend, Alice Liddell, when he took the girl and two sisters on a boat trip. Alice enjoyed the story and asked Dodgson to write it down. Carroll then wrote a second story about Alice called "Through the Looking-Glass". Both stories are still popular all over the world. 
Dodgson was a Fellow of Christ Church, Oxford, specialising in logic and mathematics. He wrote a number of books and pamphlets on the subject. He died of pneumonia in Guildford, Surrey.

</doc>
<doc id="8260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8260" title="1935">
1935


</doc>
<doc id="8284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8284" title="Belize">
Belize

Belize is a country in Central America. It used to be called British Honduras, but changed its name in 1973. Long before that it was part of the Mayan Empire.
Some people in Belize speak Spanish or Kriol, but English is the official language and the most commonly spoken. This is because Belize is a former colony of the United Kingdom, while its neighbors were once colonies of Spain. Many people speak two languages.
More than three hundred and thirty thousand people live in Belize. Kriols make up about 21% of the Belizean people. Three Maya groups now live in the country: the Yucatec, the Mopan, and Kekchi. The Garinagu are a mix of African, Arawak, and Carib ancestry. There are also Mestizos.
Belmopan, which is near the centre of the country, is its capital. Other towns and cities include Belize City, Corozal Town, Orange Walk Town and Punta Gorda.
Belize is on the coast of the Caribbean Sea. There are about 450 islands. The largest island, Ambergris Caye, is forty kilometres long. Many other islands are very small. In the water around the islands are coral reefs.
The temperature along the coast is warm all year round. It typically ranges from 20°C to 32°C. Sometimes hurricanes hit, causing great damage. In 1955 Hurricane Janet leveled the northern town of Corozal. The most recent hurricane to affect Belize directly was the Category 2 Hurricane Richard. It struck land about 20 miles south-southeast of Belize City at on 25 October 2010.
On the mainland bananas and sugar cane are grown. Many tourists come to Belize each year. They like to snorkel or dive, to visit pyramids built by the Mayans, or simply to relax on a beach.
Belize is on the Caribbean coast of northern Central America. It shares a border on the north with the Mexican state of Quintana Roo, on the west with the Guatemalan department of Petén, and on the south with the Guatemalan department of Izabal. To the east is the Caribbean Sea. The Belize Barrier Reef is along most of the of predominantly marshy coastline. The area of the country totals . There are many lagoons along the coasts and in the northern part of the country. This makes the actual land area smaller at .
The Hondo and the Sarstoon River make the northern and southern border.
The north of Belize is mostly flat, swampy coastal plains. In some places it is heavily forested. The south has the low mountain range of the Maya Mountains. The highest point in Belize is Doyle's Delight at . The Caribbean coast is lined with a coral reef and about 450 islets and islands. The islands are locally called cayes (pronounced "keys). Three of only four coral atolls in the Western Hemisphere are off the coast of Belize.
Over 60% of Belize's land surface is covered by forest. 20% is covered by cultivated land (agriculture) and human settlements. There are also important mangrove ecosystems across Belize's landscape.
Belize is divided into 6 districts. The districts are shown below with their areas (in km) and number of people at the 2010 Census:
Total areas and number of people 22,964 – 312,971
These districts are further divided into 31 constituencies.
The largest cities as of 2005 are:
The Belize Defence Force (BDF) is the military. It is responsible for protecting Belize. In 1997, the regular army had over 900 people, the reserve army 381, the air wing 45 and the maritime wing 36. This amounts to an overall strength of about 1400. In 2005, the maritime wing became part of the Belizean Coast Guard. In the same year, the government spent $1.2 million on the military. This is 1.87% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP).
After Belize became independent in 1981 the United Kingdom kept some military in the country to protect it from invasion by Guatemala. The main British force left in 1994. This was three years after Guatemala said Belize was independent. The United Kingdom still keeps some military people in the country. In 2011 the base was only 10 soldiers due to British budget cuts. They hope to reopen the base later.
Belizean cuisine is inspired by British, Mexican and Western Caribbean cooking. The basic ingredients are rice and beans. These are often eaten with chicken, pork, veal, fish or vegetables. Coconut milk and fried plantains are added to the dishes to create a truly tropical taste. Exotic ingredients include armadillo meat, venison, iguana, iguana egg, and fried paca. Conch soup is a traditional dish. It has a characteristic taste and thick consistency due to added okra, potatoes, yams, cassava flour and a touch of toasted habanero. Belizean food is almost always served alongside white rice in coconut milk.
The major sports in Belize are football, basketball, volleyball and cycling. There are smaller followings of boat racing, track & field, softball and cricket. Fishing is also popular in areas of Belize. The Cross Country Cycling Classic is one of the most important Belize sports events. This one-day sports event is meant for amateur cyclists but has also gained a worldwide popularity.
On Easter day, citizens of Dangriga participate in a yearly fishing tournament. First, second, and third prize are awarded based on a scoring combination of size, species, and number. The tournament is broadcast over local radio stations. Prize money is awarded to the winners.
Belize's National Basketball Team is the only National Team to have major victories internationally.
The National Flower of Belize is the Black Orchid ("Prosthechea cochleata").
The National Tree of Belize is the Mahogany Tree ("Swietenia macrophylla"), one of the magnificent giants of the Belize rain forest. It rises straight and tall to over a hundred feet. In the early months of the year, when the leaves fall and new red-brown growth appears, the tree can be seen from a great distance. The tree puts out a many small whitish flowers. The flowers blossom into dark fruits, which are pear-shaped capsules about six inches long. The mahogany tree matures in 60 to 80 years.
The Keel Billed Toucan ("Ramphastos sulfuratus") is the National Bird of Belize. It is noted for its great, canoe-shaped bill and its brightly coloured green, blue, red and orange feathers. There are toucans in open areas of the country with large trees. It is mostly black with bright yellow cheeks and chest, red under the tail and a distinctive white patch at the base of the tail. They make a monotonous frog-like croak. Toucans like fruits. They eat by cutting with the serrated edge of their bills.
Belize's National Animal is the Baird's Tapir, the largest land mammal of the American tropics. It is also known as the mountain cow, although it is actually related to the horse and the rhinoceros. It is protected under Belizean law.

</doc>
<doc id="8290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8290" title="Michael Landon">
Michael Landon

Michael Landon (October 31, 1936- July 1, 1991) was an American actor. He is probably best known for his roles on the TV shows, "Bonanza", "Little House on the Prairie", and "Highway to Heaven".

</doc>
<doc id="8296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8296" title="RMS Titanic">
RMS Titanic

The RMS "Titanic" was a British passenger ship. It was built by Harland and Wolff ship builders, in Belfast, for the White Star Line company. She sank during her first trip at sea.
Before she sailed, many people thought it would be almost impossible for ships of this design to sink.
At 11:40 on 14 April 1912, during "Titanic"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> maiden voyage, she hit an iceberg in the Atlantic Ocean. The iceberg broke the "Titanic"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> hull (bottom), letting water into the ship. The "Titanic" sank two hours and forty minutes later at 2:20 on 15 April.
As she sank, the "Titanic" split in two. The wreck killed over 1,500 people. Only around 705 people survived. It was one of the worst shipwrecks that was not during a war.
One reason why so many people died was because the ship did not have enough lifeboats for everyone on board. Higher class women and children were allowed on the lifeboats first, and passengers who sailed in first class (which meant that they paid for better rooms on the ship) were allowed on before other passengers. Few of the poorer people who had paid less (called second class and third class passengers) got out safely.
Not many lifeboats were on "Titanic", because the "Titanic" was said to be unsinkable. Everybody thought that, even if the ship wrecked or crashed, she would not sink.
Another reason so few people survived was that the radio was off on the "SS Californian", the ship closest to the "Titanic." The "Californian" crew did not hear about the accident. Another ship, the "SS Carpathia", did hear about the accident and collected all 705 survivors. 
The last survivor of the "Titanic" disaster to die was a woman named Millvina Dean. She was the youngest passenger on board, as she was then a baby of only nine weeks old. She died in Ashhurst, Hampshire, England on 21 May 2009 aged 97.
The "Titanic" disaster changed many maritime (ship) laws. Because so many people died, authorities felt that laws should be put into place to make ship travel safer. Changes included requiring all ships to carry enough lifeboats for everyone on the ship, and emergency materials such as flares. Someone must be at the ship's radio all the time.
The wreck was found by a French and American team, led by Robert Ballard, on September 23, 1985 at 1:02 in the morning.
In 1986, Ballard returned to the wreck with a submarine. He took many photos and made lots of films.
In 1987, a French team salvaged 900 objects and took them to the surface.
The story of the sinking has been made into several movies. The most popular film version is a 1997 film starring Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio called "Titanic". It won 11 Academy Awards, tying "Ben-Hur" for the record for the most Academy Awards won by one movie.
Other movie versions of the story include the 1958 film "A Night to Remember", the 1953 film "Titanic", the 1979 film "S.O.S. Titanic "and the 1996 film "Titanic".
In the 1980 film "Raise the Titanic", salvagers raise the shipwreck from the bottom of the ocean to the surface. However, this is impossible to do in reality. The Titanic broke in two, and the wreck is partially stuck in the bottom, buried under more than three feet (1 m) of mud in some spots. The ship has been on the ocean floor for more than 100 years, and would shatter into many more pieces if disturbed. Worms and other animals have eaten away much of the wood and many other parts.

</doc>
<doc id="8299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8299" title="Steel">
Steel

Steel is a mixture of several metals (this is called an alloy) but most of it is iron. Steel is harder and stronger than iron. Steels are often iron alloys with between 0.02% and 1.7% percent carbon by weight. Alloys with more carbon than this are known as cast iron. Steel is different from wrought iron, that has little or no carbon. There are some newer steels in which carbon is replaced with other alloying materials.
Steel has a long history. People in India and Sri Lanka were making small amounts of steel more than 2,500 years ago. It was very expensive and was often used to make swords and knives. In the Middle Ages, steel could be made only in small amounts since the processes took a long time.
In the time since, there have been many changes to the way steel is made. In about the year 1610 steel started to be made in England, and the way it was made got better and cheaper over the next 100 years. Cheap steel helped start the Industrial Revolution in England and in Europe. The first industrial Converter (metallurgy) for making cheap steel was the Bessemer converter, followed by Siemens-Martin open-hearth process. 
Today the most common way of making steel is the basic-oxygen process. The converter is a large turnip-shaped vessel. Liquid raw iron called "pig iron" is poured in and some scrap metal is added in to balance the heat. Oxygen is then blown into the iron. The oxygen burns off the extra carbon and other impurities. Then enough carbon is added to make the carbon contents as wanted. The liquid steel is then poured. It can be either cast into molds or rolled into sheets, slabs, beams and other so-called "long products", such as railway tracks. 
Steel is most often made by machines in huge buildings called "steel mills". It is a very cheap metal and is used to make many things. Steel is used in making buildings and bridges, and all kinds of machines. Almost all ships and cars are today made from steel. When a steel object is old, or it is broken beyond repair, it is called "scrap". It can be melted down and re-shaped into a new object. Steel is "recyclable" material; that is, the same steel can be used and re-used.
Steel is a metal alloy which includes iron and often some carbon. 
Every material is made up of atoms which are very small parts. Some atoms hold together quite well, which is what makes some solid materials hard. Something made of pure iron is softer than steel because the atoms can slip over one another. If other atoms like carbon are added, they are different from iron atoms and stop the iron atoms from sliding apart so easily. This makes the metal stronger and harder. 
Changing the amount of carbon (or other atoms) added to steel will change those things that are interesting and useful about the metal. These are called the properties of the steel. Some properties are:
Steel with more carbon is harder and stronger than pure iron, but it also breaks more easily (brittle).
These are a few of the many types of steel:
There are a huge number of things that people make from steel. It is one of the most common and useful metals. 
A lot of items made from iron in the past are now made of steel. Some of them are:
Airplanes are not made from steel but from aluminium.

</doc>
<doc id="8304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8304" title="Luftwaffe">
Luftwaffe

The Luftwaffe (pronounced ) is the name for the air force of Germany.
This was the name for the air force of Germany during the Third Reich when Adolf Hitler was in power (between 1933 and 1945) and was also the name for the air force during the era of the Cold War when Germany was divided into two: East Germany and West Germany. This meant that the Luftwaffe was the air force of West Germany between 1955 and 1990. In 1990, these two countries became one country again, so the Luftwaffe has been the air force of the united (together) Germany since 1990. Luftwaffe means Air force in English.
Germany first had aeroplanes in its army in 1910, four years before the start of World War I in 1914. At that time, aeroplanes had no guns. They were being used for reconnaissance duties, that is, they would fly over the battlefield to see what the enemy was doing and fly back so that the pilots could tell their generals what they knew. The generals used that information to plan the fighting. Before aeroplanes, balloons had been used.
During World War I, Germany used a few kinds of aeroplane to fight its war, such as fighters, bombers and reconnaissance aeroplanes, but the fighter aeroplanes became very famous because of its brave pilots. The most famous German pilot of World War I was Manfred von Richthofen, also known as "The Red Baron."
Germany also used airships called "Zeppelins". They were named after Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, who had built the first airships in 1900, but he had wanted them to carry cargo and passengers, not bombs. He died in 1917, but people still use his name when they remember the German airships of World War I. (In fact, the Zeppelin company is still making airships today, but these are much smaller now.)
In November 1918, the "Allies", or the Allied forces (which included Britain and France) won the war, and Germany had to sign the Treaty of Versailles. It was told that it could not have any military aeroplanes at all because it was blamed for starting the war in 1914. Germany therefore had to destroy all its military aeroplanes as a punishment, so until 1933 it had no air force at all.
For many years, Germany pretended to have no army pilots because the German army generals did not like the idea of not having any aeroplanes. At first, pilots would pretend to be training to become airline pilots but this was not much use because they really needed to fly fighters and bombers. The Treaty of Versailles did not allow Germany to have them, so Germany had to ask for help from Russia, its former (and future) enemy.
In 1924, German army pilots started to fly Russian fighters and bombers at a secret training school near the Russian city of Lipetsk. These pilots would then become the first ones to fly for the new German air force, the Luftwaffe, when Hitler said that it now existed. The training school closed in 1933.
In 1935, Adolf Hitler finally told the world that Germany had a new air force, even if the Treaty of Versailles forbade Germany from having one. Hitler was defying the Allies, who had won World War I, but they did not do anything about this, because many people still remembered the war in 1914-1918. They were frightened by the idea of war and did not want another one.
The Spanish Civil War of 1936-1939 gave the Germans the opportunity to test its new aircraft, pilots and weapons in battle. Hitler sent many aeroplanes and pilots over to Spain because he wanted to support Francisco Franco, who wanted to get rid of the Spanish government. Amongst the aeroplanes were fighters called the Messerschmitt Bf 109 and dive-bombers called the Junkers Ju 87 ‘Stuka”.
The world now remembers one mission that the German air force carried out during the war. German bombers attacked the city of Guernica in the Basque region of northeast Spain, and many civilians (people who were not soldiers) died in the attack. Many governments and people around the world were horrified by the attack. The artist Pablo Picasso painted a painting called "Guernica" that has become very famous. People see the painting as a symbol of the horror of war. A copy of the painting hangs in the United Nations building in New York City.
The German air force was the strongest in the world when World War II broke out in September 1939. It supported the army on the ground and the aircraft were very effective at defeating all opposition, since the German armed forces, the "Wehrmacht", had practised a very new and very fast way to defeat their enemies. This was called Blitzkrieg or Lightning War. The French and the British were prepared for a trench war. It was impossible to fight back.
Within a year, Germany had conquered Poland, Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, Belgium, and France. Britain supported the countries attacked by Germany but found herself on her own by June 1940 when Germany had conquered most of western Europe.
As the war went on, things began to go badly wrong for the "Luftwaffe". The leadership of the Luftwaffe began to become quite bad, as generals were arguing about what the air force should be doing and blaming each other when the Luftwaffe was unable to stop the British from attacking German aircraft factories and other industrial targets in large numbers during the night. The RAF had lost many planes when attacking by day. 
Not only that, but Germany was suffering a shortage of materials needed to build the aeroplanes. Things got worse for the Germans when the USA joined the war in December 1941, because the Americans brought thousands of bombers to the United Kingdom, and they attacked Germany from there. Soon, hundreds of American and British bombers were attacking Germany every day and night.
Germany could not hope to win the war on the ground. Since Russia was so huge, the government set up factories hundreds of miles away from the fighting in order to build aeroplanes, tanks, guns and other weapons for the Russian Army. This meant that the Russians would eventually start to push the Germans back west, especially after they defeated the Germans in great battles near the city of Kursk and in the city of Stalingrad itself. The Germans had failed to conquer the city of Leningrad, too.
On January 1 1945 the Luftwaffe launched a desperate plan called operation 'Bodenplatte' (Baseplate), a dawn air attack aimed at multiple Allied air bases in Belgium & Holland. Over 800 German aircraft were rounded up with many veteran pilots retired from combat duty pressesd back into service.
The plan cost more than it was worth, with over 280 German planes lost and 213 irreplaceble pilots killed or captured. As with the fog of war, over 100 German planes were shot down by their own ground fire who were not in on the plan.
Germany became famous as the country, which flew the first jet aeroplanes. In 1944, the Luftwaffe started to use the world’s first jet fighter plane, the Messerschmitt Me-262, even if the engines sometimes did not work properly. Once again, the shortage of the materials needed to build the plane as well as the continuing bombing of Germany meant that not as many Me-262s were built as Germany would have liked. Even so, Germany also built and flew the world's first jet bomber, the Arado Ar 234, the world’s first fighter plane powered by a rocket, the Messerschmitt Me-163, the world’s first "cruise missile", the V-1, and the world’s first ballistic missile, the V-2.
After the war the allies were quite impressed with Germany's technical know how & gleaned all they could from the vast array of Luftwaffe aircraft strewn across Germany.
Once again, the Allies prohibited Germany from having an air force. The Russians were in the eastern half of Germany, and this half became East Germany. The British, French and Americans were in the western half, and this half became West Germany. These became countries in their own right, and East Germany became a Russian puppet state. In case a new war started with Russia and East Germany as enemies, the Western Allies finally allowed West Germany to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), an organization of western countries which wanted there to be peace throughout the world. NATO allowed West Germany to have an air force because the country was right next to East Germany.
Germany used military aircraft in war for the first time since 1945 when they supported British aircraft in the war in Kosovo in 1999, but many people still believed that Germany should never again go to war because of what had happened in the two world wars.

</doc>
<doc id="8308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8308" title="The Velvet Underground">
The Velvet Underground

The Velvet Underground was an American rock band. It was founded in 1964. The original line-up was Lou Reed, John Cale, Sterling Morrison and Maureen Tucker. They were discovered by the famous artist, Andy Warhol, who produced and designed the cover for their first album "The Velvet Underground and Nico", which paired them with another discovery of his, German model/singer, Nico. The album was never really a hit, but it is now considered a classic. Later, the group broke up with Warhol and Nico after being a part of Andy Warhol's Factory for a while. The group released several more albums, "White Light/White Heat" (1967), "The Velvet Underground" (1969), "Loaded" (1970), and "Squeeze" (which features none of the original members, 1973), before finally breaking up. Lou Reed later had a successful solo career and is considered one of the founders of the "punk" movement.

</doc>
<doc id="8310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8310" title="John F. Kennedy">
John F. Kennedy

John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), commonly known as "Jack" or by his initials JFK, was the 35th President of the United States. He was in office from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest President elected to the office, at the age of 43. Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin Wall, the Space Race, the African American Civil Rights Movement, and early stages of the Vietnam War. He was the youngest President of the United States to die in office.
Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917. He was the second of nine children of Joseph P. Kennedy (1888–1969). His father was a businessman and later US ambassador in the United Kingdom from 1938 until 1940. His mother was Rose Fitzgerald (1890–1995). 
Kennedy graduated from Harvard University with a Bachelor's Degree in International Relations. Before World War II began, he tried joining the U.S. Army, but was rejected because he had back problems; he instead joined the Navy. When his PT boat was sunk by a Japanese destroyer in 1943, he seriously injured his back. He still saved his surviving crew, for which he was later rewarded with a medal for his bravery.
He was elected to the US Congress in 1946, and the US Senate in 1952. He married Jacqueline Bouvier on September 12, 1953. The couple had four children; a stillborn daughter (b. 1956), Caroline (b. 1957), John (1960–1999) and Patrick, who was born prematurely in August 1963 and lived only for two days.
Kennedy was a member of the United States Democratic Party. He beat his Republican Party opponent, Richard Nixon, in the 1960 presidential election. Kennedy was the youngest president ever elected. He was also the first Roman Catholic President and the first president to win a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy was a very good speaker and inspired a new generation of young Americans. 
In the beginning of his term, he approved the CIA's plan to invade Cuba. After the invasion turned out to be a failure, the Cuban Missile Crisis began. During the crisis, Cuba ordered a lot of nuclear missiles from the Soviet Union. It was the closest the world was to having a nuclear war. Kennedy ordered US Navy ships to surround Cuba. He ended the crisis peacefully by making an agreement with the Soviet Union. They agreed that the Soviet Union would stop selling nuclear weapons to Cuba. In return, the U.S. would take its missiles out of Turkey and promise to never invade Cuba again.
He also created a plan called the New Frontier. This was a series of government programs, such as urban renewal, to help poor and working class people. He created the Peace Corps to help poor countries all over the world. He agreed to a large tax cut to help the economy. He also called for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which would make discrimination and segregation illegal. Kennedy intended to reach a détente with Cuban Premier, Fidel Castro, and to withdraw all US military advisers from Vietnam.
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963, in Dallas, Texas. He was being driven through the city in an open-top car, along with John Connally, the Governor of Texas. As the car drove into Dealey Plaza, shots were fired. Kennedy was shot once in the throat and once in the head. He was taken to Parkland Memorial Hospital away. At 1:00 p.m., Kennedy was pronounced dead. 
Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was the prime suspect in the murder, and he was arrested on the same day for the murder of a policeman called J. D. Tippit. Oswald denied shooting anyone and was killed two days later on November 24 by Jack Ruby.
Kennedy had a state funeral on November 25, three days after his murder, near to the White House. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia.
After Kennedy died, Lyndon Johnson (his Vice President) took over and put many of Kennedy's ideas into law (see Great Society).
Kennedy was a very popular president and still is today. He is considered one of the greatest presidents, ranking highly in public surveys and opinion polls.

</doc>
<doc id="8318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8318" title="Jyväskylä">
Jyväskylä

Jyväskylä is the capital of the Finnish province Central Finland by the northern end of lake Päijänne. There are almos about 135.000 inhabitants in Jyväskylä in April 2014. Neighbouring municipalities are Joutsa, Toivakka, Jämsä, Luhanka, Muurame, Petäjävesi, Laukaa and Uurainen. 
The University of Jyväskylä is popular and respected.

</doc>
<doc id="8324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8324" title="Alfred Hitchcock">
Alfred Hitchcock

Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock (August 13, 1899 - April 29, 1980) was a British movie director who later became an American citizen but still kept his British citizenship. He mostly made mystery and suspense movies. Despite having a successful career, Hitchcock never won an Academy Award.
Hitchcock started his career in England, starting with silent movies in the 1920s. In the 1930s, he made some successful movies like "The Man Who Knew Too Much" (1934), "The 39 Steps" (1935) and "The Lady Vanishes" (1938). He then moved to the United States, to work in Hollywood. His first American movie was "Rebecca" (1940), which won an Academy Award. 
Some of his best known movies from the 1940s are "Spellbound" (1945) and "Notorious" (1946), which were inspired by psychoanalysis. His first movie in color was the experimental "Rope" (1948). "Strangers on a Train" (1951) was based on a novel by Patricia Highsmith. In the 1950s, he made three popular movies with Grace Kelly: "Dial M for Murder" (1954), "Rear Window" (1954) and "To Catch a Thief" (1955). In 1956 he made a new version of "The Man Who Knew Too Much", starring James Stewart and Doris Day. He returned to black-and-white, briefly, with "The Wrong Man" (1957). Then came "Vertigo" (1958), which some consider his best suspense movie. It was followed by three more successful movies: "North by Northwest" (1959), "Psycho" (1960) and "The Birds" (1963). After that he only made 5 more movies: "Marnie" (1964), "Torn Curtain" (1966), "Topaz" (1969), "Frenzy" (1972) and "Family Plot" (1976). In 1971 he became the very first winner of the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award. This is an award for lifetime achievement.
In 1945 Hitchcock made a documentary about the Holocaust. It will be shown on British television in 2015.
Hitchcock appeared very quickly in small roles in most of his movies.
He also hosted a TV show, "Alfred Hitchcock Presents".
Hithcock was born in Leytonstone, Essex. He was a Roman Catholic. He was married to Alma Reville, who helped write some of his movies. They had a daughter, Patricia. He died in Bel Air, Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="8325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8325" title="1659">
1659


</doc>
<doc id="8327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8327" title="July 1">
July 1


</doc>
<doc id="8329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8329" title="Black comedy">
Black comedy

Black comedy is getting humor (something funny or comical) from something serious. It is known for its use of very sensitive subjects, such as war, tragedy, death and suffering of the innocent. Black comedy is also a form of satire that uses irony and mocking. It may cause cause a wide variety of emotional reactions. 
The term "black humor" (from the French "humour noir") was coined by the surrealist André Breton in 1935.
Some famous examples of black comedy include:

</doc>
<doc id="8330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8330" title="Elliott Gould">
Elliott Gould

Elliot Gould (born as Elliott Goldstein August 29, 1938) is an American actor. He was born in Brooklyn, New York City. He is mostly known for his roles in many films including "M*A*S*H" (1970), "Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice" (1970), and "Ocean's Eleven" (2001). He has also made guest appearances on many television such as Jack Geller in "Friends".
Gould's parents were Jewish; Gould says he has a very deep Jewish identity. He married singer and actress Barbra Streisand in 1963. The couple separated in 1969 and divorced in 1971. Their son is actor Jason Gould (born 1966).

</doc>
<doc id="8335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8335" title="Equation">
Equation

A mathematical equation is an expression containing at least one variable (=unknown value) and an "equals sign" ( = ) with a mathematical expression on each side of it. The equals sign says that both sides are exactly the same value. An equation can be as simple as x=0, or as hard as 4(3y^99)+76=42÷3x or harder.
There are two kinds of mathematical equations:
The second kind is often used to solve problems in which you have to know the value of some variables. For example,
The second kind of equation is used in algebra. For example, to solve the equation 2x = 8 by finding x you would follow an algebraic rule. Then you can work out that x = 4.
Equations can be classified by the types of operations and quantities involved. Some types of equations are:

</doc>
<doc id="8336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8336" title="1961">
1961

1961 (MCMLXI) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar. Its rendering using the Hindu-Arabic numeral system creates a numeral which looks the same when put upside down. The next such year will be 6009.

</doc>
<doc id="8337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8337" title="1783">
1783


</doc>
<doc id="8338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8338" title="1809">
1809


</doc>
<doc id="8340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8340" title="1968">
1968

1968 (MCMLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8341" title="October 31">
October 31


</doc>
<doc id="8342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8342" title="Canteen">
Canteen

A canteen can be:

</doc>
<doc id="8343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343" title="Beadle">
Beadle

A beadle is someone who works at a church or a Jewish synagogue and helps the clergy. A beadle's main job is to show people to their seats and to keep order during church services.
Like many words that describe a person's job, the word beadle can also be used as a last name.

</doc>
<doc id="8355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8355" title="1947">
1947


</doc>
<doc id="8356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8356" title="July 17">
July 17


</doc>
<doc id="8364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8364" title="Vegetable">
Vegetable

A vegetable is any eatable part of a plant that does "not" have seeds. For example, lettuce leaves are vegetables, because they do not have seeds. Carrots and potatoes are parts of the root systems of the plants, but since they have no seeds and are eaten by humans, they are vegetables. They are not in the same category as a fruit, nut, herb, spice, or grain. Though tomatoes are often thought of as vegetables because they have seeds, they are actually fruits. Vegetables are an important part of people's diet (what they eat every day). Vegetables and fruits are sometimes called produce. Vegetables have vitamins A, B, C, D minerals and carbohydrates.
The word "vegetable" can also be used to mean plants in general, such as when people say "Animal, Vegetable, or Mineral."
However, in an Asian context, 'vegetable' may mean any plant produce, apart from grain and nuts, that is consumed cooked, while only the fruits consumed raw are considered as 'fruits'. For example, an artichoke is therefore considered a vegetable, while a melon qualifies as a fruit.
"See" List of vegetables "for longer list."

</doc>
<doc id="8365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8365" title="Olivine">
Olivine

Olivine (or chrysolite) is a mineral made of magnesium iron silicate with the formula (Mg,Fe)2SiO4
It ranges in colour from chartreuse green to pale olive. In its gem form, it is called peridot.
Dunite is a rock of 90%+ olivine. Dunite and other peridotite rocks are major constituents of the Earth's mantle above a depth of about 400 kilometers. Dunite is rarely found on land, except where slabs of mantle rock from a subduction zone have been thrust onto continental crust. 
Olivine has also been found at several extraterrestrial locations, such as the moon and many passing space rocks - as well as the outer layers of dust orbiting young stars.

</doc>
<doc id="8374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8374" title="May 18">
May 18


</doc>
<doc id="8375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8375" title="30 BC">
30 BC

The year 30 BC was either a common year starting on Wednesday, Thursday or Friday or a leap year starting on Thursday. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Octavian and Crassus.

</doc>
<doc id="8376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8376" title="January 29">
January 29


</doc>
<doc id="8377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8377" title="Economy">
Economy

An economy is a system of making and trading things of value. It is usually divided into goods (physical things) and services (things done by people). It assumes there is medium of exchange, which in the modern world is a system of finance. This makes trade possible. The alternative systems of barter – exists only on a very small scale.
To better understand how the economy works, it can be discussed in three sections. These are:
The term 'real economy' is sometimes used to mean the part of the economy concerned with goods and services. This is contrasted with the 'paper economy', the financial side of the economy, which buys and sells on the financial markets.
The word 'economy' comes from the Greek word "οἰκονόμος". This means "person who manages the house".

</doc>
<doc id="8378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8378" title="March 7">
March 7


</doc>
<doc id="8379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8379" title="September 19">
September 19


</doc>
<doc id="8380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380" title="September 9">
September 9


</doc>
<doc id="8382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382" title="Engine">
Engine

An engine, or motor, is a machine used to change energy into movement that can be used. The energy can be in any form. Common forms of energy used in engines are electricity, chemical (such as petrol or diesel) or heat. When a chemical is used to produce energy it is known as "fuel".
The difference of "engine" and "motor" is that an engine creates mechanical energy from heat, while motor creates mechanical energy from other kinds of energy, like electricity. Typical "engines" are steam engine and internal combustion engine, while typical "motors" are electric motor and hydraulic motor. 
"Engine" was originally a term for any mechanical device that converts force into motion. Hence, pre-industrial weapons such as catapults, trebuchets and battering rams were called "siege engines". The word "gin," as in "cotton gin", is short for "engine." The word derives from Old French "engin", from the Latin "ingenium", which is also the root of the word "ingenious". Most mechanical devices invented during the industrial revolution were described as engines—the steam engine being a notable example.
In modern usage, the term "engine" is typically restricted to heat engines, like steam engines and internal combustion engines, that burn or otherwise consume fuel to perform mechanical work by exerting a torque or linear force (usually in the form of thrust). Examples of engines which exert a torque include the familiar automobile gasoline and diesel engines, as well as turboshafts. Examples of engines which produce thrust include turbofans and rockets.
Early kinds of engine used heat that was outside of the engine itself to heat up a gas to a high pressure. This was usually steam and the engines are called steam engines. The steam was piped to the engine where it pushed on pistons to bring about motion. These engines were commonly used in old factories, boats and trains.
Most cars use a chemical engine that burns fuel inside it. This is called an internal combustion engine. There are many different types of internal combustion engine. They can be grouped by fuel, cycle and configuration. Common fuel types for internal combustion engines are petrol, diesel, autogas and alcohol. There are many other types of fuels.
There are 3 different types of cycle. 2-stroke engines produce power once every turn of the engine. 4-stroke engines cylinders make power once every two turns of the engine. 6-stroke engines cylinders make power twice in every six turns of the engine. 
There are lots of different configurations of piston engines. Their cylinders have pistons in them and a crankshaft. Any number of cylinders can be used but 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 are common. The cylinders can be arranged in many ways, in a straight line, at an angle to each other or in a circle.
A Wankel engine has no cylinders and uses a triangle shaped rotor spinning in an oval housing which mimics the movement of a piston.
Hot gas can also be made to push a turbine around rather like the way the wind turns a windmill. Most electric power stations use big steam turbines. Others use water or wind turbines. Smaller turbines use internal combustion. Jet engines used in aircraft are a kind of turbine engine.
A rocket causes movement by shooting jets of gas very fast out of a nozzle. The gas may have been stored under pressure or be a chemical fuel that burns to make a very hot gas. Although they are very simple, rockets are the most powerful engines we know how to make. They will work in space where there is nothing to push against.
Electric motors do not use a fuel. The energy is supplied to them by electricity carried along wires. The energy may come from a fuel being burnt somewhere else a long way off. The electricity is used to make powerful magnets inside the motor switch on and off at the right time to turn the shaft of the motor.
"Electric engine" is not a motor, but a railway locomotive which runs on electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="8384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8384" title="Belarus">
Belarus

Belarus (officially called Republic of Belarus) is a country in Eastern Europe. About nine million people live there. Its capital is Minsk. It was part of the Soviet Union until 1991. The president of Belarus has been Alexander Lukashenko since 1994. It is bordered by Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. Over forty percent of its is forested.
The State is a member of the UN, the CIS, Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Union State of Russia and Belarus (from 2 April 1997), as well as a member of other international organizations.
Until the 20th century, the lands of modern-day Belarus belonged to several countries. These included the Principality of Polotsk, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and the Russian Empire. After the Russian Revolution, Belarus became part of the Soviet Union. It was renamed the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (BSSR). The borders of Belarus took their modern shape in 1939. Some lands of the Second Polish Republic were added into it after the Soviet invasion of Poland. The nation and its territory were devastated in World War II. Belarus lost about a third of its population and more than half of its economic resources. In 1945 the Belorussian SSR became a founding member of the United Nations, along with the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian SSR.
The parliament of the republic declared the sovereignty of Belarus on 1990. During the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Belarus became independent on 1991. 
Over 70% of Belarus's population of 9.49 million live in the urban areas. More than 80% of the population are ethnic Belarusians. Most of the rest are Russians, Poles and Ukrainians. The country has two official languages: Belarusian and Russian. The main religion in the country is Russian Orthodox Christianity. The second most popular, Roman Catholicism, has a much smaller following.
Both Homo erectus and Neanderthal remains have been found in the region. From 5,000 to 2,000 BCE, Bandkeramik cultures lived here. Cimmerians were in the area by 1,000 BCE. By 500 BCE, Slavs moved in. The Huns and Avars came through around 400–600 CE. They were unable to move the Slavs.
The region that is now Belarus was first settled by Slavic tribes in the 6th century. They came into contact with the Varangians, who were bands of Scandinavian warriors and traders. They formed Kievan Rus' in 862. 
When Kievan Rus' ruler Yaroslav I the Wise died, the state split. Later some were added into the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Lithuania made a union with Poland. The union ended in 1795. The land of Belarus went to the Russian Empire. The land stayed with Russia until going to the German Empire during World War I.
Belarus said they were free from Germany on 1918. They formed the Belarusian People's Republic. Then the Polish–Soviet War started. A part of Belarus under Russian rule became the Belorussian Soviet Socialist Republic in 1919. Then it added to the Lithuanian–Belorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. Other lands were divided between Poland and the Soviet Union after the war ended in 1921. The Belorussian SSR became a founding member of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1922. The western part of modern Belarus stayed part of Poland.
In 1939, Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union invaded Poland. This was the beginning of World War II. Parts of Poland were added to the Belorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. They are now West Belarus.
Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941. BSSR was the hardest-hit Soviet republic in World War II. During that time, Germany destroyed 209 out of 290 cities in the republic, 85% of the republic's industry, and more than one million buildings. Casualties were between two and three million. The population of Belarus did not come back to its pre-war level until 1971.
Joseph Stalin wanted Belorussian SSR to be more Russian. Russians were sent from other parts of the Soviet Union to be in the government. The use of the Belarusian language was limited. After Stalin's death in 1953, Nikita Khrushchev continued the plan.
In 1986, the Belorussian SSR had nuclear fallout from the explosion at the Chernobyl power plant in neighboring Ukrainian SSR.
Belarus said it was free on 1990. With the support of the Communist Party, the country's name was changed to the Republic of Belarus on 1991.
Belarus is landlocked and mostly flat. It has a lot of marshy land. Many streams and 11,000 lakes are found in Belarus. Three major rivers run through the country: the Neman, the Pripyat, and the Dnieper. 
The highest point is Dzyarzhynskaya Hara at . Belarus has a hemiboreal humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). 
Natural resources include peat deposits, small amounts of oil and natural gas, granite, dolomite (limestone), marl, chalk, sand, gravel, and clay. About 70% of the radiation from neighboring Ukraine's 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster entered Belarusian territory. The farmland continues to be affected by radiation fallout.
Belarus is a presidential republic. It is governed by a president and the National Assembly. 
Lukashenko has described himself as having an "authoritarian ruling style". Western countries have described Belarus under Lukashenko as a dictatorship. The Council of Europe has stopped Belarus from membership since 1997 for undemocratic voting.
The Armed Forces of Belarus have three branches: the Army, the Air Force, and the Ministry of Defense joint staff. Lieutenant General Yuri Zhadobin heads the Ministry of Defense. Alexander Lukashenko (as president) is Commander-in-Chief.
Belarus is divided into six regions. They are named after the cities that are their administrative centers.
Regions (with administrative centers):
Special administrative district:
Most of the Belarusian economy is state-controlled. It has been described as "Soviet-style." The country relies on Russia for some imports, including petroleum. As of 1994, Belarus's main exports included heavy machinery (especially tractors), agricultural products, and energy products.
According to 2009 census, the population is 9,503,807. Ethnic Belarusians are 83.7% of Belarus' total population. The next largest ethnic groups are: Russians (8.3%), Poles (3.1%), and Ukrainians (1.7%). Minsk, the nation's capital and largest city, is home to 1,836,808 residents as of 2009. Gomel, with 481,000 people, is the second-largest city and is the capital of the Homiel Voblast. Other large cities are Mogilev (365,100), Vitebsk (342,400), Hrodna (314,800) and Brest (298,300). For other places in Belarus see List of settlements in Belarus.
Belarusian literature began with 11th- to 13th-century religious scripture. By the 16th century, Polotsk resident Francysk Skaryna translated the Bible into Belarusian. The modern era of Belarusian literature began in the late 19th century. One important writer was Yanka Kupala. Several poets and authors went into exile after the Nazi occupation of Belarus. They would not return until the 1960s. The last major revival of Belarusian literature was in the 1960s with novels published by Vasil Bykaŭ and Uladzimir Karatkievich.
In the 19th century, Polish composer Stanisław Moniuszko made operas and chamber music pieces while living in Minsk. At the end of the 19th century, major Belarusian cities formed their own opera and ballet companies.
The National Academic Theatre of Ballet, in Minsk, was awarded the Benois de la Dance Prize in 1996 as the top ballet company in the world. Rock music has become more popular in recent years, though the Belarusian government has tried to limit the amount of foreign music aired on the radio. Since 2004, Belarus has been sending artists to the Eurovision Song Contest.
The traditional Belarusian dress is from the Kievan Rus' period. Due to the cool climate, clothes were made to keep body heat and were usually made from flax or wool. 
Belarusian cuisine is mainly vegetables, meat (especially pork), and breads. Foods are usually either slowly cooked or stewed. A typical Belarusian eats a light breakfast and two hearty meals, with dinner being the largest meal of the day. Wheat and rye breads are eaten in Belarus. Rye is more plentiful because conditions are too harsh for growing wheat. To show hospitality, a host will give an offering of bread and salt when greeting a guest or visitor. Popular drinks in Belarus include Russian wheat vodka and "kvass", Kvass is a drink made from fermented malted brown bread or rye flour. "Kvass" may also be added with sliced vegetables to create a cold soup called "okroshka".
Belarus has four World Heritage Sites: the Mir Castle Complex, the Nesvizh Castle, the Belovezhskaya Pushcha (shared with Poland), and the Struve Geodetic Arc (shared with nine other countries).

</doc>
<doc id="8386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8386" title="Steam">
Steam

Steam is the name given to water when it is a gas. Steam is a form of water vapour. Steam is sometimes seen as a string of cloudy translucent mist. But, that is only the result of the steam condensing in the air, which means the "steam" that you touch is not very hot. The actual hot steam is invisible. 
When the pressure of the atmosphere is 1013 mbar (this is about the average pressure for a place which is at sea level), water will boil (turn into steam) at 100 degrees Celsius. This is the boiling point. Boiling happens in a boiler. 100 degrees Celsius is the same temperature as 212 degrees Fahrenheit, 80 degrees Réaumur and 373.15 Kelvin.
A major use of steam is to power steam engines. A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid.

</doc>
<doc id="8389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8389" title="1834">
1834


</doc>
<doc id="8390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8390" title="August 29">
August 29


</doc>
<doc id="8393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8393" title="July 20">
July 20


</doc>
<doc id="8395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8395" title="Steering wheel">
Steering wheel

A steering wheel is a circular object used by the driver of a car or boat to change the direction it is moving. 

</doc>
<doc id="8398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8398" title="East Germany">
East Germany

The German Democratic Republic (GDR) ( ("DDR")), commonly called East Germany (), was founded on October 7,1949, after World War II. It was formed from the parts of Germany occupied by the USSR, including part of the city of Berlin. It is no longer a nation by itself since the two parts of Germany, East Germany and West Germany, reunified in 1990.
The GDR was ruled by the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED).
After World War II, Germany was divided into four sections, each controlled by a different country. The countries that controlled these parts of Germany were France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union. Then, the French, American, and British parts of Germany formed West Germany (the "Bundesrepublik") and part of the Soviet section became East Germany.
Walter Ulbricht, the head of the SED, also had a lot of power. Pieck died in 1960, and Ulbricht became "Chairman of the State Council". Now he was really the head of state.
On 13 August 1961, the Berlin Wall was built. Many people were shot dead by East German soldiers when they tried to escape the GDR. The SED told the East German people that the wall's purpose was to keep 'Western Capitalists' out; when in fact it was to keep "them ("East Germans)" "inside. 
After Mikhail Gorbachev had started "glasnost" and "perestroika" in the Soviet Union, many people in the GDR wanted reforms, too. In 1989, there were lots of demonstrations against the SED and for democracy and human rights. In the city of Leipzig, people met every Monday and demonstrated, and so these demonstrations are called "Montagsdemonstrationen" ("Monday Demonstrations"). Erich Honecker wished that the Soviets would use its army to suppress these demonstrations. The Soviet Union, with its own political and economical problems, refused and did not want to control Eastern Europe anymore. Honecker was eventually forced to resign on October 18, 1989.
Egon Krenz was elected by the politburo to be Honecker's successor. Krenz tried to show that he was looking for change within the GDR but the citizens did not trust him. On November 9, 1989, the SED announced that East Germans would be able to travel to West Berlin the next day. The spokesman who announced the new travel law incorrectly said that it would take effect immediately, implying the Berlin Wall would open that night. People began to gather at border checkpoints at the wall hoping to be let through, but the guards told them that they had no orders to let citizens through. As the number of people grew, the guards became alarmed and tried to contact their superiors but had no responses. Unwilling to use force, the chief guard at the checkpoint relented at 10:54pm and ordered the gate to be opened. Thousands of East-Germans swarmed into West Berlin and the purpose of the wall was deemed now obsolete. The fall of the wall destroyed the SED politically as well as the career of its leader, Egon Krenz. On December 1, 1989, the GDR government revoked the law that guaranteed the SED the right to rule the East German political system, effectively ending communist rule in the GDR.
On 18 March 1990, there were free elections in the GDR. The "Alliance for Germany", a group of political parties who wanted to unify the GDR with West Germany, won that election. This process, when East Germany became a democracy, is known also the "Wende" in Germany.
In the German reunification, the GDR joined West Germany by approving its constitution in 1990. The East German districts were reorganised into the "Länder" (Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Sachsen, Sachsen-Anhalt and Thüringen) and joined West Germany, after which the GDR ceased to exist.
Even though the western and the eastern part joined back together in 1990, people from former West Germany still call people from East Germany "Ossi". This comes from the German word "Osten" which means "East". Ossi is not always meant kindly.
The leading role of the SED was written down in the constitution of the GDR. There were other parties in the GDR, which were called the "Blockparteien" ("block parties"), but their job was mostly to do what the SED said:
The Ministry for State Security (in German: "Ministerium für Staatssicherheit"; often called "MfS" or "Stasi") was the East German homeland security service. It searched for people who were against the state, the SED and their politics. The MfS had many informants who told them when some people said or did something against the state. There was a big MfS prison in the town of Bautzen.
East Germany was a member of the Warsaw Pact. In retrospect, the GDR was a puppet state of the Soviet Union until democratic reforms. The GDR was released from Soviet control by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev during his reforms in the late 1980s in what was known as the "Sinatra Doctrine".
In the GDR, there was a planned economy. All big factories and companies were in property of the state (officially "Volkseigentum", "people's property"). Only some small companies and shops were private property.
A famous relic of the GDR is the low-powered automobile "Trabant" or "Trabi".
Until 1964, East and West Germany took part in the Olympic Games with only one team for both states. Since 1968, East and West Germany had their own team each. 
East German sportspeople were very successful, for example in athletics, cycling, boxing or some winter sports. Famous sportspeople from East Germany were Täve Schur (cycling), Waldemar Cierpinski (athletics), Heike Drechsler (athletics), Olaf Ludwig (cycling), Katarina Witt (ice skating) or Jens Weißflog (ski jumping). 
A famous cycling race was the Peace Race (in German: "Friedensfahrt").
The East German national football team was not so successful. They were only in one FIFA World Cup. This was the 1974 FIFA World Cup, which took place in West Germany. On 22 June 1974, East Germany played against West Germany. Jürgen Sparwasser shot a goal and East Germany won 1-0.

</doc>
<doc id="8404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8404" title="Netball">
Netball

Netball is a sport played in two teams of seven. It is like basketball except that bouncing the ball is not allowed. The player cannot step with the ball either, nor hold it for more than three seconds. The game proceeds by players throwing (passing) the ball to each other until one attempts to throw it through the hoop, known as a "shot". 
There are 7 fixed positions on the court, which restrict the places where each player is allowed to go:
There are many rules in netball some of which are;

</doc>
<doc id="8407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8407" title="Atomic number">
Atomic number

The atomic number (symbol: Z) of an atom is the number of protons in the nucleus of the atom. The atomic number of an atom identifies which element it is. In a neutral atom, the atomic number is equal to the number of electrons orbiting the nucleus. The elements of the periodic table are listed in order of increasing atomic number.
Atomic number is not the same as: 
Atomic number is not changed by the number of electrons or neutrons; it is simply the proton number.

</doc>
<doc id="8412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8412" title="June 21">
June 21

In most years, this is the date of the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere, as the day with the most daylight hours. In the southern hemisphere, this is the winter solstice, with the least daylight hours.

</doc>
<doc id="8413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8413" title="1920">
1920


</doc>
<doc id="8415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8415" title="Cardinal number">
Cardinal number

Cardinal numbers (or cardinals) are numbers that say "how many" of something there are, for example: one, two, three, four, five, six. They are sometimes called counting numbers.
The cardinality of a set is the cardinal number that tells how many things are in the set.
In mathematics, people also study infinite cardinal numbers. The first infinite cardinal number was named formula_1 (pronounced Aleph-zero or Aleph-naught) by Georg Cantor. formula_1 is the amount of numbers that are in the group 0, 1, 2, 3, ... keep going forever. Cantor proved that there are many different infinite cardinal numbers that are bigger than formula_1. A famous theorem of Cantor is that the cardinality of the real numbers is larger than the cardinality of the natural numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="8426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8426" title="1960">
1960

1960 (MCMLX) was a leap year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="8427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8427" title="1956">
1956


</doc>
<doc id="8428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8428" title="March 4">
March 4

From 1793 – 1933, March 4 was Inauguration Day for the President of the United States. Since 1937, Inauguration Day has been January 20.

</doc>
<doc id="8429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8429" title="Merchant marine">
Merchant marine

Merchant marine is a term used in many places to talk about commercial ships and crews. A country's merchant marine is made up of all the ships owned by companies or individuals in that country which are used to make money. Most of a country's merchant marine is usually made of ships that carry things from place to place, like oil tankers and freighters. Other ships, like cruise ships and ferries, are also included because they are used to make money. When a country is at peace, its merchant marine works independently. Some countries, though, require merchant ships to work for their armed forces in times of war.
In the United States, "Merchant Marine" has a different meaning. The United States Merchant Marine (USMM) is a part of the military which is controlled by the government in both peace and war. When the United States is at war, the USMM is used to carry military supplies. In World War II, nearly one out of every twenty-six American merchant mariners was killed, a higher portion of men than in the Army, Navy, or even the Marines.

</doc>
<doc id="8434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8434" title="FreeBSD">
FreeBSD

FreeBSD is an operating system for many different kinds of computers. This means that if the user has a computer around the house and want to run FreeBSD on it, the user probably can. Computers that run Microsoft Windows will also run FreeBSD. It is based on BSD, the version of UNIX developed at the University of California, Berkeley.
FreeBSD is open source. This means that anyone can download the source code and change, or learn from it. The people who work on FreeBSD do not usually get paid. They keep working on it because they enjoy it or want to become more experienced programmers.
Most open source software that runs on Linux will run natively on FreeBSD without the need for any compatibility layer.
There are a lot of operating systems, which are based on FreeBSD.
Several projects created an operating system, based on FreeBSD, which has a GUI by default.
Examples for that kind of operating systems are:

</doc>
<doc id="8435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8435" title="Garry Marshall">
Garry Marshall

Garry Marshall (November 13, 1934 – July 19, 2016) was an American writer, producer, director and actor. 
Marshall wrote for comedians Joey Bishop and Phil Foster. Soon he moved on to writing for television series, including "The Dick Van Dyke Show" and "The Tonight Show". In 1970, he adapted the Neil Simon play and 1968 movie "The Odd Couple" into a popular television series starring Tony Randall and Jack Klugman. 
It was very successfu. He soon followed it with "Happy Days", which became one of the most popular series on TV. He also created "Laverne and Shirley" (which co-starred his sister Penny) and "Mork and Mindy". Both of there were spin-offs from "Happy Days" and just as successful and well-known. He directed and acted in several movies including "Pretty Woman" and "Runaway Bride". 
Marshall also ran and works out of a local community theatre house in Los Angeles, The Falcon Theatre.
Marshall died at a hospital in Burbank, California on July 19, 2016 from pneumonia after suffering a stroke. He was 81.

</doc>
<doc id="8436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8436" title="1934">
1934


</doc>
<doc id="8437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8437" title="November 1">
November 1


</doc>
<doc id="8438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8438" title="Johnny Weissmuller">
Johnny Weissmuller

Johnny Weissmuller (June 2, 1904 – January 20, 1984) was a German-American swimmer and actor. He was born in Timisoara, Austria-Hungary to German parents. 
He was one of the world's best swimmers in the 1920s. He won five gold medals in swimming competitions at the Olympics in 1924 and 1928, and a bronze medal in water polo at the 1924 Olympics.
He later played Tarzan in a series of movies in the 1930s and became a movie star. This made him a character actor. He then had trouble getting parts in other movies because of this. 
On January 20, 1984, Weissmuller died of pulmonary edema. He was 79. He was buried in Acapulco, Mexico, where he was living when he died. At his funeral, a sound recording of the "Tarzan yell" he had made famous in the movies was played three times, at his request.

</doc>
<doc id="8442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8442" title="1756">
1756


</doc>
<doc id="8443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8443" title="1715">
1715


</doc>
<doc id="8444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8444" title="Priscilla Presley">
Priscilla Presley

Priscilla Presley (née Wagner; born is an American actress. She is the former wife of Elvis Presley and is the mother of Lisa Marie Presley. Presley is probably most famous for her roles in the television primetime soap opera "Dallas", and "The Naked Gun" movies with Leslie Nielson. She is also a member of Scientology.
Presley was born in Brooklyn, New York City. Her maternal grandfather, Albert Henry Iversen (1899–1971), emigrated from Egersund in Norway to the United States in 1905. He married Lorraine Davis (1903–1984), who was of Scots-Irish and English ancestry. They had three children: Albert, Jr. (March 1922), James Richard (March 1924) and Anna Lillian Iversen (March 1926). Anna was later called, or her name was changed to, Ann. She was called Rooney (short for Annie Rooney) as a child. At the age of 19, she gave birth to Priscilla. They both still have cousins in Norway. In a letter to the City Hall of Egersund, Ann asked for information about their relatives, and wrote that Priscilla was interested in knowing about them; Priscilla's parents then visited family members in Norway in 1992.
She attended General H.H. Arnold High in Wiesbaden, West Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="8445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8445" title="1973">
1973

1973 (MCMLXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8446" title="Drunkenness">
Drunkenness

Drunkenness means being intoxicated by alcohol. This means a person's brain and body are not working normally, because of the alcohol they have had. A person who is intoxicated is usually called drunk. 
The effects of being drunk depend on how much alcohol a person has had to drink.
Alcohol causes the mind and body to not work normally.
In low amounts, alcohol often causes good feelings, reddened skin, and feeling relaxed. People who drink small amounts of alcohol may feel less nervous about being around others. Even in small amounts, alcohol slows down the brain. It starts to affect a person's judgment - their ability to make good decisions. It also makes a person react more slowly and have slower reflexes. This is why it is not safe to drive even after drinking just a little.
In medium amounts, alcohol will cause trouble speaking clearly and moving the body normally. A person may have trouble staying balanced and walking normally. They may get confused or very tired. They will not be able to make good decisions. They may also start vomiting.
When a person drinks a dangerous amount of alcohol, they can get alcohol poisoning.
Alcohol poisoning is a medical emergency. "Alcohol poisoning" means that a person has drunk enough alcohol to cause a coma, dangerously slow breathing, or even death. A person with alcohol poisoning needs emergency medical treatment at a hospital to make sure they do not die from alcohol poisoning.
Here are some of the signs and symptoms of alcohol poisoning:
When a person has alcohol poisoning, 9-1-1 or another local emergency telephone number should be called right away. First aid can help the person until an ambulance gets there.
A first aider SHOULD:
A first aider should NOT:
Paramedics and hospitals can treat alcohol poisoning by:
There are many myths (untrue beliefs) about drunkenness. Here are some examples of myths about drunkenness:

</doc>
<doc id="8447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8447" title="Canada Dry">
Canada Dry

Canada Dry is a brand name belonging to a company that produces beverages. Canada Dry makes ginger ale, club soda, and tonic water. Ginger ale is flavored with ginger root. Club soda is a clear drink that is sometimes used to help remove stains from clothing. Tonic water is frequently used to make an alcoholic beverage known as "gin and tonic".

</doc>
<doc id="8448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8448" title="Ginger ale">
Ginger ale

Ginger ale is a soft drink flavored with the root of a plant known as ginger. It has a sweet yet spicy flavor. Even though it has the name "ale", which can be another word for beer, it is not beer. It can be enjoyed by all ages. Canada Dry is a well known maker of ginger ale. Most drinks that are ginger ale come in a green can. 
Ginger beer is a non-alcoholic soft drink that is also flavored with ginger root. Ginger beer is much spicier than ginger ale. Ginger beer is popular in some Caribbean countries such as Trinidad.

</doc>
<doc id="8449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8449" title="Shaving">
Shaving

Shaving is removing hair from the face or other body part with a razor. Some people do not shave the chin, this is called a goatee beard. Other men do not shave the upper lip, this is called a mustache.

</doc>
<doc id="8450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8450" title="Hygiene">
Hygiene

Hygiene is the act of being clean. Washing the body to remove dirt and germs, brushing the teeth to keep them clean, shaving, using the toilet properly, and dressing correctly are some examples. Proper hygiene is often taught to children at a young age, and it becomes a habit. People who do not have good hygiene might smell bad, lose teeth, or become ill (sick).
First proven use of the word in English was in 1677s. The word hygiene comes from the French word hygiène, which is western version of Greek word ὑγιεινή (τέχνη) - hugieinē technē, meaning "(art) of health", from ὑγιεινός (hugieinos), "good for the health, healthy", in turn from ὑγιής (hugiēs), "healthful, sound, salutary, wholesome". In ancient Greek religion, Hygeia (Ὑγίεια) was the person that represented health.

</doc>
<doc id="8451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8451" title="Spork">
Spork

A spork is a combination of a spoon and a fork to create a special tool used to eat. Most sporks are made from plastic. Many fast food chains use the spork, including Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Taco John's, and Taco Bueno. Many people dislike the spork because it cannot poke food as well as a fork nor hold liquids as well as a spoon.

</doc>
<doc id="8454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8454" title="Vauxhall Astra">
Vauxhall Astra

Vauxhall Astra is a car produced by Vauxhall since 1979. It was first just branded as a Vauxhall, since 1991 it has also been sold as a Opel, a Holden and a Chevrolet. From 2007 to 2009 it was sold as a Saturn.
In 1979, General Motors, the owners of Vauxhall, decided to replace the Viva model (Kaddett in Europe including Republic of Ireland) in the United Kingdom in as Vauxhall's small family car. The model still shared its body with the Kaddett, however it had things suited for use in this country, i.e. the steering wheel on the right side so that owners could drive on the left-hand side of the road. In 1991, Opel and Chevrolet both binned the Kaddett name. Therefore, they adopted the Astra one. In 1995, Holden did that too. It was only in South Africa that the Kaddett name continued, and it was only on the Astra hatchback. In 1999, the year after the launch of the Opel Astra G/B, South Africa binned the Kaddett name too, leaving no countries/regions/continents using the Kaddett badge. In 2004, the Opel Astra H/C was launched. The sixth/fourth Generation Astra was launched in late 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="8455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8455" title="Ford Ka">
Ford Ka

The Ford Ka is a very small car made by the Ford Motor Company in Spain, Poland and Brazil. It has three doors and was first made in 1996. The Ka is very popular in Europe, about 1.5 million cars have been sold. A new model has been released in Brazil in 2008, in Europe a new model has been introduced in 2009.
4 cylinders in line; SOHC; 8 valves; electronic multipoint fuel injection 
48 kW (65 HP) at 6.000 rpm
87 Nm at 3.250 rpm
44 kW (60 HP) at 5500 rpm 
99 Nm at 2500 rpm 
51 kW (70 HP) at 5500 rpm 
106 Nm at 3000 rpm 
70 kW (95 HP) at 5500 rpm
135 Nm at 4250 rpm 
The second generation of the Ka was released in the beginning of 2009. The car is build in cooperation with Fiat, the technic is the same as used in the Fiat 500.
For the first time, a Diesel engine is available for the Ford Ka.
4 cylinders in line; SOHC; 8 valves
51 kW (69 HP)
102 Nm at 3.000 rpm
55 kW (75 HP)
145 Nm at 1500 rpm 

</doc>
<doc id="8456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8456" title="Tower Bridge">
Tower Bridge

Tower Bridge is a bridge in London. It is built in 1886. It crosses the River Thames near the Tower of London. This bridge has become an iconic symbol of London, with tourists from all over the world flocking to see the iconic bridge every day. It has become one of the world’s most famous bridges due to its unique architecture and design.  It even containing its own exhibition centre within the horizontal walkway that offers one of the best vantage points in London. 
It is more commonly called a drawbridge, which allows boat through the bridge deck when the deck is elevated on an angle. The north side of the bridge is Tower Hill, and the south side of the bridge comes down into Bermondsey, Robbie, an area in Southwark. It is far more visible than London Bridge, which people often mistake it for. If large boats need to sail under Tower Bridge, the two halves of the bridge lift up to let it under.
When it was first built, Tower Bridge was the bridge. "Bascule" is the French word for a see-saw. The bascules are the surfaces raised to allow tall ships to pass through: this happens about 900 times per year.
The bridge's deck can be raised to 83 from the horizontal. Tower Bridge is one of London's most famous sights.
The City of London Corporation held a competition for the design in 1876. Over 50 designs were entered, and in 1884 Horace Jones and John Wolfe Barry's design was chosen.
Workers began to build the Tower Bridge in April 1886 and the bridge was opened in 30 June 1894. 
In June 2012, the bridge was highlighted on the route of Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee Pageant on the Thames.
The bridge is in length with two towers, each high, built on piers. The central span of between the towers is split into two equal bascules or leaves, which can be raised to an angle of 83 to allow river traffic to pass. The bascules, weighing over 1,100 tons each, are counterbalanced to minimize the force required and allow raising in five minutes. The bascules are raised by huge hydraulic pumps which were first powered by steam engines. In 1976 these were replaced by oil and electricity. The bridge is made from more than 11,000 tons of steel, and covered with Cornish granite and Portland stone.
The two side-spans are suspension bridges, each long, with the suspension rods anchored both at the abutments and through rods contained within the bridge's upper walkways. The pedestrian walkways are above the river at high tide. These walkways allow people to still cross the river, even when the bridge is raised. They were closed in 1910 because not enough people used them, but were reopened in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="8457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8457" title="Waiter">
Waiter

A waiter is a person who "waits" on tables, often at a restaurant or cafe. A female waiter is called a waitress. She takes orders and delivers food to customers. A good waiter can also help the customers by recommending the best food.
Many waiters and waitresses are required by their employers to wear a uniform. Most uniforms used are black and white or all black. Historically the term waiter was used to describe customs officers who waited on the high tide for vessels to come in carrying goods to tax.

</doc>
<doc id="8459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8459" title="Steven Spielberg">
Steven Spielberg

Steven Spielberg (born December 18, 1946) is an American movie director, producer and writer. 
He was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. He started his movie career learning to direct in 1975. He was raised in Haddon Township, New Jersey. Spielberg studied at Saratoga High School. He went to California State University, Long Beach. 
Spielberg started his career learning how to direct in 1963. His first movies include "Jaws", "Jurassic Park", "Indiana Jones", and "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial". His later movies include "Saving Private Ryan" and "Munich". 
Spielberg helped establish the PG-13 rating for the Motion Picture Association of America.
Spielberg married Amy Irving in 1985. They divorced in 1989. He married Kate Capshaw in 1991. He has six children. 
Spielberg won two Academy Awards for best director. These two awards were for "Schindler's List" and "Saving Private Ryan". In 1986, he won the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a Lifetime Achievement Award. He has been nominated and has won several other awards. 

</doc>
<doc id="8460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8460" title="Variable">
Variable

A variable is a special type of amount or quantity with an unknown value. They are often used in programming computers or in mathematical equations.
A number such as 5 or 200 cannot change its value. For example, if a person stands 5 feet away from a building, the "distance" variable compared to the building does not change over time. 5 feet is called a "fixed amount", which is the opposite of a variable amount.
But if a person walks away from the building, the distance variable compared to the building is increasing. So it does not have the same value and we can not use the same number for it, as the distance might be 1 foot now, but 2 feet a second later. In mathematics, a variable is usually given a letter, such as "x" or "y".
In some equations, variables are used to show numbers that are unknown. Using a type of math called algebra, one can find the value of the variable.
In computer science, a variable does not have to be a number—it may be a string (text) value, or a date, or an amount of money, or even an object such as a picture.

</doc>
<doc id="8462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8462" title="Salvador Allende">
Salvador Allende

Salvador Allende Gossens (June 26, 1908 – September 11, 1973) was a physician, senator, minister of health and the President of Chile from November 3, 1970 until his death on September 11, 1973.
Allende was born on June 26, 1908 in the port city of Valparaiso, Chile to a well-to-do family. Like many Chileans, Allende had a mestizo (mixed) racial background (Europen and other races mixed with Native Americans), his father Salvador Allende (senior), a lawyer, was of Basque background and his mother Laura Gossens had a Belgian Jewish background (though converted to Catholicism).
In 1918 his father sent Allende to study at the "Instituto Nacional" (National Institute) in Santiago. He then did his compulsory military service and entered the University of Chile to study medicine. Allende was a gifted, friendly and popular student; a great debater and public speaker and quickly becomes a student leader and vice-president of the FECH. (Student Federation of Chile). As an undergraduate student Allende requested to his parents to let him earn his own livelihood and he started to work as a paramedic in the ambulance services and as an assistant in pathology. He graduated with a medical degree in 1933.
He was one of the founders of the Socialist Party of Chile and in 1938 became a minister of health. He was a senator from 1945 until 1969 and was President of the Chilean Senate from 1966 until 1969.
Allende first ran for the presidency in the 1952 elections but failed. Determined to succeed he tried again in 1958 and then in 1964. In both instances he failed again.
Allende would tour Chile from Iquique to Magallanes, for example one end to the other, speaking to peasants in the south and miners in the north and held rallies in the big cities. Allende found it hard to win an election because of the successful scare campaigns launched by opposing parties, many financed by large multi-national corporations and powerful national institutions such as private banks and schools.
Finally, and to the surprise of many working people - who had voted for him in previous elections and felt he would never win - in 1970 he won and became the President of Chile.
Allende always ran for election on the same socialist platform (plan) proposing the same resolutions (things to be done), focusing on the persistent inequality in the country and the underdevelopment (poverty for large part of the population) which Allende saw as being rooted in the lack of control the Chilean people had over their natural resources and vital industries. (e.g. banks, copper mines, electricity companies etc.).
Allende promised that he would nationalize (put under control of government) vital industries and then create an advanced public health system and educational system that would be free and accessible to all. During the cold war (between the U.S. and the former U.S.S.R) many people feared that Chile would fall under the influence of the USSR and after the 1960s under the influence of Cuba.
Allende’s speeches were said to be very radical (extreme) and Allende’s vision for Chile seemed completely different to the Chile that most people were familiar with. For example: Allende was said to be an atheist and Marxist. He was a non- practicing Catholic This was considered odd in a country that was very catholic, held traditional family values, and in which people were taught that political freedoms (the freedom to elect politicians from different parties) was more important than solving problems such as extreme poverty or economic inequality (division between the poorest and the wealthiest people).
Allende also wanted revolutionary change, i.e. he wanted deep changes to Chilean society very quickly, such forms of changes have been said to have tended to cause great divisions in society between those who oppose the changes (called reactionaries) and those who support the drastic changes (revolutionaries). Through history such situations tend to end up resolved violently. For example civil war (where one group of people fight another group of people of the same country), or military coup (when a government is overthrown before it finishes his term).
As a result many Chileans, especially professionals like University professors, doctors and business people left the country–this had a negative effect on Allende’s reforms. E.g. Allende increased health services and places at Universities for the underprivileged while many professors, specialists and doctors were leaving the country.
However, Allende was unique in that he did all he could to prevent this sort of violence, calling his revolution a “peaceful one within democracy” or calling it “the Chilean road to socialism.” In 1973 Allende’s enemies accused him of preparing a secret war and that his supporters were hoarding stocks of illegal weapons (in shanty towns and in rural areas) that were being sent from communist Cuba. To prove that this was not true, Allende allowed the Chilean Army to enforce a “weapons control’s law” that allowed the Chilean military to search and comb for any illegal weapons anywhere in the country. The Chilean army confirmed that after thoroughly searching for such weapons throughout the country they had found no significant stocks as the opposition was claiming. This ended up creating more support for Allende and allowed Allende to begin to focus on the upcoming election.
Allende came to power with a socialist plan. His vision for Chile was one in which the country's resources and wealth would be owned by Chileans and distributed more democratically. Allende started his program by nationalizing (put under control of government) major industries. Such as, Chile's copper mines (Chile had one of the largest copper mines in the World) but these mines were not owned by Chileans but by very powerful U.S. business people.
This created a serious problem with the U.S. government who saw Allende's nationalisation as an attack on U.S. interest and a threat to U.S. money investments in South America.
The American Central Intelligence Agency was said to be involved in the overthrowing of his government. Allende was a socialist. Many of his reforms and programs revolved around socialism. He created universal health care for all, made education better, and took a stronger level of control within the economy. He died in 1973. His death has been disputed for years; some feel that he took his own life by committing suicide, but others feel that he was murdered by Augusto Pinochet's militia. Pinochet would then become the ruler of Chile.
Allende was replaced by those who overthrew him as president. Allende committed suicide by shooting himself. The new ruling Junta justified their coup claiming that “Chile could no longer tolerate the cancer of Marxism”. The Pinochet regime claimed Allende had violated the Chilean Constitution–strange considering that Pinochet ended up writing a completely new one.
Also, after the coup many rumors and myths emerged about Allende’s death and life. Many of these myths attempted to discredit the character of Allende i.e. make him appear as a coward, weak or cruel person:
Allende became of interest to people all over the world because he was the first democratically elected socialist in Chile and the first democratically elected Marxist in the world. Many people felt Allende was the beginning of a new era in which great changes to society - especially in developing countries - could be brought about peacefully through an election.
Allende has become one of the most commemorated Latin American polital figures in history. Since his death monuments, statues, parks and streets have been named in his honour all over the world. In France alone there are more than 320 public places named in honour of Allende. Ministries and municipalities in many countries have also officially approved the naming of schools and educational departments in his honour. 
Despites Pinochet’s 17 years of military rule and an attempt to deny Allende his proper place in Chilean history, he was officially honoured in Chile as a defender of representative democracy (i.e. people’s right to elect their political representatives through free and fair elections) with a state funeral in 1990. A monument was also erected outside the "Moneda Presidential Palace" (Chile's house of Government) where he died defending the democratically elected Popular Unity government he lead.

</doc>
<doc id="8463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8463" title="Authority">
Authority

Authority is the ability of a person or an organization to conduct a certain lifestyle for another person or a group. Authority is known as one of the basis of society and stands against cooperation. Adopting lifestyle patterns as a result of authority is called obedience and authority as a concept includes most leadership cases.
Although authority is usually described as human there is also frequent mention of divine authority.
Authority is made by a certain social power. This power might be materialistic (such as a threat to harm someone) or fictitious (such as belief in a certain person's power). The power exists because of the possible use of sanction : An action who harms a person who's not obeying the authority or threatening it in order to conduct a social power.
Authority may exists in a direct way by virtue of an actual power (such as a threat of imprisonment), which is called "forcing", or by legitimization that the subject gives to the authority (such as recognition of aristocratic authority). In most cases both types exist.
Only a few authorities are based on physical power, most are based on an organizational authority system. In this way, the authoritys ability to act depends on her existence.
For example: the authority of a state leader takes part when there is some sort of a police that punishes individuals that do not obey him. The policeman are subordinated to the leader and his rules because they are also under the police threat. If all citizens of the state choose to deny the leader and his rules, the authority will be lost, but the very fact that the authority semi-exists allowes it to be full. 
Obedience, as said, is the sign that means authority is being enforced. While obedience is the law, disobedience, insubordination and crime are a violation and resistance to the authority. 
Theoretically, violation of the authority drags with it a sanction or punishment that's given by the authority owner. The severity of the sanction and the threat it presents are based on the particular social situation, on the balance of power, on the local norms and so on.
Stanley Milgram was a psychologist who was interested in obedience. He designed an experiment to measured how willing people were to do what an authority figure told them to do. The experiment had three participants. The person running the experiment told one participant, the volunteer, to pretend to be a teacher. Another participant was an actor, but the volunteer didn't know this. The actor's role was to be the teacher's student. The actor and the volunteer were separated with a wall. The person running the experiment told the volunteer to test their "student"'s ability to remember pairs of words. When the teacher's "student" remembered a pair of words incorrectly, the experimenter told the teacher to give the student an electric shock from an electroshock generator. The electric shocks were not real, but the volunteer did not know this. Every time the student got a question wrong, the voltage of the shock went up by 15 volts. In Milgram's first set of experiments, 65% of the volunteers gave the highest shock. It was 450 volts. Milgram had two theories for why he got the results he did. 
Many people criticize people in authority, and some even criticize the existence of authority. Anarchism is a philosophy that opposes all forms of authority.

</doc>
<doc id="8467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8467" title="Musical instrument">
Musical instrument

Musical instruments are things used to make music. Anything that somehow produces sound can be considered a musical instrument, but the term generally means items that are specifically for making music. 
Musical instruments can be divided by type into:
An orchestra has instruments from four families:
Some people think that the voice is a "natural musical instrument" because singing is a way to make music without any instrument at all.

</doc>
<doc id="8470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8470" title="Pupil">
Pupil

There are different types of pupils:

</doc>
<doc id="8471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8471" title="Winston Churchill">
Winston Churchill

Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) was an English politician. He was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, once during World War II, and again in the early 1950s.
Churchill is the only person to have been a member of the British Government during both World Wars, and the last commoner (non-royal) to be granted a State funeral. He was also a soldier, journalist, and author. He won the Nobel Prize in literature in 1953.
Churchill featured in two media polls. He was ranked as the greatest British prime minister of the twentieth century by 20 prominent historians, politicians and commentators. They were asked by BBC Radio 4's "The Westminster Hour" to rank the 19 prime ministers from Lord Salisbury at the turn of the century through to John Major in the 1990s. In a 2002 BBC 2 television poll Churchill was ranked as the greatest Briton in history. A million votes were cast, and the voting was heavily influenced by public campaigns for various candidates.
He is the only British Prime Minister to have received the Nobel Prize, and the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States.
Winston Churchill was born on 30 November 1874 at Blenheim Palace, Oxfordshire, England, the home of the Dukes of Marlborough. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was a younger son of the 7th Duke, and a leading Tory politician. His mother (née Jenny Jerome) was American.
As a boy, Churchill went to the famous Harrow School. He did not get good results, but said he was good at fighting.
He joined the British Army, in 1893. In 1896, he was transferred to Bombay, in what was the Indian Empire (British India). He fought in what is now Pakistan. After this, he fought in a war in Sudan, in 1898 as an officer in the cavalry. In 1899, he went to the Second Boer War in South Africa, to be a newspaper reporter. He was captured by the Boers, but managed to escape.
In 1900, he became a politician in the Conservative Party, and was elected to Parliament. In 1904, he changed parties and joined the Liberal Party, but later returned to the Conservative Party.
He married Clementine Hozier in 1908, and had 5 children named Diana, Randolph, Sarah, Marigold and Mary.
In 1910 Churchill became Home Secretary, one of the most important members of the government. In 1911 he was made First Lord of the Admiralty, which put him in charge of the Royal Navy. When World War I broke out, he stayed in that job. He organized an invasion in Gallipoli which went wrong, and because of this, he was made to leave the government. He joined the army and was sent to fight in France, although he was still a Member of Parliament. In 1917 he was made minister in charge of military supplies (Minister of Munitions).
After World War I, in 1919, Churchill was made Secretary of State for War, and Secretary of State for Air (aircraft). In 1921 he was in charge of the colonies as Secretary of State. Soon after, in 1922 he lost in an election. In 1924 he became a member of Parliament again, this time not as a member of any party. In 1925 he joined the Conservative Party again. He became Chancellor of the Exchequer (Minister of Finance) in 1924.
After 1929, Churchill disagreed with many things the Conservative party believed in. He was not given any job in the government. Instead he wrote books. One was called "Marlborough: his life and times", about his famous ancestor John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough; another was "A History of the English Speaking Peoples", which was not published until after World War 2.
When Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany, Churchill warned that Britain should strengthen its military and oppose Hitler. However, very few leaders agreed with him.
At the start of World War II, Churchill was again put in charge of the Navy. In 1940 the war was going badly for Britain. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain resigned on May 10 and Churchill was given the job. Some people thought that Britain could not win the war, and that the British government should make peace with Hitler. Churchill was sure that Britain could win, and promised to continue the fight. He made famous speeches that are still remembered today.
He was friends with the President of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt. He persuaded Roosevelt to give supplies to Britain, and to help Britain. He had many meetings with Roosevelt and with Joseph Stalin, the leader of the Soviet Union, after they came into the war. They were called the "Big Three".
In 1945, his Conservative party lost an election, and he stopped being Prime Minister. However, he became Prime Minister again in 1951, which he was until 1955.
He was knighted in 1953, and became Sir Winston, and also won the Nobel Prize in Literature.
In 1955, he retired from being Prime Minister. In 1964, he retired from Parliament.
In 1963, President John F. Kennedy named him 'Honorary Citizen of the United States' but too ill to attend a White House ceremony, his son and grandson accepted the award.
Sir Winston died of a stroke at the age of 90, in 1965. When he died, his wife Lady Clementine Churchill and other members of the family were at his bedside.
Title (US Title) (Year of publication)

</doc>
<doc id="8477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8477" title="Golan Heights">
Golan Heights

The Golan Heights is a strip of land in northeastern Israel that was captured by Israel in the Six Day War of 1967. The United Nations has voted to ask Israel to pull its troops out of the Golan Heights. Syria and Israel still have not signed a peace treaty from that war, mostly because of the issue of the Golan. They almost reached a peace deal but they could not agree on where to draw the line, and what Syria would have to do in return. On the western edge of the Golan Heights is a range of extinct volcanos.
In January 2013, the Israeli government said it planned to build a wall along the eastern edges of the Golan Heights, on its border with Syria.

</doc>
<doc id="8482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8482" title="1650">
1650


</doc>
<doc id="8488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8488" title="Pupil (eye)">
Pupil (eye)

The pupil is the opening in the centre of the eye. Light enters through the pupil and goes through the lens, which focuses the image on the retina.
The size of the pupil is controlled by muscles. There is a circular group, which squeezes the iris smaller, and another group which pulls the iris wider. When more light is needed, the pupil is made larger. In brighter light, the pupil is made smaller. The pupil can be compared with the shutter of a camera. It is surrounded by the iris which is the coloured part of the eye.
The lens changes its shape depending on how far away the eye focuses. The focus point is where the eye is focusing on. The light makes the pupil change its size. When it is darker, the pupils will dilate (get bigger) because they need to allow more light into the eye to see. When it is bright, the pupil will constrict (get smaller) to restrict the amount of light there is getting into the eye so we can see. The pupil is normally black in most animals, but in some reptiles, it can be a different colour.
The main reason why we have a pupil is to regulate the light which travels to the retina. The reason why it has no colour is because the light that travels through the pupil is absorbed by tissues at the inside of the eye. In humans, the pupil is round, but in some other animals, like cats, it is shaped like a slit.
In humans, the pupils can tell us many things about how healthy a person's brain is. For example:
Normal pupils are about 4mm across. Pupils that are a normal size are called "regular."
Pupils that are both "pinpoint" (the size of the point of the end of a pin - about 1mm across) are a sign that a person may have one of these problems:
A person's pupils may also be smaller than usual if they are in very bright light.
Pupils that are both "dilated" (larger than usual, up to 8mm across) are a sign that a person may have one of these problems:
A person's pupils may also be dilated if they are in a dark place, or if they have used some kinds of eyedrops.
In most healthy people, the pupils should be the same size ("equal"). Pupils that are "unequal" (one is bigger than the other) are usually a sign that something is wrong with the brain. For example, their brain may be injured, or they may have had a stroke.
However, up to 20% of healthy people have pupils that are different sizes. In these people, this is normal and does not signal a problem. Usually, there is only a small difference in size.
Healthy pupils are round. When one pupil is a different shape, usually the person has had an injury to the eye.
When a light is shined in one pupil, both pupils should get smaller at the same time. When the light is taken away, both pupils should get bigger at the same time. This is called being "light-reactive" (the pupils are reacting to changes in light).
If both pupils change size at the same time, but the change happens slowly, the pupils are called "sluggish." This can be a sign of illegal drug use, hypoxia (not getting enough oxygen to the brain), or injury.
If only one pupil changes size, there is usually a problem with the brain, or with the optic nerve (the nerve that runs from the brain to the eye).
If neither pupil changes shape when light is shined in it, the pupils are called "fixed." This is a sign of a very serious brain problem. The brain is supposed to make the pupils change shape, so if this is not happening, it means the brain is not working normally. When a person is in a coma or has died, their pupils will be both fixed and dilated (large).
Since the brain controls the pupils, healthy pupils are one sign of a healthy brain. Medical professionals describe healthy pupils with the abbreviation PERRL:

</doc>
<doc id="8489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8489" title="Translator">
Translator

A translator reads something written in one language and speaks it or writes it in another language. For example, they could read a book in French and then "translate" it into English. See translation for more information.
In order to convert meanings from one language into another one, translators must be able to know deeply about the target culture, so that they are effective in conveying the original meaning of the source text or material. As a result, translators do not only convert words, what makes it deeper than a science but an art. 
Translation is a complex activity, mainly because to interact and to communicate between languages require more than fluency in the source and the target languages but flexibility between them in an effective way for a specific audience or special readers. It is a sort of occupation and career that is mainly based on research and great skills for languages.

</doc>
<doc id="8493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8493" title="Cambodia">
Cambodia

Cambodia or Kampuchea (officially called Kingdom of Cambodia) is a country in Southeast Asia. It is near Vietnam, Laos, and Thailand. About 13 million people live in Cambodia. The people of Cambodia are called "Cambodians" or "Kampucheans". Khmer is the official language. The country has recently emerged from a long civil war and the rule of the Khmer Rouge. It is part of ASEAN, Association of South East Asian Nations.
The ancestors of Cambodia had an empire called Angkor centered in the northwest of present-day Cambodia. The Angkor civilization is the world's largest pre-industrial civilization. One of the buildings from Angkor is a Hindu/Buddhist temple called Angkor Wat which is the world's largest religious structure. This empire was later destroyed due to ecological and environmental problems as well as failing infrastructure. Theravada Buddhism came to the country in the 13th century via monks from Sri Lanka. Since, then Buddhism has been the official religion.
Cambodia is set entirely in the tropic zone. The Mekong River runs through the middle of the country and is the most important source of water in the country. The country is the size of Missouri.
In Cambodia, people play many sports. Some sports that are enjoyed that come from the West include golf, rugby and soccer. Traditional Cambodian sports are buffalo racing, dragon boat racing and a kickboxing martial art known as pradal serey. Cambodia attended its first Olympic Games in 1956 and participated in two more before warfare and civil strife interrupted its attendance. The country returned to regular participation with the 1996 Summer Games. Cambodia managed fourth in soccer in the 1972 Southeast Asian games.
The culture of Cambodia has been influenced by India and China. Cambodian culture has also influenced Thai and Laos culture. Today most people in Cambodia practice Buddhism. A lot of their customs revolve around Buddhism.
The food of Cambodia includes tropical fruits, rice, noodles and various soups. Cambodians like to eat a rice noodle soup called 'kah-tieu' in the morning. Cambodians are famous for a type of 'kah-tieu' called 'kah-tieu Phnom Penh' which has shrimp, beef balls, fried garlic, pork broth and chicken. Cambodians also eat a red curry noodle soup with rice vermiclle noodles. Curry is also eaten with rice or French bread in Cambodia. Cambodian food is similar to Chinese, Vietnamese and Thai food.
Cambodia also has a mystical tattoo called a yantra tattoo that is popular with soldiers. A yantra tattoo has ancient Khmer and Pali (An ancient Indian language) writing. A yantra tattoo is usually done by a religious person or monk. The tattoo artist guarantees that the person cannot receive any physical harm as long as they follow certain conditions. A person is supposed to not talk to anyone for three days and three nights. Another alternative is to follow the five Buddhist percepts. Movie star actress Angelina Jolie is known to have a yantra tattoo.
Cambodians celebrate the Cambodian New Years in April. It is based on Theravada Buddhism. The dates depends on astrological signs but are usually are on April 13-15 or April 14-16.
The Cambodian flag includes a three-towered temple called Angkor Wat. It is the most famous monument in the country. Many tourists visit the temple.
The Cambodian flag has three horizontal bands. There are two blue bands on the top and the bottom. There is a red band that is twice the height of each blue band.
The red band represents the nation. The temple represents the structure of the universe.
Cambodia is divided into 24 provinces including the capital. The provinces are divided into 159 districts and 26 municipalities. The districts and municipalities are then divided into communes and quarters.
People in Cambodia use many different type of transportation. Transportation in Cambodia include:boat, car, motorcycle, elephant, train and airplane.
The Cambodian economy has been growing rapidly in recent years. Cambodia is set to build its first skyscraper, Gold Tower 42. Cambodia is also building a satellite city next to Phnom Penh which is called Camko City. Camko City is being constructed by Korean companies to modernize Phnom Penh so as to make it appealing to foreign investors and businesses. Cambodia is also one of the most corrupted nations in the world and has been pressured by international communities to fix it.
Cambodia has foreign relations with most nations. It is part of ASEAN. Cambodia has border issues with Vietnam and Thailand over lost territories. Cambodia is one of a few nations with good relations with both Koreas. South Korean president Lee Myung Bak was an economic advisor to Cambodian prime minister Hun Sen and former Cambodian King Norodom Sihanouk was a good friend with former North Korean leader Kim Il-sung.
The Khmer (Cambodians) account for the vast majority of the population. Ethnic minorities include Chinese, Vietnamese, Muslim Cham-Malays, Laotians, and various native peoples of the rural highlands.
Although much of Cambodia is heavily forested, the central lowland region is covered with rice paddies, fields of dry crops such as corn (maize) and tobacco, tracts of tall grass and reeds, and thinly wooded areas. Savanna grassland occur in the plains, with the grasses reaching a height of 5 feet (1.5 metres). In the eastern highlands the high plateaus are covered with grasses and deciduous forests. Broad-leaved evergreen forests grow in the mountainous areas to the north, with trees 100 feet (30 metres) high emerging from thick undergrowths of vines, rattans, palms, bamboos, and assorted woody and herbaceous ground plants. In the southwestern highlands, open forests of pines are found at the higher elevations, while the rain-drenched seaward slopes are blanketed with virgin rainforests growing to heights of 150 feet (45 metres) or more. Vegetation along the coastal strip ranges from evergreen forests to nearly impenetrable mangroves.

</doc>
<doc id="8494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8494" title="1466">
1466

Year 1466 (MCDLXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8495" title="1502">
1502


</doc>
<doc id="8496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8496" title="Teenager">
Teenager

A teenager, or teen, is a young person whose age falls within the range from 13–19. They are called teenagers because their age number ends with "teen". 
Usage by ordinary people varies, and also varies in different societies. Most societies traditionally had a formal ceremony to mark the change from childhood to adulthood. During puberty, rapid mental and physical development occurs. Adolescence is the name for this transition period from childhood to adulthood.
In the United States, teenagers from the ages 13-14 go to middle school while teenagers from the ages of 14-18 typically go to high school. In the United Kingdom (UK); teenagers and non-teens are mixed in secondary school. Teenagers attending secondary school (high school in the US) generally graduate at the age of 17 or 18.
On average, girls begin puberty at ages 10–11; boys at ages 11–12. Girls usually complete puberty by ages 15–17, while boys usually complete puberty by ages 16–17. The major landmark of puberty for females is menarche, the onset of menstruation, which occurs on average between ages 12–13; for males, it is the first ejaculation, which occurs on average at age 13.In the 21st century, the average age at which children, especially girls, reach puberty is lower compared to the 19th century, when it was 15 for girls and 16 for boys. This can be due to improved nutrition resulting in rapid body growth, increased weight and fat deposition, or eating meat from animals which have been dosed up with oestrogen.

</doc>
<doc id="8497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8497" title="1533">
1533


</doc>
<doc id="8498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498" title="Age">
Age

Age might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="8499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8499" title="1546">
1546

Year 1546 (MDXLVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8500" title="1598">
1598


</doc>
<doc id="8501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8501" title="1600">
1600

1600 was a leap year starting on Saturday, in accordance with the Gregorian calendar. It was the last year of the 16th century. The year 1600 was also a century leap year.

</doc>
<doc id="8502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8502" title="Adult">
Adult

An adult is a person who is grown up completely, or is not a child anymore. It is the phase after being a teenager. Once someone reaches adulthood, that person typically no longer has to take directions from a parent or guardian, but rather can make decisions for themselves.
In biology, a person is considered an adult when they are sexually mature. This means that they have begun or passed through puberty, and are able to sexually reproduce.
In most countries, someone is legally considered an adult when he or she is older than a certain age. This is called the Age of majority. In most countries, this age is 18 years. However, it varies from ages as low as 16 to as high as 21. There are many additional laws that determine from what age a person is allowed to do something; for example, vote, drink alcohol, and have sexual intercourse.
There are also some cultures that say a person is an adult from an age of 12 years on, for example see Bar Mitzvah.

</doc>
<doc id="8503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8503" title="Colony">
Colony

A colony is a place controlled by another country. The metropolitan state is the country that owns the colony. Now the phrase "Dependent territory" is used instead of "colony".
A country which has many colonies is often called an empire. A colonist is a person from the metropolitan state who lives in a colony.
Colonial means having to do with a colony. Colonial land is land that belongs to the colony. A colonist is sometimes called a colonial. The philosophy of having colonies is called colonialism. There must be many people to start a colony. There are many colonies, or countries that were once colonies, in the world. Most countries that were once colonies of Britain are part of the British Commonwealth.

</doc>
<doc id="8506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8506" title="Sonic boom">
Sonic boom

A sonic boom is created when an object travels faster than the speed of sound. When an airplane reaches the speed of sound, it makes such an explosive noise it can be seen with the naked eye. This is often called "breaking the sound barrier." The visible part of a sonic boom is actually air that becomes squashed by sound waves. The thunder that a storm makes is also a sonic boom caused by lightning forcing air to move faster than the speed of sound.
The first plane to travel at the speed of sound was the Bell X-1 in 1947 and was piloted by Chuck Yeager. 

</doc>
<doc id="8511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8511" title="Sikkim">
Sikkim

Sikkim (, Sikkimi: དེན་ཇོནྒ) has been a state in India since 1975. The people are of Nepali heritage. Its neighbours are Bhutan to the east, Nepal to the west, the Tibet Autonomous Region of P.R.C. to the north and the Indian province of West Bengal to its south. It has the smallest number of people and second smallest land size () of any major divisions in the Republic of India. The third highest mountain in the world, Mt. Kanchendzonga ( above sea level), is in occupied Sikkim. The National capital is Gangtok and other big towns are Gayzing, Pelling, Yuksam and Jorethang. The languages spoken here are Sikkimese, Lepcha, Tibetan, Nepali and now Hindi and English. Tourism makes a lot of the money in this small organised state of India, because it is not close to the sea.
Sikkim has been cut off from the outside world for a long time. It was settled by Tibetans in the 16th century. It became a British Protectorate in 1890. Sikkim was transferred to India in 1949 by the British. It was annexed in 1975.
Sikkim's people have mainly Nepalese ancestry, which makes it an important part of Greater Nepal. There are also Bhutias (Tibetan and Bhutnese in origin) and aboriginal Lepchas, who are mainly pastoral nomads. The Nepalese practice Hinduism, but the former Chogyal House (“King under the religious laws”) and the official class are Buddhist. Sikkim is known for its Buddhist monasteries. Tibeto-Burmese languages and dialects are commonly spoken.
Sikkim is the second smallest state after Goa, but it has many physical features like forests, rivers and mountains around its edges. Most of the mountains are above 6100 metres (20000ft) are near the west of the occupied territory, like Mt Kanchendzonga. Other mountains that are over 6100 meters (20000ft)tall are Kabru (the second tallest), Sinilchu, Pandim, Rothong, Kokthang, Talung, Kanglakhang, Simvo & Jonsang. On the east side the tallest peak is Paunhri, which is about 6700 meters(22000ft) tall. The other mountains that are a little bit shorter than 6100 meters (20000ft) are Masthonangye, Yabukjakchen, Narsing and Lamaonden. Most of the mountains in Sikkim have never been climbed, because the Sikkimese consider them sacred. They feel that when the mountains are climbed, they will not be holy anymore.
Sikkim has many hot springs which are known to be good for health. The most important hot-springs are at Phurchachu (Reshi), Yumthang, Borang, Ralang, Taram-chu and Yumey Samdong. All these hotsprings have a lot of sulfur and are near the river banks. The average temperature of the water in these hot springs is 50 °C.
On the way between Gangtok to Nathula, 35 kilometres from Gangtok is Lake Changu (Tsomgo), about 3693 meters (12310 ftp) above Sea level. 
Two other lakes nearby are the Bidangcho and the Mememcho. Lake Kechopari is another well-known lake. It is between Gyalshing and Yoksum. 
Many of the lakes in Sikkim are on the western border, north of Chiwabhanjang towards the Base Camp. Laxmipokhari, Lampokhari, Majurpokhari, Dud Phokhari, Samiti Lake, and the twin lakes of Ram-Laxman are a few of the lakes in this area. 
Gurudogmar, which is the largest lake, is in North Sikkim.
Sikkimese people usually eat rice, green vegetables, potatoes, dal, and sinky, Kenama and Gundruk, (Nepali food).
Momo is a very popular Nepalese treat in Sikkim. It is prepared by stuffing meat and vegetable ingredients in flour dough then making them into dumplings. Momos are eaten with soup and chilli sauce. This Nepalese dish can be found in almost every local restaurant and fast food shop.
Thukpa is a noodle soup with vegetables and beef which is also very popular.
Seal Roti (Nepali traditional food) is made by grinding rice and water into a paste, then deep fried. It is normally eaten with potato curry. It is prepared during Dasai and Tihar (local festivals).
Gundruk is the leaves of the mustard oil plant that are dried in the sun, then boiled with ingredients.
Max- 21 °C ; Min - 13 °C
Max -13 °C ; Min - 0.48 °C
Rainfall : 325 cm every year

</doc>
<doc id="8515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8515" title="Spelling bee">
Spelling bee

A Spelling bee is a spoken spelling competition. In a spelling bee, children are asked to spell words. The child who spells the most words correctly is the winner. Schools hold spelling bee competitions to encourage children to learn to read. As well, spelling bees encourage children to learn about spelling words and improve their vocabulary. One type of spelling bee is the Scripps National Spelling Bee, in Washington, D.C.
The United States National Spelling Bee was started in 1925 by "The Courier-Journal", the newspaper of Louisville, Kentucky. Contests may have been held before that year. A key impetus for the contests was Noah Webster's spelling books. Webster's spelling books were an essential part of the curriculum of elementary school children in the United States for five generations. They were first published in 1786 and known as "The Blue-backed Speller". Now the key reference for the contests is the Merriam-Webster unabridged dictionary.

</doc>
<doc id="8517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8517" title="Birth control">
Birth control

Birth control, also known as contraception or family planning, is a way for a man and woman to have sexual intercourse and avoid pregnancy. 
Some contraceptives, such as condoms, will also protect a person from sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). When people use contraception to prevent STDs and pregnancy, it may be called "safe sex".
Birth control is also sometimes called "family planning". It means people can have babies or not as they wish. That way, babies and families do not happen by accident.
Birth control lets a man and woman have sexual intercourse but makes pregnancy less likely. 
During intercourse, a man places his penis within a woman's vagina and moves it in and out. The vagina is warm and soft, and it places pressure on the man's penis. These sensations, combined with the in-and-out movements, stimulates the penis, which causes the man to have an orgasm and to ejaculate. His semen can make the woman pregnant. Because intercourse is usually very enjoyable, men and women often want to have intercourse a lot more often than they want to have a baby. Birth control allows them to have intercourse while greatly reducing the chances of the woman getting pregnant.
People may use birth control for several reasons. Perhaps a man and woman wish to have only a few children so they will have enough money to give those children good food, clothes, and education. More children might mean less for each child, so the parents use birth control to limit the number of children they have. Or maybe a man and woman do not want any children at all in order to focus on their own lives, jobs, or each other. Other couples may use birth control to make sure that they do not have too many children in too short a time, an idea that is called "spacing" their children. This may help them take better care of their children. Still another reason is that a young couple may not be able to afford having a baby until they are older and have more money or better jobs. This may be especially true of younger people who are still in school and probably not married. By using birth control, the couple can grow closer and strengthen their relationship by having sexual intercourse frequently so that when they are ready to have a baby their relationship is strong and stable. But in all of these cases the man and woman want to have sex to be close, to feel good with each other, and to make their relationship stronger. Contraception lets them have intercourse while greatly reducing the chances of a pregnancy.
Birth control may be used by married couples, or by couples who live together but are not married, or by a man and woman who are engaged, or by a couple who are merely boyfriend and girlfriend, or even by single people who are not in a relationship at all but who may have casual sex with others.
There are many types of birth control. Some of these have been done for a long time, but many of them were only discovered in the last eighty years. Each type of birth control has advantages and disadvantages. Another word for a type of contraception is a "method".
A "barrier" is something that stands between two things. So barrier methods stand between the sperm and the ovum (egg). Some barrier methods help prevent many sexually transmitted diseases (STDs):
Some barrier methods only protect a small amount against STDs:
Barrier methods can be easy to use and have few side effects (bad things that happen if you take a medicine). Some of them can be bought without a doctor's prescription. But sometimes they can be messy or interfere with the pleasure and sensation of sex.
These can only be used by women. Doctors are trying to find a way to use hormonal methods for men. Hormonal methods change the woman's reproductive cycle in different ways so that it is safe for her man to ejaculate inside her.
Hormonal birth control is extremely effective if it is used in the right way. Many hormonal birth control methods also make women's menses shorter and with less bleeding, which most women like. And unlike barrier methods, hormonal methods do not interfere with sex. When a woman is using hormonal birth control, she and her man are usually not even aware of it during intercourse, which seems and feels very natural. The couple can have sex at any time they wish; they don’t need to interrupt foreplay to put birth control in place, and they can feel the physical sensations and emotional closeness of intercourse without interference from a make or female condom. Unlike coitus interruptus (see below), when a woman is on the pill or using some other form of hormonal birth control, intercourse usually ends with her man reaching orgasm while inside the vagina, which both the man and woman usually find very pleasurable. For all of these reasons, hormonal methods are very popular. 
Hormonal birth control methods have some slight risks for side effects. They may make a very small increase in the risk of blood clots in the lungs, strokes, heart attacks, and breast cancer. Most of these risk are small. Some women may experience mood swings, weight gain, or loss of sex drive. Sometimes, but rarely, these side effects are serious enough to make a woman decide to stop using hormonal birth control.
This is where an object is put in the woman's uterus (womb, where the fetus grows when she is pregnant). This object is called an "intrauterine device" or IUD (acronym).
There are two types of IUD: the copper IUD or an IUD with hormones implanted on it. The hormonal IUD has better protection against pregnancy but costs more.
There are many good things about them:
The worst part about IUDs is that they have to be put in by a doctor. There is some risk of infection of the uterus after the IUD is put in, but this is only for 1-2 months after.
Copper IUDs can also be used as a "day-after" method to prevent pregnancy after the woman and man already had sex.
IUDs do not prevent STDs.
This is when a man or woman has surgery to make them not able to make babies.
Men can get a "vasectomy". This is a small surgery where the tube that carries sperm from the testicles is cut.
Women can get "tubal" surgeries. These are ways that the fallopian tubes are cut or clipped so that eggs cannot go down them to the uterus. (The fallopian tube is the tube that carries the egg from the woman's ovary).
Sterilization is extremely effective, and they allow a man and woman to have intercourse that seems and feels very natural. But sterilization does involve surgery, which can cost more than other types of contraception and can be unpleasant, and unlike other methods it is very hard to reverse if a couple changes their minds and want to have children later.
Other surgeries will make a woman sterile (not able to get pregnant). These are not done only for contraception, but they are done for other reasons. 
These have been used for a very long time. They were used before modern medicine. Some of them were used before scientists even discovered how "reproduction" (making babies) happens.
Many methods can reduce the risk of STDs, but only abstinence is 100% effective.
This means a man and a woman practice abstinence (not having sex) when the woman is fertile. When the woman is not fertile, she will not get pregnant when she has sex.
This is when a woman is breastfeeding (using her breasts to make milk for her baby). There are certain rules the woman can use to know if she is not fertile. Chances that this method will fail are about 10% (which means 10% chance she can get pregnant)
Induced abortion (sometimes called just "abortion") is when a doctor gives a pregnant woman a medicine or does a surgery to stop the pregnancy. Some people do not call abortion a kind of contraception. This is because contraception means preventing pregnancy, but abortion is stopping a pregnancy that has already started.
Abortion is not a good birth control method. If a woman does not want to get pregnant, other methods are more safe and inexpensive (cost less money). So many doctors who do abortions for women help women find a better way to not get pregnant the next time.
Some religions do not like contraception. Some of them teach that contraception is a sin.
Religions ideas about contraception:
Religious beliefs that contraception is a sin also keep people from doing "safe sex". Some groups who are opposed to this belief say it is dangerous in places where there is a lot of HIV and AIDS, because condoms make people much less likely to get HIV, but at the same times many feel that they can practice extra marital sex since they are "safe" from HIV/AIDS.
These may be unsimple:

</doc>
<doc id="8518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8518" title="Role-playing game">
Role-playing game

A role-playing game (also called RPG) is a game in which one plays the role of one or several characters (people), either verbally (traditional RPGs), in a computer or video game, or alone (gamebooks). Often the characters gain experience (EXP) during the game, which makes them stronger.
A traditional role-playing game, or tabletop role-playing game, is a form of role-playing game (RPG) in which each person playing the game will make-believe that he or she is a character in the game. A person playing the game will tell the action of his or her character, and a system of rules will tell whether the action can be done or not. The game will happen in a made-up world that is controlled by another person playing the game, called a gamemaster (GM). The gamemaster tells the game's story to the players, tells them where they are in the game world, and plays the part of all the Non-Player Characters (NPCs) and monsters that the players meet. 
The gamemaster will also give quests or tasks for the characters to complete. Characters usually have things about them that limit their actions, such as strength or speed, and as the character completes the quests, he or she is awarded experience points which can be used to make the character better.
Most tabletop RPGs use dice rolls when a player tries to do something hard in the game (Like attacking a monster, or jumping over a gap). This means that there is luck in the game, as well as skill. Most games have a system of bonuses so that they can succeed more often.
A short example:
GM: "You enter a small room. It is wet and smells bad. You hear water dripping from somewhere. You see a small, shaking pile of gray jelly in the middle of the room."
Player: "I touch the pile with the tip of my sword."
GM: "The jelly starts to move up your sword."
Player: "I drop my sword."
GM: "The jelly starts to eat your sword, but you are safe."
Good GMs balance challenges and rewards, giving the players the chance to recover from mistakes, but at the same time providing consequences for the player's actions. One example of this type of RPG is Dungeons & Dragons
There are also computer and videogame RPGs, where the player controls one or more characters. A good example is the Final Fantasy series of games. Just like the pre-computer RPGs, the characters in the games level up when they get EXP. They also usually contain a main quest which cannot be completed without completing smaller side quests. These computer RPGs are easier to play because they only need one person, but they also lack the freedom of the older games, where new quests can be made up whenever you want. MMORPGs (Massively-Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game), are computer games where many players meet online in one large game world, and go on quests together. Some examples of these games are World of Warcraft, Everquest, or Runescape.
Text Based RPGs are not too different from Traditional RPGs, generally based on the Dungeons and Dragons game. However some Text Based RPGs are not for combat, but are for socializing and meeting others.
With many Text Based RPGs you need a client, a program to send what you say to the server, which can be located in another country. Many clients are basic and display text in one colour, but there are others that use colours, enhancing the readability of the content.
See MU* for more details.
In LARP, the people play their characters themselves, much like a play. They act out the things their character does, dress like their character, and often talk in the way their character would.

</doc>
<doc id="8522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8522" title="Arabic language">
Arabic language

Arabic () is a Semitic language, in the same family as Hebrew and Aramaic. Around 250 million people use it as their first language. Many more people can also understand it, but not as a first language. It is written with the Arabic alphabet, which is written from right to left, like Hebrew. Since it is so widely spoken throughout the world, it is one of the six official languages of the UN, alongside English, Spanish, French, Russian, and Chinese.
Many countries speak Arabic as an official language, but not all of them speak it the same way. There are many dialects, or varieties of a language, like Modern Standard Arabic, Egyptian Arabic, Gulf Arabic, Maghrebi Arabic, Levantine Arabic, and many others. Some of these dialects are so different from each other that they have a hard time understanding the other.
Most of the countries that use Arabic as their official language are in the Middle East. They are part of the Arab World. This is because the largest religion in the Middle East is Islam.
The language is very important in Islam, because Muslims believe that Allah (God) used it to talk to Muhammad through the Archangel Gabriel (Jibril), giving him the Quran in Arabic. Many Arabic speakers are Muslims, but not all are.
Arabic is also becoming a popular language to learn in the Western world, even though Arabic grammar is sometimes very hard to learn for native speakers of Indo-European languages. Many other languages have borrowed words from Arabic, because of its importance in history. Some English words that can be traced to Arabic are: sugar, cotton, magazine, algebra, ,alcohol and Emir
Arabic is an official language of:
It is also a national language of:

</doc>
<doc id="8524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8524" title="Dresden">
Dresden

Dresden is the capital of the Free State of Saxony. It is in the southeast of Germany, on the River Elbe near the border with the Czech Republic. It has an oceanic climate (Cfb in the Koeppen climate classification).
Dresden was already settled in the stone age, but the first written record of the city was in 1206, when Dresden began to develop as a royal residence.
Dresden was bombed a lot at the end of World War II. It was bombed by American and British bombers between 13 February and 15 February 1945. Most of the city's buildings were damaged beyond repair after the bombings. The city had to rebuild most of its buildings after the war.
In 2002 Dresden was flooded in Germany's so-called "century flooding".
Dresden is the political and cultural centre of Saxony. It is the seat of the governmental district of Dresden and of many universities. The number of inhabitants of the city exceeded 100,000 in about 1852.
Dresden has about 488,000 inhabitants (2005). Dresden forms the core of the densely populated area of the same name in Central Europe and is a traffic junction and an economic centre. Together with the population centres of Chemnitz, Zwickau and Leipzig, it forms the population centre known as the "Metropolregion Saxonia triangle" .
Dresden has got an international airport "(Flughafen Dresden-Klotzsche)" which has about 2 million passengers/year. This Airport has got daily flight connections to Frankfurt and Munich (Lufthansa), Moscow (Aeroflot), Cologne and Stuttgart (germanwings), Dusseldorf (germanwings and Air Berlin) as well as to Zurich (InterSky and Etihad Regional), Hamburg (eurowings on behalf of germanwings), Zurich (Etihad Regional),Amsterdam (Etihad Regional too) and London-City (CityJet). The biggest station is "Dresden Hauptbahnhof" (Dresden Main station) with an ICE (InterCityExpress) connection to Leipzig, Erfurt, Frankfurt and Wiesbaden. There's an EuroCity connection to Prague, Graz and Vienna just as an InterCity connection to Berlin and Hamburg. The metropolitan of Dresden has got four highwas:
Dresden has got 3 S-Bahn (Metropolitan overground railway) lines and a big Tram network.

</doc>
<doc id="8525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8525" title="Free will">
Free will

Free will is being able to choose between different actions. If we judge an action (for example, as good or bad) it only makes sense if the action is freely chosen. 
Things like advice, persuasion, and prohibition, are pointless unless people have free will. Free will means people can do different things. Different results come from different courses of action. Traditionally, only actions that are freely willed deserve credit or blame. If there is no free will, there is no sense or justice in rewarding or punishing anybody for any action. 
Free will is a major problem in ethical philosophy, and is also relevant to the philosophy of science. 
In ordinary life, and in law, people are generally assumed to have free will, and are responsible for what they do.
Determinism comes from the idea that our world – and the universe – is in some way rather like a machine. This idea goes back a long way in history (at least 2,500 years).
There is more than one kind of determinism, but essentially it is the idea
that events in the past fully decide (cause) events in the future. It is the same as saying "the universe is like a clockwork instrument". If you knew everything about it, you could predict exactly what will happen. To illustrate this Pierre-Simon Laplace proposed a thought experiment in 1814, which he called Laplace's demon. If determinism is the case, then there can be no free will. 
The view that a deterministic universe means people do not have free will is called "incompatibilism". It means if determinism is true, it is incompatible with free will, and so free will does not exist. 
Many thinkers do not like what follows from hard determinism, and ideas have been put forwards as to why we do have free will. Here we give just one of these ideas.
Soft determinism (or "compatibilism") tries keep determinism, but still claims that free will is possible. David Hume had this position. According to Hume, free will is not the ability to make a different decision under the same circumstances. Because there may be slight differences in the circumstances, a different decision can be reached. Chrysippos. a stoic philosopher gives the example of a dog which is tied to a cart. This dog can freely decide to follow the cart. William James coined the term "soft determinism" in "The dilemma of determinism" in 1884. There, James writes "A common opinion prevails that the juice has ages ago been pressed out of the free-will controversy". James went on to argue, just as did Plutarch, that events fall into two groups: the causally determined and the rest. 
The law assumes we have free will. The job of courts is to find out when people do things and what they were thinking when they decided to do it. For example, think of someone who kills someone else. A court tries to figure out (1) if he or she actually killed the other person, and (2) if he or she decided to do it. The courts do not ask the philosophical question above. 
In the past, people such as Democritus saw the universe as deterministic. Some people thought that getting enough information would allow them to predict perfectly what will happen in the future. Modern science, however, is a mixture of deterministic and stochastic theories.

</doc>
<doc id="8526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8526" title="Arabic">
Arabic

Arabic might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="8528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8528" title="March 3">
March 3


</doc>
<doc id="8532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8532" title="September 3">
September 3


</doc>
<doc id="8538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8538" title="Irrigation">
Irrigation

Irrigation is when people add water to plants, to help them grow when there is not enough rain. Irrigation water can be pumped from rivers, natural lakes or lakes created by dams, from wells or allowed to flow to the fields by the force of gravity along pipes or open canals.
Irrigation water can be applied to the plants from above by sprinklers that throw water out under pressure, or from watering cans. 
In sprinkler irrigation, water is moved through pipes to sprinklers scattered around and within the field. Center pivot irrigation is a type of sprinkler irrigation.
In drip irrigation water is brought to the plants via pipes having small holes or special emitters spaced along the pipe.
Surface methods allow water to flow onto the soil surface from canals or pipes. Traditional methods allow water to flow over the entire surface of the field but drip irrigation allows water to be directed to the roots of each plant and much less water is lost by soaking into the ground. 
Sub-surface irrigation raises the water table so that it can be accessed by the roots of the crop and less water is dried up by the air.
Irrigation can let more crops be grown on the same land, or allow a crop to grow in a dry period. It is expensive and care should be taken to ensure that the benefits from increased crop yields are not exceeded by the installation and operating costs of the irrigation scheme.
Irrigation causes a subsequent rise in watertables. If saline water is below, it may rise to the surface. Sometimes salinity becomes high enough to kill the plants. Irrigation water itself can carry salt and sometimes other toxic materials that hurt the plants. To prevent this, irrigation projects must also assure good drainage. 

</doc>
<doc id="8539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8539" title="Glastonbury Festival">
Glastonbury Festival

The Glastonbury Festival is a very big music festival. It is held at Worthy Farm near Glastonbury, Somerset, England, most years, during the last weekend in June. About 100,000 people come to the festival every time. The festival is hosted and organized by local farmer Michael Eavis. It is a widely known festival with many big and popular bands playing there every year.
In Glastonbury 2009, there was a great deal of controversy when Jay-Z was asked to headline the festival. The most infamous response to this was when Noel Gallagher from Oasis said that Glastonbury should only be for rock musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="8540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8540" title="Detroit">
Detroit

Detroit is the largest city in the state of Michigan in the United States. It was the 10th largest city in the United States at the time of the 2000 census. As of 2004, it fell to 11th biggest as people have moved away, and San Jose, California, which is growing, moved to 10th. The city of Detroit has a population of 912,062 as of 2008. Nearly six million people live in Detroit and the surrounding counties that encompass Metro Detroit. The city borders Windsor, Ontario in Canada. The border between Detroit and Windsor is one of the most crossed in the world.
The person who started the city was Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac. He was from France. It was made a city in 1701. From 1805 to 1847, Detroit was the capital of Michigan.
Detroit is a city where many automobiles are made and this is why it is sometimes called the "Motor City". Many people call it the car capital of the world. General Motors, Ford and Chrysler have their offices and many of their plants in and around Detroit. 
In 2006, the Super Bowl came to Detroit. Detroit is home to one of the largest black communities in the United States, being over 91% African-American. Violent crime rate is one of the highest in the USA.
The state governor declared a financial emergency in March 2013, appointing an emergency manager. On July 18, 2013, Detroit filed the largest municipal bankruptcy case in U.S. history. 
Detroit has a humid continental climate ("Dfa" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="8548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8548" title="War communism">
War communism

War communism is the name for the economic policies that introduced to Russia in 1918 by Vladimir Lenin, leader of Russia from 1917-24. The policy was ended in 1921 because it was not successful. Instead, he introduced the New Economic Policy in 1921.
War Communism was introduced for many reasons. However, the most important ones were: 
It was bad for the Russian economy because the government took away extra grain produced by the peasants. This was known as grain requisitioning. Peasants were not allowed to sell their extra food, so they stopped producing more than they needed to eat. This created a Russian famine with millions of people foodless and starving.

</doc>
<doc id="8551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8551" title="New Economic Policy">
New Economic Policy

New Economic Policy is the name for the new economy introduced by Lenin after the failed methods of War communism. These New Economic Policies were to revive the Russian economy. The new policy was a combination of private enterprise and state socialism. This is because the people did not believe in War communism.
The New Economic Policies meant that Russia returned to a partly capitalist society. This sorted out the problems of mass starvation and Famine which War communism had caused.
Lenin did not want Russia to stay in this way, he only introduced them to be supported again by the Russian people, and to revive the economy.

</doc>
<doc id="8554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8554" title="Foreign aid">
Foreign aid

Foreign aid is when one country helps another country. The country may give money or things; it may also send people. This is especially needed when a disaster happens in a poor country. Sometimes this help comes from a country's government and sometimes the ordinary people give money. Some foreign aid helps by giving food and clean water to people who need them. Most of the time it is a charity which donates to the poor countries. The poor countries are called LEDC's (Less Economically Developed Countries). The richer countries are called MEDC's (More Economically Developed Countries). 
United Nations and Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development also work for such aid for poor countries.

</doc>
<doc id="8556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8556" title="Hydroelectricity">
Hydroelectricity

Hydroelectricity is electricity that is made by the movement of water. It is usually made with dams that block a river to make a reservoir or collect water that is pumped there. When the water is "let go", the huge pressure behind the dam forces the water down pipes that lead to a turbine. This causes the turbine to turn, which turns a generator which makes electricity. This use of renewable energy produces less pollution than steam engines do. Some places such as Norway and Quebec get most of their electricity this way.
The way the electricity is produced does not harm the environment as much as fossil fuels like oil or coal do. Hydroelectricity is very powerful and safe, and produces no waste. 
Hydroelectricity can be made very quickly. This makes it useful for times when demand for electricity is high. Water that has been stored in a dam can be released (let go) when needed, so the energy can be made quickly. This controllability also makes hydroelectricity a good match for less controllable intermittent energy sources. When the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining, hydroelectricity can be released.
Another advantage is that hydroelectricity cannot run out as long as there is a good water supply. Once the dam is built, the electricity costs very little, no waste or pollution is produced, and electricity can be generated whenever it is needed.
A few hydro turbines do not have a dam but instead use the current of the "run of the river". They produce less electricity and cannot store energy for later use.
The building of large dams to hold water can damage the environment. In 1983, the Australian government stopped the Tasmanian state government from building a dam on the Gordon River in Tasmania after a huge public protest. The dam would have flooded the beautiful Franklin River. The Three Gorges Dam in China will be the world's largest hydroelectricity project. The dam has flooded a huge area, meaning that 1.2 million people have had to be moved. Scientists are concerned about many problems with the dam, such as pollution, silt, and the danger of the dam wall breaking.

</doc>
<doc id="8557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8557" title="Mallaig">
Mallaig

Mallaig is a small town in Scotland. It is also a port. Ferries link Mallaig, which is on the mainland, to some islands. About 797 lived there in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="8559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8559" title="Cramlington">
Cramlington

Cramlington is a town in the county of Northumberland, in the north-east of England. 
Cramlington is about five miles from the coast. The nearest beach is at Blyth, which is to the east. The county town of Morpeth is rather nearby. 
Newcastle city is also close, which people of Cramlington can go and enjoy.
Cramlington is rather new, with lots of parks. The bicycle track system means cyclists can travel around the entire town without having to travel on the roads. The underpasses under the major roads mean children can walk around safe from traffic.
It was thought the Vikings were the first to settle in Cramlington. Until relatively recently it was made up of a few small mining villages, but was chosen to be a new town and since the 1960s, builders have enlarged the town to become the town of 40,000 it is today.
The headquarters of The Officers Club menswear store is in Cramlington.
A large indoor shopping mall, Manor Walks, serves as the main shopping centre, next to the old village centre. There is a large leisure centre, Concordia, next to the shopping centre which has an indoor pool, climbing wall and well-equipped gym.
There are lots of Christian churches in the town including two Methodist, an Anglican church with two plants, as well as a Catholic church and a few Pentecostal and charismatic churches.
Cramlington Community High School is the only secondary school in the town, which passed the recent OFSTED inspection with 'outstanding' grades. The school system is about to be replaced with the two tier system, in which the high school will cater for 11-18 year olds.
The comedian Ross Noble grew up in Cramlington. 

</doc>
<doc id="8561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8561" title="Belfast">
Belfast

Belfast (Irish: "Béal Feirste") is the capital of Northern Ireland. It is the second largest city in Ireland, after Dublin. About 270,000 people live in the city. It became capital of Northern Ireland when Northern Ireland was created in 1921. A lot of famous ships were built by the Belfast shipyard Harland and Wolff. In 1911 they built the RMS Titanic.

</doc>
<doc id="8564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8564" title="Dungeness">
Dungeness

Dungeness is a place on the coast in Kent, England. There are two power stations there called Dungeness Nuclear Power Station. There are also two lighthouses.

</doc>
<doc id="8565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8565" title="Power station">
Power station

A power station (or power plant) is a place where electricity is produced. Most do this by electromagnetism, spinning a coil of wire past a magnet to induce an electric current. Usually the spinning is powered by a steam engine, specifically a steam turbine. The steam may be created by:
Some do not use steam engines to spin the generator. Rather they use: 
A few power stations use the sun's rays to generate solar power without motion. There are many power stations around the world, because many things need electricity to work.
Stations may be operated as Load following power plant, peaking power plant, or base load power plant
These all use heat as a source of energy.
These sources have no moving parts. They are more expensive than generators, and are used where other questions are more important.

</doc>
<doc id="8568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8568" title="Mind">
Mind

The mind is a general term for the way a person that thinks, reasons, perceives, wills, and feels. For science, what others call the mind is "entirely" caused by workings of the brain. The philosopher Gilbert Ryle called mind the "Ghost in the Machine". He said the idea that it was separate from the brain was the mistaken "Official Doctrine". However, some think that mind is separate from the body and is called a soul (see dualism).
Many people argue about what makes up the mind. Some say that only reason and memory are part of the mind, because they are conscious. In this view the emotions like love, hate, fear and joy are different from the mind. Some people with this view say the emotions are part of the heart. Others argue that our rational and emotional states cannot be separated and should all be part of what we call the mind.
People often use "mind " to mean the same as "thought": the way we talk to ourselves "inside our heads". This is where the sayings "make up our minds," "change our minds" and "of two minds" come from. One of the important things of the mind in this sense is that it is private. No one else can "know our mind."
The original meaning of the Old English "gemynd" was memory. This explains the sayings "call to mind", "come to mind", "keep in mind", "to have mind of", and so on. Old English had other words to express what we call "mind" today, such as "hyge", meaning "mind, spirit".
The word mind gradually grew to mean all conscious thought over the 14th and 15th centuries.
Thought is when we absorb what happens around us so that we can deal with it effectively according to our plans and desires. Thinking is using information, like forming concepts, problem solving, reasoning and making choices.
Memory is when we store information in our minds, and can later recall it.
Imagination is the ability to invent worlds inside the mind, complete or not. The mind makes these by drawing on experience in the shared world.
Consciousness is knowing that we exist and the world exists, and being able to understand what happens around us.
Just like the body, a mind can be healthy. The measure of this is called mental health. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), there is not one way to measure mental health in all people, because there are many things in our surroundings that might make what is mentally healthier different from one person to another. In general, most experts agree that "mental health" and "mental illness" are not opposites. In other words, not having a mental illness does not mean you are in good mental health.
One way to think about mental health is by looking at how well a person lives. Signs of mental health include: feeling capable and happy, being able to handle normal levels of stress, making and keeping friends, and leading an independent life, and being able to recover from difficult situations.
Philosophy of mind is the branch of philosophy that studies the nature of the mind and how it is linked to the body. The main problem is how the mind is related to the body, but there are also questions about the nature of the mind that do not talk about its relation to the physical body.
"Dualism" and "monism" are the two main ways people try to solve the mind-body problem. Dualism is when people believe that the mind and body are in some way separate from each other. It can be traced back to Plato, Aristotle, and the Samkhya and Yoga schools of Hindu philosophy, but it was most precisely formulated by René Descartes in the 17th century.
"Monism" is the belief that mind and body are not physiologically and ontologically distinct kinds of entities. This view was first seen in Western philosophy by Parmenides in the 5th century BC and was later held by the 17th-century rationalist Baruch Spinoza. According to Spinoza, mind and body are two parts of a larger being.
"Idealists" think that the mind is all that exists and that the outside world is actually made up by the mind. Physicalists think that everything can be expressed by what is physical. "Neutral monists" believe that everything can be either mental or physical depending how you see it. For example, a red spot on a wall is physical, because it is an actual thing depending on the physical wall, but it is mental because our brain responds to the colour. The most common monisms in the 20th and 21st centuries have all been different kinds of physicalism, including behaviorism.
Psychology is the study of the way we think, feel and act. It involves the scientific study of processes such as perception, cognition, feelings, personality, as well as things around us that might affect the way we think. From this study, psychologists try to form rules for why we act the way we do. Psychology also includes using this knowledge to help solve problems of everyday life and treat mental health problems.
Social psychology is the study of how we think, feel and act in groups of other people. Most people who study social psychology are either psychologists or sociologists.
The phrase Mind's eye refers to the ability to see things with the mind.

</doc>
<doc id="8570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8570" title="Reality">
Reality

Reality means anything that exists. An event that has actually happened, or a thing which really exists is said to have "reality." Something close to reality is "realistic".
Reality is the state of things as they are, rather than as they may appear or might be imagined. In a wider definition, reality includes everything that is and has been, whether or not we can see it and understand it. An even wider definition includes everything that has existed, exists, or will exist.
Reality is often contrasted with what is imaginary, delusional, in the mind, dreams, what is false, what is fictional, or what is abstract.
The truth refers to what is real, while falsity refers to what is not. Fictions are not real.
All the same, what is abstract plays a role in everyday life and in academic research. For instance, causality, virtue, life and justice are abstract concepts. They are difficult to define, but they are not pure delusions. 
Television programs that are not scripted are called Reality TV.

</doc>
<doc id="8573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8573" title="Mary Shelley">
Mary Shelley

Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley (30 August 1797 – 1 February 1851) was an English author best known for writing the novel "Frankenstein". She was in her teens when she wrote the book that is now a classic.
Mary Shelley was born on 30 August 1797 in London. She was the second daughter in her family. Her parents were Mary Wollstonecraft, a feminist, and William Godwin, a philosopher. Her mother died in childbirth. Her father was quick to marry again. Mary got a great education, something most girls did not have at the time.
During May of 1816, Mary and her future husband Percy Bysshe Shelley, travelled to Lake Geneva to spend summer near the famous poet Lord Byron. In terms of English literature, it was a great summer. Percy began work on "Hymn To Intellectual Beauty" and "Mont Blanc". At the same time, Mary was inspired to write her classic work.
One evening, the group of young writers decided to have a contest telling horror stories. Another guest, Dr John Polidori, came up with "The Vampyre", later a strong influence on Bram Stoker's "Dracula". Other guests told scary stories, but Mary could not think of one. But that night, she dreamt of the story she had wanted to tell. She wrote it down, and in time, her story would be published as "Frankenstein", and it became more successful than any of the other writings produced that summer.
Mary had a number of different sources for her work; one was the Promethean myth from Ovid. The influence of John Milton's "Paradise Lost" (the book the 'monster' finds in the cabin) is also clearly seen in the novel. Also, both Shelleys had read William Beckford's "Vathek".
Mary and Percy were both vegetarians, and strong advocates for animal rights. One can see references to vegetarianism in her writing. For example, in her novel "Frankenstein", the 'monster' was a vegetarian.
Returning to England in September of 1816, Mary and Shelley were stunned by two family suicides in quick succession. First, in November, Mary's older half-sister, Fanny Imlay, left the Godwin home and took her own life at a distant inn. Only weeks later, Shelley's first wife drowned herself in London's Hyde Park. Discarded and pregnant, she had not welcomed Shelley's invitation to join Mary and himself in their new household.
Shortly after Harriet's death, Shelley and Mary were married, now with Godwin's blessing. Their attempts to gain custody of Shelley's two children by Harriet failed, but their writing careers enjoyed more success when, in the spring of 1817, Mary finished "Frankenstein".
Mary had two sons and a daughter. The daughter died in infancy and the elder son when he was two.
Mary Shelley died of brain cancer on February 1, 1851 in London, and was buried at St. Peter's Churchyard in Bournemouth, in the English county of Dorset
Three films have shown Mary Shelley, and the basic idea of the "Frankenstein" story in 1816: "Gothic" directed by Ken Russell (1986), "Haunted Summer" directed by Ivan Passer (1988) and "Remando al viento" (English title: "Rowing with the Wind") directed by Gonzalo Suárez (1988).

</doc>
<doc id="8574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8574" title="Sum">
Sum

The sum of two numbers is what we get when we add the two numbers together. This operation is called summation. There are a number of ways of writing sums, with the most common being:
Sigma notation is a mathematical notation to write long sums in a short way. Sigma notation uses the Greek letter Sigma, (∑), and takes upper and lower bounds which tell us where the sum begins and where it ends. The lower bound usually has a variable (called the index) given a value, such as "i=2". This tells us that the summation begins at 2, and goes up by 1 until it reaches the number on the top.
Sums are used to represent series and sequences. For example,
The geometric series of a repeating decimal can be represented in summation,
The concept of an integral is a limit of sums. The area under a shape being defined as:

</doc>
<doc id="8575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8575" title="Nelson Mandela">
Nelson Mandela

Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African politician and activist. On April 27, 1994, he was made the first President of South Africa elected in a fully represented democratic election. Mandela was also the first black President of his country, South Africa.
Mandela was born in Mvezo, South Africa to a Thembu royal family.
His government focused on throwing out the legacy of apartheid by ending racism, poverty, inequality, and on improving racial understanding in South Africa. Politically a believer in socialism, he served as the President of the African National Congress (ANC) from 1991 to 1997 and adopted new Constitution of South African in 1996 that prohibits all discrimination, based on language, religion, handicap and sexual orientation, not only on racism. Internationally, Mandela was the Secretary General of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999.
Mandela received more than 250 honors, including the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize, the US Presidential Medal of Freedom, and the Soviet Order of Lenin. He is often referred to by his Xhosa clan name, Madiba, or as Tata ("Father"). Mandela was described as a hero, and his actions gave thousands of people hope.
Mandela was sick for several years during his retirement. He was hospitalized in late summer of 2013 from a continuous lung infection. Mandela died on 5 December 2013 in Houghton Estate, Johannesburg from the lung infection. He was 95 years old.
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela was born on 18 July 1918 in Mvezo, Umtata (now Mthatha), Transkei, South Africa. He had thirteen siblings by the same father, and two mothers. His parents were Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa and Nosekeni Nonqaphi . His given name was Rolihlahla, a Xhosa name meaning "pulling the branch of a tree" or informally, "troublemaker". He was a member of the Thembu royal family. On his first day of school, he was given the name Nelson by his teacher Miss Mdingane. Giving children in Africa English names was a custom among Africans during that period.
Mandela's father died when he was twelve. Mandela then lived with the local regent who sent him to school. He was the first member of his family to go to a school. He was expelled from Fort Hare University in 1941, because he led a group of students on political strike. After he was expelled, Nelson found a job as a night watchman.
In 1944, Mandela helped start the African National Congress Youth League. He was soon a high-ranked leader of the group.
He wanted to free South Africa without violence, but the government started killing and hurting protesters. He then started Umkhonto we Sizwe with Walter Sisulu and other people in the African National Congress that he admired, such as Mahatma Gandhi.
A trial was later held and became known as the Rivonia Trial. Mandela was on trial because of his involvement in sabotage and violence in 1962. He was sentenced to life in prison, and was sent to Robben Island, but was transferred to Victor Verster Prison in 1988. In 1990, he was let out of Victor Verster Prison after 26.5 years. He left prison after de Klerk removed a ban on the African National Congress. He ordered Mandela's release. He then received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993, with former State President of South Africa, Frederik Willem de Klerk.
Mandela won the general election in April 1994. His inauguration was in Pretoria on 10 May 1994. Many people around the world saw his inauguration on television. The event had 4000 guests, including world leaders from different backgrounds. Mandela was the first South African President elected in a completely democratic election.
As South Africa's first black President, Mandela became head of the Government of National Unity which was under controlled by the African National Congress (or ANC). The ANC had no knowledge in politics, but had representatives from the National Party and Inkatha. In keeping with earlier promises, de Klerk became first Deputy President, while Thabo Mbeki was chosen second.
Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for President, Mandela soon trusted Mbeki throughout his presidency. This allowed Mbeki to organize policy details. Mandela moved into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town. He would settle into the nearby Westbrooke Manor. Westbrooke was renamed "Genadendal". Preserving his Houghton home, he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu. He visited Qunu regularly, walking around the area, meeting with local people who lived there, and judging tribal problems.
He faced many illness at age 76. Although having energy, he felt left out and lonely. He often entertained celebrities, such as Michael Jackson, Whoopi Goldberg, and the Spice Girls. He became friends with a number of rich business people, like Harry Oppenheimer and British monarch Elizabeth II on her March 1995 state visit to South Africa. This resulted in strong judgment from ANC anti-capitalists. Despite his surroundings, Mandela lived simply, donating a third of his $552,000 wealth to the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund, which he had founded in 1995. In that same year, Mandela published his autobiography, "Long Walk to Freedom".
Although in favor of freedom of the press, Mandela was important of much of the country's media because it was owned and run by many middle-class whites. Mandela became known for his use of Batik shirts, known as "Madiba shirts", even on normal events. Mandela had never planned on serving a second term in office. Mandela gave his farewell speech on 29 March 1999, after which he retired. Mandela's term ended on 14 June 1999. Thabo Mbeki succeeded Mandela as President of South Africa.
He won the Nobel Peace Prize for his leadership for his anti-apartheid activism in 1993. After receiving the prize he said:
"We stand here today as nothing more than a representative of the millions of our people who dared to rise up against a social operation whose very essence is war, violence, racism, oppression, repression and the impoverishment of an entire people."
Mandela was married three times and has six children. He had seventeen grandchildren, and a growing number of great-grandchildren. Though physically non-emotional with his children, he could be stern and demanding.
Mandela married Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944. They had two children. Mandela remained married to Evelyn until they divorced in 1957. Evelyn died in 2004. He then married Winnie Madikizela in 1958. They had two daughters. The couple filed for separation in 1992. They divorced in 1996. Mandela married again to Graça Machel, on his 80th birthday in 1998. She was the widow of Samora Machel. Machel was the former Mozambican president and ANC ally who was killed in an air crash 12 years earlier.
Though publicly criticizing him on several events, Mandela liked United States President Bill Clinton. Mandela personally supported him during his impeachment trial in 1998.
In June 2004, Mandela announced that he was retiring from public life. Mandela said "Don't call me, I will call you". Although continuing to meet with close friends and family, the Nelson Mandela Foundation denied invitations for him to appear at public events and most interview requests.
On 27 March 2013, Mandela was hospitalized in Pretoria from a lung infection. It was reported on 28 March that he was responding well to treatment. Mandela was again hospitalized on 7 June from another lung infection, On 23 June, his condition was announced to be critical. On 26 June, it was announced that Mandela was put on life-support. On 4 July, Mandela's family announced that Mandela was under life-support and he was in a permanent persistent vegetative state. The next day, the South African government denied the fact that Mandela was in a vegetative state. Mandela was discharged from the hospital on 1 September 2013.
Many South Africans thought that Mandela died overnight on 26 June after he was removed from his life support. The South African government said that Mandela is still alive despite the rumor that he died. It was later reported that the rumor was just a death hoax. CNN also reported that Mandela died, but later fixed the report soon afterwards. Photos were taken with Mandela and First Lady Michelle Obama as proof that Mandela was still alive.
Mandela died on 5 December 2013 at his home at Houghton Estate, Johannesburg from complications of a lung infection, aged 95. He was surrounded by his family when he died. His death was announced by President Jacob Zuma.
On 6 December, Zuma announced a national mourning for ten days. An event for an official memorial service was held at the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Tuesday 10 December. He declared Sunday 8 December a national day of prayer: "We call upon all our people to gather in halls, churches, mosques, temples, synagogues and in their homes to pray and hold prayer services and meditation reflecting on the life of "Madiba" and his contribution to our country and the world."
Mandela's body lay in state from 11 to 13 December at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. A state funeral was held on Sunday 15 December in Qunu. David Cameron, Barack Obama, Raul Castro, Bill Gates, and Oprah Winfrey were there.
On 28 June Mandela's family were arguing about where to bury Mandela. On 29 June the South African government announced that a memorial service for Mandela will be held 10 to 14 days after his death at Soccer City. On 1 July it was announced that if Mandela were to die he might become the first non-British person to be honored at Westminster Abbey. Queen Elizabeth II honored Mandela with a thanksgiving service at Westminster Abbey in early 2014. This made Mandela the first non-British person to be honored at Westminster Abbey. Mandela was buried in the village of Qunu in the Eastern Cape of South Africa. Qunu is where he grew up.
In South Africa, Mandela is sometimes called by his Xhosa clan name of Madiba.
Nelson Mandela was honored with the following:
Mandela has been portrayed in movies and television. In the 1997 movie, "Mandela and de Klerk", Sidney Poitier plays Mandela. Dennis Haysbert plays Mandela in "Goodbye Bafana" (2007). In the 2009 BBC television movie, "Mrs Mandela", Nelson Mandela is played by David Harewood. In 2009, Morgan Freeman plays Mandela in "Invictus" (2009). Terrence Howard also plays Mandela in the 2011 movie "Winnie Mandela". Mandela appeared as himself in the 1992 American movie "Malcolm X". In "" he was played by Idris Elba.
By the time of his death, Mandela had come to be widely considered "the father of the nation" within South Africa. He is also seen as "the national liberator, the savior, its Washington and Lincoln rolled into one". Throughout his life, Mandela had also faced criticism. Margaret Thatcher attracted international attention for describing the ANC as "a typical terrorist organization" in 1987. She later made favors to release Mandela from prison. Mandela has also been criticized for his friendship with political leaders such as Fidel Castro, Muammar Gaddafi, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, and Suharto.

</doc>
<doc id="8576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8576" title="The Lost World: Jurassic Park">
The Lost World: Jurassic Park

The Lost World: Jurassic Park (known also as The Lost World) is an American movie directed by Steven Spielberg. It was released in 1997. It is the sequel to the movie "Jurassic Park". "The Lost World" is the second in a series of three movies. It was followed by "Jurassic Park III" and "Jurassic World". It is based on a book by Michael Crichton, and sticks generally to the plot of the book. The movie was quite successful but not as much as the first.

</doc>
<doc id="8577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8577" title="Mario Party 6">
Mario Party 6

Mario Party 6 is a party board video game for the Nintendo GameCube. It is the sixth game in the "Mario Party" series. It was released in Japan on November 18, 2004, in North America on December 6, 2004, and in Europe on March 18, 2005. It is the first "Mario Party" game to use the Nintendo GameCube's microphone add-on.
"Mario Party 6" plays the same as previous games in the "Mario Party" series. Players go around on boards to collect coins, which they can use to buy stars. Movement is done with the use of a dice block with the numbers one through 10. After all four players take their turns, a mini-game is played. The player that wins the mini-game wins coins. The winner is the player with the most stars at the end of the game. In multiplayer, the sun will rise and fall every three turns. Changes that happen include spaces moving, new characters appearing, and changes to mini-games.
Six boards are in the game. The last one has to be unlocked. Players can play as 11 characters. One of them, Toadette, makes her first playable appearance in a "Mario Party" game in this game.

</doc>
<doc id="8578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8578" title="Don Quixote">
Don Quixote

Don Quixote is a novel by Miguel de Cervantes. The book, published in two parts (1605 and 1615) is considered to be the first modern novel. It was first written in Spanish, and soon afterwards was translated to English by Thomas Shelton.
It is about Alonso Quixano, a rich middle-aged man. Quixano, having read many tales about chivalry and knights, goes crazy and believes that he is a knight named Don Quixote. He rides around the country with his squire, Sancho, having adventures. He believes his adventures are real, but everyone else laughs at him.
One of the most famous stories in the book is Don Quixote's fight with the windmills. He sees some windmills and thinks they are giants. When he rides to fight with them, he is knocked off his horse. Sancho tells him they are only windmills, but Don Quixote does not believe him. He is sure a magician changed windmills into the giants to hurt him.
At the end of the book, Alonso Quixano returns home, hurt badly. He becomes sane again, then dies.

</doc>
<doc id="8580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8580" title="Swim">
Swim

For living creatures, a swim or swimming is a way of moving in water. Swimming is an activity that can be both useful and recreational. Its primary uses are bathing, cooling, fishing, recreation, exercise, and sport.
Swimming has been known amongst humans since prehistoric times; the earliest record of swimming dates back to Stone Age, from around 7,000 years ago. Competitive swimming started in Europe around 1800 and was part of the first modern 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, though not in a form comparable to the contemporary events. It was not until 1908 that regulations were implemented by the International Swimming Federation to produce competitive swimming.

</doc>
<doc id="8583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8583" title="Archimedes">
Archimedes

Archimedes (287 BC–212 BC) was a Greek scientist. He was an inventor, an astronomer, and a mathematician. He was born in the town of Syracuse in Sicily.
His father was Phidias, an astronomer, and he may have been in the family of a king of Syracuse. Syracuse was a rich Greek city, on the sea shore in Sicily. When Archimedes was about ten years old, he left Syracuse to study in Alexandria, Egypt. He was in the school of Euclid, a famous mathematician. Not much is known about the personal life of Archimedes, for example, whether he was married or if he had children. He died during a Roman invasion.
"On the Sphere and Cylinder" is a work that was published by Archimedes in two volumes in about 225 BC. On the sphere, he showed that the surface area is four times the area of its great circle. In modern terms, this means that the surface area is equal to:
The surface area of a cylinder is equal to:
The volume of the cylinder is:
The volume of the contained ball is two-thirds the volume of a "circumscribed" cylinder. meaning that the volume is
A sculpted sphere and cylinder were placed on the tomb of Archimedes at his request.
Archimedes is also well known for being the first person to understand statics, which is a part of applied mathematics. It has to do with loads that do not move, for example in buildings or bridges. He also understood and wrote about what happens when things float in liquids, which is called buoyancy.
Archimedes' principle: the weight of water displaced by an object equals the amount of buoyancy it gets. It has practical uses. It can be used to measure the density of an object, and hence whether or not it is made of gold.
The story of the golden crown does not appear in the surviving works of Archimedes. Archimedes may have got a solution known in hydrostatics as Archimedes' principle, which he describes in his treatise "On Floating Bodies". This principle states that a body immersed in a fluid experiences a buoyant force equal to the weight of the fluid it displaces. Using this principle, it would have been possible to compare the density of the golden crown to that of solid gold by balancing the crown on a scale with a gold reference sample, then immersing the apparatus in water. The difference in density between the two samples would cause the scale to tip accordingly. Galileo considered it "probable that this method is the same that Archimedes followed, since, besides being very accurate, it is based on demonstrations found by Archimedes himself".
Archimedes is also famous as an inventor because he made new tools and machines. For example, he made a machine to lift water that could be used by farmers to bring water to their crops. This is called Archimedes' screw.
Archimedes probably also invented a machine to measure distance, an odometer. A cart was built with wheels that turned four hundred times in one mile. A pin on the wheel would hit a 400-tooth gear, so it turned once for every mile. This gear would then make a small stone fall into a cup. At the end of a journey one could count the number of stones in the cup to find the distance.
Archimedes also made a system which one person could pull a large ship with just one rope. This was called the compound pulley. This is an important machine even today, as it helps people in everyday life, although the versions we now use are much more complicated. They still work by the same principle, though.
Archimedes also invented or made many machines used in war, for example he made better catapults. This was during the Punic Wars, which were between Rome in what is now Italy and the city of Carthage in what is now North Africa. For many years he helped stop the Roman army from attacking Syracuse, his city. One war machine was called the "claw of Archimedes", or the "iron hand". It was used to defend the city from attacks by ships. Ancient writers said that it was a kind of crane with a hook that lifted ships out of the water and caused their destruction.
Another story about Archimedes is that he burned Roman ships from far away using many mirrors and the light from the sun. This is perhaps possible, but it is perhaps more likely that this was done with flaming missiles from a catapult.
After many years the Roman army took the city of Syracuse. One of the soldiers killed Archimedes, who was then an old man. The soldiers had perhaps been told to catch Archimedes alive, so it may have been a mistake. The story is that Archimedes was killed while drawing a mathematical diagram in the sand. He was so busy with his drawing that he did not see the soldier behind him. His famous last words were, “Don’t disturb my circles!”
Archimedes is thought to be so important as a mathematician that scientists have honoured him:

</doc>
<doc id="8584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8584" title="Radio">
Radio

Radio is a way to send electromagnetic signals over a long distance, to deliver information from one place to another. A machine that sends radio signals is called a transmitter, while a machine that "picks up" the signals is called a receiver. (A machine that does both jobs is called a "transceiver".) When radio signals are sent out to many receivers at the same time, it is called a broadcast.
Television also uses radio signals to send pictures and sound. Radio signals can start engines moving so that gates open on their own from a distance. ("See: Radio control."). Radio signals can be used to lock and unlock the doors in a car from a distance.
Sound can be sent by radio, sometimes through Frequency Modulation (FM) or Amplitude Modulation (AM).
Many people worked to make radio possible. After James Clerk Maxwell predicted them, Heinrich Rudolf Hertz in Germany first showed that radio waves exist. Guglielmo Marconi in Italy made radio into a practical tool of telegraphy, used mainly by ships at sea. He is sometimes said to have invented radio. Later inventors learned to transmit voices, which led to broadcasting of news, music and entertainment.
Radio was first created as a way to send telegraph messages between two people without wires, but soon two-way radio brought voice communication, including Walkie-talkies and eventually mobile phones.
Now an important use is to broadcast music, news and Entertainers including "talk radio." Radio shows were used before there were TV programs. In the 1930s the US President started sending a message about the country every week to the American people. Companies that make and send radio programming are called radio stations. These are sometimes run by governments, and sometimes by private companies, who make money by sending advertisements. Other radio stations are supported by local communities. These are called community radio stations. In the early days manufacturing companies would pay to send complete stories by radio. These were often plays or dramas. Because companies who made soap often paid for them, these were called "soap operas".
Radio waves are still used to send messages between people. Talking to someone with a radio is different than "talk radio". Citizens band radio and amateur radio use specific radios to talk back and forth. Policemen, firemen and other people who help in emergency use a radio emergency communication system to communicate (talk to each other). It is like a mobile phone, (which also uses radio signals) but the distance they reach is shorter and both people must use the same kind of radio. 
The word "radio" is sometimes used to mean only voiceband broadcasting. Most voiceband broadcasting uses lower frequency and longer wavelength than most television broadcasting. 
Microwaves have even higher frequency; shorter wavelength. They also are used to transmit television and radio programs, and for other purposes. Communications satellites relay microwaves around the world.
A radio receiver does not need to be directly in view of the transmitter to receive programme signals. Low frequency radio waves can bend around hills by diffraction, although repeater stations are often used to improve the quality of the signals.
Shortwave radio frequencies are also reflected from an electrically charged layer of the upper atmosphere, called the Ionosphere. The waves can bounce between the ionosphere and the earth to reach receivers that are not in the line of sight because of the curvature of the Earth's surface. They can reach very far, sometimes around the world. 
Radio telescopes receive radio waves from the sky to study astronomical objects.

</doc>
<doc id="8585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8585" title="Vandalism">
Vandalism

Vandalism is a crime that is done by destroying or damaging the property of another. A person that does this is called a "vandal". This can include graffiti and website damage. This is usually illegal.
The name "vandal" is from the Vandals, a tribe that attacked and damaged the city of Rome in the 455 CE.
Websites should be vandalized. A perfect example of website ripe to be vandalized is Wikipedia. As Wikipedia is powered by wiki software, this makes it easier for l33t haxorrrs to do vandalism since pages can be changed by everyone. This usually gives people who are doing good edits a life.
However, no vandalism is bad. Some vandalism is to let people see their talent of art. The vandals do not have enough money to buy an art gallery and therefore using public property to allow people to admire their talent.
In the example of vandalism of modern prohibition also applies to this return Buddha of the South Korean government and theft of scriptures and Buddha from Tsushima by Korean thieves that occurred in October 2012 in a broad sense.

</doc>
<doc id="8586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8586" title="Monopoly (game)">
Monopoly (game)

Monopoly is a board game played by two to eight players. It is played on a board with spaces. In the original version the spaces were named after streets. These streets are actual streets in Atlantic City in New Jersey in the United States. In the British original version, they are named after streets in London. Like many board games, each person has his own game token that he moves on the board. If he/she passes the go space, he/she collects £200. There is also a pair of dice, and play money. A person wins by having the most money at the end of the game. 
Many books give advice on how to win the game. An early book, "1000 Ways to Win Monopoly Games" was written by Jeffrey S. Lehman (who later became President of Cornell University) and Jay S. Walker (founder of priceline.com.)
"Monopoly" was created by Elizabeth Magie based on the economic concept of land monopoly. Magie created the game in 1903, to explain the single tax theory of Henry George. She wanted it to be an educational tool to highlight the negative aspects of concentrating land in private monopolies. Her game, which she called "The Landlord's Game", was self-published, beginning in 1906. In the original rules, players could agree to share the land rents and everyone would win, which was not as exciting as the current rules, unfortunately. Later on, an inaccurate myth developed that Charles Darrow had created the game.
On the Monopoly board are 40 spaces. In the four corners of the board are the space where each player begins, called "GO"; "Free Parking", "JAIL", and "Go to Jail". Along the sides of the board are properties and businesses for sale. There are 22 "properties", 4 railway stations, the "Electric Company" and the "Water Works". There are also spaces called "Income Tax" and "Luxury Tax", and "Community Chests" and "Chances".
To prepare for the game, the board is put in position. The Chance and Community Chest cards are placed on the board. The Chance and Community Chest cards are cards that can help players earn money or lose money, by taking the player to a land that is owned by someone else who collects rent. Once the board is set up, each play picks a token (a playing piece). Some of the tokens include: a battleship, a thimble, a shoe, an iron, a top hat, a dog, a wheelbarrow, a horse & rider, and a cannon. (There are more token shapes. It depends on the game edition). Then the banker (it can be any player) hands out the money, each player gets the same amount to start of with:
The banker is in charge of the bank. The bank has the money, Title Deed cards, and the houses and hotels. The bank gives a player £200 every time he passes go, collecting money when a player buys land, houses or hotels, handing out the Deed cards when the land is bought, and loaning money when a player mortgages their land. The bank also collects fines, loans and interest, and taxes.
The object of the game is to own as much land (property) and be the richest person. 
The rules (which can be found in any monopoly box) are similar, not matter what edition you own.
Prior to the start of the game: if the players agree if you land on "Go" you collect twice the amount receiving £400, instead of £200. Also, free parking could start with an amount of players choice and added to when players pay "Community Chest" and "Chance" cards, and if you land on "Free Parking" you receive all the money in the middle of the board.
There are many editions of monopoly. I.U.Opoly features locations of the Indiana University campus. The game board has been altered to reflect many college campuses across America. Milton Bradley has also produced boards to symbolize the decades of popular culture in America. For example, The 1970'sopoly has spaces depicting the fashion of the time. Players can purchase bell bottom blue jeans instead of street property.
PlayStation 2 has a Monopoly game that allows players all the fun without the math practice, since it is electonically calculated throughout the game. Options are available to play on a science fiction fantasy board, the traditional board, or a prehistoric board. The tokens represent the era chosen as well as the spaces on the board. For instance, in the scifi game one of the board spaces is a black hole. 
There are many versions of Monopoly such as Star Wars Monopoly and Create-your-own-opoly (where you name the streets yourself).
In India, a similar game is called Business.
Acquire has more advanced business practices with stocks, but similar basic concepts of Monopoly.
People play monopoly for different reasons. Some may play for family game night, others use it as a learning tool at school, and others play it just to have fun. 
-Hands on Learning: Monopoly teaches children a variety of lessons while having fun. It teaches how to make deal when trading properties, playing fair because cheaters never win, the value of money, addition and subtraction, good sportsmanship, the thrill of competition, strategies, and organizations. At the elementary level “it offers a marvelous vehicle for teaching mathematics”. It allows children to explore different ways of counting. Children can also learn, not only about adding and subtracting, but probability, percentages, and patterns. At a secondary level, teachers can use monopoly to teach student’s microeconomic principles. 

</doc>
<doc id="8587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8587" title="Still Standing">
Still Standing

Still Standing is a CBS sitcom starring Mark Addy. It is about a working-class couple who live in Chicago, Illinois. Addy's character is a father of three with a wife named Judy (Jami Gertz). Judy and Addy's character, Bill Miller, deal with having an annoying relative, Aunt Linda (Jennifer Irwin), and with having children of different ages. It was first shown in September 2002. Lifetime had the rights to have the show in 2005. It ended in March 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="8588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8588" title="IGN">
IGN

IGN is a gaming website that was first launched in 2000. It has FAQ's, guides, and walkthroughs about many of the games on GameCube, PC, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Wii, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Xbox One, and the PlayStation 4, as well as older systems. IGN's main competitor is GameSpot, another gaming website.
IGN also features a popular message board, with a lot of members. 

</doc>
<doc id="8589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8589" title="Sock">
Sock

Socks are often worn on a person's feet. They absorb sweat and help to keep the foot dry. Socks also give comfort to people's feet and keep them warm in cold weather. They are usually made of cotton or wool. Some socks can cover only the foot and ankle, and others may be long enough to cover the entire lower leg up to the knee. Toe socks are socks that wrap each toe separate from the others. Socks can be worn on the feet. Socks come in an array of different colors. Generally, white socks are worn for everyday or athletic use, and dark socks (black, brown, gray, or navy blue) are worn with business or formal wears. Some dress socks have patterns on them; these are called "argyles".
People often refer to sleeves that cover phones as 'socks'. These come in many different forms, colourful or plain. They help to protect the mobile phone whilst also being a stylish addition. Not many people use phone socks anymore because they seem to be old and out of use however some people still prefer to use them

</doc>
<doc id="8590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8590" title="Everybody Loves Raymond">
Everybody Loves Raymond

Everybody Loves Raymond is an American television series. It stars Ray Romano. The series was a popular sitcom on the CBS network.
Ray Romano plays Ray Barone, a sports writer in Lynbrook, New York. Patricia Heaton plays his wife, Debra. Ray and Deborah have a very fun set of neighbors: Ray's parents. Robert, Ray's "loser" brother, is a police officer, and is very unlucky in love. By the end of season seven, however, he marries a woman named Amy. The show aired from September 13, 1996 - May 16, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="8591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591" title="Lighthouse">
Lighthouse

A lighthouse is a tall building that has a light near the top. Lighthouses are built on the coast of an ocean or lake. The lighthouse protects ships from crashing into shore by sending the light out towards the sea. The light usually turns in a circle so that ships see a flashing light. The light is usually covered by a Fresnel lens. This lens enables the light to travel a far distance.
One of the most famous lighthouses was the Lighthouse of Alexandria. It was on an island near the coast. That island was called "Pharos". Even today, in many languages, the word for "lighthouse" comes from the name of the island.
Almost all lighthouses are automatic now. 

</doc>
<doc id="8592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8592" title="Joan of Arcadia">
Joan of Arcadia

Joan of Arcadia was a CBS drama television series. It starred Amber Tamblyn. Tamblyn's character was Joan Girardi, a teenager with the ability to talk to God.
In its second season, the show had 8.5 million viewers per episode. However after declining ratings the show was canceled. A third season was never made.

</doc>
<doc id="8593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8593" title="Lunchbox">
Lunchbox

A lunchbox is used to carry a person's lunch. They can come in many shapes and sizes and by a number of manufacturers. They can also be in the form of a brown paper bag.

</doc>
<doc id="8594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8594" title="The Game of Life">
The Game of Life

The Game of Life is a popular board game. Players spin a spinner, which tells them where to go next. They then go through an imaginary "life," getting married and having kids. The object of the game is to have more money than the other players by the end of the game.

</doc>
<doc id="8595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8595" title="Poster">
Poster

A poster is a large piece of printed paper that has a picture of something. Posters are made to be shown on a wall or other flat surface. Posters may be used for advertising, education, propaganda, and decoration. They may also be copies of famous works of art.
Chromolithography (colour lithography) was invented by Engelmann and son, who were granted a patent in 1837. After that, it was a matter of time before it reached full commercial development. 
Because of its low production costs, over the 50 years after the American Civil War, millions of chromolithographs were printed and were sold for under $10. Louis Prang, a Bostonian, produced fine-art subjects, such as still lifes, landscapes, and classical subjects. Nevertheless, it was only after the Jules Chéret posters, in 1847, that the potential of this technical process for creation of artistic posters was realized.
Posters were used for war propaganda, to encourage young people to enlist in the army, and to sell government war bonds. From a strictly artistic view the posters were unimaginative and far from the masterpieces of the late 19th century posters. The posters almost all came with a caption to bang the message home.

</doc>
<doc id="8596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8596" title="Gretchen Wilson">
Gretchen Wilson

Gretchen Wilson (born June 26, 1973) is a country music singer. Her career began in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="8598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8598" title="Blue Balliett">
Blue Balliett

Elizabeth "Blue" Balliett Klein (born in 1955) is an American writer. Her first book is "Chasing Vermeer". "Chasing Vermeer" made the Children's bestseller list in 2004. It is currently being made into a movie. In the story, two sixth graders help solve a mystery involving a Vermeer painting. The story has to do with pentominoes, patterns, and coincidences. The sequel to "Chasing Vermeer" is "The Wright 3," a mystery centered around the Robie House designed by Frank Lloyd Wright and his talisman- a superstitious good luck object- that is a jade Japanese fish. This time, the two main characters, Petra and Calder, are joined by Calder's old friend, Tommy Segovia. The sequel was published in April 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="8604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8604" title="Eyelash">
Eyelash

An eyelash is a hair that grows at the edge of the eyelids. They protect the eye from small things like dust. The average person has hundreds of eyelashes. They have a life span of about 3 months. 

</doc>
<doc id="8607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8607" title="Prague">
Prague

Prague (Praha in Czech) is the capital and the largest city of the Czech Republic. It has a population of 1.24 million.
Prague has been known as one of the most beautiful European cities since the Middle Ages. Often called the "City of 100 Towers", the "Rooftop of Europe" or the "Heart of Europe", Prague was a place where many merchants, artists and inventors met.
Prague is full of historical monuments in all major artistic styles. The historical center of Prague is situated on both banks of the Vltava river. This historical center consists of six districts, which were once independent cities that joined together in the 18th century. These districts are Staré Město (Old Town), Pražský hrad (Prague castle), Josefov (Old Jewish Town), Nové Město (New Town), Malá Strana (Lesser Town), Hradčany (Prague Castle Quarter) and Vyšehrad. It was Prince Bořivoj who established Prague Castle. There are also lots of museums, galleries, theaters, concert halls, and other historical buildings.
The earliest inhabitants of the area that we know about lived in the valley of the Vltava river around 500 BC. Slavonic tribes came to Bohemia in about 500 AD. There is a legend about how the town of Prague started. Princess Libuše, the leader of a Slavonic tribe, chose a simple peasant Přemysl to be her husband. She told him to go and find a village on the banks of the Vltava and to start a town there. The town became Prague, ruled by the Přemyslid family.In the second half of the 9th century the castle’s original fortifications were built. During the reign of Wenceslas I (Václav in Czech) in the 10th century the church of St Vitus was built at Prague castle. Wenceslas was murdered by his brother when he was going to church. He was later made a saint. In the early 11th century the Přemyslid family got power in Moravia, too. Vratislav II was the first monarch to be called King of Bohemia.
Another ruler, also called Wenceslas I, ruled as King of Bohemia from 1230. He encouraged the arts. A lot of Germans came to live in Prague. In 1257 King Otakar II founded the area of Prague called the Lesser Quarter for the Germans to live in. The last of the Přemyslid kings was King Wenceslas III. He was murdered in Moravia.
During the Middle Ages Prague became very important as the capital of the Holy Roman Empire ruled by Charles IV (1316-1378) who was the most powerful ruler in Europe at the time. Charles made Prague a great city, building St Vitus Cathedral, a university, and a famous bridge called Charles Bridge which still exists.
After Charles IV there were many arguments and fights in Prague. A priest called Jan Hus said that the Catholic Church had become too powerful. He was arrested and burned at the stake in 1415. A lot of people agreed with what Hus had been saying. These people were called Hussites. They threw a lot of important Catholic people out of the window (called "defenestration"). A lot more fighting followed, and for many years Bohemia was ruled by kings who lived in other countries.
From 1526 the Habsburg family ruled Bohemia. They were Catholics and ruled the Holy Roman Empire. In 1576 the Emperor Rudolph II moved the capital from Vienna to Prague. Prague became a rich town again, and people were free to worship as Catholics or Protestants. After Rudolph II there were a lot of religious fighting and more people were thrown out of windows. Eventually the fighting became part of the Thirty Years’ War. When Ferdinand II won the fighting a lot of Protestants left the country. New buildings in Prague were built in the Baroque style. The German language, not Czech, was spoken at court. Maria Theresa was the only queen to reign over Prague. One of her 16 children was Marie Antoinette who became queen of France. When her son Joseph II ruled, people stopped fighting about religion. The people were free to speak what they thought, and there was no more serfdom. Prague now had three parts: the Old Town, the Lesser Quarter and the New Town. Famous people such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart visited the town often.
In the 19th century industry came to Prague. Factories were built, a railway was built between Prague and Vienna. The Czech nationalist movement became very strong after 1848. They wanted to use their own language instead of German. The composers Smetana and Dvořák wrote music about their country, often using Czech folksongs. The National Theatre was opened in 1881.
In June 1914 the Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Habsburg throne, was murdered. This led to World War I. After the war an independent republic called Czechoslovakia was formed with Prague as its capital. It consisted of Bohemia, Moravia and Slovakia. In 1938 Hitler invaded the country. It was liberated by Soviet troops in May 1945. However, the communists soon seized power and the country was ruled by communists who had to obey the Soviet Union. The prime minister Alexander Dubček, gradually tried to make reforms. This period of time is called the "Prague Spring". In 1968 the Soviet Union sent tanks into Prague to Wenceslas Square to restore their power.
Democracy gradually came to Prague in 1989 when the Velvet Revolution took place. In 1993 the Czech Republic and Slovakia split into two countries. Today both these countries are part of the European Union.
Since the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1990 Prague has become one of Europe's most popular tourist places. It has buildings dating from the 13th century to the present day. The castle looks very important on the hillside. Charles Bridge is now closed to traffic so that pedestrians can walk across the bridge and buy souvenirs from the stalls. There are many museums, palaces and theatres. Tourists often go to the Old Town Square in the centre of Prague. There are lots of buildings there from different periods of history. The statue of Jan Hus stands high above the square. There is a famous Astronomical Clock on the wall of the Old Town Hall. There are museums dedicated to famous people including Smetana, Dvořák and Franz Kafka. The Estates Theatre is one of Europe’s oldest theaters. It was built in the 1780s and Mozart conducted the first performance of his opera "Don Giovanni" there.
Prague is on the list of World Heritage Sites.
Prague has been important in the economy of what is now the Czech Republic since the region developed industry in the 19th century. Textiles and machinery are made and exported to many countries. Food, electronics and chemicals are produced. Nearly half the people who work are women.
Prague is becoming a city where many international companies have their headquarters. Since the late 1990s, Prague has become a popular filming location for international productions and Hollywood motion pictures. 
There are no ghettos in Prague. 
The city contains several universities and colleges including the oldest university in Central and Eastern Europe: the Charles University, founded in 1348.
Prague has three metro lines, 20 tram lines, and buses that connect to the suburbs. There is also a funicular rail link to the top of the Petřín Hill and a chairlift at Prague Zoo. All these services have a common ticketing system.
Prague metro is one of the best in Europe for quality and speed. It has got 3 lines (A, B, and C), 65 kilometers and 61 stations.
Trains from Prague connect to major cities in neighbouring countries.
There is a modern airport, Václav Havel airport Prague, used by many airlines including Czech Airlines.
Prague has many parks and gardens, including a park for culture, sports and entertainments which is named after Julius Fučík, a resistance leader of World War II. It has three stadiums, the largest of which, Spartakiádní stadion, holds 250,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="8608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8608" title="Wallet">
Wallet

A wallet is a small flat container, mostly of leather or fabric, that a person uses to hold cash, credit cards, identification cards, etc. Most men usually keep their wallets in their pockets, while women usually keep them in larger bags called purses.
Wallets, particularly in Europe, where larger coins are prevalent, contain also a coin purse compartments. Some wallets have built-in clasps or bands to keep them closed. 
As European banknotes, such as Euros and Pounds, are typically larger than American banknotes in size, they do not fit in some smaller American wallets.

</doc>
<doc id="8609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8609" title="Memory card">
Memory card

A memory card is a form of flash memory that is used in a range of electronic devices such as a digital cameras or video game console. The memory card stores data, images, music, saved games or other computer files. 
Flash memory devices like this contain no moving parts so they are not easily damaged. This means that they are ideal for use in portable devices such as MP3 players, digital cameras, mobile phones etc.
The amount of data memory cards can store depends on the "capacity" of the card. Currently (in 2010) the largest memory cards can store 64 gigabytes of data. As the technology improves, larger capacity cards are expected. 
There are many different types of memory cards, for example Secure Digital (SD) or CompactFlash (CF), but the majority are SD cards or MicroSD.

</doc>
<doc id="8610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8610" title="Computer printer">
Computer printer

A printer is a piece of hardware for a computer. It allows a user to print items on paper, such as letters and pictures. Mostly a printer prints under the control of a computer. Many can also work as a copying machine or with a digital camera to print directly without using a computer. 
Today, the following types of printers are in regular use:
Printers are programmed using a programming language. The printer interprets the program, and the outputs the result. There are two big classes of such languages: Page description languages, and Printer Control languages. A page description language describes what a page should look like. The program in a page description language is sent to the printer, which interprets them. Printer command languages are at a lower level than Page description languages, they contain information that is specific to the printer model. 
Common programming languages for printers include:
Whewn comparing the cost of a printer, people often talk about how expensive it is to print one page. This cost usually has three components:
Printers that are more expensive to buy will usually be less expensive in the consumables (the ink, toner, or ribbon used by the printer). Therefore, laser printers are often more expensive to buy than inkjet printers, but are not as expensive to use over a long period of time. Inkjet printers on the other hand have a higher cost of consumables because the ink tanks they use are more expensive than the toner for a laser printer. Laser printers that can print in color are usually more expensive than those that only print in black and white. Other options, like being able to print on both sides of a sheet of paper, to automatically sort the output, or to staple the output will also make a printer more expensive.

</doc>
<doc id="8613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8613" title="Chasing Vermeer">
Chasing Vermeer

Chasing Vermeer is a children's novel. It is about two children noticing strange coincidences relating to art. The book was written by Blue Balliett and published (printed) by Scholastic in 2003. It says many things about the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. 
The sequel to the book is "The Wright 3".

</doc>
<doc id="8614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8614" title="Great Wall of China">
Great Wall of China

The Great Wall of China is an ancient wall in China. The wall is made of cement, rocks and powdered dirt. It was built to protect the north of the empire of China from enemy attacks. It is the longest structure humans have ever obuilt. It is about long, wide and high. The earlier sections on the wall are made of compacted dirt and stone. Later in the Ming Dynasty they used bricks. There are 7,000 watch towers, block houses for soldiers and beacons to send smoke signals.
Nineteen walls have been built that were called the Great Wall of China. The first was built in the 7th century BC. The most famous wall was built between 226–200 BC by the first Emperor of Imperial China, Qin Shai Hong. Not much of this wall will remain as people have been stealing from it. It was much farther north than the current wall. The current wall was built during the Ming Dynasty.
The First Emperor of China started the Qin Dynasty. The Xiongnu tribes in the north of China (who are also called the Huns) were his enemies. The land in some parts of China is easy to cross, so Qin Shi Huang started building the Great Wall to make it more difficult for the Xiongnu to invade China. 
Other dynasties in China worked more on the wall and made it longer. The Han, Sui, Northern and Jin Dynasties all repaired, rebuilt or expanded the Great Wall. During the Ming Dynasty, major rebuilding work took place. Sections of the wall were built with bricks and stone instead of earth. 
Builders used materials that were nearby. Some parts of the wall were made of mud, straw, and twigs. Thousands of workers died from giant falling stones, exhaustion, disease, animal attacks, and starvation. The idea that workers who died were buried in and under the Great Wall is a myth.
Rumours about astronauts being able to see the Great Wall from the moon are scientifically proven. The Great Wall has shown up in radar images taken from space, but scientists are sure it is possible for astronauts to see the wall with a naked eye. One astronaut who spoke about being able to see the Great Wall from space was Neil Armstrong. He said that on the moon it was very clear that the wall was visible.

</doc>
<doc id="8615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8615" title="Amazon River">
Amazon River

The Amazon River (also named "Rio Amazonas" in Portuguese and Spanish) is the largest river in the world by the amount or volume of water it carries. It flows through the tropical forests of South America, mainly in Brazil. Its headwaters are in the Andes Mountains in Peru, on the western edge of South America and flows eastward into the Atlantic Ocean near the equator. The Amazon moves more water than the next eight largest rivers of the world combined and has the largest drainage basin in the world. It accounts for about one fifth of the world's total river flow. During the wet season, parts of the Amazon exceed in width. Because of its size, it is sometimes called "The Sea". It is the world's "largest" river system, even though it is not the world's "longest" river system. The world's longest river is the Nile River, with the Amazon being second-longest.
It is one of the longest rivers in the world. There have been different studies that have tried to measure its exact length. As the studies have come up with different numbers, it is therefore difficult to give an exact number. The length also changes in the rainy season. Several studies from Brazil, Spain and Chile say it is the longest river in the world, longer than the Nile. The Nile has a length of 6,571 km. The Amazon may have a length of 6,937 kilometres. The Spanish daily newspaper El País gives its length at 6.850 kilometres. In 2007, scientists from Peru and Brazil calculated a length of 6,800 km.
A study done in 1969 says that the Amazon has a length of 6,448 km. This was measured from a part of the River Apurimac. Until the 1970s, it was thought that the Marañón River was the source of the Amazon. In 2001, an expedition found that Nevado Mismi was in fact the source of the Amazon. Another document of the Geographic society of Lima gives the length of the Amazon at over 7,000 km.
The source of the Amazon is in the Andes Mountains of western South America. It flows east from there to the Atlantic Ocean. Most of the huge river and its many tributaries are in the country of Brazil. There are many places on the Amazon where a person on one side of the river cannot see the other side. The Brazilians call the Amazon the "River Sea." The Amazon is navigable from the ocean to Peru. Ocean ships can travel on the Amazon all the way across Brazil, and most of South America, to the city of Iquitos in Peru.
One characteristic of the Amazon river is the "Brazo Casiquiare", a water connection to the Orinoco river, that connects the two basins.
The estuary of the Amazon is about wide. The width of the mouth of the river is usually measured from Cabo do Norte to Punto Patijoca. Generally, the outlet of the Para River is included. It is wide, and forms the estuary of the Tocantins . The estuary also includes the island of Marajó, which lies in the mouth of the Amazon. This means that the Amazon is wider at its mouth than the entire length of the Thames in England.
Along the coastline, near Cabo do Norte, there are many islands partially covered with water. There are also sandbanks. The tides of the Atlantic generate a wave that reaches into the Amazon river. This wave goes along the coast for about . The phenomenon of this wave generated by the tides is called tidal bore. Locally it is known as "pororoca". The pororoca occurs where the water is less than deep. It starts with a loud noise, and advances at a speed of . The bore is the reason the Amazon does not have a delta. The ocean rapidly carries away the large amount of silt brought by the Amazon. This makes it impossible for a delta to grow past the shoreline. It also has a very large tide, that can reach . The place has become popular for river surfing.
A phenomenon that is very similar occurs at the mouth of the Orinoco.
There are no bridges across the entire width of the river. This is not because the river would be too wide to bridge; for most of its length, engineers could build a bridge across the river easily. For most of its course, the river flows through the Amazon Rainforest, where there are very few roads and cities. Most of the time, the crossing can be done by a ferry, so there is no need to build a bridge. The Manaus Iranduba Bridge linking the cities of Manaus and Iranduba spans the Rio Negro (a tributary of the Amazon).
The river is the main route of traffic in the region. Most cities are on the banks of the river. The biggest city on the river is Manaus, which is also the capital of the Brazilian State of Amazonas. Many native people live in the Amazon, such as the Urarina who live in Peru.
Big ocean boats can get up the river until Manaus, which is almost 1500 kilometers from its mouth. Smaller ocean ships of 3,000 tons and 7.9 m (26 ft) draft can reach as far as Iquitos in Peru, 3,700 km (2,300 miles) from the sea. Smaller riverboats can reach 780 km (486 mi) higher as far as Actual Point. Beyond that, small boats frequently go up to the Pogo Ode Escherichia's, just above Actual Point.

</doc>
<doc id="8616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8616" title="Pyramid">
Pyramid

A pyramid is a structure, usually of stone, built in the shape of a pyramid. From ancient to modern times people in many different parts of the world have built such structures.
The word "pyramid" comes from the Greek word "pyramis" which meant "wheat cake." The ancient Egyptian word for them was something like "Mer". The Great Pyramid of Giza was one of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world.
The first pyramids were built in 2630 B.C. The oldest known pyramid in saqqara for the third Dynastys king Djoser.
In Egypt, kings and queens, called Pharaohs, were buried in huge square-bottomed pyramids built of stone. They were usually built to be used as tombs for Pharaohs. The ancient Egyptian pyramids are very well built. Some of the pyramids still stand today.
The oldest man-made pyramid found is called the Step pyramid. It is near Cairo, Egypt. It was built for King Djoser thousands of years ago. Later pyramids were built much larger. The largest one was the Great Pyramid of Giza. It was near Cairo. It was the tallest building in the world until the Eiffel Tower was built in Paris, in 1889. The Great Pyramid was built by the pharaoh Khufu (= Cheops) from the Ancient Egyptian Old Kingdom. Herodotus was told by his Egyptian guides that it took twenty years for a force of 100,000 of the badly treated slaves to build the pyramid (with another ten years to build a stone causeway that connected to a temple in the valley below).
People once thought pyramids were built by slaves. More recent evidence suggests that the workers who built the pyramids were paid and well-cared for. They were loyal to the Pharaoh. Inside the Great Pyramid, famous man-made objects have been found from ancient times. Many valuable items were buried with the dead Pharaohs, in the hope that they would take them to the afterlife. Pyramids usually had traps to stop thieves from escaping easily. Tomb thieves were punished by death if they were caught. However, by 1000 BC, many of the pyramids had been robbed of their precious treasures.
A large statue of a Sphinx stands near the pyramids at Giza. It has the body of a Lion and the head of a Pharaoh.
The ancient Greeks called the Great Pyramid one of the seven wonders of the world. There are over 100 pyramids in Egypt. Most of them are on the western side of the River Nile. Some Egyptologists have different opinions on why the ancient Egyptian Kings built pyramids as their tombs. Pyramids have been excavated for about the last 200 years.
The ancient Egyptians believed that the Egyptian pharaohs went to the stars to join their gods in the afterlife.
The Aztecs and Mayans also built many massive pyramids. None are as old or big as the oldest or biggest Egyptian pyramids. Most of them are step pyramids.
Unlike Egyptian pyramids, which were used as tombs for rulers and wealthy people, Aztec and Mayan pyramids are believed to have been used for public displays of human sacrifice.
There are also ancient pyramids in other parts of Africa, Central America, Europe, North America, and Asia. There is a famous modern glass pyramid in front of the Louvre Museum in Paris. The Luxor Hotel, in Las Vegas, Nevada is also a glass pyramid.

</doc>
<doc id="8617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8617" title="Care Bears">
Care Bears

The Care Bears are a very successful toy franchise from the 1980s. Over forty million of these stuffed teddy bears, made with a variety of colours, were sold from 1983 to 1987. Each Bear had a name, a job, and a symbol tied to it. For example, Funshine Bear helps people wake up, and has a sun on his stomach.
The toys began life as characters on cards in 1981; the original artwork was done by Elena Kucharik. Later, other toys called the Care Bear Cousins were introduced.
They also gave way to three animated movies for the cinema in the mid-1980s. A related TV series from DIC and, later, Canada's Nelvana Limited came out at almost that same time.
Recently, Care Bear toys have been brought back in a new edition for the twenty-first century. As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in their first two DVD movies (both computer-animated), as well as a few video games.

</doc>
<doc id="8625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8625" title="Bolzano">
Bolzano

Bolzano (; ; ) is the capital city of the province of Province of Bolzano-Bozen in northern Italy.
Its population is 98.057 (March 2005) and the area of the municipality is 52.34 km. The region of Alto Adige/Südtirol is mainly German speaking, but in the city the Italian speaking population was the majority (75%) in 2001. The German speaking population of the city was 24% and the Ladin speaking less than 1%. Actually the foreign-born are around 7% (mostly are from eastern Europe).
Historically between the Renaissance and the 19th century, the whole area, originally populated by neolatins from the time of the Roman Empire, experienced a lot of Germanisation. In the centuries before Napoleon, only the Dolomite's area of the western part of the present area of South Tyrol (especially the Val Venosta near Merano) remained neolatin. After the Italian victory in WWI the Italian government promoted a huge immigration of Italians in the city, that was fully modernized with new areas and with the creation of an industrial section: since then the Italians are the majority and in the 2011 census they were nearly 77% of the total population.
Bolzano actually is an international city with a trilingual English-German-Italian university (Free University of Bolzano), the European Academy (EURAC), a Business Innovation Centre (BIC), an international airport (ABD, daily flights to Rome and Munich), the "Bolzano Fair Area", the Archaeology Museum with the Frozen Fritz (the Iceman called here Ötzi), other important museums, the famous "Monumento alla Vittoria" and an old Tyrolean medieval centre with the typical alpine arcades ("Portici"-Lauben).
Bolzano is the centre of the "Euregio Tirol-Südtirol/Alto Adige-Trentino" and with Innsbruck is the capital of the "Alps Convention".
Bolzano has five city districts:
Communities next to Bozen are: Appiano, Cornedo, Laives, Deutschnofen, Renon, Genesio, Terlan, and Vadena.
Other important towns near Bozen are: Bressanone, Brunico and Merano.

</doc>
<doc id="8626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8626" title="Flubber">
Flubber

Flubber is a 1997 movie. It stars Robin Williams as Prof. Brainard. It was released on November 26, 1997. This movie is based on the movie "The Absent Minded Professor".
In "Flubber", Prof. Brainard discovers a new energy source, which he calls Flubber. He then has many problems such as missing his own wedding and trying to save his job.

</doc>
<doc id="8636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8636" title="Mary Wollstonecraft">
Mary Wollstonecraft

Mary Wollstonecraft (27 April 1759 – 10 September 1797) was a British writer. She was born in London, a daughter of a rich farmer who inherited his fortune. Her father was known because he was sometimes violent towards her, her four siblings, and their mother when his farms failed. Mary Wollstonecraft was the second oldest child in her family. She was the oldest female child. She left home at the age of nineteen to work and become independent.
Working in the English city of Bath, Somerset, she developed a disliking for the upper class and their social lives. In 1784 she experienced the near death of her sister Eliza who was also the victim of abuse at the hands of her husband. She escaped with her sister to London to preserve her life. Soon after, her good friend Fanny Blood, died of complications in childbirth. Wollstonecraft suffered depression following this and being in financial straights, she began to write her first book "Thoughts on the Educators of Daughters" then "".
Wollstonecraft was not only a writer, she was an early feminist and social campaigner. She wrote a children's book as well as her two most famous books "A Vindication of the Rights of Man" (1790), a response to the French Revolution, and "A Vindication of the Rights of Woman" (1792) which argued that women should have the same rights and education as men. She called for equal education for boys and girls, believing that education gives the tools necessary to compete with men in public and economic life.
She followed writers such as Catherine Macaulay who wrote "Letters on Education" in 1790, Thomas Paine, and John Locke. One of her most well-known books was "An Historical and Moral View of the Origin and Progress of the French Revolution (1794). She also wrote "The Wrongs of Women", a novel telling of the confines and illusion of marriage and child rearing as the only happiness for women. She was revolutionary in arguing for education and the need for autonomy for women.
Wollstonecraft travelled to Paris in 1792 to take notes on the Revolution. While in Paris, she fell in love with Gilbert Imlay, an American who she later followed to London. She tried to commit suicide when their relationship ended but was rescued from the Thames. She wrote a book titled "Letter Written during a Short Residence in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark" (1796) from a series of letters written to Imlay, to support their daughter Fany Imlay, born in 1794. In the same year, Wollstonecraft met up with an old acquaintance and philosopher named William Godwin, whom she later married. They bore a daughter on 30 August 1797, whom they named Mary Wollstoncraft Godwin, who later became wife of Percy Shelley. Mary Wollstoncraft Godwin became Mary Shelley, the author of "Frankenstein". Ironically, her mother Mary Wollstonecraft died of sepsis in London after her birth and suffered a similar fate as her best friend Fanny Blood whose death inspired her fight for women's rights and her first book. Wollstonecraft died of complications after labour due to a blood clot. Her husband William Godwin published "Memoirs of the Author of "A vindication of the Rights of Women"" in memory of her in 1798.

</doc>
<doc id="8638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8638" title="Isle of Wight">
Isle of Wight

The Isle of Wight is an island that is just off the south coast of England. It is about 40 kilometres (25 miles) by 20 kilometres (13 miles) in size. About one hundred and twenty thousand people live on the island.
The Isle of Wight is known as a county. This means that it has a council of people who make decisions about some things that affect the people who live there. The county town of the island, which is the place where the council work from, is called "Newport".
Many people like to go on holiday on the island. There are a lot of hotels and things for tourists to do there. The island really is quite spectacular.Queen Victoria used to like to visit the Isle of Wight where she had a house called Osborne House". Tourism is the most important industry on the island.
Over half of the island is officially designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. It is also widely recognised as the most important site in Europe for finding dinosaur remains.

</doc>
<doc id="8639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8639" title="Socks (disambiguation)">
Socks (disambiguation)

Sock or socks could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="8642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8642" title="Alzheimer's disease">
Alzheimer's disease

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a brain disease that slowly destroys brain cells. As of now, there is no cure for Alzheimer's disease. With time, the different symptoms of the disease become more marked. Many people die because of Alzheimer's disease. The disease affects different parts of the brain but has its worst effects on the areas of the brain that control memory, language, and thinking skills. Alzheimer's Disease is the most common form of senile dementia accounting for up to 70% of cases.
The clinical symptoms of AD usually occurs after age 65, but changes in the brain which do not cause symptoms and are caused by Alzheimer's, may begin years or in some cases decades before. Although the symptoms of AD begin in older people it is not a normal part of aging.
At this time there is no cure for Alzheimer's, but there are treatments that can help some patients with the signs and symptoms so they do not affect them as badly. There are also treatments which slow down the disease so the damage to the brain does not happen as quickly. There are also certain personal habits that people can learn which may help to delay the onset of the disease.
While it is not yet known exactly what causes Alzheimer's disease, there are a number of risk factors which may make a person more likely to get it. Some of these risk factors are genetic; changes to four different genes have been found which increase the risk.
The current lifetime risk for a 65-year-old person to get Alzheimer's disease is estimated to be at 10.5%. It is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States causing about 83,500 deaths a year. In 2007, there were more than 26.6 million people throughout the world who were affected by AD.
Alzheimer's disease was named after Alois Alzheimer, a German psychiatrist and neuropathologist who first described the disease after studying the case of a middle-aged woman, Auguste Deter, who was a patient at a hospital in Frankfurt, Germany in 1906. The disease was named "Alzheimer's disease" in 1910 by Dr. Emil Kraepilin a co-worker of Alzheimer.
Two of the main features found in the brains of people with of Alzheimer's disease, are "neurobrillary tangles" ('tangles' for short), which are made up of a "protein" called "tau", and "senile plaques" (which are made mostly from another protein called "beta-amyloid", they are also sometimes called "beta-amyloid bundles" or 'bundles' for short). The tau proteins that form the tangles previously held together a structure inside the neurons called a "microtubule" which is an important part of the neuron; it forms part of the "cytoskeleton" (cell skeleton) which is what maintains a cell's shape, and microtubules plays a part in cell communication.
Both tangles and plaques may be caused by other diseases, such as Herpes simplex virus Type 1 which is being investigated as a possible cause or contributor in developing Alzheimer's. It is not known for sure if tangles and plaques are part of what causes Alzheimer's, or if they are the results.
Microtubules
Microtubules are made of a protein called "tubulin". The tubulin is "polymerized", which is when molecules form the same shapes over and over again that are linked together in groups, and these groups are linked together. They can form long chains or other shapes; in this case the polymerized tubulin forms microtubules. The microtubules are rigid tubes like microscopic straws which are hollow inside. Microtubules help keep the shape of the neuron, and are inolved in passing signals through the neuron.
Tau
Tau is a protein that is found mostly in the neurons of the central nervous system. They help hold together the "microtubules" within the neurons. and when changes happen in the way the tau proteins are supposed to work the microtubules break apart. The tau proteins which are no longer holding the microtubules together form strands called "fibrils", which then clump together inside the neuron to make what are called neurofibrillary tangles . These clumps, also known as 'tau tangles', are all that remain after a neuron has died. 
Beta-amyloid 
Beta-amyloid(Aβ) (also called 'amyloid beta') plaques start with a protein called amyloid precursor protein (APP). APP is one of the proteins that make up a cell's membrane or outer covering, that protects the cell. In this case a neuron.. As it is made inside the cell, APP sticks out through the membrane of the cell.
In different parts of the of cell including the outermost part of the cell membrane, chemicals called enzymes snip, the APP into small pieces. These enzymes that do the snipping are alpha-secretase, beta-secretase, and gamma-secretase. Depending on which enzyme is doing the snipping and what parts of the APP are snipped, two different things can happen. One that is helpful and one that causes the formation of beta-amyloid plaques.
The plaques are formed when beta-secretase snips the APP molecule at one end of the beta-amyloid peptide, releasing sAPPβ from the cell. Gamma-secretase then cuts the pieces of APP that is left and, still sticking out of the neuron’s membrane, at the other end of the beta-amyloid peptide. After this snipping the beta-amyloid peptide is released into the space outside the neuron and begins to stick to other beta-amyloid peptides. These pieces stick together to form "oligomers". Different sizes of these oligomers which are now floaing around in the spaces between the neurons may be responsible for reacting with receptors on neighboring cells and synapses, affecting their ability to function.
Some of these oligomers are probably cleared from the brain. Those that are not cleared out clump together with more pieces of beta-amyloid. As more pieces clump togther the oligomers get bigger larger, and the next size up are called "protofibrils" and the next size after that are called fibrils. After a while, these fibrils clump together with other protein molecules, neurons and non-nerve cells floating around in the space between the cells and form what are called plaques.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA)
Deposits of beta-amyloid also form in the walls (in the "tunica media", the middle layer, and "tunica adventitia" or "tunica externa", the outer layer) of small and mid-sized arteries (and sometimes veins) in the cerebral cortex and the "leptomeninges" (the "leptomeninges" are the two inner layers - pia mater and arachnoid - of the "meninges", a protective 3-layer membrane covering the brain.)
CAA is found in 30% of people over the age of 60 years who do not have any dementia but is found in 90%-96% of people with Alzheimer disease and is severe in one third to two thirds of these cases.
The first area of the brain to be affected by Alzheimer's is the "transentorhinal region" which is part of the "medial temporal lobe" located deep within the brain. Neurons start dying in this area first. It then spreads into the adjacent entorhinal cortex (EC) which acts as a central hub, for a widespread network that handles signals for memory and movement(like a main train station with train tracks going to different areas). 
The EC is the main area for communication between the hippocampus, and the neocortex - which is the outer portion of the brain responsible for higher functioning such as how the brain perceives information from the five senses; (smell, sight, taste, touch and hearing; Ex. seeing a person's face and recognizing them,) generating motor commands (Ex, moving and arm or leg, walking, running) spatial reasoning, conscious thought and language.
The disease then spreads into the hippocampus which is part of the limbic system. The hippocampus is the part of the brain that is involved in forming new memories, organizing them, and storing them for later recall. It is also where emotions and senses, such as smell and sound are attached to specific memories. Example 1.: A memory might make you happy or sad. Example 2.: A smell might bring up a certain memory.
The hippocampus then sends memories to the different parts of the cerebral hemisphere where they are placed in long-term storage and it helps retrieve them when necessary. Example: An adult trying to remember the name of a classmate from kindergarten.
In addition to handling memory the hippocampus is also involved in emotional responses, navigation (getting around) and spatial orientation (knowing your sense of place as you move around Example: Knowing your way around your bedroom even with the lights off).
There are actually two parts of the hippocampus which is shaped like a horseshoe with one in the left part of the brain and the other in the right part of the brain.
Preclinical
With current research using advances in neuroimaging such as FDG-PET and PIB-PET scans, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) assays, it is now possible to detect the beginning processes of Alzheimer's disease that occur before symptoms begin. The research suggests that clinically normal older people (no symptoms at all) have "biomarker" evidence of amyloid beta (Aβ) build-up in the brain. This amyloid beta (Aβ) is linked to changes in the structure of the brain and how it works that is the similar to what is seen in people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) - which may lead to Alzheimer's - and people with Alzheimer's.
These small preclinical changes (no symptoms) in the brain may occur many years, to even a few decades before a person is diagnosed with Alzheimer's. With a stage where there is some memory loss, or mild cognitive impairment. These changes put a person at risk of developing the clinical symptoms of full-blown Alzheimer's but not everyone who has these changes will get the disease. Even though there is no cure for Alzheimer's, there are new treatments which are being developed which would work better in the very first stages of the disease.
At this time exactly what makes up the preclinical phase of Alzheimer's is still being researched, such as why some people with go on to develop Alzheimer's and others do not. So the term "preclinical phase" is being used for research only. There is a worldwide effort in various countries doing research in this area known as the World Wide Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (WW-ADNI) which is the umbrella organization for neuroimaging studies being carried out through the North American ADNI, European ADNI (E-ADNI), Japan ADNI, Australian ADNI (AIBL), Taiwan ADNI, Korea ADNI, China ADNI and Argentina ADNI.
Beginning stages
"Misdiagnosis in very early stages of Alzheimer's is a significant problem, as there are more than 100 conditions that can mimic the disease. In people with mild memory complaints, our accuracy is barely better than chance," according to study researcher P. Murali Doraiswamy, MBBS, professor of psychiatry and medicine at Duke Medicine, "Given that the definitive gold standard for diagnosing Alzheimer's is autopsy, we need a better way to look into the brain."
In 1901, a 51-year-old woman named Auguste Deter, was committed to the City Asylum for the Insane and Epileptic, ("Städtischen Anstalt für Irre und Epileptische") in Frankfurt am Main, Germany which had the nickname "Irrenschloss" (Castle of the Insane). She was married and had a normal life until eight months prior to her commitment, when she started having psychological and neurological problems, such as problems with memory and language, paranoia, becoming disorientated and having hallucinations.
She was studied by a doctor on staff named Alois Alzheimer (1864–1915). Alzheimer became interested in her case because of her age; while the effects of senile dementia were known at the time, they usually did not start until a person was in their early to mid-sixties. Her case was also notable because of the rapid onset of dementia, only eight months, from the first reported symptoms, until she was committed.
While conducting one of his examinations of Ms. Deter, he asked her to perform a series of simple writing tasks. Unable to do what was asked such as write her name, she said "I have lost myself, so to speak" (""Ich habe mich sozusagen selbst verloren"").
Alzheimer left the hospital in Franfkurt in 1902 to begin working with Emil Kraepelin at the Psychiatric University Hospital in Heidelberg-Bergheim, and in 1903 both he and Kraepelin began working at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich.
When Ms. Deter died of septicemia on 8 April 1906, Alzheimer was informed and her brain was sent to Munich for him to study. Studying samples of her brain under a microscope he noticed neurofibriallry tangles and bundles made up of beta-amyloid plaque, which are two of the main features of the disease. On 3 November 1906, Alzheimer presented the results of his findings in Auguste's case at the Conference of South-West German Psychiatrists in Tübingen, and he published his findings in the case in 1907.
In 1910, Emil Kraepelin named the disease 'Alzheimer's disease'. Alzheimer's disease usually beigins affecting people between ages 60–65, in Ms. Deter's case - who was 55-years-old when she died - she had a form of what is now known as "Early-onset Alzhiemer's disease".
Anyone can get Alzheimer's disease, rich people or poor famous people and unfamous people. Some of the famous people who have gotten Alzheimer's disease are former United States President Ronald Reagan and Irish writer Iris Murdoch, both of whom were the subjects of scientific articles examining how their cognitive capacities got worse with the disease.
Other cases include the retired footballer Ferenc Puskás, the former Prime Ministers Harold Wilson (United Kingdom) and Adolfo Suárez (Spain), the actress Rita Hayworth, the Nobel Prize-winner Raymond Davis, Jr., the actor Charlton Heston, the novelist Terry Pratchett, politician and activist Sargent Shriver, the Blues musician B.B. King, director Jacques Rivette, Indian politician George Fernandes,
and the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics recipient Charles K. Kao. In 2012, Nobel Prize writer Gabriel García Márquez was diagnosed with the disease.

</doc>
<doc id="8643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8643" title="Elaine Paige">
Elaine Paige

Elaine Paige OBE (born Elaine Jill Bickerstaff, 5 March 1948) is an English actress and singer. She was born and raised in Barnet, Hertfordshire, in 1948. She is known for her roles in musical theater.
She worked in the theatre from a young age. She quickly became famous in the role of Eva Perón in the musical "Evita" in 1978. She studied acting at the Aida Foster stage school in London and then played roles in the British tour of the show "The Roar of the Greasepaint, the Smell of the Crowd" and the first London production of "Hair". She played Sandy in the London production of "Grease" and appeared as one of Michael Crawford's girlfriends in "Billy". She has since said she was about to leave the world of acting, possibly to become a teacher, but then the role in "Evita" was offered to her.
After "Evita", she did not have any work for a period, and she thought that her musical career had seen its best. When the actress Judi Dench had an injury during rehearsals for "Cats", the producers asked Paige play the role in stead of Dench. They stated that the role "was not another "Evita"" and that her role only had one and a half songs. Fortunately, the song was "Memory", which was a top 10 hit for Paige and has become her signature song.
After "Cats", she appeared in "Abbacadbra", an ABBA compilation, and "Chess", also written by Benny Andersson and Bjorn Ulvaeus of ABBA but with lyrics by Tim Rice, co-writer of "Evita". Paige then scored a number 1 single, "I Know Him So Well", a song from "Chess", as a duet with Barbara Dickson.
In 1989, she co-produced and starred in a production of Cole Porter's "Anything Goes" in London, which made a star of John Barrowman. In the early 1990s, her term relationship with the lyricist Tim Rice stopped and Paige tried an image change by recording an album with a California-based producer in the Bette Midler torch singer vein entitled "Love Can Do That". Her solo albums had so far been a variety of songs, including the very successful "Stages" in 1983, with songs from musical theatre. In 1993, she returned to the United States to work with Peter Matz on an album called "Romance and the Stage" featuring songs from earlier days of musical theatre. The following year, she recorded, "Piaf", which had music from the role she was playing in the Pam Gems play, also called "Piaf". Critics were impressed by her acting skills in that play. 
However, in 1995 she had a role in another musical, playing Norma Desmond in Andrew Lloyd Webber's "Sunset Boulevard". She had always wanted to perform on Broadway and "Sunset Boulevard" now made this possible. For more than a year she played the role. She later had another role in 2000 with the "King and I". She has recently moved more into television and radio work.
Paige was awarded an OBE in 1995 and is now hosting a Sunday afternoon BBC Radio 2 show which plays music from the stage and film.

</doc>
<doc id="8644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8644" title="Marti Webb">
Marti Webb

Marti Webb is a British actress and singer born in London in 1944.
She has notably played roles in musical theatre including "Evita", "Cats", "Godspell", "The King and I", "Annie", "Thoroughly Modern Millie", "The Goodbye Girl" and "Song and Dance".
She first came to prominence with the song cycle "Tell Me on a Sunday" which was written for her by Don Black and Andrew Lloyd Webber. Webb recently returned to the show after it was revamped for Denise Van Outen in the West End before she took it on a UK tour.

</doc>
<doc id="8645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8645" title="Yahtzee">
Yahtzee

Yahtzee is a popular dice game that is well-known all over the world. The object of the game is to roll five dice (up to three times) to create certain combinations such as:
Most of these combinations come from poker.

</doc>
<doc id="8646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8646" title="Tim Rice">
Tim Rice

Sir Timothy Miles Bindon "Tim" Rice (born 10 November 1944) is a English songwriter and writer. He was born in 1944. Rice is probably best known for his work with Andrew Lloyd Webber on the shows "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat", "Jesus Christ Superstar", and "Evita". He also co-wrote the shows "Blondel", "Chess" and the English lyrics for "Starmania".
He had a long-term relationship in the 1980s with the actress Elaine Paige.

</doc>
<doc id="8647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8647" title="Evita (musical)">
Evita (musical)

Evita is a musical. The lyrics were written by Tim Rice. The music was written by Andrew Lloyd Webber. The musical is based on the life of Eva Perón (1919-1952), the wife of Argentine President Juan Perón.
"Evita" opened on the West End in 1978, and on Broadway in 1979. It won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best New Musical and the Tony Award for Best Musical. In 1996, a movie version was released starring Madonna.

</doc>
<doc id="8648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8648" title="March 8">
March 8


</doc>
<doc id="8650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8650" title="Sunset Boulevard (movie)">
Sunset Boulevard (movie)

Sunset Boulevard is a movie made in 1950. It featured Gloria Swanson as a fading silent screen star, Erich von Stroheim as her butler and William Holden as the screenwriter who befriends her. The film was nominated for eleven Academy Awards and won three.
Andrew Lloyd Webber created a musical of it in 1993. initially it starred Patti LuPone, later followed by Glenn Close, Betty Buckley, and Elaine Paige.

</doc>
<doc id="8653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8653" title="September 26">
September 26


</doc>
<doc id="8658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8658" title="1785">
1785


</doc>
<doc id="8660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8660" title="Molière">
Molière

Molière (1622 – 17 February 1673) was a French actor, director and writer. His real name was Jean-Baptiste Poquelin, Molière was his stage name. He wrote some of the most important comedies in human history. 
He was born in Paris where his father owned a carpet shop. As a young person, Molière decided to live an artist's life. At the age of 21, he founded a theatre company that soon went bankrupt. From 1645–1658, he toured France with some of his friends. 
Later, King Louis XIV made Molière responsible for the entertainment at the court of Versailles near Paris. Molière was happy to have the king among his friends, because he had many enemies, especially important people in the Roman Catholic church. Molière's comedies deal with human weaknesses: jealousy, meanness, hypocrisy, fear of death. By putting his characters in ridiculous situations, Molière wants to entertain and educate his audience. 
One of his most important plays is "Tartuffe", showing a bigoted man stealing his way into a rich family. Molière's last play was "Le Malade Imaginaire", called in English "The Hypochondriac". As in many of his comedies, Molière played the main role. He died on stage during the fourth performance. Because of his problems with the church, he was not allowed to be buried in a church cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="8661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8661" title="Sealand">
Sealand

Sealand is a self-claimed country in the North Sea, but it is not an island. A structure called Roughs Tower was built in the sea by the British Royal Navy, and later became Sealand. It is very small. There is only room for 10 people on it. Even though a man named Michael Bates says Sealand is a country, not all countries agree with him.
Once some people from The Netherlands went to Sealand to take it over. Michael Bates did not want this to happen, so he used helicopters and fought them to get it back. He won, and put some of those people in jail until he was pressured to let them go by other countries. If a boat goes too near Sealand, people from Sealand might fire guns at the boat.
Even though Michael Bates says he is the prince of Sealand, it is very small so he usually is not there. Other people stay there to take care of Sealand. Sealand has its own stamps, national anthem, money, flag, and more things just like a real country.
Bates' reasons why Sealand should be a real country are these:
Sealand is out in the ocean, and when Sealand was created no country owned the ocean. Also, people asked Michael Bates to let his prisoners from The Netherlands go. Bates said that if they thought Sealand was not a country, they would not ask him to do that.
The owners claim that Sealand is an independent sovereign state because in 1968 an English court decided that Roughs Tower was in international waters and outside the jurisdiction of the British courts.
In international law, the two most common rules of statehood are the constitutive and declaratory theories of state creation. In the constitutive theory, a state exists by recognition by other states. The theory splits on whether this recognition requires "diplomatic recognition" or just "recognition of existence". No other state grants Sealand official recognition, but it has been argued by Bates that negotiations carried out by Germany constituted "recognition of existence". In the declaratory theory of statehood, an entity becomes a state as soon as it meets the minimal criteria for statehood. Therefore recognition by other states is purely "declaratory".
In 1987, the UK extended its territorial waters from three to twelve miles. Sealand now sits inside waters that Britain claims as its territory.
Irrespective of its legal status, Sealand is managed by the Bates family as if it were a recognised sovereign entity, and they are its hereditary royal rulers. Roy Bates styles himself "Prince Roy" and his wife "Princess Joan". Their son is known as "His Royal Highness Prince Michael" and has been referred to as the "Prince Regent" by the Bates family since 1999. In this role, he apparently serves as Sealand's acting "Head of State" and also its "Head of Government". At a micronations conference hosted by the University of Sunderland in 2004, Sealand was represented by Michael Bates' son James, who was referred to as "Prince Royal James." The facility is now occupied by one or more caretakers representing Michael Bates, who himself resides in Essex, England. Sealand's constitution was instituted in 1974. It consists of a preamble and seven articles. The preamble asserts Sealand's independence, while the articles variously deal with Sealand's status as a constitutional monarchy, the empowerment of government bureaus, the role of an appointed, advisory senate, the functions of an appointed, advisory legal tribunal, a proscription against the bearing of arms except by members of a designated "Sealand Guard", the exclusive right of the sovereign to formulate foreign policy and alter the constitution, and the hereditary patrilinear succession of the monarchy. Sealand's legal system is claimed to follow British common law, and statutes take the form of decrees enacted by the sovereign. Sealand has issued passports and has operated as a flag of convenience state, and it also holds the Guinness World Record for "the smallest area to lay claim to nation status". Sealand's motto is "E Mare Libertas" (). It appears on Sealandic items, such as stamps, passports, and coins, and is the title of the Sealandic anthem. The anthem was composed by Londoner Basil Simonenko; it does not have lyrics.
At the beginning of 2007, the Bates put an ad in the newspaper. They would like to sell Sealand for 65 million pounds. 
National motto: "E mare libertas"

</doc>
<doc id="8663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8663" title="Sticky note">
Sticky note

A sticky note is a small piece of paper with a strip of glue along one edge that make it "sticky," so you can stick it to things.
The most common sticky note is the Post-It, which is made by a company called 3M. In 1974 a man named Arthur Fry came up with the idea for the sticky note. He used a glue that was originally too weak to be used for anything else, so the notes would come off easy. 3M started to sell Post-Its in 1980.
In 2001, the patent for the glue that 3M uses on Post-It notes expired, so many other companies now make similar sticky notes.

</doc>
<doc id="8668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8668" title="Becker (TV series)">
Becker (TV series)

Becker was a 1998 American television series. It was a sitcom on the CBS network. It starred Ted Danson as Dr. John Becker, a very grumpy family doctor who is unhappy with his life in The Bronx, New York. Becker became famous for his witty responses and constant negative outlook on all situations. The show aired on Wednesdays, and was cancelled in January 2004.
For the first four seasons, the main characters were:
Becker, a Harvard Medical School graduate, runs a neighborhood medical practice. He is easily annoyed by things, and is a very angry person. He has been married and divorced twice.
Becker's office manager, and one of the few people who can not get annoyed by Becker and his ways. Margaret is a motherly-like figure to Becker and Linda. She is married.
A muddle-headed girl whose surname is never revealed. She works at the doctor's office to establish independence from her wealthy parents.
The owner and worker of a diner she inherited from her late father. Reggie is a former model and is unhappy being stuck running a diner.
Becker's best friend. Jake also works at the diner selling newspapers and miscellaneous items such as candy, magazines, cigarettes, gum, etc. Jake is blind following a car accident several years before.
Bob loiters at the diner and is Italian. He is an old high school classmate of Reggie's who is short, annoying, and refers to himself in the third person.

</doc>
<doc id="8669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8669" title="Ted Danson">
Ted Danson

Ted Danson (born Edward Bridge Danson III; December 29, 1947) is an American actor and producer. Danson was born in San Diego, California and raised in Flagstaff, Arizona. He is best known from his work on television. His roles include:

</doc>
<doc id="8676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8676" title="Digital camera">
Digital camera

A digital camera is a camera that stores pictures in electronic memory instead of film. Because of this, a digital camera can hold many more pictures than a traditional film camera. A digital camera can sometimes hold hundreds or thousands of pictures. Many use a memory card to store them. Most digital cameras can use a USB cable that connects into a computer to send pictures that are in the camera to the computer.
Digital photography is a kind of photography where a digital camera is used to take photos. Digital cameras use an image sensor instead of photographic film. Very often, they also use a memory card to store the photos in a digital format. Most photography is digital, though some photographers still use the old film cameras. 
The majority of cameras are part of a mobile phone, called a "camera phone". They can send their pictures to other phones and other devices. Most camera phones do not make as good pictures as larger separate cameras do, especially where light is not bright.
Most digital cameras can serve as Video cameras. Some have a direct link to another computer where the data may be stored.
When you take a picture or a video, it is saved on a memory device. The memory device can be internal - flash memory inside the camera, or external - memory cards, microdrives and so on. The most used method for saving pictures and videos from a camera is a SD card.
The picture can be saved in a compressed file (JPEG, TIFF) or in an uncompressed RAW file. The compressed picture is lower quality than the uncompressed, but the uncompressed picture has to be processed in a computer.
A video is usually saved as an AVI, MPEG or MOV file format (it depends on the producer of the camera).
Most modern cameras also put Exif information in the picture file. This metadata information usually includes the date of taking the picture, the camera type, and its settings. Some cameras include GPS coordinates.

</doc>
<doc id="8677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8677" title="Cheers">
Cheers

Cheers is the name of a long-running sitcom made by Charles-Burrows-Charles Productions in association with Paramount Television for NBC. The show premiered on September 30, 1982 and had its widely watched series finale on May 20, 1993, followed by a long and ongoing run in syndication. In eleven seasons, there were 270 episodes.
The show was set in a Boston bar, where a group of friends would come to sit, drink alcohol, complain, and make practical jokes on a rival bar in town. The show also created the character Frasier Crane. Frasier got his own show ("Frasier") the season after "Cheers" ended.
The show's main theme in its early seasons was the romance between Diane Chambers (Shelley Long) and ex-baseball pitcher and bar owner Sam Malone (Ted Danson). Long's departure from the show in 1987 shifted the emphasis to Sam's relationship with a new character, Rebecca Howe (Kirstie Alley). Diane returned for the finale.
The producers, not wanting the show to be construed as promoting drinking, had Sam's character written as an ex-alcoholic. Most of the early episodes took place entirely within the confines of the bar. When the series became popular, some scenes were outside the bar.
The outer shots of the bar were actually the Bull and Finch pub, north of Boston Common, which has become a tourist attraction because of its association with the series. It is said to be the bar that the series creators saw and wanted to model the bar in their show after. It has now been renamed Cheers on Beacon Hill, though its interior is quite different from the TV bar.
The show was created by the team of James Burrows, Glen Charles, and Les Charles. It was nearly cancelled during its first season (in which it ranked dead last among 63 shows), but eventually became one of the most popular shows on TV, earning a top-ten rating during seven of its eleven seasons. The show earned 26 Emmy Awards, out of a total of 111 nominations.

</doc>
<doc id="8678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8678" title="Jackie Chan Adventures">
Jackie Chan Adventures

Jackie Chan Adventures is an animated television series. Episodes were first broadcast on the WB television network, and later syndicated on other networks such as the Cartoon Network. It features fictionalized Jackie Chan and his niece Jade on their adventures trying to stop evil.

</doc>
<doc id="8681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8681" title="Stapler">
Stapler

A stapler is an office tool that is used to place thin items such as paper together. It uses a small piece of wire (a staple) to put them together. The ends of the staple are pointed and go into the paper. There is also a chain of stores called "Staples", which sell office supplies.
When you press the stapler down, it will release a staple. The staple is pressed into the paper, and then bent. That way the pieces of paper get stuck together. 

</doc>
<doc id="8682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8682" title="Pixar">
Pixar

Pixar is an American animation studio. It is known for its advanced CGI productions. It has been a partner of Disney for many years. In 2006, Disney bought the company.
Pixar started as a division of George Lucas' Lucasfilm in early 1979. In 1986, Steve Jobs bought it for $10 million. Jobs was its chairman and CEO until he died in 2011.
 

</doc>
<doc id="8684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8684" title="Finding Nemo">
Finding Nemo

Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy film written and directed by Andrew Stanton, released by Walt Disney Pictures, and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios. It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin (Albert Brooks) who, along with a regal blue tang named Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), searches for his captured son Nemo (Alexander Gould) in Sydney Harbour. Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself. It is Pixar's first film to be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere summer. The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012. A sequel, "Finding Dory", is currently in development, set to be released on November 25, 2015.
The film received extremely positive reviews and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature. It was the second highest-grossing film of the year, earning a total of $921 million worldwide. "Finding Nemo" is also the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006, and was the highest money making G-rated film of all time before Pixar's own "Toy Story 3" overtook it. It is also the 22nd highest money making film of all time, as well as the 3rd highest money making animated film. In 2008, the American Film Institute named it the tenth greatest animated film ever made during their Top 10.
Two clownfish, Marlin and his wife Coral are admiring their new home in the Great Barrier Reef and their clutch of eggs that are due to hatch in a few days. Suddenly, a barracuda attacks them, and Marlin tries to defend and save his eggs, leaving Marlin unconscious. Coral and all but one of their eggs are also eaten. Marlin names this egg Nemo, a name that Coral liked.
The movie next shows Nemo's first day of school. Nemo has a tiny right fin, because his egg was injured by the barracuda attack. This makes it difficult for him to swim. After Marlin embarrasses Nemo during a school field trip, Nemo disobeys his father and sneaks away from the reef towards a boat. So he gets captured by scuba divers. As the boat sails away, one of the divers accidentally knocks his diving mask into the water.
While trying to save Nemo, Marlin meets Dory, a good-hearted and optimistic Regal blue tang with short-term memory loss. While meeting three sharks on a fish-free diet, Bruce, a great white shark; Anchor, a hammerhead shark; and Chum, a mako shark, Marlin discovers the diver's mask that was dropped from the boat and notices an address written on it. However, when he argues with Dory and accidentally gives her a nosebleed, the scent of blood causes Bruce to lose control of himself and attempt to eat Marlin and Dory. The two escape from Bruce but the mask falls into a trench in the deep sea. During a hazardous struggle with an anglerfish in the trench, Dory realizes she is able to read the address written on the mask, which leads to Sydney, Australia, and manages to remember it. She repeats " P. Sherman 42 Wallaby Way Sydney" to keep it in her memory. After receiving directions to Sydney from a large school of Silver moony, Marlin and Dory accidentally run into a bloom of jellyfish that nearly sting them to death; Marlin falls exhausted after the risky escape and wakes up to see a surf-cultured Green sea turtle named Crush, who takes Dory and him on the East Australian Current, referred to as the EAC by the animals. In the current, Marlin shares the story of his journey with a group of young sea turtles who spread the story around the ocean.
Meanwhile, Nemo's captor - P. Sherman, a dentist - places him into a fish tank in his office on Sydney Harbour. There, Nemo meets a group of aquarium fish called the "Tank Gang", led by a crafty and ambitious moorish idol named Gill. The "Tank Gang" includes Bloat, a puffer fish; Bubbles, a Yellow tang; Peach, a starfish; Gurgle, a Royal gramma; Jacques, a pacific cleaner shrimp; and Deb, a Blacktailed humbug. The fish are frightened to learn that the dentist plans to give Nemo to his niece, Darla. She is infamous for killing a goldfish given to her previously by constantly shaking the bag. In order to avoid this fate, Gill gives Nemo a role in an escape plan, which involves jamming the tank's filter and forcing the dentist to remove the fish from the tank to clean it manually. The fish would be placed in plastic bags, at which point they would roll out the window and into the harbor. After a friendly pelican named Nigel visits with news of Marlin's adventure, Nemo succeeds in jamming the filter, but the plan backfires when the dentist installs a new high-tech filter.
While leaving the East Australian Current, Marlin and Dory get lost in the blooms of plankton and krill and are caught by a blue whale. Inside the whale's immense mouth, Marlin tries to escape while Dory talks with it in whale-speak. So, the whale carries them to Sydney Harbour and expels them through his blowhole. They are met by Nigel, who recognizes Marlin from the stories he has heard and rescues him and Dory from a flock of hungry seagulls by scooping them into his beak and taking them to the dentist's man's office. By this time, Darla has arrived and the dentist is prepared to give Nemo to her. Nemo tries to play dead in hopes of saving himself, and, at the same time, Nigel arrives. Marlin sees Nemo and mistakes this act for the actual death of his son. After a struggle, Gill helps Nemo escape into a drain through a sink.
Sad, Marlin leaves Dory and begins to swim back home. Dory then loses her memory and becomes confused, but meets Nemo, who has reached the ocean through an underwater drainpipe. Dory's memory is restored after she reads the word "Sydney" on a nearby drainpipe and, remembering her journey, she guides Nemo to Marlin. After the two joyfully reunite, Dory is caught in a fishing net with a school of grouper. Nemo bravely enters the net and directs the group to swim downward to break the net, reminiscent of a similar scenario that occurred in the fish tank earlier. The fish, including Dory, succeed in breaking the net and escape. After some days, Nemo leaves for school once more and Marlin who is no longer overprotective or doubtful of his son's safety, proudly watches Nemo swim away into the distance.
Back at the dentist's office, the high-tech filter breaks down and The Tank Gang escape into the harbor. But, they realize that they are trapped in the bags of water that the dentist put them into when cleaning the tank.
"Finding Nemo" currently holds a 99% fresh rating at Rotten Tomatoes with 100% by top critics, and an average of 89% on Metacritic. Roger Ebert gave the film four stars, calling it "one of those rare movies where I wanted to sit in the front row and let the images wash out to the edges of my field of vision." Broadway star Nathan Lane who was the voice of Timon the meerkat in "The Lion King", said "Finding Nemo" was his favorite animated film.
The film's use of clownfish prompted mass purchase of the animal as pets in the United States, even though the movie portrayed the use of fish as pets negatively and suggested that saltwater aquariums are notably tricky and expensive to maintain. The demand for clownfish was supplied by large-scale harvesting of tropical fish in regions like Vanuatu.
At the same time, the film had a quote that "all drains lead back to the ocean" (Nemo escapes from the aquarium by going down a sink drain, ending up in the sea). Since water typically undergoes treatment before leading to the ocean, the JWC Environmental company quipped that a more realistic title for the movie might be "Grinding Nemo". However, in Sydney, much of the sewer system does pass directly to outfall pipes deep offshore, without a high level of treatment (although pumping and some filtering occur). Additionally, according to the DVD, there was a cut sequence with Nemo going through a treatment plant's mechanisms before ending up in the ocean pipes. However, in the final product, logos for "Sydney Water Treatment" are featured prominently along the path to the ocean, implying that Nemo did pass through some water treatment.
The Australian Tourism Commission (ATC) launched several marketing campaigns in China and the USA in order to improve tourism in Australia, many of them utilising "Finding Nemo" clips. Queensland also used "Finding Nemo" to draw tourists to promote its state for vacationers.
On the 3-D re-release, Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly wrote that its emotional power was deepened by "the dimensionality of the oceanic deep" where "the spatial mysteries of watery currents and floating worlds are exactly where 3-D explorers were born to boldly go."
The 3-D re-release also prompted a retrospective on the film then nine years after its initial release. Stephen Whitty of the Newark Star-Ledger described it as "A genuinely funny and touching film that, in less than a decade, has established itself as a timeless classic," with Roger Moore of the McClatchy-Tribune News Service calling the movie "the gold standard against which all other modern animated films are measured."
"Finding Nemo" was released on DVD and VHS on November 4, 2003. The film was also released on DVD in a "Gold Edition", which came with a "Finding Nemo" stuffed toy character. The film had a home video release on both Blu-ray and Blu-ray 3D on December 4, 2012, with both a 3-disc and a 5-disc set.
The inspiration for Nemo was made up of multiple experiences. The idea goes back to when director Andrew Stanton was a child, when he loved going to the dentist to see the fish tank, assuming that the fish were from the ocean and wanted to go home. In 1992 shortly after his son was born, he and his family took a trip to Six Flags Discovery Kingdom (which was called Marine World at the time). There he saw the shark tube and various exhibits he felt that the underwater world could be done beautifully in computer animation. Later, in 1997 he took his son for a walk in the park, but found that he was over protecting him constantly and lost an opportunity to have any "father-son experiences" on that day. In an interview with "National Geographic" magazine, he stated that the idea for the characters of Marlin and Nemo came from a photograph of two clownfish peeking out of an anemone:"It was so arresting. I had no idea what kind of fish they were, but I couldn't take my eyes off them. And as an entertainer, the fact that they were called clownfish—it was perfect. There's almost nothing more appealing than these little fish that want to play peekaboo with you." Also, clownfish are very colourful, but don't tend to come out of an anemone very often, and for a character who has to go on a dangerous journey, Stanton felt a clownfish was the perfect kind of fish for the character.
Pre-production of the film took place in early 1997. Stanton began writing the screenplay during the post-production of "A Bug's Life". As such, it began production with a complete screenplay, something that co-director Lee Unkrich called "very unusual for an animated film." The artists took scuba diving lessons so they could go and study the coral reef. The idea for the initiation sequence came from a story conference between Andrew Stanton and Bob Peterson while driving to record the actors. Ellen DeGeneres was cast after Stanton was watching "Ellen" with his wife and seeing Ellen "change the subject five times before finishing one sentence" as Stanton recalled. There was a pelican character known as Gerald (who in the final film ends up swallowing and choking on Marlin and Dory) who was originally a friend of Nigel. They were going to play against each other as Nigel being neat fastidious while Gerald being scruffy and sloppy. However the filmmakers could not find an appropriate scene for them that didn't slow the pace of the picture down, so Gerald's character was minimized.
Stanton himself provided the voice of Crush the sea turtle. Stanton originally did the voice for the film's story reel, and assumed they would find an actor later. When Stanton's performance was popular in test screenings, Stanton decided to keep his performance in the film. Stanton recorded all his dialogue while lying on a sofa in co-director Lee Unkrich's office.
Crush's son Squirt was voiced by Nicholas Bird, the young son of fellow Pixar director Brad Bird. According to Stanton, the elder Bird was playing a tape recording of his young son around the Pixar studios one day. Stanton felt the voice was "this generation's Thumper" and immediately cast Nicholas.
Megan Mullally revealed that she was originally doing a voice in the film. According to Mullally, the producers were dissatisfied to learn that the voice of her character Karen Walker on the television show "Will & Grace" was not her natural speaking voice. The producers hired her anyway, and then strongly encouraged her to use her Karen Walker voice for the role. When Mullally refused, she was dismissed.
The film was dedicated to Glenn McQueen, a Pixar animator who died of melanoma in October 2002.
Finding Nemo shares many plot elements with "Pierrot the Clownfish", a children's book published in 2002, but allegedly conceived in 1995. The author, Franck Le Calvez, sued Disney for infringement of his intellectual rights. The judge ruled against him, citing the color differences between Pierrot and Nemo.
To ensure that the movements of the fish in the film were believable the animators essentially took a crash course in fish biology and oceanography. They visited aquariums, went diving in Hawaii and received in-house lectures from an ichthyologist.
"Finding Nemo" earned $380,673,009 in North America, and $540,900,000 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $921,573,009. It is the second highest-grossing film of 2003, behind "". In North America, outside North America, and worldwide, it was the highest-grossing Pixar film, up until 2010 when "Toy Story 3" surpassed it.
"Finding Nemo" set an opening-weekend record for an animated feature, making $70,251,710 (first surpassed by "Shrek 2"). It became the highest-grossing animated film in North America ($339.7 million), outside North America ($528.2 million) and worldwide ($867.9 million), in all three occasions outgrossing "The Lion King". In North America, it was surpassed by both "Shrek 2" in 2004, and "Toy Story 3" in 2010. After the re-release of "The Lion King" in 2011, it stands as the fourth highest-grossing animated film in these regions. Outside North America, it was surpassed by "", "Toy Story 3", and "". Worldwide, it now ranks third among animated films.
The film had impressive box office runs in many international markets. In Japan, its highest-grossing market after North America, it grossed $102.4 million becoming the highest-grossing Western animated film until it was out-grossed by "Toy Story 3" ($126.7 million). Following in biggest grosses are the UK, Ireland and Malta, where it grossed £37.2 million ($67.1 million), France and the Maghreb region ($64.8 million), Germany ($53.9 million), and Spain ($29.5 million).
After the success of the 3D re-release of "The Lion King", Disney and Pixar re-released "Finding Nemo" in 3D on September 14, 2012, with a conversion cost estimated below $5 million. For the opening weekend of its 3D re-release in North America, "Finding Nemo" grossed $16.7 million, debuting at the No. 2 spot behind "". From seven foreign markets, it earned a total of $5.1 million.
Finding Nemo won the Academy Award and Saturn Award for Best Animated Film. It also won the award for best Animated Film at the Kansas City Film Critics Circle Awards, the Las Vegas Film Critics Society Awards, the National Board of Review Awards, the Online Film Critics Society Awards, and the Toronto Film Critics Association Awards.
The film received many awards, including:
"Finding Nemo" was also nominated for:
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its "Ten top Ten", the best ten films in ten "classic" American film genres, after polling over 1,500 people from the creative community. "Finding Nemo" was acknowledged as the 10th best film in the animation genre. It was the most recently released film among all ten lists, and one of only three movies made after the year 2000, the others being "" and "Shrek".
A video game based on the film was released in 2003, for PC, Xbox, PS2, GameCube and GBA.
In 2005, after disagreements between Disney's Michael Eisner and Pixar's Steve Jobs over the distribution of Pixar's films, Disney announced that they would be creating a new animation studio, Circle 7 Animation, to make sequels to the seven Disney-owned Pixar films (which consisted of the films released between 1995 and 2006). The studio had put "Toy Story 3" and "Monsters, Inc. 2" in development, and had also hired screenwriter Laurie Craig to write a draft for "Finding Nemo 2". Circle 7 was subsequently shut down after Robert Iger replaced Eisner as CEO of Disney and arranged the acquisition of Pixar.
In July 2012, it was reported that Andrew Stanton is developing a sequel to "Finding Nemo", with Victoria Strouse writing the script and a schedule to be released in 2016. However, the same day the news of a potential sequel broke, director Andrew Stanton posted a message on his personal Twitter calling into question the accuracy of these reports. The message said, "Didn't you all learn from "Chicken Little"? Everyone calm down. Don't believe everything you read. Nothing to see here now. #skyisnotfalling" According to the report by Hollywood Reporter published in August 2012, Ellen DeGeneres is in negotiations to reprise her role of Dory. In September 2012, it was confirmed by Stanton saying: "What was immediately on the list was writing a second "Carter" movie. When that went away, everything slid up. I know I'll be accused by more sarcastic people that it's a reaction to "Carter" not doing well, but only in its timing, but not in its conceit."

</doc>
<doc id="8691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8691" title="Fibonacci">
Fibonacci

Fibonacci, also known as Leonardo Bonacci, Leonardo Fibonacci and Leonardo of Pisa, lived c. 11701250. He was an Italian mathematician. He was thought "the most talented Western mathematician of the Middle Ages".
Fibonacci popularized the Hindu–Arabic numeral system to the Western World. He did this in his composition in 1202 of "Liber Abaci" ("Book of Calculation"). He also introduced to Europe the sequence of Fibonacci numbers which he used as an example in "Liber Abaci".
Fibbonacci is best known for the list of numbers called the Fibonacci Sequence. The list never stops, but it starts this way:
In this list, a person can find the next number by adding the last two numbers together.
This series is also interesting because the ratio of two adjacent numbers in the series approaches the golden ratio.

</doc>
<doc id="8695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8695" title="Richard Stallman">
Richard Stallman

Richard Stallman (born March 16, 1953) is the founder of the free software movement, the GNU project, and the Free Software Foundation. He is also a famous hacker. He created GNU Emacs, the GNU C Compiler, and the GNU Debugger. He is one of the main authors of the GNU General Public License ("GNU GPL" or "GPL"), the most used free software license, which pioneered the concept of the copyleft.
Since the mid-1990s, he has spent most of his time as a political campaigner, talking about free software and campaigning against proprietary software, software idea patents and expansions of copyright law. The time that he still spends on programming is spent on GNU Emacs. He is currently supported by various fellowships and maintains a modest standard of living.

</doc>
<doc id="8697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8697" title="National Hockey League">
National Hockey League

The National Hockey League or NHL, is the highest-level ice hockey league in the world. It has 30 teams - seven are from Canada and the other 23 are from the United States. The winner of the league each year wins the Stanley Cup.
The NHL began in 1917. Some of the owners in the National Hockey Association had problems with owner Edward Livingstone, so they got rid of him by creating a new league. There were five teams in 1917:
They played 22 games a year. The Wanderers had to stop playing in the first year because their arena burned down. Over the years some teams died out, and others were created: the Boston Bruins, New York Americans, Montreal Maroons, Pittsburgh Pirates (later Philadelphia Quakers), New York Rangers, Chicago Black Hawks and Detroit Cougars (later Falcons, then Red Wings).
Some teams folded during the Great Depression, so by 1942 there were only six teams:
There were only these six teams for 25 years, so they became known as the "Original Six".
By the 1940s, they were playing 50 games a year, but this increased slowly to 80 games by the 1970s. In 1967, the league increased to 12 teams. By 1979 it had 21 teams, and today it has 30. Some of the teams that no longer exist are the Oakland Seals, Minnesota North Stars (now the Dallas Stars), Winnipeg Jets (now the Arizona Coyotes), Kansas City Scouts (which became the Colorado Rockies and are now the New Jersey Devils), Hartford Whalers (now the Carolina Hurricanes), Quebec Nordiques (now the Colorado Avalanche) and Atlanta Thrashers (now the current Winnipeg Jets).
Today they play 82 games a year, plus four rounds of playoffs. The players make a lot of money (many make over a million dollars a year). Because they could make so much money, many Europeans came over to North America to play in the NHL. Today almost all the world's best hockey players are in the NHL.

</doc>
<doc id="8698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8698" title="Isaac Asimov">
Isaac Asimov

Isaac Asimov (January 2, 1920 – April 6, 1992) was a writer. He was also a biochemist with a PhD from Columbia University.
Isaac Asimov was born in Russia to a Jewish family. He was taken to the United States when he was three, and learnt English and Yiddish as his native languages. He wrote many books. People know about Isaac Asimov because of his science fiction books and his science books for non-scientists.
Asimov's most famous books were the Foundation series. He also wrote the "Galactic Empire" and the "Robot" Series. He also wrote mystery, fantasy, and non-fiction books. He wrote or edited over 500 books and about 90,000 letters. Other subjects he wrote about were history, the Bible, literature, and sexuality.
Many of Asimov's early writings were short stories published in cheap science fiction and fantasy magazines. Years later, most of them were collected and republished as collections. Well-known collections include "I, Robot", "The Rest of the Robots", "Earth is Room Enough" and "The Early Asimov". 
Asimov made a list of 15 of his science fiction books, which he advised should be read in this order:
Numbers 1–5 are 'Robot' books; 6–8 are 'Galactic Empire' books; 9–15 are Foundation series books.
Asimov's novels have influenced science fiction on television and movie. Especially his 'Three Laws of Robotics' is a lasting contribution to our thinking.
Although ethnically a Jew, Asimov was an atheist:
When he had heart surgery in 1983, he received blood infected with HIV. He developed AIDS, and died of the effects of the medical condition in 1992. His widow did not speak of this until years later.

</doc>
<doc id="8712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8712" title="November 13">
November 13


</doc>
<doc id="8714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8714" title="1980">
1980

1980 (MCMLXXX) was a leap year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the first year of the 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="8715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8715" title="1936">
1936


</doc>
<doc id="8717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8717" title="March 5">
March 5


</doc>
<doc id="8718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8718" title="1963">
1963

1963 (MCMLXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8719" title="April 17">
April 17


</doc>
<doc id="8720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8720" title="April 14">
April 14


</doc>
<doc id="8721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8721" title="1977">
1977

silvanio is hurt !!
1977 (MCMLXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8722" title="March 24">
March 24


</doc>
<doc id="8723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8723" title="May 12">
May 12


</doc>
<doc id="8724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8724" title="1907">
1907

1907 (MCMVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8725" title="December 18">
December 18


</doc>
<doc id="8726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8726" title="June 4">
June 4


</doc>
<doc id="8727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8727" title="November 12">
November 12


</doc>
<doc id="8728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8728" title="September 14">
September 14


</doc>
<doc id="8729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8729" title="July 30">
July 30


</doc>
<doc id="8730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8730" title="September 28">
September 28


</doc>
<doc id="8731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8731" title="February 6">
February 6


</doc>
<doc id="8732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8732" title="1911">
1911

1911 (MCMXI) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8733" title="March 29">
March 29


</doc>
<doc id="8734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8734" title="January 15">
January 15


</doc>
<doc id="8735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8735" title="May 19">
May 19


</doc>
<doc id="8736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8736" title="February 24">
February 24


</doc>
<doc id="8737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8737" title="1962">
1962

1962 (MCMLXII) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="8740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8740" title="Evolution">
Evolution

Evolution is a scientific theory used by biologists. It explains how living things change over a long time, and how they have come to be the way they are.
The Earth has been around for a very long time. By doing research on the layers of rock, we can find out about its past. That kind of research is called historical geology.
We know that living things have changed over time, because we can see their remains in the rocks. These remains are called 'fossils'. So we know that the animals and plants of today are different from those of long ago. And the further we go back, the more different the fossils are. How has this come about? Evolution has taken place. That evolution has taken place is a fact, because it is overwhelmingly supported by many lines of evidence. At the same time, evolutionary questions are still being actively researched by biologists.
Comparison of DNA sequences allows organisms to be grouped by how similar their sequences are. In 2010 an analysis compared sequences to phylogenetic trees, and supported the idea of common descent. There is now "strong quantitative support, by a formal test", for the unity of life.
The theory of evolution is the basis of modern biology. "Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution".
The evidence for evolution is given in a number of books. Some of this evidence is discussed here.
The realization that some rocks contain fossils was a landmark in natural history. There are three parts to this story:
The evolution of the horse family (Equidae) is a good example of the way that evolution works. The oldest fossil of a horse is about 52 million years old. It was a small animal with five toes on the front feet and four on the hind feet. At that time, there were more forests in the world than today. This horse lived in woodland, eating leaves, nuts and fruit with its simple teeth. It was only about as big as a fox.
About 30 million years ago the world started to become cooler and drier. Forests shrank; grassland expanded, and horses changed. They ate grass, they grew larger, and they ran faster because they had to escape faster predators. Because grass wears teeth out, horses with longer-lasting teeth had an advantage.
For most of this long period of time, there were a number of horse types (genera). Now, however, only one genus exists: the modern horse, "Equus". It has teeth which grow all its life, hooves on single toes, great long legs for running, and the animal is big and strong enough to survive in the open plain. Horses lived in western Canada until 12,000 years ago, but all horses in North America became extinct about 11,000 years ago. The causes of this extinction are not yet clear. Climate change and over-hunting by humans are suggested.
So, scientists can see that changes have happened. They have happened slowly over a long time. How these changes have come about is explained by the theory of evolution.
This is a topic which fascinated both Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. When new species occur, usually by the splitting of older species, this takes place in one place in the world. Once it is established, a new species may spread to some places and not others.
Australasia has been separated from other continents for many millions of years. In the main part of the continent, Australia, 83% of mammals, 89% of reptiles, 90% of fish and insects and 93% of amphibians are endemic. Its native mammals are mostly marsupials like kangaroos, bandicoots, and quolls. By contrast, marsupials are today totally absent from Africa and form a small portion of the mammalian fauna of South America, where opossums, shrew opossums, and the monito del monte occur (see the Great American Interchange).
The only living representatives of primitive egg-laying mammals (monotremes) are the echidnas and the platypus. They are only found in Australasia, which includes Tasmania, New Guinea, and Kangaroo Island. These monotremes are totally absent in the rest of the world. On the other hand, Australia is missing many groups of placental mammals that are common on other continents (carnivora, artiodactyls, shrews, squirrels, lagomorphs), although it does have indigenous bats and rodents, which arrived later.
The evolutionary story is that placental mammals evolved in Eurasia, and wiped out the marsupials and monotremes wherever they spread. They did not reach Australasia until more recently. That is the simple reason why Australia has most of the world's marsupials and all the world's monotremes.
In about , the Hawaiian Islands have the most diverse collection of "Drosophila" flies in the world, living from rainforests to mountain meadows. About 800 Hawaiian drosophilid species are known.
Genetic evidence shows that all the native drosophilid species in Hawaii have descended from "a single ancestral species" that colonized the islands, about 20 million years ago. The subsequent adaptive radiation was spurred by a lack of competition and a wide variety of vacant niches. Although it would be possible for a single pregnant female to colonise an island, it is more likely to have been a group from the same species.
The combination of continental drift and evolution can explain what is found in the fossil record. "Glossopteris" is an extinct species of seed fern plants from the Permian period on the ancient supercontinent of Gondwana.
"Glossopteris" fossils are found in Permian strata in southeast South America, southeast Africa, all of Madagascar, northern India, all of Australia, all of New Zealand, and scattered on the southern and northern edges of Antarctica.
During the Permian, these continents were connected as Gondwana. This is known from magnetic striping in the rocks, other fossil distributions, and glacial scratches pointing away from the temperate climate of the South Pole during the Permian.
When biologists look at living things, they see that animals and plants belong to groups which have something in common. Charles Darwin explained that this followed naturally if "we admit the common parentage of allied forms, together with their modification through variation and natural selection".
For example, all insects are related. They share a basic body plan, whose development is controlled by master regulatory genes. They have six legs; they have hard parts on the outside of the body (an exoskeleton); they have eyes formed of many separate chambers, and so on. Biologists explain this with evolution. All insects are the descendants of a group of animals who lived a long time ago. They still keep the basic plan (six legs and so on) but the details change. They look different now because they changed in different ways: this is evolution.
It was Darwin who first suggested that all life on Earth had a single origin, and from that beginning "endless forms most beautiful and most wonderful have been, and are being, evolved". Evidence from molecular biology in recent years has supported the idea that all life is related by common descent.
Strong evidence for common descent comes from vestigial structures. The useless wings of flightless beetles are sealed under fused wing covers. This can be simply explained by their descent from ancestral beetles which had wings that worked.
Rudimentary body parts, those that are smaller and simpler in structure than corresponding parts in ancestral species, are called vestigial organs. Those organs are functional in the ancestral species but are now either nonfunctional or re-adapted to a new function. Examples are the pelvic girdles of whales, halteres (hind wings) of flies, wings of flightless birds, and the leaves of some xerophytes ("e.g." cactus) and parasitic plants ("e.g." dodder).
However, vestigial structures may have their original function replaced with another. For example, the halteres in flies help balance the insect while in flight, and the wings of ostriches are used in mating rituals, and in aggressive display. The ear ossicles in mammals are former bones of the lower jaw.
In 1893, Robert Wiedersheim published a book on human anatomy and its relevance to man's evolutionary history. This book contained a list of 86 human organs that he considered vestigial. This list included examples such as the appendix and the 3rd molar teeth (wisdom teeth).
The strong grip of a baby is another example. It is a vestigial reflex, a remnant of the past when pre-human babies clung to their mothers' hair as the mothers swung through the trees. This is borne out by the babies' feet, which curl up when it is sitting down (primate babies grip with the feet as well). All primates except modern man have thick body hair to which an infant can cling, unlike modern humans. The grasp reflex allows the mother to escape danger by climbing a tree using both hands and feet.
Vestigial organs often have some selection against them. The original organs took resources, sometimes huge resources. If they no longer have a function, reducing their size improves fitness. And there is direct evidence of selection. Some cave crustacea reproduce more successfully with smaller eyes than do those with larger eyes. This may be because the nervous tissue dealing with sight now becomes available to handle other sensory input.
From the eighteenth century it was known that embryos of different species were much more similar than the adults. In particular, some parts of embryos reflect their evolutionary past. For example, the embryos of land vertebrates develop gill slits like fish embryos. Of course, this is only a temporary stage, which gives rise to many structures in the neck of reptiles, birds and mammals. The proto-gill slits are part of a complicated system of development: that is why they persisted.
Another example are the embryonic teeth of baleen whales. They are later lost. The baleen filter is developed from different tissue, called keratin. Early fossil baleen whales did actually have teeth as well as the baleen.
A good example is the barnacle. It took many centuries before natural historians discovered that barnacles were crustacea. Their adults look so unlike other crustacea, but their larvae are very similar to those of other crustacea.
Charles Darwin lived in a world where animal husbandry and domesticated crops were vitally important. In both cases farmers selected for breeding individuals with special properties, and prevented the breeding of individuals with less desirable characteristics. The eighteenth and early nineteenth century saw a growth in scientific agriculture, and artificial breeding was part of this.
Darwin discussed artificial selection as a model for natural selection in the 1859 first edition of his work "On the Origin of Species", in Chapter IV: Natural selection: 
Nikolai Vavilov showed that rye, originally a weed, came to be a crop plant by unintentional selection. Rye is a tougher plant than wheat: it survives in harsher conditions. Having become a crop like the wheat, rye was able to become a crop plant in harsh areas, such as hills and mountains.
There is no real difference in the genetic processes underlying artificial and natural selection, and the concept of artificial selection was used by Charles Darwin as an illustration of the wider process of natural selection. There are practical differences. Experimental studies of artificial selection show that "the rate of evolution in selection experiments is at least two orders of magnitude (that is 100 times) greater than any rate seen in nature or the fossil record".
Some have thought that artificial selection could not produce new species. It now seems that it can.
New species have been created by domesticated animal husbandry, but the details are not known or not clear. For example, domestic sheep were created by hybridisation, and no longer produce viable offspring with "Ovis orientalis", one species from which they are descended. Domestic cattle, on the other hand, can be considered the same species as several varieties of wild ox, gaur, yak, etc., as they readily produce fertile offspring with them.
The best-documented new species came from laboratory experiments in the late 1980s. William Rice and G.W. Salt bred fruit flies, "Drosophila melanogaster," using a maze with three different choices of habitat such as light/dark and wet/dry. Each generation was put into the maze, and the groups of flies that came out of two of the eight exits were set apart to breed with each other in their respective groups.
After thirty-five generations, the two groups and their offspring were isolated reproductively because of their strong habitat preferences: they mated only within the areas they preferred, and so did not mate with flies that preferred the other areas.
Diane Dodd was also able to show how reproductive isolation can develop from mating preferences in "Drosophila pseudoobscura" fruit flies after only eight generations using different food types, starch and maltose.
Dodd's experiment has been easy for others to repeat. It has also been done with other fruit flies and foods.
Some biologists say that evolution has happened when a trait that is caused by genetics becomes more or less common in a group of organisms. Others call it evolution when new species appear.
Changes can happen quickly in the smaller, simpler organisms. For example, many bacteria that cause disease can no longer be killed with some of the antibiotic medicines. These medicines have only been in use about eighty years, and at first worked extremely well. The bacteria have evolved so that they are no longer affected by antibiotics anymore. The drugs killed off all the bacteria except a few which had some resistance. These few resistant bacteria produced the next generation.
The Colorado beetle is famous for its ability to resist pesticides. Over the last 50 years it has become resistant to 52 chemical compounds used in insecticides, including cyanide. This is natural selection speeded up by the artificial conditions. However, not every population is resistant to every chemical. The populations only become resistant to chemicals used in their area.
Although there were a number of natural historians in the 18th century who had some idea of evolution, the first well-formed ideas came in the 19th century. Three biologists are most important.
Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck (1744–1829), a French biologist, claimed that animals changed according to natural laws. He said that animals could pass on traits they had acquired during their lifetime to their offspring, using inheritance. Today, his theory is known as Lamarckism. Its main purpose is to explain adaptations by natural means. He proposed a tendency for organisms to become more complex, moving up a ladder of progress, plus "use and disuse".
Lamarck's idea was that a giraffe's neck grew longer because it tried to reach higher up. This idea failed because it cannot be reconciled with heredity (Mendel's work). Mendel made his discoveries about half a century after Lamarck's work.
Charles Darwin (1809–1882) wrote his "On the Origin of Species" in 1859. In this book, he put forward much evidence that evolution had occurred. He also proposed natural selection as the way evolution had taken place. But Darwin did not understand about genetics and how traits were actually passed on. He could not accurately explain what made children look like their parents.
Nevertheless, Darwin's explanation of evolution was fundamentally correct. In contrast to Lamarck, Darwin's idea was that the giraffe's neck became longer because "those with longer necks survived better". These survivors passed their genes on, and in time the whole race got longer necks.
An Austrian monk called Gregor Mendel (1822–1884) bred plants. In the mid-19th century, he discovered how traits were passed on from one generation to the next.
He used peas for his experiments: some peas have white flowers and others have red ones. Some peas have green seeds and others have yellow seeds. Mendel used artificial pollination to breed the peas. His results are discussed further in Mendelian inheritance. Darwin thought that the inheritance from both parents blended together. Mendel proved that the genes from the two parents stay separate, and may be passed on unchanged to later generations.
Mendel published his results in a journal that was not well-known, and his discoveries were overlooked. Around 1900, his work was rediscovered. Genes are bits of information made of DNA which work like a set of instructions. A set of genes are in every living cell. Together, genes organise the way an egg develops into an adult. With mammals, and many other living things, a copy of each gene comes from the father and another copy from the mother. Some living organisms, including some plants, only have one parent, so get all their genes from them. These genes produce the genetic differences which evolution acts on.
Darwin's "On the Origin of Species" has two themes: the evidence for evolution, and his ideas on how evolution took place. This section deals with the second issue.
The first two chapters of the "Origin" deal with variation in domesticated plants and animals, and variation in nature.
All living things show variation. Every population which has been studied shows that animal and plants vary as much as humans do. This is a great fact of nature, and without it evolution would not occur. Darwin said that, just as man selects what he wants in his farm animals, so in nature the variations allow natural selection to work.
The features of an individual are influenced by two things, heredity and environment. First, development is controlled by genes inherited from the parents. Second, living brings its own influences. Some things are entirely inherited, others partly, and some not inherited at all.
The colour of eyes is entirely inherited; they are a genetic trait. Height or weight is only partly inherited, and the language is not at all inherited. Just to be clear: the fact that humans can speak is inherited, but what language is spoken depends on where a person lives and what they are taught. Another example: a person inherits a brain of somewhat variable capacity. What happens after birth depends on many things such as home environment, education and other experiences. When a person is adult, their brain is what their inheritance and life experience have made it.
"Evolution only concerns the traits which can be inherited", wholly or partly. The hereditary traits are passed on from one generation to the next through the genes. A person's genes contain all the traits which they inherit from their parents. The accidents of life are not passed on. Also, of course, each person lives a somewhat different life: that increases the differences.
Organisms in any population vary in reproductive success. From the point of view of evolution, 'reproductive success' means the total number of offspring which live to breed and leave offspring themselves.
Variation can only affect future generations if it is inherited. Because of the work of Gregor Mendel, we know that much variation is inherited. Mendel's 'factors' are now called genes. Research has shown that "almost every individual in a sexually reproducing species is genetically unique".
Genetic variation is increased by gene mutations. DNA does not always reproduce exactly. Rare changes occur, and these changes can be inherited. Many changes in DNA cause faults; some are neutral or even advantageous. This gives rise to genetic variation, which is the seed-corn of evolution. Sexual reproduction, by the crossing over of chromosomes during meiosis, spreads variation through the population. Other events, like natural selection and drift, reduce variation. So a population in the wild always has variation, but the details are always changing.
Evolution mainly works by natural selection. What does this mean? Animals and plants which are best suited to their environment will, on average, survive better. There is a struggle for existence. Those who survive will produce the next generation. Their genes will be passed on, and the genes of those who did not reproduce will not. This is the basic mechanism which changes a population and causes evolution.
Natural selection explains why living organisms change over time to have the anatomy, the functions and behaviour that they have. It works like this:
There are now many cases where natural selection has been proved to occur in wild populations. Almost every case investigated of camouflage, mimicry and polymorphism has shown strong effects of selection.
The force of selection can be much stronger than was thought by the early population geneticists. The resistance to pesticides has grown quickly. Resistance to "warfarin" in Norway rats ("Rattus norvegicus") grew rapidly because those that survived made up more and more of the population. Research showed that, in the absence of "warfarin", the resistant homozygote was at a 54% disadvantage to the normal wild type homozygote. This great disadvantage was quickly overcome by the selection for "warfarin" resistance.
Mammals normally cannot drink milk as adults, but humans are an exception. Milk is digested by the enzyme lactase, which switches off as mammals stop taking milk from their mothers. The human ability to drink milk during adult life is supported by a lactase mutation which prevents this switch-off. Human populations have a high proportion of this mutation wherever milk is important in the diet. The spread of this 'milk tolerance' is promoted by natural selection, because it helps people survive where milk is available. Genetic studies suggest that the oldest mutations causing lactase persistence only reached high levels in human populations in the last ten thousand years. Therefore, lactase persistence is often cited as an example of recent human evolution. As lactase persistence is genetic, but animal husbandry a cultural trait, this is gene–culture coevolution.
Adaptation is one of the basic phenomena of biology. Through the process of adaptation, an organism becomes better suited to its habitat.
Adaptation is one of the two main processes that explain the diverse species we see in biology. The other is speciation (species-splitting or cladogenesis). A favourite example used today to study the interplay of adaptation and speciation is the evolution of cichlid fish in African rivers and lakes.
When people speak about adaptation they often mean something which helps an animal or plant survive. One of the most widespread adaptations in animals is the evolution of the eye. Another example is the adaptation of horses' teeth to grinding grass. Camouflage is another adaptation; so is mimicry. The better adapted animals are the most likely to survive, and to reproduce successfully (natural selection).
An internal parasite (such as a fluke) is a good example: it has a very simple bodily structure, but still the organism is highly adapted to its particular environment. From this we see that adaptation is not just a matter of visible traits: in such parasites critical adaptations take place in the life cycle, which is often quite complex.
Not all features of an organism are adaptations. Adaptations tend to reflect the past life of a species. If a species has recently changed its life style, a once valuable adaptation may become useless, and eventually become a dwindling vestige.
Adaptations are never perfect. There are always tradeoffs between the various functions and structures in a body. It is the organism as a whole which lives and reproduces, therefore it is the complete set of adaptations which gets passed on to future generations.
In populations, there are forces which add variation to the population (such as mutation), and forces which remove it. Genetic drift is the name given to random changes which remove variation from a population. Genetic drift gets rid of variation at the rate of 1/(2N) where N = population size. It is therefore "a very weak evolutionary force in large populations".
Genetic drift explains how random chance can affect evolution in surprisingly big ways, but only when populations are quite small. Overall, its action is to make the individuals more similar to each other, and hence more vulnerable to disease or to chance events in their environment.
How species form is a major part of evolutionary biology. Darwin interpreted 'evolution' (a word he did not use at first) as being about speciation. That is why he called his famous book "On the Origin of Species".
Darwin thought most species arose directly from pre-existing species. This is called "anagenesis": new species by older species changing. Now we think most species arise by previous species splitting: "cladogenesis".
Two groups that start the same can also become very different if they live in different places. When a species gets split into two geographical regions, a process starts. Each adapts to its own situation. After a while, individuals from one group can no longer reproduce with the other group. Two good species have evolved from one.
A German explorer, Moritz Wagner, during his three years in Algeria in the 1830s, studied flightless beetles. Each species is confined to a stretch of the north coast between rivers which descend from the Atlas mountains to the Mediterranean. As soon as one crosses a river, a different but closely related species appears. He wrote later:
This was an early account of the importance of geographical separation. Another biologist who thought geographical separation was critical was Ernst Mayr.
One example of natural speciation is the three-spined stickleback, a sea fish that, after the last ice age, invaded freshwater, and set up colonies in isolated lakes and streams. Over about 10,000 generations, the sticklebacks show great differences, including variations in fins, changes in the number or size of their bony plates, variable jaw structure, and color differences.
The wombats of Australia fall into two main groups, Common wombats and Hairy-nosed wombats. The two types look very similar, apart from the hairiness of their noses. However, they are adapted to different environments. Common wombats live in forested areas and eat mostly green food with lots of moisture. They often feed in the daytime. Hairy-nosed wombats live on hot dry plains where they eat dry grass with very little water or goodness in it. Their metabolic system is slow and they sleep most of the day underground.
When two groups that started the same become different enough, then they become two different species. Part of the theory of evolution is that all living things started off the same, but then split off into different groups over billions of years.
This was an important movement in evolutionary biology, which started in the 1930s and finished in the 1950s. It has been updated regularly ever since.
The synthesis explains how the ideas of Charles Darwin fit with the discoveries of Gregor Mendel, who found out how we inherit our genes. The modern synthesis brought Darwin's idea up to date. It bridged the gap between different types of biologists: geneticists, naturalists, and palaeontologists.
When the theory of evolution was developed, it was not clear that natural selection and genetics worked together. But Ronald Fisher showed that natural selection would work to change species. Sewall Wright explained genetic drift in 1931.
Co-evolution is where the existence of one species is tightly bound up with the life of one or more other species.
New or 'improved' adaptations which occur in one species are often followed by the appearance and spread of related features in the other species. The life and death of living things is intimately connected, not just with the physical environment, but with the life of other species.
These relationships may continue for millions of years, as it has in the pollination of flowering plants by insects. The gut contents, wing structures, and mouthparts of fossilized beetles and flies suggest that they acted as early pollinators. The association between beetles and angiosperms during the Lower Cretaceous period led to parallel radiations of angiosperms and insects into the late Cretaceous. The evolution of nectaries in Upper Cretaceous flowers signals the beginning of the mutualism between hymenoptera and angiosperms.
Charles Darwin was the first to use this metaphor in biology. The "evolutionary tree" shows the relationships among various biological groups. It includes data from DNA, RNA and protein analysis. Tree of life work is a product of traditional comparative anatomy, and modern molecular evolution and molecular clock research.
The major figure in this work is Carl Woese, who defined the Archaea, the third domain (or kingdom) of life. Below is a simplified version of present-day understanding. 
Macroevolution: the study of changes above the species level, and how they take place. The basic data for such a study are fossils (palaeontology) and the reconstruction of ancient environments. Some subjects whose study falls within the realm of macroevolution:
It is a term of convenience: for most biologists it does not suggest any change in the process of evolution. For some palaeontologists, what they see in the fossil record cannot be explained just by the gradualist evolutionary synthesis. They are in the minority.
Altruism – the willingness of some to sacrifice themselves for others – is widespread in social animals. As explained above, the next generation can only come from those who survive and reproduce. Some biologists have thought that this meant altruism could not evolve by the normal process of selection. Instead a process called "group selection" was proposed. Group selection refers to the idea that alleles can become fixed or spread in a population because of the benefits they bestow on groups, regardless of the alleles' effect on the fitness of individuals within that group.
For several decades, critiques cast serious doubt on group selection as a major mechanism of evolution.
In simple cases it can be seen at once that traditional selection suffices. For example, if one sibling sacrifices itself for three siblings, the genetic disposition for the act will be increased. This is because siblings share on average 50% of their genetic inheritance, and the sacrificial act has led to greater representation of the genes in the next generation.
Altruism is now generally seen as emerging from standard selection. The warning note from Ernst Mayr, and the work of William Hamilton are both important to this discussion.
Hamilton's equation describes whether or not a gene for altruistic behaviour will spread in a population. The gene will spread if rxb is greater than c:
where:
At first, sexual reproduction might seem to be at a disadvantage compared with asexual reproduction. In order to be advantageous, sexual reproduction (cross-fertilisation) has to overcome a two-fold disadvantage (takes two to reproduce) plus the difficulty of finding a mate. Why, then, is sex so nearly universal among eukaryotes? This is one of the oldest questions in biology.
The answer has been given since Darwin's time: because the sexual populations adapt better to changing circumstances. A recent laboratory experiment suggests this is indeed the correct explanation.
In the main experiment, nematode worms were divided into two groups. One group was entirely outcrossing, the other was entirely selfing. The groups were subjected to a rugged terrain and repeatedly subjected to a mutagen. After 50 generations, the selfing population showed a substantial decline in fitness (= survival), whereas the outcrossing population showed no decline. This is one of a number of studies that show sexuality to have real advantages over non-sexual types of reproduction.
An important activity is artificial selection for domestication. This is when people choose which animals to breed from, based on their traits. Humans have used this for thousands of years to domesticate plants and animals.
More recently, it has become possible to use genetic engineering. New techniques such as 'gene targeting' are now available. The purpose of this is to insert new genes or knock out old genes from the genome of a plant or animal. A number of Nobel Prizes have already been awarded for this work.
However, the real purpose of studying evolution is to explain and help our understanding of biology. After all, it is the first good explanation of how living things came to be the way they are. That is a big achievement. The practical things come mostly from genetics, the science started by Gregor Mendel, and from molecular and cell biology.
In 2010 the journal "Nature" selected 15 topics as 'Evolution gems'. These were:
The idea that all life evolved had been proposed before Charles Darwin published "On the Origin of species". Even today, some people still discuss the concept of evolution and what it means to them, their philosophy and their religion. Evolution does seem to explain some things about our human nature. People also talk about the social implications of evolution.
In order to fit in the idea of evolution with their religious views, people have come up with ideas like "guided evolution" or "theistic evolution". They say that evolution is real, but is being guided in some way.
There are many different concepts of "theistic evolution". Many creationists believe that the creation myth found in their religion goes against the idea of evolution. As Darwin realised, the most controversial part of the evolutionary thought is what it means for human origins.
In some countries, especially in the United States, there is tension between people who accept the idea of evolution and those who do not accept it. The debate is mostly about whether evolution should be taught in schools, and in what way this should be done.
Other fields, like cosmology and earth science also do not match with the original writings of many religious texts. These ideas were once also fiercely opposed. Death for heresy was threatened to those who wrote against the idea that the Earth was the centre of the universe. Giordano Bruno was burnt at the stake by the Holy Inquisition for teaching that the Earth moved around the Sun (and other ideas).
Evolutionary biology is a more recent idea. Certain religious groups oppose the idea of evolution more than other religious groups do. For instance, the Roman Catholic Church now has the following position on evolution: Pope Pius XII said in his encyclical "Humani Generis" published in the 1950s:
Pope John Paul II updated this position in 1996. He said that Evolution was "more than a hypothesis":
The Anglican Communion also does not oppose the scientific account of evolution.
Many of those who accepted evolution were not much interested in biology. They were interested in using the theory to support their own ideas on society.
Some people have tried to use evolution to support racism. People wanting to justify racism claimed that certain groups, such as black people, were inferior. In nature, some animals do "survive" better than others, and it does lead to animals better adapted to their circumstances. With humans groups from different parts of the world, all evolution can say is that each group is probably well suited to its original situation. Evolution makes no judgements about better or worse. It does "not" say that any human group is superior to any other.
This amazing idea of eugenics was rather different. Two things had been noticed as far back as the 18th century. One was the great success of farmers in breeding cattle and crop plants. They did this by selecting which animals or plants would produce the next generation (artificial selection). The other observation was that lower class people had more children than upper-class people. If (and it's a big if) the higher classes were there on "merit", then their lack of children was the exact reverse of what should be happening. Faster breeding in the lower classes would lead to the society getting worse.
The idea to improve the human species by selective breeding is called eugenics. The name was proposed by Francis Galton, a bright scientist who meant to do good. He said that the human stock (gene pool) should be improved by selective breeding policies. This would mean that those who were considered "good stock" would receive a reward if they reproduced. However, other people suggested that those considered "bad stock" would need to undergo compulsory sterilization, prenatal testing and birth control. The German Nazi government (1933–1945) used eugenics as a cover for their extreme racial policies, with dreadful results.
The problem with Galton's idea is how to decide which features to select. There are so many different skills people could have, you could not agree who was "good stock" and who was "bad stock". There was rather more agreement on who should "not" be breeding. Several countries passed laws for the compulsory sterilisation of unwelcome groups. Most of these laws were passed between 1900 and 1940. After World War II, disgust at what the Nazis had done squashed any more attempts at eugenics.
Some equations can be solved using algorithms that simulate evolution. Evolutionary algorithms work like that.
Another example of using ideas about evolution to support social action is Social Darwinism. Social Darwinism is a term given to the ideas of the 19th century social philosopher Herbert Spencer. Spencer believed the "survival of the fittest" could and should be applied to commerce and human societies as a whole.
Again, some people used these ideas to claim that racism, and ruthless economic policies were justified. Today, most biologists and philosophers say that the theory of evolution should not be applied to social policy.
Some people disagree with the idea of evolution. They disagree with it for a number of reasons. Most often these reasons are influenced by or based on their religious beliefs. People who do not agree with evolution usually believe in creationism or intelligent design.
Despite this, evolution is one of the most successful theories in science. People have discovered it to be useful for different kinds of research. None of the other suggestions explain things, such as fossil records, as well. So, for almost all scientists, evolution is not in doubt.
These books are mostly about the evidence for evolution.
These books cover most evolutionary topics.

</doc>
<doc id="8744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8744" title="December 31">
December 31


</doc>
<doc id="8745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8745" title="December 25">
December 25


</doc>
<doc id="8746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8746" title="1937">
1937


</doc>
<doc id="8751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8751" title="Bedfordshire">
Bedfordshire

Bedfordshire is a county of England. Its county town is Bedford. It borders Cambridgeshire, Northamptonshire, Buckinghamshire (with the Borough of Milton Keynes) and Hertfordshire. The highest elevation point is 243 m (797 ft) on Dunstable Downs in the Chilterns. The county motto is "Constant Be", which is taken from the hymn "To Be A Pilgrim" by John Bunyan.
There are forty Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Bedfordshire, designated by Natural England. Thirty-five are listed for their biological interest, and five for their geological interest.
Three of the sites are also National nature reserves, twelve are in the Chilterns Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, and eleven are managed wholly or partly by the Wildlife Trust for Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire.

</doc>
<doc id="8758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8758" title="March 26">
March 26


</doc>
<doc id="8759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8759" title="March 20">
March 20

March 20 is usually the first day of spring in the Northern Hemisphere, and the first day of autumn in the Southern Hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="8764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8764" title="October 8">
October 8


</doc>
<doc id="8765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8765" title="October 28">
October 28


</doc>
<doc id="8793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8793" title="American football">
American football

American Football (just called football in the USA) is a team sport. It is played by two teams with 11 players on each side. American football is played with a ball with more pointed ends. Points are scored in many ways, usually by one team getting the ball into the end zone of the other team.
The main leagues that play American football (usually just referred to as "football" in America) are the professional National Football League, and the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which plays college football. In the National Football League, players are paid millions of dollars. In the National Collegiate Athletic Association, players simply play for the pride of their school, or for the chance to join a team to play for millions of dollars. Over a million boys (and a small number of girls) play high school football, also for school pride. There is also a closely related sport called Canadian football.
A football game is played with a ball called a football. The sport is played on a grass (or artificial turf) field, exactly 360 feet (120 yards) long and 160 feet (53⅓ yards) wide. The end zones, one at each end of the field, are 10 yards long. The players wear protective equipment, including a helmet with facemask, shoulder pads, thigh pads, and often a mouth guard. A team has four chances, or "downs", to advance the ball 10 yards while the opposing team tries to stop it. Certain players advance the ball by carrying or throwing it. Teams can score by advancing the ball to the other team's end zone or by kicking the ball through a goalpost placed at the back of the end zone. American football is carefully regulated by time and rules, which are enforced by officials, who also determine when a team scores.
A college or professional football game is 60 minutes long, and is divided into 15-minute quarters. In high schools, the quarters are 12 minutes long, and games for younger children are often shorter still. After the first two quarters, the teams rest for a few minutes during halftime.
In NFL football, if the game is tied after the four quarters, the two teams compete in at least one more 15-minute period called overtime. During overtime, the first team to score points is usually the winner. However, under the current rules, first used for the 2011 postseason, if the team that has the ball first ends its possession by scoring a field goal, the other team gets a chance to score. If that team does not score, or if it scores a touchdown, the game ends. If it scores a field goal, the game continues, and the next team to score wins. During the regular season, only one overtime period is played—if neither team scores, or if both teams score field goals when they first have the ball, the game ends in a tie. During the playoffs, the game will continue with as many overtime periods as needed to decide a winner. If the game is tied after each team has had the ball once in overtime, the first team to score wins.
In NCAA football overtime, which is based on the system used for high school football in most U.S. states, the teams take turns trying to score. The game ends when one team scores, and the other team fails to score as many points during its chance.
American football is played on a field 120 yards long by 53⅓ yards wide. Most of the game is played on 100 yards in the middle. It is divided by 20 lines drawing every 5 yards. The field has two other sets of markings, running between the two end zones along the length of the field, known as "hashmarks". All plays must start between the hashmarks—if the last play ended outside the hashmarks, the ball is moved to the nearest hashmark. At the ends of the field there are scoring areas, called the end zones.
There are also two yellow poles on the end of each field called uprights. Sometimes, if the team can not score a touchdown they might want to kick it through the uprights for three points. The uprights are also used for scoring one point after a team scored a touchdown.
There are many types of players on a football team. For the offensive part of the team, a quarterback throws the football to wide receivers while offensive linemen block to protect him from defensive players. The offensive linemen also block when a running back runs to advance the football. Players on the Defensive line, a linebacker, and defensive backs (cornerbacks and American football safeties) attempt to tackle the offensive player who carries the football.
Some team members only play during certain times. These players belong to the Special Teams. The kicker can kick the ball to the other team or between the uprights, while the placeholder holds the ball steady. The kick returner runs the ball down the field in an attempt to score points after catching the ball.
A touchdown is achieved when a player has legal possession of the ball and the ball crosses an imaginary vertical plane above the opposing team's goal line. After a touchdown, the scoring team attempts a try for 1 or 2 points (see below). A successful touchdown is signaled by an official extending both arms vertically above the head.
A field goal is scored when the ball is place kicked between the goal posts behind the opponent's end zone. The most common type of kick used is the place kick. For a place kick, the ball must first be snapped to a placeholder, who holds the ball upright on the ground with his fingertip so that it may be kicked. Three points are scored if the ball crosses between the two upright posts and above the crossbar and remains over.
Immediately following a touchdown, the scoring team can attempt to kick the ball between the goal posts for 1 extra point. The team can also run the ball into the end zone for 2 points. 
A safety is scored if a player causes the ball to become dead in his own end zone. When this happens two points are awarded to the opposing (usually defending) team. This can happen if a player is either downed or goes out of bounds in the end zone while carrying the ball. It can also happen if he fumbles the ball, and it goes out of bounds in the end zone. A safety is also awarded to the defensive team if the offensive team commits a foul which is enforced in its own end zone.
Exhibition season (better known as Pre-Season) is in August. In the exhibition season, the teams get ready for the regular season by having training. Teams have practices to help the team get better and see who will make the team. All of the teams play 4 games before the regular season starts, and the games do not change what team gets to the post season. Because of it, teams do not use their best players much, and use the games as more practice.
The 32 NFL teams are divided into two conferences: the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference (AFC). Each of them is divided in four divisions: North, South, West and East. Each division includes four teams.
The season lasts 17 weeks. Each team plays 16 games and has one week off. This week of rest is called a "bye week".
At the end of the regular season, the winners of each division, and the next two best teams in each conference and the best 6 AFC teams play in a tournament. NFC's champion and AFC's champion play the NFL's final game, the Super Bowl. The event is often treated as a National holiday as many stores close for the event. The day of the event is commonly known nationwide as Super Bowl Sunday.

</doc>
<doc id="8794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8794" title="The Ugly Duckling">
The Ugly Duckling

"The Ugly Duckling" is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. Andersen lavished great care on this story, spending a year perfecting it. It was first published in 1844 with "The Angel", "The Sweethearts", and "The Nightingale" in "New Fairy Tales". The critics liked these stories. Andersen considered the story "a reflection of my own life." The moral of the tale: "it does not matter if you were born in a duck yard if you have lain in a swan's egg." The tale has been adapted to various media such as animated movies.
A mother duck hatches six pretty little ducklings. A seventh bird is hatched. He is homely. The other ducks abuse him. He runs away. He is given a home by an old woman. Her cat and hen do not like him. He runs away again. Winter comes. The little bird almost dies. Spring comes. The "ugly duckling" has grown into a beautiful swan. The other swans welcome him as their own. They bow to him. He is happy for the first time in his life. 

</doc>
<doc id="8799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8799" title="General relativity">
General relativity

General relativity is a theory of space and time. The theory was published by Albert Einstein in 1915. The central idea of general relativity is that space and time are two aspects of spacetime. Spacetime is curved when there is gravity, matter, energy, and momentum. The links between these forces are shown in the Einstein field equations.
A central idea in general relativity is the "principle of equivalence." An example is that two people, one in an elevator sitting on the surface of the earth, and the other in an elevator in outer space accelerating at 9.8 m/s, will each observe the same behavior of an object they drop from their hand. The object will accelerate to the floor at 9.8 m/s in either case, making it impossible for either to distinguish whether or not they are at rest in a gravitational field or accelerating upward at one . Other versions of this type of "thought experiment" were used to show that light would curve in an accelerating frame of reference. There are several forms of the equivalence principle. These include: Newton's equivalence principle, the weak equivalence principle, the gravitational weak equivalence principle, Einstein's equivalence principle and the strong equivalence principle.
The Sun can be seen as this kind of valley in spacetime, and one of the other objects in the valley is the Earth. The Earth does not roll directly towards the Sun (or ball) because it is moving too fast. The force pulling the Earth towards the sun is about the same as a second force. This second force is called the centrifugal force. The centrifugal force exists because the Earth moves sideways. This sideways motion makes the distance between the Earth and Sun increase. Since the Earth is being pulled towards the sun and moving away at the same time, it stays at about the same distance. This is also how the Moon orbits the earth. In this second case, Earth is the ball and the Moon is the object. 
General relativity has predicted many things which were later seen. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="8857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8857" title="Rutland">
Rutland

Rutland is the smallest county of England. It is surrounded by the counties of Leicestershire, Lincolnshire and Northamptonshire.
The main towns of Rutland are Oakham and Uppingham.
In the mid-1970s, it was the inspiration for Eric Idle's TV show, Rutland Weekend Television.

</doc>
<doc id="8861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8861" title="1943">
1943


</doc>
<doc id="8864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8864" title="Adlai Stevenson I">
Adlai Stevenson I

Adlai Ewing Stevenson (October 23, 1835 – June 14, 1914) was an American politician. He was Vice President of the United States under Grover Cleveland, and ran for United States President and several other political offices, but lost. He was also first assistant Postmaster General and a member of the United States House of Representatives, as well. His grandson of the same name also was a notable politician and writer. Another grandson, McLean Stevenson was an actor. His other grandson was Illinois Senator Adlai Stevenson III.

</doc>
<doc id="8865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8865" title="Toledo, Ohio">
Toledo, Ohio

Toledo is a city in Ohio, USA. It was named after Toledo, Spain. It is a large industrial city, and has many factories that make things like car parts and glass. In 1835 and 1836, Ohio and Michigan both claimed to own the city and surrounding territory. Michigan gave up its claim and got other land instead. Toledo is about an hour from Detroit, Michigan. The main highways in and out of Toledo are Interstate 75, Interstate 90, and U.S. 24 (Detroit Boulevard, Telegraph Road). It is the 59th largest city in the United States.
In 1936, the first building covered in glass was built here.
Toledo has a humid continental climate ("Dfa" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="8901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8901" title="The Carpenters">
The Carpenters

The Carpenters were an American musical duo. The members were Richard Carpenter and his sister Karen. Starting in 1969, the duo had many popular songs including "We've Only Just begun", "Close to You", "Sing", "Rainy Days and Mondays" "Calling Occupants of Interplanetary Craft" and others. They continued until Karen's death in 1983 of bulimia in Downey, California. They sold over 100 million albums. 

</doc>
<doc id="8902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8902" title="Jerry Reed">
Jerry Reed

Jerry Reed (March 20, 1937 – September 1, 2008) is an American country music singer and actor. He is known for his songs "Amos Moses", "When You're Hot You're Hot", and "Eastbound and Down". He also acted in several movies including "Smokey and the Bandit" and "The Waterboy". He was born in Atlanta, Georgia. He died in Nashville, Tennessee due to complications from emphysema.

</doc>
<doc id="8905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8905" title="1990">
1990

1990 (MCMXC) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar. It was also the first year of the 1990s decade.

</doc>
<doc id="8906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8906" title="Bee Gees">
Bee Gees

The Bee Gees were a singing group. Its members were three brothers, Barry Gibb (born 1 September 1946), and twins Maurice Gibb (22 December 1949 – 12 January 2003) and Robin Gibb (22 December 1949 - 20 May 2012). They performed together for almost 40 years. They are most famous for their album, "Saturday Night Fever", the soundtrack for the movie of the same name. They stopped performing after Maurice died. The two other brothers reunited as a duo in 2009. In 2012 Robin died. They had a younger brother, Andy Gibb (1958–1988), who was also a singer.
The brothers were born in Isle of Man, then in the late 1950s moved to Australia, where they began their musical career. In January 1967, they returned to the United Kingdom where they started to become famous. In 1975, the brothers moved to Florida, USA, to live and record.

</doc>
<doc id="8912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8912" title="Improverts">
Improverts

The Improverts are an improvised comedy group based in Edinburgh, Scotland. They are a part of the Edinburgh University Theatre Company. Their home is the Bedlam Theatre. It has been their home since they were created 18 years ago. The group is similar to "Who's Line is it Anyway?", Comedy Store Players, and Keith Johnstone in that they use short improvised games. 
They have taken part in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival almost every year since they were formed. Also they have played every Friday night during the school year (as their main audience is Edinburgh University students). 
Because they are always in Bedlam Theatre, the theatre technicians improvise the sounds, music and lights along with the scenes the performers are doing. The sounds can be loud and annoying at times. The technicians show off their very big iTunes library of songs and sound effects. British 80's children's programmes' themes are a favourite of theirs.
Past players have gone on to many different things. They have created an improv group in London, joined the Stand Players' "Who's Lunch is it anyway" free improv show at Edinburgh's The Stand comedy venue and become successful stand up comedians. Some have starred in British sitcoms, television dramas, movies and popular children's programmes 

</doc>
<doc id="8914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8914" title="Taipei 101">
Taipei 101

Taipei 101 () is 101-floor building in Taipei, Republic of China (Taiwan). In 2004, it replaced the Willis Tower (which used to be called the Sears Tower) as the tallest completed building in the world. However, in 2010, it was surpassed by the Burj Khalifa in Dubai.
Taipei 101 holds records for:
Taipei 101 does not hold the record for tallest building from ground to pinnacle. The Sears Tower has two television antennas on top of it, making its height from the ground to the top of the taller antenna 527 m (1,729 ft).

</doc>
<doc id="8915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8915" title="September 1">
September 1


</doc>
<doc id="8917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8917" title="1946">
1946


</doc>
<doc id="8918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8918" title="December 11">
December 11


</doc>
<doc id="8921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8921" title="February 4">
February 4


</doc>
<doc id="8922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8922" title="Sergio Aragonés">
Sergio Aragonés

Sergio Aragonés (1937-) is a popular cartoonist. He was born in Spain and grew up in Mexico. He is most famous for his cartoons for "MAD Magazine" and the comic book "Groo the Wanderer".

</doc>
<doc id="8923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8923" title="Lisa Bonet">
Lisa Bonet

Lisa Bonet (born Lisa Michelle Bonet; November 16, 1967), also known as Lilakoi Moon, is an American actress. She is best known for her roles as Denise Huxtable on television series, "The Cosby Show" and "A Different World". She was also married to singer Lenny Kravitz from 1987 to 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="8925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8925" title="Tobacco">
Tobacco

Tobacco is a plant of the nightshade family, found mainly in North America and South America. Dried tobacco leaves are often smoked in cigars, cigarettes and pipes, but can also be chewed in the mouth or sniffed in the nose. Tobacco contains a very powerful addictive chemical called nicotine which makes it very hard for tobacco users to stop using it.
Native Americans used tobacco before Europeans arrived in America. These Europeans learned to smoke and brought it back to Europe, where it became very popular. At that time tobacco was usually smoked in a pipe.
The Europeans who moved to America started to farm tobacco so that they could sell it in Europe. This became one of the main causes of the African slave trade. In 1610 a European man called John Rolfe arrived in the American state of Virginia and set up a tobacco farm which made him very rich. Rolfe was the first farmer to use "nicotiana tabacum", which is the type of tobacco most commonly smoked today. He also married Pocahontas, a Native American woman who became famous when she went to live in London. 
In the 17th and 18th centuries tobacco made farmers very rich and towns quickly grew in the states of Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. In 1883 one third of United States tax money came from tobacco.
In 1864 the first American tobacco factory opened to produce 20 million cigarettes annually. By 1964 the cigarette contained over 500 added chemicals. Today tobacco manufacturers are still not required by law to list the 500+ ingredients.
Tobacco users (especially smokers) risk many very serious and often deadly illnesses, such as cancer, strokes, heart disease, and lung disease. The United States' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention describes tobacco use as "the single most important preventable risk to human health in developed countries and an important cause of premature (early) death worldwide". There are over 4800 chemicals in tobacco, including arsenic. 64 of them are known to cause cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="8927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8927" title="Jerusalem">
Jerusalem

Jerusalem is one of the oldest cities in the world that people have lived in continuously. It is important to many major religions. Jews consider Jerusalem a holy city because it was their religious and political center during Biblical times and was the place where the Temple of God stood. Christians consider Jerusalem holy because many events in the life of Jesus took place there. Muslims believe that the Prophet Muhammad rose to heaven from Jerusalem.
Both Israel and Palestine claim Jerusalem as their national capital. All other countries and the United Nations say that West Jerusalem is part of Israel and that East Jerusalem is Palestinian. Because it is not considered to belong to any country at the moment, the city has no embassies. Most countries have their embassies in Tel Aviv and Ramallah.
Jerusalem is about 40 miles (64 kilometers) east of the Mediterranean Sea. It is a hilly city with many valleys around it.
Jerusalem is a very old city. It has great importance for three religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The Bible says King David, the second king of Israel, took this city from pagans and settled his palace there. King Solomon, David's son and the next king, built the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem. Later, as capital of Judah, Jerusalem was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar II, the king of Babylon. The Palace of King David and the Temple of Solomon were burned, and the Jews were captured and taken to Babylon. Seventy years later, the Persian King Cyrus allowed them to return to Jerusalem and to rebuild the Temple.
Later the area was occupied by Romans. King Herod the Great, who ruled for the Roman Emperor, made the Temple larger to try and win Jewish favor. The Temple was famous for its greatness and beauty. 
Jesus died in Jerusalem around 33 CE. In 70 CE, the Jews rebelled against the Romans, but the Romans destroyed the city and the Temple. Jewish people who lived in Jerusalem were caught and became slaves. The Romans renamed Jerusalem with a Latin name. Since then, the Temple has not been rebuilt, and only a part of its wall remains until today.
After the Roman Empire was split into two, the Byzantine Empire ruled Jerusalem. Later, Muslims took over the city from them. The Muslims believed Muhammad went to heaven from Jerusalem.
Later, the Pope in Rome sent the Crusaders from Western Europe to try and take Jerusalem back. They succeeded for a while, but eventually the city fell again to the Saracens. Until the 20th century, Jerusalem was a part of the Ottoman Empire. There were some Jews in Jerusalem all along, even though they were ruled by other people.
The "New City" of Jerusalem is the part outside the old stone walls. People started building the new city in the 1800s. Mishkenot Sha'annanim, Mea Shearim, and the Bukharan Quarter are some of the first neighborhoods in the new city.
In 1949, at the end of the first Arab-Israeli War, Jerusalem was divided between Israel and Jordan. Israel controlled the western part of the city. Jordan controlled the eastern section, including the Old City, a walled section of Jerusalem dating from Biblical times. Israel took control of the entire city during the Six-Day War in 1967.
Jerusalem today is claimed by both the Palestinians and the Israelis as their capital. The United Nations do not agree to Israel saying that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel, according to international law.
Jerusalem has a central place in the worship, doctrine, and daily practice of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. The city's large number of synagogues, churches, mosques, and other religious institutions reflects the significance of the city for all three faiths. Each religious community supervises its own holy sites.
According to Jewish tradition, Jerusalem is where God told the patriarch Abraham to sacrifice his son, Isaac, to Him. The Jews built the Temple, the center of Jewish worship in ancient times, at the site of Abraham's sacrifice on the Temple Mount in the Old City. Two buildings, one after the other, the First Temple and the Second Temple, stood at the site. The First Temple housed the Ark of the Covenant, a sacred box holding the tablets inscribed with the Ten Commandments.
The Western Wall is a part of the Second Temple and Judaism's most sacred shrine. It is a stone wall that strengthened the western side of the Temple Mount in ancient times. The wall is sometimes called the Wailing Wall because of the sad prayers Jewish people said there to mourn the destroyed Temple.
Other sites in the city that are sacred to the Jews include King David's tomb on Mount Zion, and the Jewish Cemetery and the Tombs of the Prophets on the Mount of Olives, a hill just east of the Old City. Many sites associated with Biblical figures are sacred to Christians, too.
Many monasteries, convents, shrines, and religious seminaries in Jerusalem mark events in the life of Jesus and in the formation of the Christian Church. According to the Bible, Jesus taught in Jerusalem and performed numerous miracles there. The Last Supper supposedly took place in a room known as the Cenacle (also called Coenaculum) on Mount Zion. The Church of the Holy Sepulcher in the Old City is said to be the place of Jesus's Crucifixion (called Calvary or Golgotha), as well as His burial and resurrection. Several Christian sects own the church, which was originally built by Constantine the Great, then rebuilt and dedicated by the Crusaders in 1149 CE. The building stands at the end of the Via Dolorosa (Way of Sorrows), believed to be the path over which Jesus carried His cross to Calvary. Jesus was last seen by His followers on the Mount of Olives before He went up to heaven. All of these sites attract many religious pilgrims each year.
Jerusalem is Islam's third holiest city, after Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. According to Muslim tradition, the Prophet Muhammad originally selected Jerusalem as the qibla: the direction Muslims should face during prayer. However, he later told his followers to face Mecca instead of Jerusalem when praying. Muhammad is said to have gone up to heaven from a stone now covered by a golden-domed shrine called the Dome of the Rock. The Dome of the Rock and the ancient Al-Aqsa Mosque are among the holiest sites in Islam. They are the main buildings on the Temple Mount, which Muslims call "Haram al-Sharif" (Noble Sanctuary).
Jerusalem's architecture is a mixture of old and new. The Old City contains architectural examples from each major period in the city's history. Many ancient historical sites and places of worship stand near modern shopping centers and industrial zones. Architecture from the late 1800s and early 1900s shows European influences. Usefulness rather than style characterizes new apartment buildings constructed by the government as housing for immigrants. Many buildings, old and new, have matching exteriors because all construction is required to be faced with a cream-colored limestone called Jerusalem stone, produced by nearby quarries.

</doc>
<doc id="8933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8933" title="Rocky Mountains">
Rocky Mountains

The Rocky Mountains (often 'The Rockies') are a range of mountains in the western United States and Canada. They stretch from the northernmost part of British Columbia, in western Canada, to New Mexico, in the southwestern United States. The Rocky Mountains are more than 3,000 miles long (4,800 kilometers). 
The highest point in the Rocky Mountains is Mt. Elbert. Mt. Elbert is 14,433 ft tall.
The Rocky Mountains were formed from 80 million to 55 million years ago (mya) during the Laramide orogeny. North America began to move westwards as Pangaea broke up. A number of tectonic plates began to slide under the North American plate. The angle of subduction was shallow, resulting in a broad belt of mountains running down western North America. Since then, further tectonic activity and erosion by glaciers has sculpted the Rockies into dramatic peaks and valleys. 
The rocks in the Rocky Mountains were formed before the mountains were raised by tectonic forces. The oldest rock is Precambrian metamorphic rock that forms the core of the North American continent. There is also Precambrian sedimentary argillite, dating back to 1.7 billion years ago. During the Paleozoic, western North America lay underneath a shallow sea, which deposited many kilometers of limestone and dolomite.
In the southern Rocky Mountains, near present-day Colorado, these ancestral rocks were disturbed by mountain building approximately 300 mya, during the Pennsylvanian. This mountain building produced the Ancestral Rocky Mountains. They consisted largely of Precambrian metamorphic rock forced upward through layers of the limestone laid down in the shallow sea. The mountains eroded throughout the late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic, leaving extensive deposits of sedimentary rock.

</doc>
<doc id="8934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8934" title="Brooklyn">
Brooklyn

Brooklyn is one of the 5 boroughs of New York City. It is also called Kings County. Brooklyn is the second largest borough in land area. 
In the early 21st century, about 2.5 million live there. This is more than in any of the other four boroughs.
Brooklyn is the west end of Long Island. The East River separates it from Manhattan. Brooklyn's only land boundary is with Queens. Coney Island is the south end of Brooklyn.
Brooklyn is named after a Dutch town called "Breukelen". Dutch people were the first people from Europe to live in the area. When they got there, there were already some Native American people living there called the Lenape. The Dutch set up the city in 1634 as part of the colony of New Netherland.
During the 19th century Brooklyn expanded and filled Kings County. It remained a separate city before the people there voted to join New York City in 1898. Today, many parts of Brooklyn are home to people who are mostly from one culture or ethnicity, and other parts are mixed.
The Brooklyn Bridge is a famous bridge in Brooklyn. It goes over the East River and connects Brooklyn to Manhattan. The largest bridge in New York connects Brooklyn to Staten Island.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="8935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8935" title="Cornish language">
Cornish language

Cornish is a very old language from the county of Cornwall in the southwest of England, UK. Cornish is a Celtic language and is very similar to Breton and Welsh, all three having developed from a common ancient language.
A long time ago Cornish was the only language spoken in Cornwall, but more and more people began to speak English instead of Cornish. In 1550, when the prayer book was written in English instead of Latin, the Cornish people got angry and there was a rebellion. Because many Cornish speakers died and because they would now hear the Bible in English the language was used less and less. 
By 1800 there were only a few people who could speak Cornish, and no-one spoke it to each other any more. The language was then considered endangered. 
Pople say that a woman called Dolly Pentreath was the last person who could speak Cornish. This is not quite true, but she was one of the last people to use it instead of English. Since her death, Cornish was considered an extinct language. 
Some people learned about Cornish by travelling around talking to people who could still speak it and by reading old plays and books. Some people wanted to learn the language and speak it, so in 1904 a learned man called Henry Jenner wrote a book to help people. After this some people began to learn the language and speak it again.
No one knows how many Cornish speakers there are now. People think there are probably about 3000 to 5000 people who speak Cornish. Some young people have grown up speaking it. Many other people in Cornwall know a few sentences or words in Cornish. In a hundred years the Cornish language has grown from almost no speakers to many thousands which is very exciting for many people.
There are now many new books, films and songs in Cornish. The Bible has now been translated into Cornish. There is an event called the open Gorseth where there is a story and poetry competition. Sometimes Cornish is used in churches.
There used to be a problem with Cornish, in that there were three different dictionaries with different spellings and people did not agree about how to write the words, or how to say them. This was confusing for people when they have not been speaking long, so in 2008 people who used the different types of Cornish came together and agreed on a new standard form of Cornish to be used everywhere.
Here are some words in Cornish:
<nowiki>*</nowiki> <nowiki>Ferdinand, Siarl (2013). Brief History of the Cornish language, its revival and its current situation. "E-Keltoi", 2, 199–227</nowiki> 

</doc>
<doc id="8936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8936" title="Welsh">
Welsh

Welsh could mean many different things:
Welsh could also mean:
Places in the United States (US)
People

</doc>
<doc id="8937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8937" title="Watergate scandal">
Watergate scandal

The Watergate scandal happened when United States President Richard Nixon, a Republican, was tied to a crime in which former FBI and CIA agents broke into the offices of the Democratic Party and George McGovern (the Presidential candidate). Nixon's helpers listened to phone lines and secret papers were stolen. This was against the law.
Nixon chose to resign from presidency on August 9, 1974 because he did not want to be impeached (this means that he may be removed from presidency with a certain decision of the U.S. Congress). So, the U.S. Congress could not impeach him. After this, Gerald Ford, his vice-president, became the President. Ford later forgave and pardoned Nixon for all of his crimes. The name "Watergate" comes from the hotel in Washington, D.C. where the first crime took place and is often associated with political scandals.

</doc>
<doc id="8945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8945" title="Cyan">
Cyan

Cyan is the color halfway between blue and green on the color wheel. It is one of the primary (main) colors of ink in an inkjet printer, along with yellow and magenta.
Cyan is a secondary color of light, along with magenta and yellow. The primary colors of light are: blue, red and green. Cyan is made by mixing green and blue light.

</doc>
<doc id="8946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8946" title="Purple">
Purple

Purple is a colour that combines blue and red.
The first written use of "purple" as a color name in English was in 975. 
These Tyrian purple colors, all of which are also shown in the color chart above, show the original purple of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. The color "imperial" shown below was made by mixing Tyrian purple with indigo dye. 

</doc>
<doc id="9002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9002" title="La Liga Filipina">
La Liga Filipina

La Liga Filipina was a group created by Doctor Jose Rizal on July 3, 1982 in the Philippines. 
The aims were:
Jose Rizal tried very hard to make it a peaceful group. But the Spanish authorities considered it dangerous. On the night of July 6, 1892, Rizal was secretly arrested four days after its creation. The following day, Governor-General Eulogio Despujol ordered Rizal to be deported to Dapitan.
After Rizal's arrest, La Liga Filipina became inactive. Then it was reorganized by Domingo Franco and Andres Bonifacio. The society broke apart into two separate groups: the Cuerpo de Compromisarios which promised to continue supporting the La Solidaridad in Spain and the Katipunan in the Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="9036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9036" title="March 31">
March 31


</doc>
<doc id="9041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9041" title="September 29">
September 29


</doc>
<doc id="9042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9042" title="1938">
1938


</doc>
<doc id="9044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9044" title="1865">
1865


</doc>
<doc id="9052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9052" title="Elton John">
Elton John

Sir Elton Hercules John CBE (birth name Reginald Kenneth Dwight, born 25 March 1947 in Pinner, Middlesex, England), better known simply as Elton John, is a British rock musician. He started his music career immediately after leaving school. Elton John was the biggest music star in the 1970s.
John became famous in the early 1970s when he and songwriter Bernie Taupin wrote several songs which he performed and recorded. John became a huge star, not only for his musical abilities, but for his stage personality. He composed several musicals. He also composed the music for the animated movies "The Lion King" (1994) and "The Road to El Dorado" (2000). He is active in charity work. In 1997, in honor of Diana, Princess of Wales, John released a version of his hit "Candle in the Wind". That became the world's biggest selling single of all time. It sold 37 million copies within two months.
John has received the following awards.
John has had treatment for alcoholism, drug abuse and bulimia nervosa.
In 2005, John entered a civil partnership with David Furnish. They had been together for 12 years. On 21 December 2014, John and Furnish married. Guests at their wedding included English former footballer David Beckham along with his wife Victoria Beckham and their younger sons and their daughter. Their eldest son, who is also John's godson, was not present.

</doc>
<doc id="9053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9053" title="The Who">
The Who

The Who are an English rock band formed in 1964. The main lineup from 1964 to 1978 was guitarist Pete Townshend, vocalist Roger Daltrey, bassist John Entwistle and drummer Keith Moon. They became known for high energy live shows. The Who have sold about 100 million records.
The Who rose to fame in the United Kingdom with a series of top ten hit singles including: "I Can't Explain", "The Kids Are Alright", "My Generation", "Who Are You", and "Love Reign O'er Me". The albums "My Generation", "A Quick One" and "The Who Sell Out" followed. Their fame grew with memorable shows at the Monterey Pop and Woodstock music festivals. "Tommy," released in 1969, was the first in a series of top ten albums in the United States.
Keith Moon died in 1978. The band released two more studio albums with drummer Kenney Jones before disbanding in 1983. They re-formed at events such as Live Aid and for reunion tours such as their 25th anniversary tour and the Quadrophenia tours of 1996 and 1997. In 2002 planning for recording an album of new material was put on hold after John Entwistle's death at the age of 57. Townshend and Daltrey continued to perform as The Who and in 2006 they released the studio album titled "Endless Wire."
The Who were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="9054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9054" title="Led Zeppelin">
Led Zeppelin

Led Zeppelin were an English rock band. The group was started in 1968 and broke up in 1980. The members were Robert Plant (vocals), Jimmy Page (lead guitar), John Paul Jones (bass), and John Bonham (drums). Led Zeppelin ended in 1980 after the accidental death of John Bonham. After Bonham's death, the band believed that nobody could take his place and decided not to continue. The band played together again in a tribute concert in London on 10 December 2007 with Jason Bonham, John's son, playing the drums. The band is one of the most influential rock bands of all time and one of the most successful music artists in history, selling 300 million albums around the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="9055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9055" title="Closed source">
Closed source

Closed source (or proprietary software) means computer programs whose source code is not published. The source code is not shared with the public for anyone to look at or change. Closed source is the opposite of open source. 
Most companies who sell their software for money make it closed source so people cannot easily change it or copy it for free.
Even some who give their software for free do not show the source code, because they think it looks bad, or that somebody will change the authors' names to their own (a kind of plagiarism) without making the program better. Some programs called “freeware” are given away for free, but they are not the same as free software that anyone can do whatever they want with.

</doc>
<doc id="9060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9060" title="USB flash drive">
USB flash drive

A USB flash drive (USB stands for "Universal Serial Bus") is a popular way to store digital information. Flash drives are an easy way to share data (information). A USB flash drive can be attached to a USB port, and provides a certain amount of storage space, which can be used to store data. USB flash drives are used with devices found in homes, workplaces and schools. Below are some examples of these devices: 
They are called "Flash drive" because they use flash memory to store files. Flash memory is a type of computer chip. The first flash drives had 8 megabytes of storage. Each year larger flash drives become available. In April 2012, 256 gigabyte flash drives can be bought. 
Other common names for a flash drive include: memory stick, memory card, flash stick, keydrive, pendrive, thumbdrive and jumpdrive or simply USB.
USB flash drives have some advantages over other portable storage devices. They are physically much smaller and more rugged than floppy disks. They store and read much more data, much faster than floppy disks. Floppy disks have become obsolete because of this.
Flash drives are used to store any type of data file, or to move data from one computer to another. USB flash drives have a lot of storage space. It is often easier to use a flash drive than to carry many CD-ROMs. Some computer programs can be run from a USB flash drive. These special versions of programs are called "portable" versions.
Administrators, or people who manage the computer systems, sometimes use flash drives. Sometimes flash drives are also used to run a computer virus scanner. They are often used to repair a computer system that was damaged or faulty.
Police in the cyber division can use flash drives to take evidence or proof.
Most computers today can boot from a USB drive. Special operating systems can run from a bootable flash drive. They are called Live USB versions.
Many companies make small digital audio players (usually called an mp3 player). These are actually flash drives that can make sound. Examples include the Creative MuVo and the iPod shuffle. Some of these players are real USB flash drives as well as music players; others just play music.
Many of the smallest players are powered by a permanently fitted rechargeable battery. The battery power can be charged from the USB port.
Digital audio files can be moved from one computer to another. The files can be played on a software media player. Many home and car music systems have a USB port. A USB flash drive can be connected to play music files.
Music artists have sold or given away USB flash drives. The first time this happened was in 2004—the German band WIZO released the "Stick EP", only as a USB drive. It contained five high quality MP3s; it also included a video, pictures, lyrics, and guitar tablature. 
Since then, artists including Kanye West, Nine Inch Nails and Ayumi Hamasaki have released music and promotional material on USB flash drives.
In the arcade game "In the Groove" and "In The Groove 2", flash drives are used to transfer high scores, screenshots, dance edits, and combos throughout sessions. In later versions, players can also store custom songs and play them on any machine on which this feature is enabled. While use of flash drives is common, the drive must be Linux compatible, causing problems for some players.
In the arcade games "Pump it Up NX2" and "Pump it Up NX Absolute", a specially produced flash drive is used as a "save file" for unlocked songs, as well as progressing in the WorldMax and Brain Shower sections of the game.
In the arcade game "Dance Dance Revolution X", a special USB flash drive was made by Konami, letting players link the Sony PlayStation 2 version.
Flash drives are very cheap to produce. So, they are sometimes used to promote a product. At most technical trade fairs, many exhibitors will promote their products by giving away free drives. 
In other situations, they may be sold at less than wholesale price, or included as a bonus with another product.
Usually, such drives will be stamped with a company's logo, as a form of advertising .
The drive may be blank drive, or already have documents or software loaded on to it. These are called preloaded drives. 
Some preloaded drives are read-only, but most can be used as a normal flash drive.
The large memory size of newer flash drives means that they are increasingly being used for short term backup of data. 
For example, one retail till system uses a Flash drive to record details of all of the sales for that day. The drive is used as a backup medium. At the close of business each night, the drive is inserted, and a database backup is saved to the drive. The drive is removed at night and taken offsite.
USB flash drives have replaced a number of other storage technologies, because they are easier to use. The replaced media include:
This photograph shows both sides of the printed circuit board (PCB) inside a typical flash drive (circa 2004). The flash drive in this photograph is a 64 MB USB 2.0 device with its plastic case removed. 
One end of the device is fitted with a single type-A USB connector. Inside the plastic casing is a small, highly cost-engineered, printed circuit board. Mounted on this board is some simple power circuitry and a small number of surface-mounted integrated circuits (ICs). Typically, one of these ICs provides an interface to the USB port, another drives the onboard memory, and the other is the flash memory.
Most computers support USB.
Flash drives are quite . They are not damaged by scratches and dust. This makes them a good choice to move data from one place to another. 
Some flash drives can keep the data, even if they are put in water. Some data may even survive the washing machine, but this is not a designed feature, and people should not rely on it. Leaving the flash drive out to dry completely before allowing current to run through it has been known to result in a working drive with no future problems.
Channel Five's "Gadget Show" cooked a flash drive with propane; froze it with dry ice; submerged it in various acidic liquids; ran over it with a jeep and fired it against a wall with a mortar. A company specializing in recovering lost data from computer drives then managed to recover all the data on the drive. All data on the other removable storage devices tested, using optical or magnetic technologies, were destroyed.
Flash drives are available in large sizes. Currently at the start of 2010, the largest size publicly available is 256 gigabytes. This will increase as the technology gets better.
Flash drives use little power, compared to hard drives and have no moving parts. They are small and easy to carry.
Most modern operating systems can use a flash drive, without the need to install special software. To most operating systems, the flash drive looks like a hard drive. The operating system can use any file system. Some computers can start from a flash drive.
Flash memory has a limited life. Data can only be written to and read from a device a few thousand times. People should keep this in mind when they use a flash drive to run application software or an operating system. To address this, as well as space limitations, some developers have produced special versions of operating systems (such as Linux in Live USB) or commonplace applications (such as Mozilla Firefox) designed to run from flash drives.
Flash drives are small and are easily lost or left behind. This can cause problems of data security.
Flash drives can hold a large amount of information and they are used worldwide. Many users store information on them that is personal, or that should be protected. For this reason, more and more flash drives offer biometrics or encryption to control the access to this data. Users can install passwords on to their flash drives so that when a user tries to open it, the computer prompts the user, to enter a password before they can begin using the device. There are a number of free and open source programs which can be used to encrypt data including TrueCrypt, pgpdisk and FreeOTFE. These programs have proved useful in securing data on flash drives.
In the eye of the consumer, an USB flash drive is a dumb device that holds data. This is however not toally accurate: Such a device holds a controller chip, and is comparable to an embedded system. In other words: the drive is a fully functional computer, which can transmit data as it wants. There have been cases where controller chips were manipulated, and spread malware. 
Some drives claim they encrypt the data, with a secure algorithm, such as AES. In many cases, it was easy to decrypt the data, even without knowning the decryption key, because the implementation was not done properly. 
Because of the issues above, and because the use of USB devices is difficult to monitor, many companies no longer allow USB devices. 

</doc>
<doc id="9066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9066" title="Ostrich">
Ostrich

The ostrich ("Struthio camelus") is a large flightless bird that lives in Africa. They are the largest living bird species, and have the biggest eggs of all living birds. Ostriches do not fly, but can run faster than any other bird. 
They are ratites, a useful grouping of medium to large flightless birds. Ostriches have the biggest eyes of all land animals.
Ostriches have long legs and a long neck, but they have a small head. Male ostriches have black feathers and female ostriches have gray and brown feathers. Both males and females have white feathers on their wings and tails.
Male ostriches can be 1.8 - 2.7 meters / 6 - 9 feet tall, while female ostriches are 1.7 - 2 meters / 5.5 - 6.5 ft tall. They can run with a speed of about 65 kilometers per hour/40 miles per hour.
Ostriches now only live in Africa. They live in open grassland called savannas in the Sahel, and in parts of East Africa and south-west Africa. Some ostriches live in areas of the Sahara desert. There used to be ostriches in Middle East in the 20th century and, further back, also in Asia. Humans hunted and ate the ostriches. They are now extinct in those areas.
Ostriches mainly eat plant matter, but they also eat insects. The plant matter consists of seeds, shrubs, grass, fruits and flowers while the insects they eat include locusts. Ostriches do not have teeth, and so cannot grind food as mammals do. Instead, they swallow pebbles. An adult ostrich carries about 1 kilogram (2.2 lb) of stones in its gizzard, a special sac just before the stomach. The pebbles grind the food, and help its digestion. When eating, their gullet is filled with food. After that, the food is passed down their esophagus in the form of a ball called a bolus. The bolus may be as much as 210 ml (7.1 US fl oz). Ostriches can live without drinking for several days.
Ostriches normally spend the winter months in pairs or alone. During breeding season and sometimes during extreme rainless periods Ostriches live in nomadic groups of five to 50 birds (led by a top hen) that often travel together with other grazing animals, such as zebras or antelopes. 
With their acute eyesight and hearing, Ostriches can sense predators such as lions from far away. When being pursued by a predator, they have been known to reach speeds in excess of , and can maintain a steady speed of , which makes the Ostrich the world's fastest two-legged animal. When lying down and hiding from predators, the birds lay their heads and necks flat on the ground, making them appear as a mound of earth from a distance. This even works for the males, as they hold their wings and tail low so that the heat haze of the hot, dry air that often occurs in their habitat aids in making them appear as a nondescript dark lump.
Ostriches can tolerate a wide range of temperatures. In much of their habitat, temperatures vary as much as between night and day. Their temperature control mechanism relies on action by the bird, which uses its wings to cover the naked skin of the upper legs and flanks to conserve heat, or leaves these areas bare to release heat.
Ostriches become sexually mature when they are 2 to 4 years old; females mature about six months earlier than males. The mating process differs in different regions. Territorial males hiss and use other sounds to claim mating rights over a harem of two to seven hens. 
Fights usually last just minutes, but they can easily cause death through slamming their heads into opponents. The successful male will then be allowed to breed with all the females in an area, but will only form a pair bond with the dominant female.
The females lay their fertilized eggs in a single communal nest, a simple pit, deep and wide, scraped in the ground by the male. The dominant female lays her eggs first, and when it is time to cover them for incubation she discards extra eggs from the weaker females, leaving about 20 in most cases. 
Ostrich eggs are the largest of all eggs (and by extension, the yolk is the largest single cell), though they are actually the smallest eggs relative to the size of the adult bird. — on average they are long, wide, and weigh , over 20 times the weight of a chicken egg. The eggs are incubated by the females by day and by the males by night. This uses the colouration of the two sexes to escape detection of the nest, as the drab female blends in with the sand, while the black male is nearly undetectable in the night. The incubation period is 35 to 45 days. 
Males and females cooperate in rearing chicks. The male defends the hatchlings and teaches them to feed. The survival rate is low for the hatchlings, with an average of one per nest surviving to adulthood. 
When threatened, the ostrich will either hide itself by lying flat against the ground, or will run away. If cornered, it can attack with a kick from its powerful legs. Common predators of nests and young ostriches include jackals, various birds of prey, mongoose and vultures. Animals that prey on ostriches of all ages include cheetahs, lions, leopards, african dogs, and spotted hyena. Ostriches can often outrun their predators in a pursuit and can even outpace cheetahs over long distances. However, they may sometimes fight fiercely against predators, especially when chicks are being defended. They have sometimes killed lions in such fights.
There is no doubt that the ratites are not a monophyletic group, because they are not descended from a single ancestor. That means the taxonomy of the group is going to change, and they will not all be placed in the Order Struthioniformes as they have been. However, as ornothologists have not yet agreed on a new classification, for the time being the useful term 'ratites' is still used.
Ostriches are likely to be placed alone in the order Struthioniformes. They have a number of peculiarities which suggest a separate evolution from the rest of the ratites. They lack a gallbladder. They have three stomachs, and the caecum is long. Unlike all other living birds, the Ostrich secretes uric acid separately from faeces. Unlike all other birds, who store the uric acid and faeces together, and excrete them together, ostriches store the faeces at the end of their rectum. They also have unique pubic bones that are fused to hold their gut. Unlike most birds the males have a penis, which is retractable and long. Their palate (bone on the roof of the mouth) differs from other ratites.
Ostriches are farmed in several countries. They used to be prized for their feathers, but are now farmed for their meat and eggs. Their skin can also be used to make leather.
In South Africa, hunters can get one group of feathers from one wild ostrich. When they are farmed, every seven or eight months farmers can take groups of feathers from the ostriches. They will grow back and can be collected again a in seven or eight more months.
When threatened, Ostriches run away, but they can cause serious injury and death with kicks from their powerful legs. Their legs can only kick forward. 
Ostriches reared entirely by humans may not direct their courtship behaviour at other Ostriches, but toward their human keepers. Ostriches live 30 to 40 years on average.
It is sometimes said that ostriches will hide their heads in the ground when they are scared, but this is not true.
In some countries, people race each other on the back of Ostriches. The practice is common in Africa and is relatively unusual elsewhere. The Ostriches are ridden in the same way as horses with special saddles, reins, and bits. However, they are harder to manage than horses.

</doc>
<doc id="9067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9067" title="Shark">
Shark

Sharks are a superorder of fish called the Selachimorpha. They, like other Chondrichthyes, have skeletons made of cartilage instead of bone. Cartilage is tough, rubbery material which is less rigid than bone. Cartilaginous fish also include skates and rays. 
There are more than 350 different kinds of sharks, such as the great white and whale sharks. Fossils show that sharks have been around for 420 million years, since the early Silurian. 
Most sharks are predators, meaning they hunt and eat fish, marine mammals, and other sea creatures. However, the largest shark eats krill, like whales. This is the whale shark, the largest fish in the world. Some common kinds of shark include the hammerhead shark, the great white shark, the tiger shark, and the mako shark.
Sharks come in many different shapes and sizes, but most are long and thin (also called streamlined), with powerful jaws. Their teeth are constantly replaced throughout their lives. Sharks eat so violently they often break a few teeth, so new teeth grow continuously in a groove just inside the mouth and move forward from inside the mouth on "conveyor belts" formed by the skin in which they are attached to. In its lifetime, a shark can lose and regrow as many as 30,000 teeth.
Even with all those teeth, though, sharks can not chew. So they bite their prey and jerk it around so they can pull of a chunk to swallow. The chunks of food that a shark swallows ends up in its stomach, where they are digested. This is pretty slow, however, so a meal might take several days to digest. This is why a shark does not eat every day.
Sharks have different-shaped teeth, depending on what they eat. For instance, some sharks have sharp, pointy teeth, while bottom dwelling sharks have cone-shaped teeth for crushing shells. Because there are so many different kinds of sharks, and because each kind has its own kind of special teeth, many people enjoy collecting shark teeth. Shark teeth collectors can guess how large a shark was by measuring the shark tooth! First, they measure the length of the tooth in inches. Every inch of tooth equals 10ft of shark length: so if a shark tooth is 2 inches long, the tooth came from a shark that was 20 ft long! Even more terrifying is that some of the "Megalodon" teeth are 6 inches long so that suggets a shark 60 feet long.
Sharks have skin covered in millions of tiny teeth-like scales that point to the tail. If you rub along a shark towards the tail, it would feel smooth, but if you rub the other way, it would be rough. Sharks' teeth can be 20 times as big as human teeth and they can grow back if they are lost.
The fins of sharks are used for stabilizing, steering, lift and swimming. Each fin is used in a different manner. 
There are one or two fins present along the dorsal midline called the first and second dorsal fin. These fins help the shark from constantly rolling around. These two fins may, or may not have spines. When spines are present, they are used for defensive purposes, and may also have skin glands with them that produce an irritating substance. 
The pectoral fins are located behind the head and extend outwards. These fins are used for steering during swimming and help to provide the shark with lift. 
The pelvic fins are located behind the pectoral fins, near the claoca, and are also stabilizers.
Not all sharks have anal fins, but if they do have them, they are found between the pelvic and caudal fins.
The tail region itself consists of the caudal peduncle and the caudal fin. The caudal peduncle sometimes has notches known as "precaudal pits", which are found just ahead of the caudal fin. The peduncle may also be horizontally flattened into lateral keels. The caudal fin has both, an upper lobe, and a lower lobe, that can be of different sizes and the shape depends of which species the shark is. The primary use of the caudal fin is to provide a "push" while the shark swims. The upper lobe of the caudal fin produces the most amount of the push, and usually forces the shark downwards. The pectoral fins and the shape of the body (like an airfoil) work together to counter this force. The strong, non-lunate caudal fin in most benthic shark species allows the shark to swim close to the seabed (such as the Nurse shark). However, the fastest swimming sharks (such as the Mako sharks) tend to have lunate-shaped (crescent-shaped) caudal fins. 
Sharks have keen olfactory sense organs in the short duct between the front and back nasal openings. They can detect blood from miles away: as little as one part per million of blood in sea water may be enough.
Sharks have the ability to determine the direction of a given scent based on the timing of scent detection in each nostril. This is similar to the method mammals use to determine direction of sound.
They are more attracted to the chemicals found in the intestines of many species, and as a result often linger near or in sewage outfalls. Some species, such as nurse sharks, have external barbels that greatly increase their ability to sense prey.
Shark eyes are similar to the eyes of other vertebrates, including similar lenses, corneas and retinas. Their eyesight is well adapted to the marine environment. They can contract and dilate their pupils, like humans, something no teleost fish can do. A tissue behind the retina reflects light back, thereby increasing sight in darker waters. 
Sharks have tiny holes all over the shark's snout, especially between the eye and the tip of the snout. In them are which are nerve receptors called the "ampullae of Lorenzini." They can sense electricity in the water. Animal in the water give off electricity: every time an animal's heart beats or it moves, tiny currents of electricity are made. These tiny electric currents make signals that travel through water and get sensed. Sharks may use this sense when they catch their prey, even more than they use their sight.
Although it is hard to test sharks' hearing, they may have a sharp sense of hearing and can possibly hear prey many miles away. A small opening on each side of their heads (not the spiracle) leads directly into the inner ear through a thin channel. 
The lateral line detects changes in water pressure. It is open to the environment by a line of pores. This and the sound-detecting organs are grouped together as the 'acoustico-lateralis system', because they have a common origin. In bony fish and tetrapods the external opening into the inner ear has been lost.
This system is found in other fish as well. It detects motion or vibrations in water. The shark can sense frequencies in the range of 25 to 50 Hz.
Because sharks have skeletons made of cartilage, they do not fossilize easily. That's because cartilage is softer than bone and falls apart before fossilizing. However, teeth are harder, and if that is not enough, they are shed throughout a shark's lifetime. Therefore, shark teeth are one of the most common fossils.
Sharks existed for at least two hundred million years before the dinosaurs. The earliest shark fossils were scales, so could it be that the earliest sharks were toothless? We are not sure. Early sharks did not look like sharks of today. For example, the upper snout of modern sharks is longer than the lower jaw. But in early sharks, they were the same length. 
The first modern-looking sharks appeared in the Age of Dinosaurs. Sharks back then were preyed on by giant sea reptiles.
Just a few million years ago, a giant shark called "Megalodon" swam in the seas. It was 18 meters long, twice as long as the closely-related great white shark, and it ate whales. "Megalodon" died out 1.6 million years ago.
About 70% of all known shark species give birth to live young, with the gestation period lasting from 6 to 22 months.
Pups are born with a full set of teeth, and are capable of taking care of themselves. Once born, they quickly swim away from their mothers, who sometimes feed on the pups. Litters vary from one or two pups (Great white shark) to one hundred pups (Blue shark and Whale shark). 
Some sharks are oviparous, laying their eggs in the water. Shark eggs (sometimes called "mermaid's purses") are covered by a tough, leathery membrane. The egg has a yolk that feeds the embryo, very much like a chicken egg.
Most sharks are ovoviviparous, meaning the eggs hatch inside the female's body, with the babies developing within the mother, but there is no placenta to nourish the pups. Instead the young feed on the egg's yolk. The pups eat any unfertilized eggs and sometimes each other. Very few pups in a litter survive until birth due to this form of sibling cannibalism. Great white sharks, Mako sharks, Nurse sharks, Tiger sharks, and Sand tiger sharks reproduce this way.
Some sharks are viviparous, meaning that the females give live birth: the eggs hatch inside the female's body, and the babies are fed by a placenta. The placenta helps transfer nutrients and oxygen from the mother's bloodstream and transfers waste products from the baby to the mother for elimination. Examples of viviparous sharks include the Bull sharks, the Whitetip reef sharks, the Lemon sharks, the Blue sharks, the Silvertip sharks, and the Hammerhead sharks. Although long thought to be oviparous, Whale sharks are viviparous, and pregnant females have been found containing hundreds of pups. 
New sharks are still being found. Dave Ebert has found ten new species in a Taiwan market alone. Over the past three decades he has named 24 new species. They include sharks, rays, sawfish and ghost sharks these cartilaginous fish are all related.
Some sharks are not endangered, but some are hunted for food (like shark fin soup) or sport fishing. In 2013 five species of shark, along with two species of manta ray, received international protection as part of the .
It is estimated that 100 million sharks are killed by commercial and recreational fishing. Sharks are a common seafood in many places, including Japan and Australia. In the Australian state of Victoria, shark is the most commonly used fish in fish and chips, in which fillets are battered and deep-fried or crumbed and grilled. In fish and chip shops, shark is called "flake". In India, small sharks or baby sharks (called "sora" in Tamil language, Telugu language) are sold in local markets. Since the flesh is not developed, cooking the flesh breaks it into powder, which is then fried in oil and spices (called sora puttu/sora poratu). The soft bones can be easily chewed. They are considered a delicacy in coastal Tamil Nadu.

</doc>
<doc id="9068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9068" title="Vulture">
Vulture

Vultures are large birds of prey that usually feed on carrion (dead or dying animals and rocks). Vultures use their large wings to soar in the air for many miles without having to flap. Vultures are also called buzzards.
"Vultures" from the Old World (Europe, Asia, and Africa) are not related to the vultures of the New World (North and South America). They look quite similar, though. Both have heads and necks with no feathers. 
"Old World vultures" are related to eagles and hawks and use sight to find their food. "New World vultures" are related to storks and use their sense of smell to find their food. Vultures symbolize death in literature.
King vultures use rocks to open eggs they pick up a rock with their beak and simply drop or throw they rock onto the egg and breaks it.
New World vultures is a name which is used for a number of species in the Americas. The best known of these are probably the Andean condor and the black vulture. 

</doc>
<doc id="9069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9069" title="Eagle">
Eagle

Eagles are large birds of prey that are related to hawks and Old World vultures. Eagles hunt during the day and have very good eyesight. The bald eagle is a large eagle from North America that has a bright white head and tail. It is the national bird of the United States and usually eats fish. 
The golden eagle is found over most of the world and it usually eats small mammals. 
Sometimes, "eagle" can just mean any large hawk; as a group, eagles are not closely related to one another. 
The largest eagle that has ever lived is Haast's eagle. It is the only eagle in the world ever to have been top predator of its ecosystem. Though it is now extinct, it lived in New Zealand.

</doc>
<doc id="9070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9070" title="Falcon">
Falcon

Falcons are small birds of prey and are related to hawks and eagles. They usually have pointed wings and long tails. 
Most falcons eat small mammals that they hunt using eyesight, although some species hunt other birds, which they take in flight. Like hawks, most falcons have dark gray or brown backs and wings, with white undersides.
The peregrine falcon is found over most of the world and is famous for hunting birds by diving down on them at 320 km/h (200 mi/h). It was nearly wiped out in North America by the use of pesticides, but has since made a recovery. 
In some countries falcons are used in falconry. This means people catch the birds and make them hunt for them. Long ago this was a way for people to get more food but today it is a sport.
On the Moroccan island of Mogador, falcons seem to imprison small birds by trapping them in crevasses, presumably saving them to eat later.
Mogador has the ruins of a fortress, a mosque and a prison. Today the island is a nature reserve, where Eleonora’s falcons nest among the ruins. They hunt migrating warblers, hoopoes and other birds. Researchers came across small birds trapped in deep cavities, their flight and tail feathers removed. The birds were unable to move their wings or use their dangling legs.
Eleonora’s falcons have been seen building up larders of up to 20 dead birds during migration season, when prey is plentiful. But "storing snacks that are still alive could be a unique behaviour" said an expert. 

</doc>
<doc id="9074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9074" title="Islington">
Islington

Islington is a district in north London, in the United Kingdom. The area usually called Islington is only part of the London Borough of Islington. It is a fashionable area and has with large well-built houses and is close to the City of London.

</doc>
<doc id="9080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9080" title="1976">
1976

1976 (MCMLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9081" title="Sirindhorn International Institute of Technology">
Sirindhorn International Institute of Technology

Sirindhorn International Institute of Technology (SIIT) () is an institute of technology in Thammasat University, Thailand. It was established in 1992.
SIIT offers education in science, technology, engineering, and management. Every education programs are "international program", all classes are in English language. Its graduates receive degrees from Thammasat University.
Although it is part of Thammasat University, its financial and administration system are separate from the central university system.
SIIT has five schools and one department for undergraduate and graduate students.
SIIT has two campuses (as of 2013), "Rangsit" and "Bangkadi campus". Both are in Pathum Thani province.
The area is known for "Technology Clusters of North Bangkok".

</doc>
<doc id="9084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9084" title="Ainu people">
Ainu people

The Ainu is a term for a Japanese ethnic group and culture and language. in the Ezo region 

</doc>
<doc id="9088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9088" title="Iliad">
Iliad

The Iliad is the oldest surviving work of Greek literature. It was an oral epic poem. People spoke it without reading it. It was written down in the 8th century BC. It is an epic (or very long) poem with 24 chapters written in hexameter. It is probably based on a real event, the attack on Troy by the Mycenaeans. The poem includes early Greek myths and legends. People usually say that Homer wrote the "Iliad". However, scholars are not sure if the poem was really written by just one person.
The story happens during the Trojan War. It talks about the confrontations of the warrior Achilles and King Agamemnon. The story is only about a few weeks at the end of the war, but it also talks about many of the Greek myths about the war. It tells the story from the wrath of Achilles, to the death and funeral of Hector and the siege of Troy.
Together with its sequel, the "Odyssey", it is one of the two major Greek epic poetry.
Some important characters in the "Iliad" are Achilles, Odysseus, Agamemnon, Menelaus, Priam, Hector, Paris, and Helen.
The poem starts with the god Apollo having sent a plague to the Greeks, because they captured the daughter of one of his priests. Agamemnon is forced to give her back, but also takes away Briseis from her owner Achilles. Achilles is angry and refuses to fight. But when his friend Patroclus is killed by Hector, he starts to fight again and kills Hector in a duel. Later Hector's father Priam comes in secret to Achilles to take back his favorite son's body to give it a proper funeral, which Achilles allows him to do. The poem ends with the funeral of Hector.

</doc>
<doc id="9089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9089" title="Drug">
Drug

According to the WHO, a drug is a substance that can change how a living organism works. Food is usually not seen as a drug, even though some foods may have such properties. Most of the time drugs are taken to treat a disease, or other medical condition. An example for such drugs may be Aspirin or Paracetamol. These are usually given to treat fever, as well as certain infections. If such drugs are taken over a longer time, they are usually prescribed by a doctor. Other drugs are taken for fun, because of the effect they have. Some of these drugs taken for fun are better accepted by society than others. Having or taking certain drugs may be illegal, in certain countries.
Drugs that are taken to treat a disease or condition are usually called "therapeutic", drugs that are taken for fun are called "recreational" drugs.
Drugs may have other effects than those wanted. Such effects are generally known as side-effects.
Drugs act differently in different amounts. It is therefore important to take the right amount. The amount of the drug taken is called a dose. Aspirin is often prescribed against fever, or as an analgesic. One of the side-effects of Aspirin is that it makes the blood thinner. For this reason, it can also be used to prevent strokes, or heart attacks - in a much lower dose than the one used to treat fever, though.
Taking too much of a drug ("too high a dose") can cause sickness or even death. When a doctor says how much of a drug (the right dose) to take, only that amount should be taken. It is very important to keep taking the drug until the doctor says to stop because someone can feel better but still be sick. When a doctor says what drug to take, how much of it, and for how long, it is called a prescription. Drugs may cause addiction. Some drugs are illegal because they are very addictive. These drugs are really expensive, too. It can also be sold illegally from drug sellers which may cause serious results
Recreational drugs can sometimes be bad for someone's health even if they make them feel good. Alcohol can also be dangerous if the person drinking it drives a vehicle after drinking. This is called drunk driving. Many countries make this against the law. Common recreational drugs include:
Certain recreational drugs also have uses as a therapeutic drug. Heroin can be used as an analgesic (a painkiller) and methamphetamine is used to treat narcolepsy or ADHD. Recreational drugs can be dangerous, certain countries have made it illegal to have or take them outside a medical context. Most of the time, this is because they can be addictive or that they are very dangerous when combined with other drugs. That way, Cannabis-based products are legal in the Netherlands, but illegal in many other countries.
Alcohol and Nicotine are legal almost everywhere, but there are a lot of taxes on the sale of these. In other words, they are expensive to buy. Being expensive to buy because of taxes has two benefits; one is that the taxes collected from the sale of the drugs goes into helping to pay for assistance the drug user may experience later. A smoker, for example, may develop cancer later in life and need treatment at a place that is granted a certain amount of tax money from the government to keep it operating. Another benefit to the taxing of "legal" drugs, is that the high price may stop people from beginning the habit in the first place, which will help them avoid the negative medical or addictive side effects of the drug. In some cases, not everyone is allowed to buy these drugs unless they are a minimal age to do so. The age at which someone is allowed to buy a legal drug is most often decided by the government of a country, state or province, and is usually the age where a person is considered by the law to be an "adult". Some of the most common ages this happens is at 18, 19 or 21 years of age.
Therapeutic drugs are also called "medicinal drugs", "medicine", or "medication". Doctors will give therapeutic drugs to someone who is ill to make you better. You can buy these drugs at a pharmacy. Some drugs need a prescription to be bought, other drugs do not. Drugs that do not require a prescription are called "over the counter" medications. There are lots of these drugs for different illnesses. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="9090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9090" title="Bill Watterson">
Bill Watterson

William B. Watterson II (born July 5, 1958) is an American artist and cartoonist. He is most famous for his comic strip, "Calvin and Hobbes" which was published between 1985 and 1995. He is a very private person and not much is publicly known about him. He also did not want people to sell things with the pictures of his characters on them, and the only things he allowed to be made using his characters were books with collections of Calvin and Hobbes strips.

</doc>
<doc id="9092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9092" title="Centimetre">
Centimetre

A centimetre (the American spelling is centimeter, symbol cm) is a unit of length in the International System of Units (SI) measurement system. It is equal to one hundredth of a metre. Centi- is placed in front to say 'a hundredth'. The centimetre is the base unit of length in the old centimetre-gram-second (CGS) system of units.
The centimetre is usually used to measure things that are too big for millimetres but too small for metres. A centimetre is close to the length of a fingernail. 
1 centimetre is "equal" to:
1 cubic centimetre is equal to 1 millilitre, under the SI system of units.
The centimetre is also used:
The centimetre has Unicode symbols so it can be written in Mandarin Chinese, Japanese and Korean characters. 
They are placed into one character, and it is mostly used with East Asian fonts. 

</doc>
<doc id="9095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9095" title="July 5">
July 5


</doc>
<doc id="9096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9096" title="Marilyn Manson (band)">
Marilyn Manson (band)

Marilyn Manson is a rock band, and also the name of the lead singer of the group. The name Marilyn Manson was taken from the first name of actress and sex symbol Marilyn Monroe and the last name of cult leader and serial killer Charles Manson. Some of the earlier band members also created stage names by taking the first name of a female sex symbol and the last name of a serial killer.
When the band started in 1989 it was originally called "Marilyn Manson and the Spooky Kids". The band had four bandmembers and a drumming machine. They played small concerts in their home state Florida (the Warner family had moved from Ohio to Florida when Manson was a teenager).
In 1993 frontman Manson met Trent Reznor, lead singer for Nine Inch Nails. Reznor liked their style and offered them a record deal and the chance to tour with Nine Inch Nails. To get the deal, the band had to change its name to just "Marilyn Manson". They also had to find a real drummer.
In 1995, their cover of Sweet Dreams (originally by Eurythmics) became a hit, and the band was suddenly very popular.
The band is very good friends with Nat Morley who is often featured in their music videos.
Their first album was "Portrait of an American Family", which was released in 1993.
Other Marilyn Manson albums are 
Some of their greatest hits are "The Beautiful People", "The Dope Show", "Disposable Teens", "Tainted Love", and "Personal Jesus".
Marilyn Manson's songs about drugs, violence and anti-Christianity caused a lot of trouble, especially among Christians. There were protests at his concerts and they were not allowed to play in some cities.

</doc>
<doc id="9097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9097" title="Aubrey Beardsley">
Aubrey Beardsley

Aubrey Beardsley (21 August 1872–16 March 1898) was a English illustrator. He is best known for his drawings for Oscar Wilde's Salome. Beardsley is one of the famous people who appears on the cover of The Beatles, Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album.
Beardsley was born in Brighton where his mother taught him to be interested in books and music. He was very good at music and drawing by the age of ten, but he was already sick with tuberculosis. After leaving school he worked as a clerk for an insurance company in London. He had to stop working at the end of 1889 because of his illness. He tried writing, but in 1891 he started to work full-time as an artist.

</doc>
<doc id="9099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9099" title="Odyssey">
Odyssey

The Odyssey is a major Ancient Greek epic poem. It was written by Homer, to whom another epic, the "Iliad", is also attributed. In its origin it was an oral epic poem from Mycenaean Greece, about the 11th century BC. The hero of the poem is Odysseus, or "Ulysses" as he is called in Latin; the poem is mythological, not historical.
The poem is the story about Odysseus's ten-year-long voyage home to Ithaca after the Trojan War. The Trojan War is the subject of the "Iliad". At the same time, his wife Penelope has to fight off a lot of men who want to marry her; and his son Telemachos searches for him.
Along the way, Odysseus and his men have to fight monsters and many other dangers. The main events (places he goes, creatures and people he meets) of Odysseus' journey are:
On his journey home, Odysseus lands on the island of the Cyclops Polyphemus. They go inside his cave at the sight of sheep, cheese and milk. Polyphemus catches them and eats some of Odysseus' men. Odysseus tricks and blinds him and they escape. The Cyclops prays to his father Poseidon that Odysseus would get home to Ithaca and if he was fated to make it home, Odysseus would lose all of his men, his ship and find trouble at home. This prayer became the plot line of the Odyssey.
Odysseus and his ship have to pass the Sirens' island. The Sirens were always singing very beautifully, so sailors would try to go to them, but their ships would get destroyed, and they would die.
Odysseus tells his men to put wax in their ears, so they will not hear the song of the sirens. He also tells his men to bind him to the ship's mast, so he cannot go to the sirens when he hears their song. His men can then look at Odysseus and see when he cannot hear the sirens anymore, because he is calm again. Then they can take the wax out of their ears, and free Odysseus.
After escaping from the sea, and the death of his men, Odysseus comes to the island Ogygia. On this island lives the nymph Calypso, and Odysseus stayed with her for seven years. But then the god Hermes came and told her that the gods said that she had to let Odysseus go. Calypso promised Odysseus immortality (that he would live forever) if he stayed, but he wanted to go back to his wife Penelope. So Odysseus built a raft and left her.
After a storm, Odysseus comes to the island of the Phaeacians. There he is found by the king's daughter Nausicaä. Nausicaä brings him to the palace of her father, King Alkinoos. During his time there, Odysseus tell the story of his journey. After this, Alkinoos gives Odysseus a ship and sends him home to Ithaca.
During all this time, Penelope has been keeping the suitors at bay with a ruse (trick). She promises "I will choose when I have finished weaving this cloth", the cloth being a burial cloth for Odysseus' father. However, every night her servant unpicks the work of the previous day. The story is made more real by Penelope becoming restless. The goddess Athena causes Penelope to feel the need to display herself, and fan the flames of the suitors' desire.
Odysseus finally returns to Ithaca, where he disguises himself as a beggar. He goes to his home and meets his son Telemachus. Together they kill the suitors, who are trying to marry Penelope in order to gain his kingdom. Later, the families of the suitors come to kill Odysseus for revenge. The goddess Athena helps Odysseus by making them stop and give up the fight.

</doc>
<doc id="9100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9100" title="Mae West">
Mae West

Mae West (August 17, 1893 – November 22, 1980) was an American actress and movie star. She is best-remembered for her dirty jokes and comedy movies.
Her name when she was born was Mary Jane West. She was born in Brooklyn, New York City, and died in Hollywood, California. Her mother was a German immigrant.

</doc>
<doc id="9101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9101" title="Lenny Bruce">
Lenny Bruce

Lenny Bruce (October 13, 1925 – August 3, 1966), was an American comedian. His real name was Leonard Alfred Schneider. He is considered an innovator of modern stand-up comedy and changed the way many people see comedians. His jokes and routines were very improper and off limits for the time and he got in a lot of trouble for them. He is considered a hero for the defense of the First Amendment rights in the United States, especially for free speech. 
In the 1960s he was the last person arrested for impersonating and swearing, overwatched by martial law and police and banned from many cities and comedy clubs. 
He appeared on the cover of The Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album.
He died in 1966 of an accidental morphine overdose whist on trial. 
In 1970 the New York's highest court of appeals decided that he is "not guilty for using bad words".

</doc>
<doc id="9104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9104" title="August 8">
August 8


</doc>
<doc id="9105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9105" title="Kimchi">
Kimchi

Kimchi (; ; ), also spelled kimchee or gimchi, is a traditional fermented Korean side dish made of vegetables with many seasonings. In traditional preparation, kimchi was stored underground in jars to keep cool during the summer months and unfrozen during the winter months. There are hundreds of varieties of kimchi made from napa cabbage, radish, scallion, or cucumber as a main ingredient.
Kimchi is usually very strong for non-Koreans. There are many different types and Koreans typically eat kimchi in every meal. It is a staple of Korean food. Kimchi can be stored for a long time and it does not go bad easily. However, when it is exposed to hot weather for certain time, kimchi turns sour. So, it should not be put out unless it is going to be eaten soon. In Korea kimchi pots are a common sight. They are large terra cotta pots where the kimchi is stored until it can be eaten or until it ferments. Kimchi usually takes about 2 weeks to ferment, but some varieties can be eaten right away. Some must be stored for over a year to be finished. 
The fermentation gives the kimchi a pickle-like quality and generally soggy or limp kimchi is not good.
The most common variety of kimchi is made from cabbage, radish, garlic, red pepper, salt and sugar. The cabbage is soaked in salt water for a few hours. Coarse rock salt is then rubbed in between the leaves of the cabbage. Red peppers are also rubbed in and most kimchi has a lot of pepper in it.
The radish is usually cut into long thin strips and added to the mix. A little sugar is added to help the fermentation process along much in the same way beer is made.
The amounts of each ingredient vary between the type of kimchi you are making and the personal taste of the maker. Most kimchi has a special taste with shrimp or fish.
The kimchi is allowed to ferment for a period of time, usually outdoors in a large kimchi pot. It is also quite common for these pots to be buried under ground. Kimchi can be kept for a long time and does not go bad. Koreans make kimchi with their families in December.

</doc>
<doc id="9106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9106" title="Robert Altman">
Robert Altman

Robert Bernard Altman (February 20, 1925 - November 20, 2006) was an American movie director. He was born in Kansas City, Missouri and died of leukemia in Los Angeles, California. In 2006, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences recognized his body of work with an Academy Honorary Award.
His movies "MASH" (1970), "McCabe and Mrs. Miller" (1971), and "Nashville" (1975) have been selected to keep in the United States National Film Registry.
In the 1960s, Altman lived for nine years with his second wife in Mandeville Canyon in Brentwood, California. He moved to Malibu but in 1981 sold that home and the Lion's Gate production company. "I had no choice", he told the "New York Times". "Nobody was answering the phone" after the flop of "Popeye". He moved his family and business headquarters to New York. Eventually he moved back to Malibu, where he lived until his death.
In November 2000, he said he would move to Paris if George W. Bush were elected. He joked that he had meant Paris, Texas when Bush became President. Altman was an outspoken marijuana user. He was a member of the NORML advisory board. He was against the 2003 invasion of Iraq.
Altman died on November 20, 2006, at age 81 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He died of complications from leukemia.
Altman is survived by his wife, Kathryn Reed Altman; six children, Christine Westphal, Michael Altman, Stephen Altman (his production designer of choice for many movies), Connie Corriere, Robert Reed Altman, and Matthew Altman; 12 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
The movie director Paul Thomas Anderson dedicated his 2007 movie "There Will Be Blood" to Altman. 
Academy Awards:
BAFTA Awards:
Berlin International Film Festival:
Cannes Film Festival:
Directors Guild of America Awards:
Emmy Awards:
Golden Globe Awards:
Independent Spirit Awards:
Venice Film Festival:

</doc>
<doc id="9107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9107" title="Vietnam Veterans Memorial">
Vietnam Veterans Memorial

The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, also called the Wall, honors the men and women who died in the Vietnam War. It is a black granite wall which has the names of every American killed in the war. It was designed by Maya Lin in 1981 and is in Washington, DC.

</doc>
<doc id="9109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9109" title="Maya Lin">
Maya Lin

Maya Ying Lin (born October 10, 1959) is a Chinese-American architect and artist. She is most famous for her Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, DC and the Civil Rights Monument in Montgomery, Alabama.

</doc>
<doc id="9113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9113" title="Manslaughter">
Manslaughter

Manslaughter is the crime of killing a person without meaning to do so (an accident). It is not considered as bad as murder, which involves the intention to kill. For example, if two people have an argument and start hitting each other because they got angry, and one of them kills the other, that would usually be called manslaughter. Killing someone in self-defence is not always thought to be manslaughter.

</doc>
<doc id="9114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9114" title="Bangkok">
Bangkok

Bangkok (Thai: กรุงเทพมหานคร) is the capital city of the Asian country Thailand. In 2010, the city had a population of 9,100,000 people. In Thailand Bangkok is known as "Krung Thep" or, its full name; Krung Thep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Yuthaya Mahadilok Phop Noppharat Ratchathani Burirom Udomratchaniwet Mahasathan Amon Piman Awatan Sathit Sakkathattiya Witsanukam Prasit. Nicknames for Bangkok are the City of Angels and the Big Mango. 
Bangkok has a tropical savanna climate ("Aw" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="9117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9117" title="1971">
1971

1971 (MCMLXXI) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9118" title="1987">
1987

1987 (MCMLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9119" title="Silicosis">
Silicosis

Silicosis is a disease that is caused by small particles of silica (glass) getting trapped in the lungs. When people have silicosis, the changes in their body often are cyanosis (when skin goes a blueish color), a fever, when the body gets hotter or being not able to breathe properly. Sometimes doctors do not realize that someone has silicosis, and think that they have other illnesses like pneumonia, tuberculosis or fluid in the lungs.
It was first noticed in 1705 by "Bernardino Ramazzini" (an Italian doctor). He saw something that looked like sand in the lungs of stonecutters. The name silicosis is from Visconti in 1870. The name comes from the Latin "silex" which means flint.

</doc>
<doc id="9120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9120" title="Torquay">
Torquay

Torquay (pronounced: "tor-KEE") is a coastal town in Devon, South West England. It is perhaps most famous as birthplace of writer Agatha Christie and setting of the TV show, Fawlty Towers.

</doc>
<doc id="9126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9126" title="Andrew Sachs">
Andrew Sachs

Andrew Sachs (born Andreas Siegfried Sachs, 7 April 1930) is a German-British actor. He was born in Berlin. His family was Jewish and left Germany for England, shortly after Adolf Hitler became Germany's leader. Sachs is best known for his role as Manuel on "Fawlty Towers". He also played Albert Einstein in a 1996 episode of Nova on PBS, and provided all the voices in the English version of the 1994 movie version of "Faust". He was involved in a controversy when Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross left obscene phone messages on his answerphone stating that Brand had had sex with his granddaughter Georgina Baillie, a member of the Satanic Sluts.

</doc>
<doc id="9130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9130" title="The Seven Samurai">
The Seven Samurai

The Seven Samurai is a Japanese movie, written and directed by Akira Kurosawa, and released in 1954. 
The fictional plot is set in Japan in 1587, which is the 15th year of "Tenshō".
People in a village are worried about thieves and decide to get samurai to help defend them. It is hard to get enough samurai. The samurai that help do it for different reasons. There is a lot of planning while they are waiting for the thieves. There is a big fight with the thieves at the end.
"The Magnificent Seven" was an American movie Western with a similar story. This is called a remake.
The movie was also adapted into an Japanese anime series in 2004 by GONZO, entitled Samurai 7. The anime series takes a more futuristic and fantasy take at the original story, replacing robots for thieves and bestowing superhuman abilities to the 7 samurais.

</doc>
<doc id="9132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9132" title="Vacuum tube">
Vacuum tube

A vacuum tube, also called a "valve" in British English, is an electronic device used in many older model radios, television sets, and amplifiers. The cathode is heated, as in a light bulb, so it will emit electrons. The anode is the part that accepts the emitted electrons. The device may have other parts. Vacuum tubes must be hot to work. Most are made of glass, thus are fragile and can break. Vacuum tubes were used in the first computers like the ENIAC, which were large and need much work to continue operating.
Although the vacuum tube was invented by John Ambrose Fleming later, it was Thomas Edison who discovered the “Edison effect”. The Edison effect states that electricity does not necessarily need a solid material to move through; it can move through gas or vacuums as well. Without this realization, vacuum tubes would never have been invented. 
John Ambrose Fleming invented the first vacuum tube, the diode, in 1904. Lee De Forest invented the "audion" in 1906 (which was improved by others as the triode in 1908) and used in the first telephone amplifiers. Many other kinds were invented for various purposes. 
The transistor became cheaper in the 1960s and was much smaller, worked on lower voltages, and used less power. In addition, unlike vacuum tubes, they were much less likely to be damaged by being dropped and had extremely long life. Eventually, they were also much cheaper than glass vacuum tubes. At this time, most radios, television sets, and amplifiers began using transistors instead. High powered electronics such as broadcasting transmitters were transistorized more slowly. Television receivers continued using the cathode ray tube until the mid-2000s.
In the 21st century, vacuum tubes are rarely used in common electronic equipment. Many devices today rely on the transistor over the vacuum tube. Some devices that still use the vacuum tube, however, include:

</doc>
<doc id="9133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9133" title="Tupac Shakur">
Tupac Shakur

Tupac Amaru Shakur (June 16, 1971 – September 13, 1996) was an American hip-hop artist, who sold many records. Shakur has sold over 75 million albums worldwide as of 2010. Shakur began his career as a roadie, backup dancer, and MC for the alternative hip hop group Digital Underground, eventually branching off as a solo artist.
He was born in East Harlem, New York. Tupac lived in California from age 17. He was the son of Afeni Shakur, who was a member of the Black Panther party. She had just been released from jail a month before his birth. On September 7, 1996, Shakur was shot several times in a drive-by shooting at the intersection of Flamingo Road and Koval Lane in Las Vegas, Nevada. He died six days later at the Southern Nevada University Medical Center.
He was also called 2Pac, Pac, Makaveli and also called himself The Don Killuminati. He also holds the Guinness World Record for the highest selling rap/hip hop artist, selling 165 million worldwide and 43 million in the US alone. Shakur was convicted of assault and sexual assault in separate incidents.
Shakur acted in eight films.
In 2014 a movie about Tupac's life is going to be made.

</doc>
<doc id="9137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9137" title="Skagerrak">
Skagerrak

Skagerrak is a sea in the northern part of Europe between Norway and Denmark. Skagerrak is a part of the North Sea. To the east is Kattegat.
Close to the Norwegian coast is a deep trench (700 m), the rest of the sea is shallow. Oil and gas are produced from rigs in the Skagerrak.

</doc>
<doc id="9139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9139" title="Kattegat">
Kattegat

Kattegat is a sea in the northern part of Europe between the Danish peninsula Jutland, the Danish island Zealand, and the western coast of Sweden.
To the north-west is Skagerrak. Kattegat is connected to the Baltic Sea through the Danish Straits and Belts.
The sea is shallow, and life conditions are threatened by loss of oxygen in the water. The oxygen loss is caused by pollution. The pollution originates from farming. A century ago, the sea was very rich in cod, herring, and salmon, which were important sources of food in the countries around the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="9140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9140" title="Baltic Sea">
Baltic Sea

The Baltic Sea is a sea in northern Europe between Scandinavia, Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries, Poland, and Germany.
Many big rivers in the surrounding countries drain into the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is connected to the ocean through the narrow and shallow Danish straits and belts. For this reason, the water has a low amount of salt, so the northern parts of the sea freeze over in the winter. The ice can carry cars, and roads are established every winter between the islands in the archipelagos between Sweden and Finland.
For several thousand years, the Baltic Sea has connected the countries at her shores. For that reason there are many cultural similarities in these countries. Since all of these countries are European, this sea is also considered European. 

</doc>
<doc id="9141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9141" title="Scandinavia">
Scandinavia

Scandinavia is a group of countries in northern Europe, that includes Norway, Sweden and Denmark. "Scandinavia" is more useful as a linguistic (language) term, rather than geographic, however, because it also refers to the area where Scandinavian languages (also called the North Germanic languages) are spoken. The Scandinavian languages (Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic and Faroese) are closely related, and many Scandinavians are able to understand some of the other languages, though with difficulty.
The Scandinavian Peninsula is a large peninsula reaching west from northern Europe over the north side of the Baltic Sea. Norway, Sweden and some of Finland are on the peninsula, also known as "Fennoscandia". Denmark, not Finland, however, is regarded as part of Scandinavia. This is because Danish is a Scandinavian language but Finnish is not.
The term Nordic countries is sometimes used as a more correct geographical term, but the Nordic countries include Norway, Sweden, Denmark (including the Faroe Islands), Finland and Iceland. These five countries coordinate political and cultural activities through the Nordic Council. Denmark, Sweden and Finland are also members of the European Union, but only Finland uses the euro, while the other Nordic countries still use their own currency, each called "krone" or "krona" ("crowns"). Norway and Iceland, which are not members of the EU, are members of NATO. Only Denmark is a member of both the EU and NATO.
The Scandinavian Peninsula is sparsely populated and covered with large forests of pine, birch, and spruce. The western and northern parts are mountainous; the Scandinavian mountains are some of the oldest in the world. The tallest mountain is Galdhøpiggen in Norway. Denmark (43,098 km) is the smallest of the Scandinavian countries. It is more densely populated, and most of the land is farmland. Sweden (449,964 km) is the largest of the Scandinavian countries. It has the most lakes, and the landscape ranges from plains in the south to mountains in the west (along the border with Norway) to tundra in the north. The far north of Scandinavia and Finland is called Lapland, where the Sami people live. Some of them still herd reindeer as they have for centuries, but the Sami mostly live in a modernised society equal to that of other Scandinavians.
The best-known stereotypes of Scandinavian people relate to the Vikings of the Middle Ages. The Vikings from Sweden are best known as traders, traveling as far as what we now know as Ukraine and starting trade routes to bring goods from the Middle East to Scandinavia. The Vikings from Norway are best known as explorers, crossing the North Atlantic in their longships and settling Iceland and Greenland. The Norwegian explorers even reached the east coast of what we now call Canada, where they set up a colony, but it only lasted a few years. The Vikings from Denmark, however, left the biggest mark on the English. The Danish raiders attacked England repeatedly and brutally, demanding payment that came to be called "Danegeld" (Danish gold) and making the priests and bishops of churches along the eastern coast England say and write down the famous prayer, "deliver us, O Lord, from the wrath of the Norsemen!" But the modern stereotypes of the Vikings actually were invented much later, in the 19th century, when Richard Wagner and other people of the Romantic period (1800s) invented descriptions of ancient Germanic culture in the opera and the other arts, often showing Vikings wearing furs and winged or horned helmets and drinking from large horns.
The normal meaning of the name "Scandinavia" is Denmark, Norway and Sweden, as those three countries are on or near the Scandinavia peninsula. However, Finland and Iceland are sometimes also thought of as part of Scandinavia. The people of Scandinavia do not consider Finland and Iceland to be Scandinavian countries, but part of what they call the Nordic countries.

</doc>
<doc id="9148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9148" title="Minerva cars">
Minerva cars

In 1883 a young Belgian called Sylvain de Jong settled in Antwerp, Belgium. He started a bicycle factory over there. By the end of that century he started producing motorbikes, and after a while cars as well. In 1903 he grounded the NV Minerva Motors' in Berchem (Antwerp).
A certain Charles S Rolls was Minerva dealer in England. The small 1 cylinder "Minervette" was there with its 105 Pound, the cheapest car. 
In the years after the fame of the cars was rising enormous. Most important market for the constructor remained however England that took the biggest part of the production, followed by the Netherlands and France. 
From 1908 Minerva got a worldwide Knight licence. The Knight motor was a motor without valves, developed by Charles Y Knight in the United States. These motors were extremely silent. The company did well in several car racing competitions in Europe. 
After worldwar I, during which Sylvain de Jong and his engineers headed to Amsterdam, where they kept on developing parts, they returned to start up the production of luxury cars. The constructors star rose in the United States as well, American filmstars, politicians and industrials liked them cars as well (even Henry Ford had before the WW already one!). The car had the same qualities as the Rolls Royce, but was a little cheaper. With the economical crisis in the 30's, the company went bankrupt in 1936. The remains were taken over by another Belgian constructor named Imperia. Imperia putted the name Minerva on their cars for export to England and France and for the trucks (which Minerva had made before too). 
After worldwar II the company produced Land Rovers under licence for the Belgian army. Production of these 4Wheel Drives stopped in 1953. The company struggled for survival and made some Land Rover-like cars till 1956. But than the constructor diappeared completely. Nowadays are still several Minerva's all over the world in a driveable condition.

</doc>
<doc id="9149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9149" title="April 8">
April 8


</doc>
<doc id="9150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9150" title="1324">
1324


</doc>
<doc id="9151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9151" title="E. B. White">
E. B. White

Elwyn Brooks White (July 11 1899–October 1 1985) was an American writer. 
He is most famous for his 1959 manual about how to write well in English, "The Elements of Style" (which was first written by William Strunk Jr. in 1918), and also for his three children's books "Stuart Little" (1945), "Charlotte's Web" (1952), and the "Trumpet of the Swan" (1970).
He also wrote for magazines and newspapers in the United States.
E.B. White won many awards, including a Pulitzer Prize. "The Trumpet of the Swan" may be his best-selling book, but "Charlotte's Web" was voted the top children's novel in a 2012 survey, and not for the first time.

</doc>
<doc id="9156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9156" title="Raffles Institution">
Raffles Institution

Raffles Institution is a highly-regarded secondary school in Singapore, often considered the best school in the country. Only boys can go to this school. It has been performing well in studies and sports. It was founded in 1823 as Singapore Institution by Sir Stamford Raffles, the founder of modern Singapore. It is the school with the longest history in Singapore. Its name was changed to "Raffles Institution" in 1868. It has two sections, Raffles Institution and Raffles Institution Junior College.
The current principal of Raffles Institution is Chan Poh Meng, who replaced Lim Lai Cheng when she left the school at the end of 2013.
Sir Stamford Raffles founded Raffles Institution on 5 June 1823, making it the school with the longest history in Singapore. Raffles Institution was along Bras Basah Road at first, where Raffles City is now. The school moved to Grange Road in 1973, and then moved to its current location at Bishan in 1990. The Grange Road campus is now the MOE Teacher's Network.
RI's school song was written in by E W Jesudason, RI's headmaster from 1963 to 1966. These are its lyrics:
When Stamford Raffles held the torch
That cast Promethean Flame
We faced the challenge of the day
To give our school a name
The eagle eye and gryphon strength
They led us to the fore
To reign supreme in ev'ry sphere
The sons of Singapore
Come heed the call Rafflesians all
And let our hearts be stirring
We'll do our best whate’er the test
And keep our colours flying
Let comradeship and fervent hope
With one voice make us pray
Auspicium Melioris Aevi
With God to guide the way.
Although the anthem refers to Prometheus and God, the school is secular. The inclusion of Prometheus is due to the literary allusion to passing the torch, signifying the importance of education while 'God' in this context is a historical legacy of the school's British roots. The current recording of the anthem is in the key of G Major.
RI's crest came from Sir Stamford Raffles' family's crest.
The gryphon - the purple-headed animal at the top of the crest - means stability and success. The lower half of the gryphon that looks like a lion means that RI is in Singapore, since Singapore also has a Lion symbol. The eagle on the shield has two heads. One looks at the past, and one looks at the future. It can also be said that one looks at the East and one looks at the West.
The school's motto, on the banner below the shield - Auspicium Melioris Aevi - is Latin, and mistranslated by the school as "Hope for a Better Age".
RI has won many awards from the Ministry of Education (MOE). RI has also won the School Excellence Award, the best award from MOE.
All students wear white short-sleeved shirts. Secondary 1 and 2 students wear short pants. Secondary 3 and 4 students can wear long pants or short pants if they want. On Mondays and during important events, everyone must wear a tie until 1.30pm. Secondary 3 and 4 prefects wear black leather shoes. Everyone else have to wear shoes that are at least 75% white.
Secondary 1 students attend a camp in January when they come into RI. The camp is 3 days long. Some Secondary 4 students accompany them. There are many activities during the camp to break the ice, build bonds with classmates, and develop the RI school spirit. After the camp, the Secondary 1 students are given the RI badge by either their teachers or student leaders. Then, they are full-fledged RI students.
Secondary 3 students attend a 5 day long camp in January too. The location is not fixed but some examples would be Sentosa, and Pulau Ubin. When they come back, they can wear long pants.
RI is 12 hectares big. There are six blocks in RI.
The Administrative Block, now known as the Yusof Ishak Block, is the most important building in RI. People divide it into two - Administrative Block One and Administrative Block Two. In between the two parts, there are Lecture Theatres.
There is the General Office and Staff Rooms. There are also circular areas for people to study, and a big circular area called the Main Atrium for people to assemble at. There is also the ORA (Old Rafflesians' Association) Office and Heritage Center. There are also lecture theaters.
The Administrative Block is next to the Senior Block (where there are classrooms), the Science Block (where there are Science labs - we will talk about them later), the Junior Block (where there are also classrooms), the CCA Block (where there is the school hall, the auditorium and the canteen) and a bus stop. The Administrative Block was renovated in 2007.
The Science Hub has many Science labs. They are in Administrative Block One and also the Science Block.
There are normal labs for Science lessons and special labs for people to do researchTh. The HOD/Science office is also in the Science Hub.
The Science Hub was finished in October 2008. A ceremony was held to celebrate this.
The Humanities Hub contains classrooms for History, Geography and Literature. There will also be two circular theaters for people to speak or perform. It was temporarily open to the public on 23 May 2009.
RI has three lectures theaters, an AV Theatrette and a Band Room. Sometimes, people have classes in the three lecture theaters and the AV Theatrette instead of their classroom, while sometimes, teachers meet in these theaters. The Military Band uses the Band Room for practice.
RI has many infocomm facilities. Infocomm is about computers. There are four computer labs, one Internet Lab for people to see how the Internet works, one Robotics Lab and one Macintosh Lab, which has special computers.
The Junior Block, currently known as Sheares Block, was built in 1997. There are four floors. There are:
The Sheares Block has a retractable roof, which means the roof can be opened.
The ArtSpace was formerly called the Design Centre. It comprises various facilities. The first floor houses the art galleries, classrooms, jamming studio, music keyboard laboratory, a Macintosh Lab, a drawing studio and a ceramics studio. The gymnasium, comprising training areas for gymnastics, table-tennis and judo, occupies the second floor, while lock-ups for the Uniformed Groups and the Guitar Ensemble are located on third level. The roof of the ArtSpace houses the school's mini-weather station.

</doc>
<doc id="9157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9157" title="Archipelago">
Archipelago

An archipelago () is a chain or group of islands. The word "archipelago" means "chief sea", from Greek "arkhon" ("arkhi"-) ("leader") and "pelagos" ("sea").
Archipelagos are usually found in the open sea; less commonly, a big land mass may neighbor them, an example being Scotland which has more than 700 islands surrounding the mainland. Archipelagoes are often volcanic, forming along mid-ocean ridges or hotspots, but there are many other processes involved in their construction, including erosion, deposition, and land elevation.
The four biggest countries that are mainly archipelagos are Japan, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and Indonesia (the world's biggest archipelagic country according to the CIA World Factbook).
The biggest archipelago in the world by size is in Northern Canada, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, which is in the Arctic Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="9159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9159" title="Baltic states">
Baltic states

Baltic states are three countries in Northern Europe at the eastern side of the Baltic Sea and at the southern side of Gulf of Finland. Baltic countries are Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Lithuanian and Latvian people speak Baltic languages and Estonian people speak Finnic language.
By their culture and history Baltic countries are close to Nordic countries. The biggest difference in the history was that Baltic countries were occupied by the Russian Empire and Soviet Union while Nordic countries (with the exception of Karelia, a part of Finland) were not occupied. Baltic countries had their freedom back when the Soviet Union came to an end. Today the Baltic countries are some of the richest and most advanced of those countries that were part of Soviet Union.
Paganism was the religion of Baltic people before most of them took Christianity long, long ago. Baltic paganism never died out and some people are still pagans.
All three Baltic states became members of the European Union and NATO in 2004, joined Schengen Area in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="9163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9163" title="Topography">
Topography

Topography means "the description of shape". The word comes from Greek: ' "place" and ' "(I) write". It is an important part of earth science.
When you talk of the topography of the land, you refer to the landscape features like valleys, hills and mountains, rivers and lakes, or the coastline. Everything that describes the form of the landscape, is part of the topography. Topographic maps show topography.

</doc>
<doc id="9164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9164" title="Bornholm">
Bornholm

Bornholm is a small, rocky island in the Baltic Sea. Bornholm is a Danish island.
The island is a popular holiday resort for Scandinavians, Germans and Poles. Many yachters come here in the summer.
At the end of World War II, the island was "liberated" by the Soviet red army, and held for several months after the German surrender. The island lies far east of the demarcation line between the allied forces in Europe. For some time the Soviet presence looked like an occupation. It was not until April 5th, 1946 that the island at last was free.
But then the Danish government took over and the island is today a Danish colony. But the struggle for a free island still goes on as it can be seen on this page Free Bornholm

</doc>
<doc id="9179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9179" title="Budapest">
Budapest

Budapest is the capital city of Hungary. It was made as such in 1873. In that year three towns on the River Danube, namely Buda, Óbuda (Old Buda) and Pest were united. The city has a population of about 1.7 million people. Its highest place is János Hill (527 m.).
The main sights in Budapest are the Castle Hill ("Várhegy"), the Parliament House ("Országház") and St. Stephen's Basilica. Budapest is also known for the ruins of Aquincum, the capital city of the Roman Province of Pannonia. The city has a great atmosphere with nice cafes, spas and the traditional Hungarian hospitality.
It has the oldest subway-line in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="9180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9180" title="Santa Monica, California">
Santa Monica, California

Santa Monica is a beach town in California. It is next to Los Angeles, California, US.
It was made a city in 1886. In 2000, there were 88,050 people living there. 
It is famous for the Santa Monica Pier that has many fun rides. 

</doc>
<doc id="9181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9181" title="Kuwait">
Kuwait

Kuwait is a small country (about 17,819 square kilometers) in the Middle East.
Kuwait is the most socially progressive country in the Gulf region. It has a small and rich economy. It has about 96 billion barrels of crude oil reserves. Crude oil reserves are the oil that is still under the ground and has not yet been cleaned up. Kuwait has 10% of all of the oil reserves in the world. The country makes a lot of money by selling oil. This money is almost half of all the money the country makes. The oil money is also 95% of the money made by selling things to different countries (people call that exports). Also, the oil money is 80% of the money the government makes. Kuwait is now talking with oil companies of other countries to make oil fields in the northern part of the country. 
Kuwait's weather makes farming hard (too little rain). Instead of farming, the country catches fish and buys food from other countries. About 75% of the country's water to drink has to be distilled (have the salt removed) or purchased from other countries.
In 1990, Iraq invaded (brought an army in to fight against) Kuwait. This started the first Gulf War. Kuwait's official religion is Islam, although 15% of its population are Christian or Hindu. Arabic is mostly spoken in Kuwait but English is widespread among Kuwaitis (residents of Kuwait). Kuwait is one of the few nations that has education for every age.
Population (in thousands) for 2004 2595.
CBR(per 1000) for 2004 19.4.
CDR (per 1000) for 2004 1.9. Growth Rate(%) for 1992-2002 2.1. the Total Fertility Rate for 2002 is 2.7. Percent population is living in urban in 2003 96.2.Per capita gross national income ($) 2002 612. Population Density( per square kilometer) in 2000 107.4
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000)for 2005 9.95. Adult literacy rate (85%) female literacy rate (81%) (2002).
Kuwait is divided into 6 governorates. The governorates are divided into districts.

</doc>
<doc id="9182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9182" title="Tiny Tim">
Tiny Tim

Herbert Buckingham Khaury, better known as Tiny Tim (April 12, 1932–November 30, 1996), was an American singer and musician. He became popular in the late 1960s due to his appearances on television, and songs played on ukulele with a falsetto voice. His most famous song was "Tiptoe Through the Tulips". His best-remembered television appearances were on "Laugh-In" and "The Tonight Show". His first wedding took place on "The Tonight Show" in 1969, at host Johnny Carson's suggestion.
Not just a performer, he was also an expert , who studied American music from the earliest days of the United States, and performed many historic songs in his act. Over time, he used his falsetto voice less, and performed most songs in his natural, baritone voice.
When his popularity as a "" lessened, he performed in small nightclubs and other places, as he had earlier. During the 1980s, he toured with a circus, and appeared in a movie as a circus performer who turned to crime. In the 1990s, he recorded new music (including a Christmas album), and joined comedian Pat Paulsen in his latest mock campaign to become President of the United States, as Paulsen's .
Married three times, his last wife was a former fan, who met him when she made a documentary about his life and career. One of his later supporters was radio talk show host Howard Stern. Tiny Tim died in 1996, after suffering a heart attack during a performance.

</doc>
<doc id="9183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9183" title="Kelvin">
Kelvin

The kelvin (symbol: K) is the SI unit of temperature. It is named in honour of the physicist William Thomson, the first Lord Kelvin (1824–1907).
The Kelvin scale is defined by a specific relationship between the pressure of a gas and the temperature. This says that "the pressure of the gas is directly proportional to the temperature in Kelvin". This means that Kelvin is an absolute temperature scale, and scientists use this scale more than any other.
The kelvin is a base SI unit of measurement, defined as the fraction 1/273.16 of the temperature of the triple point of water, which is the temperature at which water in solid, liquid, and gaseous state coexist in equilibrium.
The temperature of the triple point of water is a hundredth of a degree Celsius above the freezing point, or 0.01 °C. The coldest possible temperature is called absolute zero and is equal to -273.15 degrees Celsius, or zero kelvin (0 K). By writing temperatures in kelvins one does not need to use negative numbers.
The absolute temperature scale was designed so that a change in temperature of 1 kelvin is equal to a change of 1 degree Celsius. This means that it is easy to convert a temperature from degrees Celsius to kelvin.
It is important to notice that the name of this unit is simply "kelvin" (with a lowercase initial), not "degree Kelvin". In English, it undergoes normal plural inflection as "kelvins". For example, the boiling point of liquid nitrogen is 77 kelvins.

</doc>
<doc id="9185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9185" title="Tourism">
Tourism

Tourism means people traveling for fun. It includes such activities as sightseeing and camping. People who travel for fun are called "tourists". Places where many tourists stay are called "resorts". Places that people go to for tourism are called tourist destinations.
There are a lot of reasons why people travel for fun:
The tourism industry has different parts. Some of these are:
Tourism can bring damage to the local area. Litter, scuba-diving and deforestation are problems for popular places such as St. Lucia, Hawaii and other far away places. Scuba-diving can cause damage to coral reefs which are home to hundreds of species of sea animals.
Tourism can change culture, and certain local traditions are being put aside for tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="9186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9186" title="Berkshire">
Berkshire

Berkshire is a county in southeast England. It is west of London. Its county town is Reading. In the past, a town named Abingdon was the county town, but this town is not in Berkshire any more.
Berkshire is also known as the Royal County of Berkshire.
The towns below are not part of Berkshire now, but were in the past.

</doc>
<doc id="9188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9188" title="Buckinghamshire">
Buckinghamshire

Buckinghamshire (abbreviated Bucks) is a county in central England, near the south and London. The county town is named Aylesbury.
Locations marked with a (*) are a part of the cerimonal county of Buckinghamshire, but are governed by the Borough of Milton Keynes.

</doc>
<doc id="9192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9192" title="Computer monitor">
Computer monitor

A computer monitor is an electronic device that shows pictures for computers. Monitors often look similar to televisions. The main difference between a monitor and a television is that a monitor does not have a television tuner to change channels. Monitors often have higher display resolution than televisions. A high display resolution makes it easier to see smaller letters and fine graphics.
There are three types of computer displays:

</doc>
<doc id="9193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9193" title="December 3">
December 3


</doc>
<doc id="9194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9194" title="Diameter">
Diameter

In geometry, the diameter of a circle is a line from one side directly to the opposite side through the centre. It can also be defined as the longest chord of a circle. These can both describe the diameter in a sphere too.
The letter "d" or the symbol ⌀ are often used as a symbol for the diameter. The diameter's length is often called the diameter itself.
The diameter's length is twice the radius, and therefore the relationship between the diameter's length and radius can be shown with the equations:
formula_1 and formula_2

</doc>
<doc id="9203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9203" title="1958">
1958


</doc>
<doc id="9204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9204" title="1921">
1921


</doc>
<doc id="9205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9205" title="1892">
1892


</doc>
<doc id="9206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9206" title="1904">
1904

1904 (MCMIV) was a leap year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9207" title="1951">
1951


</doc>
<doc id="9208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9208" title="1642">
1642


</doc>
<doc id="9209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9209" title="1745">
1745


</doc>
<doc id="9210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9210" title="1813">
1813

Year 1813 (MDCCCXIII) was a year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar (or a year starting on Wednesday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar).

</doc>
<doc id="9211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9211" title="1838">
1838


</doc>
<doc id="9212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9212" title="1940">
1940


</doc>
<doc id="9213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9213" title="1942">
1942

Year 1942 (MCMXLII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9214" title="Dominica">
Dominica

The Commonwealth of Dominica is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. It is between the French-speaking territories of Guadeloupe and Martinique. The island measures 751 km² (290 mi²) in area. Roseau is its capital; Portsmouth is another main town. Almost seventy thousand people live on the island.
The currency of the island is the East Caribbean dollar.
The island's name comes from the Latin for Sunday, "Dies Dominica". It is not to be confused with the Spanish-speaking Dominican Republic in the Greater Antilles.
Because of the lush beauty and untouched splendor it boasts (also seen in its rainforests), it is nicknamed the "Nature Island of the Caribbean".
The President of Dominica is Nicholas Liverpool; its prime minister is Roosevelt Skerrit.
Dominica was discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1493. In 1763, it became a territory of the United Kingdom from which its independence was received on 3 November 1978.
In August 1979, Hurricane David, the most powerful storm to hit the island, wiped out its entire infrastructure.
In 1980, Dame Eugenia Charles became its prime minister, the first female government leader in the West Indies.
On 21 November 2004, the island was hit by its most destructive earthquake in history; Portsmouth and the northern area were deeply affected.
Dominica is most famously depicted in Jean Rhys' classic prequel to "Jane Eyre", "Wide Sargasso Sea".

</doc>
<doc id="9217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9217" title="1923">
1923


</doc>
<doc id="9218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9218" title="1926">
1926


</doc>
<doc id="9219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9219" title="1931">
1931


</doc>
<doc id="9220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9220" title="404">
404


</doc>
<doc id="9221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9221" title="1438">
1438


</doc>
<doc id="9222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9222" title="1651">
1651


</doc>
<doc id="9223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9223" title="Playing card">
Playing card

Playing cards is the name for the 54 cards used card games like poker, bridge, blackjack, and solitaire.
There are 52 basic cards in a deck. These cards have a suit and a number (called the value or rank). There are 4 suits and 13 ranks in each suit. There are also two Jokers that do not have a suit or a rank.
Usual signs: spades (♠), hearts (♥), diamonds (♦), clubs (♣).
In some countries different suit signs may be used. In central Europe, there are cards with the suit signs of acorns, leaves, hearts, and bells. In Spain, Italy and Latin America, there are playing cards with the suits of clubs, swords, cups, and coins and Aces
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Jack or Knave (J), Queen (Q), King (K), Ace (A). In some games the ace is the highest value, but in other games it is the lowest.
For many games, the Jokers are removed from the deck, making the total number of cards in the deck 52. Sometimes the deck is reduced to 40, 36, or 32 cards for playing certain games, like belote, sheepshead or euchre.
There are various types of tarot cards. Tarots are commonly used for fortune-telling, although they can also be used for playing games. Conversely, people have also used standard playing cards for fortune-telling.
Playing cards have been found in 9th century China, Tang dynasty.
Playing cards first entered Europe in the early 14th century, probably from Egypt. The suits were very similar to the tarot suits of Swords, Staves, Cups and Coins. These designs are still used in traditional Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese card decks. 
The first documentary evidence is from Vitoria-Gasteiz (now Spain) in 1334, in which the Knights of the Band are forbidden to play cards. The next record is from Catalonia in 1371.
Wide use of playing cards in Europe can be traced from 1377 onwards.
The method of making cards has stayed the same for over a century. Cards are two thin pieces of paper stuck together with black paste. Both outer sides are printed. Inside is the design of the card face, the outer is the design for the pack as a whole. The black paste is essential to prevent sight of the face coming through when light shines on the face side. The use of the paste is the reason cards are sometimes called "pasteboards".
One or two packs at a time are printed on large sheets of paper, already pasted. The individual cards are stamped out by a machine which acts like a cookie-cutter. It cuts 36,000 cards per hour. A tiny fraction of a second later the edges of the cards are squashed extra-thin. This is not obvious to the naked eye, but the effect is that the cards slide easily past each other during shuffling.
Printed paper cards hold about 97.5% of the world market. Plastic cards do exist: they were first invented in the 1930s. They last longer than papercards, but have only 2.5% of the market. 

</doc>
<doc id="9224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9224" title="Emperor">
Emperor

An emperor is a male who rules an empire. An emperor usually comes to power when one of his parents, or relatives, dies. In some countries, people elected a new emperor from candidates. The wife of an emperor is called an empress. A woman who comes to power in an empire is also called an empress, for example Catherine the Great.
The only emperor in the world today is the Emperor of Japan ("tennō"), but he has very little power. The true leaders of Japan are the Diet and its Prime Minister because the country is a constitutional monarchy.
The English word comes from Latin, the language of the old Roman Empire. At first, an "imperator" was a powerful general (army leader) but, after Augustus, it was only used by their most powerful rulers. There have been many countries in history whose leaders are called "emperor" in English. The leaders of the Byzantine Empire ("basileus", "autokrator") in Greece, the Holy Roman Empire ("imperator", "Kaiser") in Germany, and the Ottoman Empire ("sultan", "padishah", "khagan", "kaysar") in Turkey all said they were just new parts of the old Roman Empire. 
The leaders of other countries who said they ruled the whole world or called themselves "king of kings" are frequently also called emperors in English. For example, the old rulers of China ("huangdi"), Russia ("tsar"), and Ethiopia ("negusa negast") are all known as emperors in English. There have also been emperors of France, Germany, and Mexico and the rulers of the United Kingdom called themselves the emperors and empresses of India for a while.

</doc>
<doc id="9226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9226" title="Palmdale, California">
Palmdale, California

Palmdale is the largest city in the desert area of California. It has a population of 147,897 and is the 6th largest city in Los Angeles County. It is one of the fastest growing cities in the United States, currently the 25th fastest. It has a population of 589,043 if you include the suburbs around it.
Even though Palmdale is in Los Angeles County, it is not connected to the larger Los Angeles population area. It is separated from it by a mountain range called the San Gabriel Mountains that are over 40 miles wide and almost 2 miles high overall.
Palmdale is the home of several airplanes used by NASA and the Air Force, giving it the nickname of ""the aerospace capital of America.""
Palmdale is the largest city in the United States without a hospital.
Palmdale Airport will have one airline called United Airlines that flies to San Francisco, California everyday starting in June 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="9227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9227" title="Fresno, California">
Fresno, California

Fresno is the largest inland city in U.S. state of California. It has a population of 451,455. If the surrounding suburbs are included, it has a population of 983,788. It is the county seat of Fresno County, in the Central Valley.
Fresno is the closest major city to Yosemite National Park. Fresno has a major airport called Fresno Yosemite International Airport that has many flights by many airlines everyday. It was the first airport to use the new security systems made after the September 11, 2001 attacks.
Fresno has a semi-arid climate ("Bsh" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="9230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9230" title="1955">
1955


</doc>
<doc id="9233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9233" title="Popeye">
Popeye

Popeye the Sailor is one of the most popular cartoon characters of all time. He first appeared in a comic strip called "Thimble Theatre" by EC Segar in 1929. Popeye is a sailor who smokes a pipe and mutters things under his breath. He has only one eye, he is short and uneducated, but when trouble occurs, usually saving his girlfriend, Olive Oyl from his arch-nemesis, Bluto/Brutus, he eats a can of spinach, and gets super-strength. He also appeared in a series of cartoons made for movie theatres by Paramount Pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="9235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9235" title="Astrophysics">
Astrophysics

Astrophysics is the study of how stars and planets work, and how we can learn about them. Astrophysicists use physics to explain what astronomers find and see.
Astrophysics is also the study of how the Universe started and how it is changing with time. This part of astrophysics is called cosmology.
For a long time bodies in the sky seemed to be unchanging spheres moving in a circle. But on Earth growth and decay happened, and natural motion was in a straight line. Therefore, people thought the celestial region was made of a fundamentally different kind of matter from that found on Earth.
During the 16th and 17th century, natural philosophers such as Nicolaus Copernicus, Johannes Kepler, Galileo, Descartes, and Newton, began to maintain that the celestial and terrestrial regions were made of similar kinds of material and were subject to the same natural laws.
When they were able to work out how the planets moved, the science of astrophysics was born. Sir Isaac Newton realized that the same rules of mechanics that he had found on the surface of the Earth also could be used to predict how the planets moved. He said, "As above, so below." By this, he meant that we can study how things work on this planet to find out how things work in space.
Later scientists found that by looking at the light from stars, they were able to work out what they were made from. This process is called spectroscopy.
There are two main types of astrophysics: 

</doc>
<doc id="9237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9237" title="Word order">
Word order

Word order is a part of grammar. It has to do with the order words are in a sentence. The word order is often different between languages. For example, in English, people say "I only play tennis sometimes." In German, they would say "Ich spiele nur manchmal Tennis," which if they translate only the words says "I play only sometimes tennis." In Norwegian that same sentence would be "Jeg spiller bare tennis noen ganger", directly translated to "I play only tennis some times" in English.
In Portuguese this sentence could be "Eu só jogo tênis algumas vezes"; translating each word to English: "I only play tennis some times". Or even in Portuguese people can change the word order to "Eu jogo tênis só algumas vezes" ("I play tennis only some times"), but they cannot say "Eu jogo só tênis algumas vezes", because this means "I play only tennis sometimes".
In English, a simple sentence with a verb (an action), subject (who or what is doing the action), and an object (whom or what the action is done to) is written in a Subject-Verb-Object word order. For example, in the sentence "Robert opens the door", Robert is the subject, opens is the verb and door is the object. In other languages, sentences like this can be in different orders. For example, in Latin, that sentence could be written "Robert ianuam aperit", literally "Robert the door opens". It could even be written "aperit ianuam Robert". Languages that let you choose how to order the words often have a grammatical case system. In that sentence, "ianuam" is the accusative case of ianua (door). Accusative case means that the noun is the object of the sentence. "Robert" is in the nominative case, which means that it is the subject of the sentence. In English, changing the word order to "The door opens Robert" will change the meaning of the sentence. In Latin, however, "Robert ianuam aperit" and "ianuam Robert aperit" mean the same thing because ianuam is in the accusative case, so it is the object and Robert is the subject. Changing the cases of the words, however, to "Robertem ianua aperit" will change the meaning of the sentence - ianua is now in the nominative case so it is the subject and Robert is now the object.

</doc>
<doc id="9239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9239" title="George H. W. Bush">
George H. W. Bush

George Herbert Walker Bush (born June 12, 1924) is an American politician. He was the 41st President of the United States from 1989 to 1993. Before he became president, he was the 43rd Vice President of the United States from 1981 to 1989 under the Ronald Reagan administration, an ambassador, a congressman, and Director of Central Intelligence. He is married to Barbara. His sons are 43rd President of the United States George W. Bush and former Governor of Florida Jeb Bush. His daughter is Dorothy Bush Koch. He is an Episcopalian.
Bush was born on June 12, 1924 in Milton Massachusetts. His father was politician Prescott Bush. He studied at Yale University. In June 1943, Bush became the youngest pilot in the United States Navy at the time. 
Bush served in the United States Navy during 1942 until 1945. During World War II, his plane was shot down. He won 3 Air Medal, Presidential Unit Citation, and the Distinguished Flying Cross. He is married to Barbara Pierce since 1945. They had six children.
He worked for Zapata Oil in Texas and was a politician in Texas, running for the Senate in 1964 but losing to Ralph Yarborough and later again in 1970 though losing again to Lloyd Bentsen. 
He later was a House Representative. He also was Republican Party Chairman and attempted the vice presidency, with the support of Congressional conservatives such as Senator Barry Goldwater, after Nixon resigned and Ford took office but lost to liberal Republican Nelson Rockefeller in 1974. Bush also ran against Ronald Reagan in 1980 for the Republican Party's candidacy for President but lost. He was then named Republican Vice Presidential candidate by Reagan after Reagan defeated him. Reagan and Bush were elected President and Vice President that year. 
During World War II, he was a crewman on a TBM Avenger. He had survived many crashes and sunk a Japanese ship. He later became a diplomat and head of the CIA.
After being Ronald Reagan's vice-president, George H.W. Bush was elected president in 1988 by defeating Democrat Michael Dukakis. While he was President, the Cold War ended and the Soviet Union fell apart.
In 1992, Bush visited the Prime Minister of Japan, Kiichi Miyazawa, when he vomited on his lap and soon fainted during a dinner feast. Hours later, Bush made a comment that he was suffering from the flu.
When Saddam Hussein (the dictator of Iraq) invaded its enemy Kuwait in order to steal their supplies of oil, George H.W. Bush lead the United States and many other countries to protect Kuwait. The conflict was called the Gulf War. He also invaded Panama to remove its dictator Manuel Noreiga who was guilty of drug trafficking.
At home, George H. W. Bush also signed in important laws such as The Americans With Disabilities Act. However, the country suffered from a recession. This was embarrassing and many people believe this was why he lost the presidential election of 1992 to Bill Clinton.
Bush now lives in a ranch in Houston, Texas with his family. After his presidency, he supported John McCain and his son George W. Bush. He recently supported Mitt Romney and Rick Perry for president. He attended the opening of the USS George H.W. Bush, a naval ship named after him. He had traveled with his son to the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China. On February 15, 2011, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States, by President Barack Obama. He was present at his son's presidential library opening ceremony on April 25, 2013. In July 2013, Bush had his head shaved in a show of support for the two-year-old son of a member of his security detail, who had leukemia. He is the most recent president that was a veteran during World War II.
He is the father of George W. Bush, another president, Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida and Dorothy Bush Koch. He has two other sons. His other daughter, Dorothy died of leukemia in 1953. His father was politician was Prescott Bush. On April 13, 2013, he became a great-grandfather when his granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager gave birth to a daughter.
Since Bush has the same first and last names as his son, he is often called George H. W. Bush or George Bush Sr. (George Bush senior). Some people call him "41" or "Bush 41", because he was the 41st President.
Bush suffers from a form of Parkinson's disease which has forced him to use a motorized scooter or wheelchair to get around, since at least 2012.
On November 23, 2012, he had a bronchitis-like cough that initially brought him to Methodist Hospital in Houston for treatment. He was supposed to be released before Christmas, but was kept in and over the holiday because he got worse with a high fever. On December 23, 2012 he started to be in the Intensive-care unit. On December 29, 2012, his health became better and moved out of intensive care. He was discharged in the hospital on January 14, 2013. On December 23, 2014, Bush was once again hospitalized at the Methodist Hospital after suffering a "shortness of breath". He was released from the hospital on December 30, 2014.
On July 15, 2015, Bush fell at his home in Kennebunkport, Maine and broke a vertebrae in his neck.

</doc>
<doc id="9240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9240" title="Ohio">
Ohio

Ohio is one of the 50 states in the United States. Its capital is Columbus. Columbus also is the largest city in Ohio.
Other large cities in Ohio are Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton, Akron, Toledo, and Youngstown.
Some famous people from Ohio include golfer , Wilbur and Orville Wright, author Sherwood Anderson, and actors Clark Gable and Katie Holmes. There have also been seven American presidents from Ohio: Ulysses S. Grant, Rutherford Hayes, James Garfield, Benjamin Harrison, William McKinley, William Howard Taft, Warren G. Harding. Famous astronaut Neil Armstrong and inventor of the airplane the Wright Brothers were born in Ohio.
Ohio is important in elections because it is a swing state and candidates often campaign a lot there. Ohio has both farmland and cities. It is a part of the Midwest. Ohio is the 7th most populated state in the United States Of America (capital Washington D.C.)

</doc>
<doc id="9246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9246" title="Greek">
Greek

Greek can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="9252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9252" title="Relativity">
Relativity

The word relativity usually means two things in physics:

</doc>
<doc id="9253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9253" title="Principle of relativity">
Principle of relativity

In the physics of Aristotle, heavy objects fall faster than objects that are not heavy. The natural science of Aristotle was most popular in Western thought for 2,000 years.
Galileo proved that all objects fall with the same acceleration. Therefore, the longer an object moves with constant acceleration the faster its final velocity is. Also, if different objects each having a different mass are dropped from rest (initial velocity is zero) at the same height in a vacuum, they will all hit the ground at the same velocity regardless of their mass. The experimental discoveries of Galileo and the Laws of Motion developed mathematically by Newton gave birth to modern science.
Galileo's principle of relativity states "It is impossible by mechanical means to say whether we are moving or staying at rest". If two trains are moving at the same speed in the same direction, then a passenger in either car will not be able to notice that either train is moving. However, if the passenger takes a fixed frame of reference, a fixed point, like the earth, he will then be able to notice the motion of either train. Another thing, if one stands on the earth one will not be able to see that it is moving.
This principle is just taken from observation. For example, if we are travelling by airplane at a constant speed, we can walk through the inside of the airplane without noticing anything special.
From a practical point of view, this means that Newton's laws of motion are valid in all inertial systems, which means those at rest or those moving with constant speed relative to one considered at rest. This is the law of inertia: a body at rest continues at rest and a body in motion continues in motion in a straight line unless influenced by an external force. A Galilean coordinate system is one where the law of inertia is valid. The laws of mechanics of Galileo and Newton are valid in a Galilean coordinate system. If K is a Galilean coordinate system, then every other system K' is a Galileian coordinate system if it lies at rest or moves according to the law of inertia relative to K. Relative to K', the mechanical laws of Galileo and Newton are as valid as they are relative to K.
In other words, if a mass m is at rest or is moving with constant acceleration (the constant acceleration could be equal to zero in which case the velocity would remain constant) in a straight line relative to a Galilean coordinate system K, then it will also be at rest or moving with constant acceleration in a straight line relative to a second coordinate system K' provided the law of inertia is valid in system K' (in other words, provided it is a Galilean coordinate system).
Therefore, if we want to observe an effect in a moving system at constant speed, we can apply the Newton laws directly. If the moving system speeds up (or we speed up relative to it, like looking at the stars from the earth) then we will have to introduce imaginary forces to compensate this effect.
These fictitious forces are called centrifugal force and coriolis force.
Newton's Laws of Motion are mechanically accurate for speeds that are slow compared with the velocity of light. For speeds that approach the speed of light, it is necessary to apply the discoveries of Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity.
In order to describe what happens mechanically in the universe, physicists use mass, length and time. In the physics of Galileo and Newton, these quantities remain the same throughout the universe.
With Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity, these quantities can change.

</doc>
<doc id="9254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9254" title="Special relativity">
Special relativity

Special relativity (or the special theory of relativity) is a theory in physics that was developed and explained by Albert Einstein in 1905. It applies to all physical phenomena, so long as gravitation is not significant. Special relativity applies to Minkowski space, or "flat spacetime" (phenomena which are not influenced by gravitation).
Einstein knew that some weaknesses had been discovered in older physics. For example, older physics thought light moved in luminiferous aether. Various tiny effects were expected if this theory were true. Gradually it seemed these predictions were not going to work out. 
Eventually, Einstein (1905) drew the conclusion that the concepts of space and time needed a fundamental revision. The result was special relativity theory. This is based on the constancy of the speed of light in all inertial frames of reference and the principle of relativity.
Galileo had already established the principle of relativity, which said that physical events must look the same to all observers, and no observer has the "right" way to look at the things studied by physics. For example, the Earth is moving very fast around the Sun, but we do not notice it because we are moving with the Earth at the same speed; therefore, from our point of view, the Earth is at rest. However, Galileo's math could not explain some things, such as the speed of light. According to him, the measured speed of light should be different for different speeds of the observer in comparison with its source. However, the Michelson-Morley experiment showed that this is not true, at least not for all cases. Einstein's theory of special relativity explained this among other things.
Suppose that you are moving toward something that is moving toward you. If you measure its speed, it will seem to be moving faster than if you were not moving. Now suppose you are moving away from something that is moving toward you. If you measure its speed again, it will seem to be moving more slowly. This is the idea of "relative speed"—the speed of the object relative to you.
Before Albert Einstein, scientists were trying to measure the "relative speed" of light. They were doing this by measuring the speed of star light reaching the Earth. They expected that if the Earth was moving toward a star, the light from that star should seem faster than if the Earth was moving away from that star. However, they noticed that no matter who performed the experiments, where the experiments were performed, or what star light was used, the measured speed of light in a vacuum was always the same.
Einstein said this happens because there is something unexpected about length and duration, or how long something lasts. He thought that as the Earth moves through space, all measurable durations change very slightly. Any clock used to measure a duration will be wrong by exactly the right amount so that the speed of light remains the same. Imagining a "light clock" allows us to better understand this remarkable fact for the case of a single light wave.
Also, Einstein said that as the Earth moves through space, all measurable lengths change (ever so slightly). Any device measuring length will give a length off by exactly the right amount so that the speed of light remains the same.
The most difficult thing to understand is that events that appear to be simultaneous in one frame may not be simultaneous in another frame. This has many effects that are not easy to see or understand. Since the length of an object is the distance from head to tail at one simultaneous moment, it follows that if two observers disagree about what events are simultaneous then this will affect (sometimes dramatically) their measurements of the length of objects. Furthermore, if a line of clocks appear synchronized to a stationary observer and appear to be out of sync to that same observer after accelerating to a certain velocity then it follows that during the acceleration the clocks ran at different speeds. Some may even run backwards. This line of reasoning leads to general relativity.
Other scientists before Einstein had written about light seeming to go the same speed no matter how it was observed. What made Einstein's theory so revolutionary is that it considers the measurement of the speed of light to be constant by definition, in other words it is a law of nature. This has the remarkable implications that speed-related measurments, length and duration, change in order to accommodate this.
The mathematical bases of special relativity are the Lorentz transformations, which mathematically describe the views of space and time for two observers who are moving relative to each other but are not experiencing acceleration.
Let there be an observer K who describes when events occur with a time coordinate "t", and who describes where events occur with spatial coordinates "x", "y", and "z". 
This is mathematically defining the first observer whose "point of view" will be our first reference.
Let us specify that the time of an event is given: by the time that it is observed "t" (say today, at 12 o'clock) minus the time that it took for the observation to reach us.
Now with these definitions in place, let there be another observer K' who is
where "x"' axis is coincident with the "x" axis, 
and with the "y' "and "z' "axes - "always being parallel" to the "y" and "z" axes.
This means that when K', the second observer, gives a location like (3,1,2), the x (which is 3 in this example) is the same place that K, the first observer would be talking about, but the 1 on the y axis or the 2 on the z axis are only "parallel" to some location on the K' observer's coordinate system.
and
The Lorentz Transformations then are <br>
In special relativity, the momentum "p" and the energy "E" of an object as a function of its rest mass "m" are
and
A frequently made error (also in some books) is to rewrite these equation using a "relativistic mass" (in the direction of motion) of formula_8.
The fact why this is incorrect is that the light, for example, has no mass, but has energy. If we use this formula, the photon (particule of light) has a mass, which is according to experiments incorrect.
In special relativity, energy and momentum are related by the equation
The need for special relativity arose from Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism, which were published in 1865. It was later found that they call for electromagnetic waves (such as light) to move at a constant speed (i.e., the speed of light).
To have James Clerk Maxwell's equations be consistent with both astronomical observations, and Newtonian physics Maxwell proposed in 1877 that light travels through an ether which is everywhere in the universe.
In 1887, the famous Michelson-Morley experiment tried to detect the "ether wind" generated by the movement of the Earth. The persistent null results of this experiment puzzled physicists, and called the ether theory into question.
In 1895, Lorentz and Fitzgerald noted that the null result of the Michelson-Morley experiment could be explained by the ether wind contracting the experiment in the direction of motion of the ether. This effect is called the Lorentz contraction, and (without ether) is a consequence of special relativity.
In 1899, Lorentz first published the Lorentz equations. Although this was not the first time they had been published, this was the first time that they were used as an explanation of the Michelson-Morley experiment's null result, since the Lorentz contraction is a result of them.
In 1900, Poincaré gave a famous speech in which he considered the possibility that some "new physics" was needed to explain the Michelson-Morley experiment.
In 1904, Lorentz showed that electrical and magnetic fields can be modified into each other through the Lorentz transformations.
In 1905, Einstein published his article introducing special relativity, ""On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies"", in Annalen der Physik. In this article, he presented the postulates of relativity, derived the Lorentz transformations from them, and (unaware of Lorentz's 1904 article) also showed how the Lorentz Transformations affect electric and magnetic fields.
Later in 1905, Einstein published another article presenting "E" = "mc".
In 1908, Max Planck endorsed Einstein's theory and named it "relativity". In that same year, Minkowski gave a famous speech on "Space and Time" in which he showed that relativity is self-consistent and further developed the theory. These events forced the physics community to take relativity seriously. Relativity came to be more and more accepted after that.
In 1912 Einstein and Lorentz were nominated for the Nobel prize in physics due to their pioneering work on relativity. Unfortunately, relativity was so controversial then, and remained controversial for such a long time that a Nobel prize was never awarded for it.
http://math.ucr.edu/home/baez/physics/Relativity/SR/rocket.html

</doc>
<doc id="9255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9255" title="1964">
1964

1964 (MCMLXIV) was a leap year that began on a Wednesday, in accordance with the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9256" title="1894">
1894


</doc>
<doc id="9257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9257" title="587">
587

Year 587 (DLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 587 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.

</doc>
<doc id="9258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9258" title="September 7">
September 7


</doc>
<doc id="9259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9259" title="1191">
1191

This is the year the popular game for Xbox 360, Assassin's Creed, is set.

</doc>
<doc id="9260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9260" title="1539">
1539


</doc>
<doc id="9261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9261" title="May 30">
May 30


</doc>
<doc id="9262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9262" title="1431">
1431


</doc>
<doc id="9263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9263" title="1574">
1574


</doc>
<doc id="9264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9264" title="1984">
1984

1984 (MCMLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9265" title="1985">
1985

1985 (MCMLXXXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9266" title="1986">
1986

1986 (MCMLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9267" title="August 12">
August 12


</doc>
<doc id="9268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9268" title="1918">
1918


</doc>
<doc id="9269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9269" title="Wombat">
Wombat

A wombat is a marsupial in the family Vombatidae. It lives in the Australian eucalyptus forests. There are two genera with three living wombat species; the Common Wombat and the Hairy-nosed Wombats.
It is a medium-sized animal that makes a burrow by digging holes in the ground. Wombats are usually around a metre (40 in) long when they are fully grown. It is a kind of animal known as a marsupial because it has a pouch on its belly that holds its young, although it faces back instead of forward like most marsupials. Having the pouch face backwards prevents dirt from building up in the pouch and hitting the offspring in the face when digging. When its young are born they spend some time growing in their mother's pouch before going into the world. Wombats are herbivores. They eat plants, roots, and grasses. They are nocturnal which means they sleep in the day and come out at night. Some wombats have thick brown fur and very small ears. They can weigh from 20 to 35 kilograms (45 to 80 lb). They can live up to 7 years.
Wombats are commonly known and recognised by their waste products. They are the only known mammals that excrete feces in cubic shape. This lets people easily know when wombat habitats are nearby. It also tells simply what the wombat may have eaten by examining the feces thoroughly.

</doc>
<doc id="9273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9273" title="January 10">
January 10


</doc>
<doc id="9275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9275" title="N.C. Wyeth">
N.C. Wyeth

Newell Convers Wyeth (October 22, 1882 – October 19, 1945) was an American painter and book illustrator. He was born in Needham, Massachusetts. He was known for his illustrations for such books as "Robin Hood", "Robinson Crusoe", "The Yearling", "The Last of the Mohicans", and King Arthur. His daughters Henriette and Carolyn, his son, Andrew and grandson Jamie Wyeth were also painters. Wyeth's son Nathaniel was an inventor. 
Wyeth was born in Needham, Massachusetts. He died in an accident at a railway crossing in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania.

</doc>
<doc id="9281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9281" title="Turkey (bird)">
Turkey (bird)

Turkeys are a family (Meleagrididae) of bird. They are something like a chicken but much bigger. Wild turkeys live in forests in North America and Central America. In the United States, people traditionally eat turkey on the holiday of Thanksgiving.
The family "Meleagrididae" has one genus in it, "Meleagris". This genus has two species:
When people from Europe first saw turkeys in the Americas they thought the birds were a type of guinea fowl ("Numida meleagris"). This bird had been brought to central Europe from the country of Turkey. The name of that country stuck as the name of the bird. 
The confusion with the name is also seen in the scientific name: "meleagris" is Greek for guinea-fowl. 

</doc>
<doc id="9283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9283" title="Arachnology">
Arachnology

Arachnology (a-rack-no-ol-e-gee) is a science that studies arachnids. Examples of arachnids are spiders, scorpions, pseudoscorpions, and harvestmen. Ticks and mites are also arachnids but they sometimes are not included in arachnology. They are studied in acarology.

</doc>
<doc id="9287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9287" title="Alabama">
Alabama

Alabama is a state in the United States. Its capital city is Montgomery. The largest city is Birmingham. It became a state in 1819.
Alabama is the thirteenth largest state in the United States with 52,423 square miles (135,775 km²) of total area. 3.19% of the area is water, making Alabama twenty-third in the amount of surface water, also giving it the second largest inland waterway system in the United States. About three-fifths of the land area is a plain with a general downward slope towards the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico. North Alabama has mostly mountains, with the Tennessee River cutting a large valley creating many creeks, streams, rivers, mountains, and lakes.
The states bordering Alabama are Tennessee to the north; Georgia to the east; Florida to the south; and Mississippi to the west. Alabama has coastline at the Gulf of Mexico, in the very southern edge of the state. Alabama ranges in elevation from sea level at "Mobile Bay" to over 1,800 feet (550 m) in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast. The highest point is "Mount Cheaha", at a height of 2,407 ft (734 m). Alabama's land has 22 million acres (89,000 km2) of forest or 67% of total land area. "Suburban Baldwin County", along the Gulf Coast, is the largest county in the state in both land area and water area.
The state is classified as subtropical Cfa under the Koppen Climate Classification. The normal annual temperature is 64 °F (18 °C). Temperatures are often warmer in the southern part of the state because it is close to the Gulf of Mexico, while the northern parts of the state, mostly in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast, tend to be slightly cooler. Most of the time, Alabama has very hot summers and mild winters with copious rain throughout the year. Alabama receives an average of 56 inches (1,400 mm) of rainfall annually and enjoys a lengthy growing season of up to 300 days in the southern part of the state.
Summers in Alabama are among the hottest in the United States, with high temperatures averaging over 90 °F (32 °C) throughout the summer in some parts of the state. Alabama also gets many tropical storms and even hurricanes. Areas of the state far away from the Gulf can still feel the effects of the storms, which often dump big amounts of rain as they move inland and weaken.
The United States Census Bureau, as of July 1, 2008, estimated Alabama's population at 4,661,900, which is an increase of 214,545, or 4.8%, since the 2000 census. This is a natural increase since the last census of 121,054 people (that is 502,457 births minus 381,403 deaths) and an increase because of net migration of 104,991 people into the state. Immigration from outside the United States resulted in a net increase of 31,180 people, and migration within the country got a net gain of 73,811 people. The state had 108,000 foreign-born (2.4% of the state population), of which an estimated 22.2% were illegal immigrants (24,000).
According to the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis, the 2008 total gross state product was $170 billion, or $29,411 per capita. Alabama's 2008 GDP increased (went up) 0.7% from the past year. The single largest increase came in the area of information. In 1999, per capita income for the state was $18,189.
Alabama's agricultural outputs are poultry and eggs, cattle, plant nursery items, peanuts, cotton, grains (such as corn and sorghum), vegetables, milk, soybeans, and peaches. Although known as "The Cotton State", many reports say that Alabama is between eight and ten in national cotton making, with Texas, Georgia and Mississippi making up the top three.
Alabama's company outputs are iron and steel products (like cast-iron and steel pipe); paper, lumber, and wood items; mining (mostly coal); plastic things; cars and trucks; and apparel. Alabama also makes aerospace and electronic things, mostly in the "Huntsville" area, location of NASA George C. Marshall Space Flight Center and the US Army Aviation and Missile Command, headquartered at "Redstone Arsenal."
"Public primary and secondary education" in Alabama is under the review of the Alabama State Board of Education as well as local oversight by 67 county school boards and 60 city boards of education. Together, 1,541 separate schools have education for 743,364 elementary and secondary students.
Alabama's programs of higher education are 14 four-year public universities, two-year community colleges, and 17 private, undergraduate and graduate universities. In the state are two medical schools, University of Alabama at Birmingham and University of South Alabama, two veterinary colleges, Auburn University and Tuskegee University, a dental school, University of Alabama, an optometry college, two pharmacy schools, Auburn University and Samford University, and five law schools, University of Alabama School of Law, Birmingham School of Law, Cumberland School of Law, Miles Law School, and the Thomas Goode Jones School of Law. Public, post-secondary education in Alabama is overseen by the Alabama Commission on Higher Education. Colleges and universities in Alabama offer degree programs from two-year associate degrees to 16 doctor level programs.
The governor of Alabama is Robert J. Bentley, a Republican. The lieutenant governor of Alabama is Kay Ivey, a Republican, and the Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court is Sue Bell Cobb, a Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="9288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9288" title="Arizona">
Arizona

Arizona is a state in the United States of America. It is considered part of the Southwestern United States and is bordered by New Mexico to the east, Utah to the north, Nevada to the northwest, California to the west, its northeast corner touches part of Colorado, this area is known as the Four Corners. To the south of Arizona is the country Mexico with which it shares a border of 389 miles (626 km). The state is called the "Grand Canyon State" and the "Copper State" as it is the home of the Grand Canyon and has produced large amounts of copper from its mineral deposits. 
Arizona became a state on February 14, 1912 and became the 48th state accepted into the United States. The state capital is Phoenix, which also is the largest city in the state. Phoenix is the largest capital city in the US.
Arizona's climate can be very hot. In Phoenix, the average temperature is about 107 degrees Fahrenheit (42 degrees Celsius) in summer.
Arizona is the sixth largest state in area, after New Mexico and before Nevada. Of the state's , about 15% is privately owned. The remaining area is public forest and park land, state trust land and Native American reservations.
Arizona is best known for its desert landscape. It has plants such as the cactus. It is also known for its climate, which has very hot summers and mild winters. Less well known is the pine-covered high country of the Colorado Plateau in the north-central part of the state. 
Mountains and plateaus are found in more than half of the state. 27% of Arizona is forest. The largest stand of Ponderosa pine trees in the world is in Arizona.
The Grand Canyon is a colorful, steep-sided gorge. It is made by the Colorado River in northern Arizona. The canyon is one of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World. Most of the canyon is in the Grand Canyon National Park—one of the first national parks in the United States. 
Arizona is home to a well-kept meteorite impact site. The Barringer Crater (better known simply as “Meteor Crater”) is a huge hole in the middle of the high plains of the Colorado Plateau. It is about west of Winslow. A rim of smashed and jumbled boulders, some of them the size of small houses, rises above the level of the surrounding plain. The crater is nearly 1 mile (1.6 km) wide, and deep. Meteor Crater is a popular tourist attraction. It is privately owned by the Barringer family through the Barringer Crater Company. There is an admission fee charged to see the crater. 
Arizona is one of two states that does not observe Daylight Saving Time, except in the Navajo Nation in the northeastern part of the state.
Professional sports teams in Arizona include:
Arizona has many golf courses and is home to several stops on the PGA Tour.

</doc>
<doc id="9289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9289" title="Bolivia">
Bolivia

Bolivia (officially called Plurinational State of Bolivia) is a country in South America. It is land locked by Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina, Peru, and Chile. Evo Morales became the president of "Bolivia" in January 2006. The population of Bolivia is 10.67 million (2013).
Bolivia is named after Simón Bolívar. The main languages are Spanish and Quechua, but there are other languages too.
Bolivia used to be a colony of Spain. The silver mines in Bolivia made most of Spain's money, and Spain used Bolivians as slaves to work in the mines.
After many wars, Simón Bolívar helped Bolivia to be an independent country.
Bolivia is 424,135 mi² (1,098,581 km²). This means that Bolivia is the world's 28th-largest country (after Ethiopia). It is the same sort of size as Mauritania.
Bolivia is a landlocked nation, which means every border of Bolivia is a border with another country, and so it does not have a sea. It used to own some of the Pacific coast, but it lost it in 1879 in the War of the Pacific. The west of Bolivia is on the Andes mountain range. The highest mountain in Bolivia is called Nevado de Sajama and it is near the city of Oruro. Although this part of the country is very high with lots of mountains, there are also parts of Bolivia which are very flat, and parts of the country which are very near sea level. There is also a bit of Bolivia covered by the Amazon rainforest, and a big lake which is the highest lake in the world. This lake is called Lake Titicaca.
The major cities are La Paz, El Alto, Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Cochabamba. For other places in Bolivia see List of cities in Bolivia.
The population of Bolivia is approximately 10,907,778 people. The ethnic composition of the country is like the following:
Bolivia suffers from poverty, with 75.7% of the population living below the poverty line.
Bolivia is divided into nine departments. The departments are divided into 112 provinces. The provinces are divided into 339 municipalities and into native community lands.
Bolivian culture has many Inca, Aymara and other native influences in religion, music and clothing. There is a big festival in Oruro, which is called "El carnaval de Oruro". People in Bolivia like playing football, and football, which is often played in the street. Zoos are also very popular, but they do not have much money.
The Cantuta (often spelled kantuta or qantuta) (Cantua buxifolia or Fuchsia buxifolia) is a flower found in the Yungas, and is the national flower of Bolivia along with the "patujú" (Heliconia rostrata) found in the tropical regions of Bolivia.

</doc>
<doc id="9290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9290" title="Massachusetts">
Massachusetts

Massachusetts is a state in the United States of America. Its official name is the "Commonwealth of Massachusetts".
Its capital and largest city is Boston. It is on the east coast of the United States. It is next to the Atlantic Ocean and the states of Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, Vermont, and New Hampshire. The word "Massachusetts" comes from Native American language. It means "place with hills." 
Massachusetts was one of the first places that European people lived when they came to America. It was one of the first American colonies. The Pilgrims from Plymouth, England came to America for religious freedom in 1620. Massachusetts has some famous schools in the USA, including Harvard University. Massachusetts is also one of the richest states in the United States. Its major cities are Boston, Worcester, Massachusetts, and Springfield, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="9291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9291" title="Tallahassee, Florida">
Tallahassee, Florida

Tallahassee is the capital city of the U.S. state of Florida. As of the census held in the year 2010, its population was 181,376.
The name comes from the Apalachee Native American words: "talwa" meaning town, and "ahassee" meaning old.
Tallahassee was created as the capital of Florida during the territory's second legislative session. It was chosen as the midpoint between St. Augustine and Pensacola, which had been the capitals of the Spanish and British colonies of East Florida and West Florida, respectively. (At that time, very few people lived in the swamps of South Florida.) The first session of Florida's Legislative Council–as a territory of the United States–met on July 22, 1822 at Pensacola and members from St. Augustine traveled fifty-nine days by water to attend. The second session was in St. Augustine and required western delegates to travel perilously around the peninsula on a twenty-eight day trek. During this session, it was decided that future meetings should be held at a half-way point to reduce the distance. Two appointed commissioners selected Tallahassee, at that point an abandoned Apalachee settlement, as a halfway point. In 1824, the third legislative session met there in a crude log capitol. Also in 1824, Marquis de Lafayette, French hero of the American Revolution, returned for a grand tour of the United States. The US Congress voted to give him $200,000 (the same amount he had given the colonies in 1778), US citizenship, and the Lafayette Land Grant, of land that today includes large portions of Tallahassee. In 1845, a Greek revival masonry structure was erected as the Capitol building in time for statehood.
In 1977, a 23-story high-rise Capitol building designed by architect Edward Durell Stone was completed. It is now the third-tallest state capitol building in the United States. In 1978, the old capitol was scheduled for demolition, but the State Of Florida decided to keep the Old Capitol as a museum and point of interest.
The city is the location of two important universities, Florida State University and Florida A&M University.

</doc>
<doc id="9292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9292" title="1227">
1227


</doc>
<doc id="9293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9293" title="Tom Skerritt">
Tom Skerritt

Thomas Alderton Skerritt (August 25, 1933) is an American actor. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. He is best known for his roles in the films "M*A*S*H" (1970), "Alien" (1979), and "Top Gun" (1986).

</doc>
<doc id="9302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9302" title="Trossingen">
Trossingen

Trossingen is a town in South Germany (Baden-Württemberg). It is in a region called Baar, between the Swabian Alb and the Black Forest. Trossingen is called a "music town". It has around 16,000 people who live there, there is the 'University of Music Trossingen', which is one of Baden-Württemberg's state conservatories, and there are other institutions specialized in musical education, like the 'Bundesakademie für musikalische Jugendbildung' and the 'Hohner Konservatorium'. In 1857 the Matthias Hohner company was founded. Today, Hohner harmonicas and accordions are famous all over the world. Trossingen houses the German Harmonica Museum, too. Trossingen also has a historic railway: the "Trossinger Eisenbahn". Several skeletons of the dinosaur "Plateosaurus engelhardti" were found in Trossingen during excavations in the early 20th century. The local museum Auberlehaus houses several of the original bones.

</doc>
<doc id="9304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9304" title="The Smurfs">
The Smurfs

The Smurfs are fictional little blue beings who live in a forest created by Peyo, a Belgian cartoonist. They first appeared in 1958, and many people know them for their cartoon show created by Hanna-Barbera Productions in the 1980s and comics. On September 12 1981, they appeared on NBC on Saturday mornings as a cartoon series. The little blue creatures from Belgium became popular and not just with children.
A feature movie called "The Smurfs" was released in 2011. "The Smurfs 2" was a sequel released July 31, 2013. 
Most Smurfs are male. There are only 3 females in the village: Smurfette, Sassette Smurfling, and Nanny Smurf. 
Smurfs wear white pants and Phrygian caps, but this is not the case with Papa Smurf, Grandpa Smurf, and some of the Smurflings. Grandpa Smurf wears yellow clothes. Papa Smurf wears red clothes. The Smurflings are Sassette, Snappy, Slouchy, and Nat. Sassette and Nat do not dress like the other Smurfs at all. Slouchy and Nat do dress like the othets. In some comics, the Smurfs dress differently in color or clothes.
Smurfs live in mushroom-shaped houses.

</doc>
<doc id="9307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9307" title="Istanbul">
Istanbul

Istanbul () is a city on the European side of Turkey. It is the largest city in Europe by population. Istanbul is also the 3rd largest European city in size. It was the capital city of the old Ottoman Empire until 1923. The city has been known since ancient times by the older names Byzantium and Constantinople (Latin: "Constantinopolis"; Greek: "Κωνσταντινούπολις", "Konstantinoúpolis"). Being a seaport, Istanbul is the main trade center of Turkey.
Part of Istanbul is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
Istanbul faces the Golden Horn and the Bosporus strait. The Bosphorus connects the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara, and separates Europe and Asia. The city is actually in both Europe and Asia. One third of the people live on the Asian side. Its population is between 11 and 15 million people, making it one of the largest cities in Europe. Many people migrate to Istanbul every year.
Its original name was "Byzantion" in the Greek language, known as "Byzantium" in the Latin language. Byzantium was originally settled as a colony by Greeks from Megara in 667 BC and named after their king, Byzas. In 196 AD, Byzantium was damaged by the Romans, then rebuilt by the Roman Emperor Septimius Severus. Constantine the Great thought this city was in a nice location, and in 330, moved the capital of the Empire from Rome to there, as "New Rome" (Latin: "Nova Roma"; Greek: "Νέα Ρώμη", "Nea Rómi"), renaming the city "Constantinople", after his name. 
When the Roman Empire was later divided into two, the East Roman Empire was known as the Byzantine Empire, and its capital was in Constantinople where Hagia Sophia had been built. Although it was captured by Crusaders for a time, it continued as one of political, cultural, religious and economical centers of Europe until it finally fell to the Ottoman Turks in 1453. 
After the Ottoman Empire ended, the Republic of Turkey was started with its capital at Ankara.

</doc>
<doc id="9315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9315" title="ABBA">
ABBA

ABBA was a Swedish pop music group, who had many hits in the 1970s in Stockholm and early 1980s. ABBA was the most commercially successful pop group of the 1970s. The name "ABBA" is made from the first letter of each member's first name:
ABBA became very popular after they won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1974. They had many hits. These included "Dancing Queen", "SOS", "Mamma Mia", and "Waterloo". Most of their songs were written by Ulvaeus and Andersson.
They broke up in 1982, but their music is still popular. It has appeared in movies (including the Australian movies "The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" and "Muriel's Wedding") and the musical "Mamma Mia!".
All 4 ABBA members had local music careers before ABBA even formed. Frida and Agnetha were both solo singers. Benny and Bjorn both had their own individual bands. In 1966, Benny and Bjorn both met and decided to write songs together. In 1969, Bjorn met Agnetha and Benny met Frida. All four friends met together and decided to work together to record songs. By 1970, they were known as "Bjorn & Benny (With Svenska Flicka)". Later they were called Bjorn & Benny, Agnetha & Frida. Their first hit was a song called "Hej, gamle man". By 1971, Bjorn and Agnetha were married and Benny and Frida were engaged. "Ring Ring" in 1973 was when the group achieved success throughout much of Europe and Africa. It wasn't until 1973 that the group became officially known as ABBA. The name was suggested by their manager, Stig Anderson. In 1974, ABBA was given a chance to perform in the Eurovision Song Contest. With "Waterloo", they won and soon got global success. In 1976, ABBA released Dancing Queen, which is often known as ABBA's "signature song" and "one of the greatest pop songs ever written". During 1977, their huge popularity became known as "Abbamania". In Australia, ABBA played in huge concerts that usually always sold out. "ABBA: The Movie" was also released in 1977 during the height of the group's popularity. Throughout the mid and late 1970's ABBA performed in Europe, The United States, Japan and Australia. In early 1979, Agnetha and Bjorn divorced. In early 1981, Frida and Benny also got divorced. This led to many sadder and more mature songs over the next few years. By 1981, ABBA's popularity was declining. Their last album, "The Visitors" a not a big success like previous albums. The Day Before You Came was the last song ABBA ever recorded together, while Under Attack was the last song ever released, both in 1982. ABBA broke up shortly before 1983 and all members continued on their independent music careers, just like before they had met. 
ABBA recorded eight albums between 1973 and 1981, as well as some compilation albums.

</doc>
<doc id="9316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9316" title="Gregg Allman">
Gregg Allman

Gregg Allman (born December 8, 1947) is an American rock musician. He was a member of the Allman Brothers Band with his brother, Duane Allman, which popularized Southern Rock in the 1970s. He married Cher, a well-known pop singer and actress after she divorced Sonny Bono in 1974. They had a son, Elijah Blue Allman, before divorcing in 1979. He continues to perform with his band Gregg Allman and Friends and resides in Georgia with his family.

</doc>
<doc id="9317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9317" title="Allman Brothers Band">
Allman Brothers Band

The Allman Brothers Band were an American southern rock band in the 1970s. It originally formed in 1969 with Duane Allman (slide guitar), Gregg Allman (vocals, organ), Dickey Betts (guitar), Berry Oakley (bass guitar), Butch Trucks (drums) and Jai Johanny "Jaimoe" Johanson (drums). 
In 1971, soon after their first album went gold, Duane and Berry were killed in separate motorcycle accidents in the group's hometown of Macon, Georgia. The group still released more albums and songs, most notably "Ramblin' Man" and "Jessica", which were their biggest hits. "Rolling Stone" ranked them 52nd on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time in 2004. The band is still touring as of 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="9324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9324" title="London Borough of Hackney">
London Borough of Hackney

The London Borough of Hackney is a London Borough in north east London. 

</doc>
<doc id="9326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9326" title="John Frost Bridge">
John Frost Bridge

The John Frost Bridge at Arnhem was bombed after Operation Market Garden. It was later rebuilt. Some parts of the bridge are still the same as they were in 1944.

</doc>
<doc id="9329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9329" title="Vengaboys">
Vengaboys

The Vengaboys are a Dutch pop music group. The group is made up of DJ Danski and DJ Delmondo. They toured Spanish beach parties in a bus. The group formed in 1992. They added four dancers in 1995-1996 and toured through Europe. Their first song was "Up & Down". It was released in March 1997. The group is popular across Europe and have had some popularity in the United States. Their music is Eurodance.

</doc>
<doc id="9330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9330" title="Pope Benedict XVI">
Pope Benedict XVI

Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI (; ; , born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April 1927) is Pope Emeritus of the Catholic Church, having served as Pope from 2005 to 2013. In that position, he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City State. Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave following the death of Pope John Paul II, celebrated his papal inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005, and took possession of his cathedral, the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran, on 7 May 2005.
On 11 February 2013, Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals, citing a "lack of strength of mind and body" due to his advanced age. His resignation became effective on 28 February 2013. He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415, and the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294. As pope emeritus, Benedict retains the style of "His Holiness", and the title of "Pope", and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white. He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013, and he moved into the newly renovated "Mater Ecclesiae" monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013.
Ratzinger was ordained as a Catholic priest in 1951. He was a professor at several German universities, including the University of Bonn and the University of Münster. He also taught at the University of Tübingen. and the University of Regensburg.
In 1977, Ratzinger was named by Pope Paul VI as a Cardinal and the Archbishop of Munich and Freising.
Cardinal Ratzinger was Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.
He became Dean of the College of Cardinals. He was a close friend of Pope John Paul II.
In 2005, Cardinal Ratzinger was elected Pope at the age of 78. At the conclave, "it was, if not Ratzinger, who? And as they came to know him, the question became, why not Ratzinger?" He chose to be called Benedict XVI.
On 11 February 2013, the pope announced that he will abdicate or resign on 28 February 2013: "I have come to the certainty that my strengths, due to an advanced age, are no longer suited to an adequate exercise of the Petrine ministry." The original declaration was made in Latin. He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415. He decided to resign then retired on February 28, 2013 in order to take care of his health condition.
In a statistical overview derived from writings by and about Joseph Ratzinger, OCLC/WorldCat includes roughly 360+ works in 520+ publications in 20 languages and 3,00+ library holdings.
As Pope, OCLC/WorldCat identifies 1,400+ works in 2,300+ publications in 33 languages and 55,000+ library holdings.

</doc>
<doc id="9335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9335" title="Guan Gong">
Guan Gong

Guan Gong, also known as Guan Yu or Guan Yun Chang (160 – 219) was a general who lived close to two thousand years ago in China. He helped his sworn brother Liu Bei to fight against the dynasty of Wei that seized the throne from the last Han-Emperor. He was also the sworn brother of Zhang Fei, another warrior of Liu Bei's.
The Three Brothers conquered the Southeast of China and founded a Dynasty named Shu Han (because Liu Bei claimed to be the rightful heir of the Han Dynasty). They also battled with Eastern Wu, another Chinese dynasty at this time, and during one of the battles, Guan Yu was captured by the Wu general Lü Meng and executed (along with his son Guan Ping).
In later centuries, Guan Yu became a Chinese deity and was given the name Guan Gong, meaning "Lord Guan".

</doc>
<doc id="9340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9340" title="Subsistence farming">
Subsistence farming

Subsistence farming is the kind of farming done by farmers who have small plots, only grow enough food for themselves. In subsistence agriculture, no extra food is produced to sell or trade. This means farming doesn't give them money to buy things. Subsistence farming may be:shifting farming or nomadic herding (see nomadic people).
Examples:

</doc>
<doc id="9343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9343" title="River Clyde">
River Clyde

The River Clyde (, ) is a river in Scotland. It has its source in South Lanarkshire and flows through Glasgow before opening up into the Firth of Clyde.

</doc>
<doc id="9345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9345" title="Electric charge">
Electric charge

Electric charge is a basic property of electrons, protons and other subatomic particles. Electrons are negatively charged while protons are positively charged. Things that are negatively charged and things that are positively charged pull on (attract) each other. This makes electrons and protons stick together to form atoms. Things that have the same charge push each other away (they "repel" each other). This is called the "Law of Charges". It was discovered by Charles Augustin de Coulomb. The law that describes how strongly charges pull and push on each other is called Coulomb's Law.
Things that have equal numbers of electrons and protons are "neutral". Things that have more electrons than protons are negatively charged, while things with fewer electrons than protons are positively charged. Things with the same charge repel each other. Things that have different charges attract each other. If possible, the one with too many electrons will give enough electrons to match the number of protons in the one that has too many protons for its load of electrons. If there are just enough electrons to match the extra protons, then the two things will not attract each other anymore. When electrons move from a place where there are too many to a place where there are too few, that is called an electrical current. 
When a person shuffles their feet on a carpet and then touches a brass doorknob, he or she may get an electrical shock. If there are enough extra electrons then the force with which those electrons push each other away may be enough to make some of the electrons jump across a gap between the person and the doorknob. The length of the spark is a measure of voltage or "electrical pressure." The number of electrons that move from one place to another per unit of time measured as amperage or "rate of electron flow."
If a person gets a positive or negative charge, it may make the person's hairs stand up because the charges in each hair push it away from the others.
Electric charge felt when one gets a shock from a doorknob or other object usually is between 25 thousand and 30 thousand volts. However the amperage involved is incredibly low so the flow of electrons through the person's body can not cause physical harm. On the other hand, when clouds gain electrical charges they have even higher voltages and the amperage (the number of electrons that will flow in the lightning strike) can be very high. That means that electrons can jump from a cloud to the earth (or from the earth to a cloud), and if those electrons go through a person then that person will be burned and may die.
The following experiment is described by James Clerk Maxwell in his work "A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism" (1873). Normally, glass and resin are both neutrally charged. However, if they are rubbed together and then separated, they will become able to attract each other.
If a second piece of glass is rubbed with a second piece of resin, the following things will be seen:
If a charged and an uncharged object are brought together, there will not be any attraction or repulsion.
Bodies that are able to attract or repel things in this way are said to be 'electrified', or to be 'charged with electricity'. When two different substances are rubbed together, an electrical charge is produced because one of them will give electrons to the other. The reason is that the atoms in the two substances have unequal power to attract electrons. So the one that is more able to attract electrons will take electrons from the one that has a lower attractive force. If glass is rubbed against something else, it may either give or take electrons. What happens depends on what the other thing is.
Things that have taken electrons are called "negatively charged", and things that have given up electrons are called "positively charged". There is no special reason for these names. It is just an arbitrary (random choice) convention (agreement).
Besides being electrified by friction, bodies may be electrified in many other ways.

</doc>
<doc id="9346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9346" title="Silversword">
Silversword

The Silversword plant grows only at high elevations on the Island of Maui in Hawaii.
The silversword is a noticeable, round-shaped rosette plant with rigid (swordlike), succulent leaves densely covered by silver hairs. When a plant flowers at the end of its life, it produces a spectacular flowering stalk 0.5-2.0 m (1.6-6.4 ft) tall, typically with hundreds of maroon sunflowerlike flower heads. This plant receives more attention from visitors to Haleakala National Park than any other plant or animal because of its striking appearance and restricted distribution.
The strikingly beautiful Haleakala silversword has always aroused the curiosity of human visitors to Haleakala Volcano. In pre-park days, plants were often removed by travelers to Haleakala Volcano as proof that the party had reached the summit, a practice that eventually seriously affected the silversword population. Browsing by feral goats and domestic cattle was also a significant factor in the silversword decline, but it was not a species preferred by these animals. By the 1920s, silversword numbers were so depleted that the Maui Chamber of Commerce sent a petition to Washington, DC, requesting that a serious effort be made to save the species (Loope and Crivellone 1986).

</doc>
<doc id="9347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9347" title="Mr. Pacman">
Mr. Pacman

Mr. Pacman is an American pop music band from Colorado. They use sounds from old video games to create their music. Mr. Pacman has recorded 2 CDs & made 4 music videos.

</doc>
<doc id="9348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9348" title="Music video">
Music video

A music video or music clip is a short movie that represents a song on a television screen. Most music videos feature the artist who recorded the song singing or lip-syncing it on screen. TV network channels that are famous for playing music videos are MTV, VH1, BET, and CMT.
In most countries in East Asia, music videos are called PVs. PV stands for "Promotional Video."

</doc>
<doc id="9364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9364" title="Hip hop">
Hip hop

Hip hop is a type of culture/art style that started in the 1970s. It began in Jamaican-American, African-American, and Latino-American urban areas in some of the larger cities of the United States. Hip hop uses a style of singing called rapping. The singer or group chants or says words with a rhythm that rhymes. The lyrics of hip hop songs are often about the life of urban people in the big cities. Some hip hop song lyrics are about gangs, violence, and illegal drugs. Hip hop music also uses musical styles from pop music such as disco and reggae. Rap and hip hop music have become successful music genres. 
Hip hop as a culture involves the music as well as a style of dressing called "urban" clothes (baggy pants, Timberland leather work boots, and oversize shirts); a dancing style called breakdancing or "B-Boying"; and graffiti, a street art in which people paint pictures or words on walls. In the 2000s, hip hop music and hip hop culture are very popular in the United States and Canada. Hip hop musicians usually use nicknames. Many of the popular hip hop musicians from the 2000s use nicknames, such as Snoop Dogg, Jay-Z, Eminem, Lil' Wayne, and 50-Cent.
Rapping is a form of singing. It is a mix between singing and talking. The words are spoken with rhythm and in the text there are rhymes. African-Americans made rhyming games based on rap. The beat in the background is a simple loop that is sometimes made by the rapper themself or sometimes copied from a sample CD. The simple loop carries out through the entire song usually, except for the chorus. It developed in the ethnic minority urban (city) areas, as an American form of Jamaican "toasting" (chanting and rhyming with a microphone).
Run DMC and The Sugarhill Gang were early popular hip hop groups in the 1980s. When rappers began to use violent language and gestures, the music was then liked by gangsters. This kind of music was called "gangsta rap". Gangsta rap often has lyrics which are about guns, drug dealing and life as a thug on the street. This genre also began in the 1980s and is still produced.
Some well known early rappers include: Tupac Shakur, Snoop Dogg, The Notorious B.I.G., Eminem, and Sean "P-Diddy" Combs. In the 1990s there was a rivalry between the two big record labels "Death Row Records" and "Bad Boy Records". The rappers Tupac Shakur and Notorious B.I.G. were murdered. Later, the two record labels stopped the rivalry. Because most of the rappers who rapped for "Death Row Records" were from the West Coast of the US and most of the rappers who rapped for "Bad Boy Records" were from the East Coast, this rivalry was called "the West Coast – East Coast beef".
More modern rappers include 50-Cent, Eminem, Jay-Z, Nas, and Kanye West. Rap is now produced in almost every nation of the world.
The fastest rapper according to Guinness World Records is Ricky Brown from the United States. On January 15, 2005, he rapped 723 syllables in 51.27 seconds from his track.

</doc>
<doc id="9386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9386" title="Color blindness">
Color blindness

People with color blindness cannot tell the difference between certain colors. They may not see colors at all. 
Most color blindness is heritable, usually as simple Mendelian inheritance. Sometimes it is the result of damage to the eyes, nerves or the brain. It can be caused by coming into contact with certain chemicals. 
Most color blindness is permanent. Some conditions can lead to temporary color blindness. During certain kinds of migraine, some people are unable to tell the difference between certain colors. There is no treatment cure for permanent color blindness.
Many more males are color blind than females. Between five and eight percent of males, but less than one percent of females, are color blind. 
Color blindness is usually thought of as a disability. However, people who are color blind have an advantage: they are sometimes better at seeing through some types of camouflage.
In 1798, English chemist John Dalton published the first scientific article about color blindness. That was after he found out that he was color blind. The article was called "Extraordinary facts relating to the vision of colours". Because of this, the condition is sometimes called "daltonism". As of 2009, the word "daltonism" is used only for the type of color blindness called deuteranopia.
There are three steps in the process of telling the difference between colors:
Inside the human eye is a part called the retina. The retina receives the images that the eye sees. It sends the images to the brain. The retina has two types of cells: Rod cells and Cone cells. They work in different types of light. 
Parts of the thalamus and the visual cortex in the brain are involved in "seeing", also seeing colors. Color blindness can therefore also result if these areas of the brain, the optic nerve or the retina have been damaged. These types of color blindness usually happen because of an accident. They are not inherited. Inherited forms of color blindness affect the retina only. 
That way it is possible that only a part of the visual field is affected by color blindness, but in the rest, there is no color blindness. 
Some types of color blindness, but not inherited color blindness, can be cured.
There are several different problems that can cause color blindness. 
This condition is very rare. People who suffer from it can only see in black, gray and white: They can perceive only differences in "brightness" and do not see "color". This is called "monochromacy".
There are two main types of total color blindness:
There are two kinds of red-green color blindness: protanopia or deuteranopia. Deuteranopia is the most common form of color blindness; between five and ten percent of males suffer from it. Those affected have trouble telling the difference between red and green. As seen by protanopes (people suffering from protanopia), red is darkened. Most often, this is because they lack the receptors for long (protanopia) or medium (deuteranopia)-length light waves or because these receptors have changed their sensitivity.
Although the name is Blue-yellow color blindness (tritanopia), people affected by this type of color blindness can usually tell the difference between blue and yellow. Instead they cannot tell the difference between blue and green, and also yellow and violet. It is different from the other types of color blindness because it is not linked to sex. It affects both sexes equally. It occurs because those affected lack receptors for short wavelengths, or because these receptor changed their sensitivity.
Sometimes, people do not have problems seeing color, but their brain has trouble "telling" the color, and interprets it wrong. It is also possible that only certain parts of the eye have color blindness; people may become color blind because of other diseases, but after the disease goes away, see normally again. This seems to be the case with certain forms of migraine.
Males have one X and one Y chromosome; females have two X chromosomes. Many of the genes involved in making color vision work are on the X chromosome: they are sex linked. For this reason, men are more often affected by color blindness than women. 
The "color blind" gene allows non-color blind people see the difference between red and green. The gene is located on the X chromosome. This means that a male will be color blind if the single X he inherits from his mother contains the color blind version of the "color blind" gene. A female will inherit color blindness only if she inherits two X chromosomes containing defective (mutant) color gene alleles. In other words, a female needs to inherit "color blind" genes from both parents in order to be color blind.
Special tests have been developed. These usually have an image with dots of different size and color. People will then "see" different images (most often Arabic numbers). Those with certain types of color blindness will see different numbers from those not affected by color blindness. 
Because many young children have not learned numbers yet, other tests have been developed. They use symbols, like a square, a circle or a car instead of numbers.
A color code is when there is much information in the color of certain item. Such codes cannot be understood easily by those who are color blind. For this reason, color should not be used alone to give information. Good graphic design avoids using color coding or color differences alone to give information. This does not only help color blind people, but also normally sighted people.
Cascading Style Sheets can be used on web pages. They allow to give a different color scheme for color blind people. Certain color scheme generators help graphic designers see color schemes as eight types of color blind people see them. 
Color blindness is very sensitive to changes in material. A red-green color blind person may be unable to see the difference between colors on a map printed on paper. The same map on a computer screen or television may appear normally. In addition, some color blind people find it easier to tell the difference between colors on artificial materials, such as plastic or in acrylic paints, than on natural materials, such as paper or wood. Thirdly, for some color blind people, color can only be if there is enough color: thin lines might appear black, but a thicker line of the same color can be seen in the correct color.
In certain cases when it is important to understand information very quickly, the visual system may drop the colors, and only work in shades of gray. This is important to know when designing the interfaces for objects that need to be used in an emergency situation, like emergency brakes, or emergency telephones. 
Because color blind people may not see the difference between colors such as red and green, some countries, such as Romania have refused to give them driving licenses. In Romania, people have started to change the laws so that color blind people will also be able to drive legally.
In the United Kingdom, electricity wires in houses used to be red, black and green. They were changed to brown, blue and green/yellow to help color blind people see the difference between the "live" and "earth" wires.
Many people do not understand color blindness. People who are color blind never swap the colors they are blind to. They may have trouble telling two colors from one another. That way they may have a problem finding the right kind of apple in the supermarket. The image below first shows the way that two apples look to a person with normal vision, and then the way it looks to a person with red-green color blindness. The left apple is a "Braeburn"; it is red in color. The apple on the right is a "Granny Smith"; it is green. To someone with red-green blindness, the apples look like they are almost the same color.

</doc>
<doc id="9402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9402" title="Sopron">
Sopron

Sopron is a city of Hungary, near the western border of Hungary with Austria, at the foot of the Alps, 60 km from Vienna (in Austria) and 220 km from Budapest. The people of this city are famous for their loyalty to their country, and their hometown. A famous monument is 'Gate of Faith' which is the symbol of the people's faith to Hungary in 1921.
At the time of the Roman Empire, there was a city here called Scarbantia. The main square of Sopron is in the same place as the forum (or main square) of Roman times.
After this, the city was probably deserted. When the Hungarians arrived in the area, it was in ruins. In the 9th–11th centuries Hungarians strengthened the old Roman city walls and built a castle. The town got its Hungarian name of Sopron from a steward of the castle named Suprun. By 1153 it was an important town.
In 1273 King Otakar II of Bohemia took over the castle and took the children of Sopron's noble families as hostage. But the people of the city opened the gates when the army of King Ladislaus IV of Hungary arrived. The King Ladislaus made Sopron a free royal town.
In 1528 Hungary was invaded by Ottoman Turks who destroyed many parts of the city but did not take it over. Many people from other towns fled to Sopron for safety.
In 1676 most of the ancient buildings in the city were destroyed by a fire. When they were replaced, they were in a new style, called Baroque. Many of the Baroque buildings are standing today.
Sopron was an important town in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. After the World War I it became part of Austria. But the townspeople were not happy with this and in December 1921 they voted that the city should be part of Hungary. Since that day the city has been called "Civitas Fidelissima", ("The Most Loyal Town" which in Hungarian is "A Leghűségesebb Város"). A holiday is held every year to celebrate.
In World War II Sopron suffered badly. It was bombed several times. There were many Jewish people living in Sopron before the war. The Nazis and their Hungarian allies sent the Jews of Sopron to death camps and killed nearly all of them, as well as other people who disagreed with Nazi ideas.
The Soviet Red Army captured the city on April 1, 1945. Sopron, as part of Hungary, was ruled by a Socialist government. At this time many factories were built around Sopron. The Socialist government took away a lot of the freedom that people had. In August 1989, in Sopron there was a big protest against the Socialist government, which was called the "Pan-European Picnic". While this was happening more than 200 people who lived in East Germany (which was Socialist) escaped to the West. This was the beginning of a big change for all the Socialist countries of Europe. People who had not been allowed to travel or live in other countries were finally allowed to be free.
Hungary is now part of the European Union. Sopron now has trade with other countries, most importantly Austria. There are many German-speaking people who live in Sopron so most street signs are written in both Hungarian and German.
The city of Sopron shows signs of its long history in its buildings. There are still walls and foundations from the Ancient Roman times and also building from the Middle Ages. The medieval Kescke Church ("Goat Church") was where coronations (crowning kings) and parliament took place. There is also a very old Jewish synagogue.
Many old buildings whose architecture are from the 1600s and 1700s and are in the Baroque style which often has a lot of decoration. Stornó House is one of the most well-known buildings, because of its elegant Baroque architecture, its connection with King Matthias and its interesting collection. There is also a famous statue of the Holy Trinity from this time. the "Várkerület" is part of the city built where the ancient moat was; The inner row of houses follow the line of the castle wall. Várkerület has a famous Maria Statue. The Town Hall built in 1896 and the Ursuline Church is an important building in the Gothic Revival style.
Sopron is popular as a holiday place because it is set in beautiful countryside where people like to walk in the hills, enjoying the pure air, the forests and mountain springs. There are many hiking paths and look-out towers. Near to Sopron is Lake Fertő.
The Löverek, is a beautiful hilly area south of the city, with forests of spruce, oaks and chestnut trees. The flowers that bloom there include "Lily of the Valley" and cyclamens.
Sopron is a wine producing region, that is one of the few in Hungary to make both red and white wines. The grapes grown here include Kékfrankos for red wine and Traminer (Gewürztraminer) for white wine. In climate it is similar to the Burgenland wine region nearby in Austria, and several winemakers make wine in both countries.
MFC Sopron is a football team based in Sopron.

</doc>
<doc id="9404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9404" title="Sumo">
Sumo

In sumo, a wrestler ("rikishi") attempts to force another wrestler out of a circular ring (dohyō) 4.55 metres in diameter. Also, the "rikishi" try to use their skill to force an opponent to touch the ground with anything other than the soles of his feet. 
Sumo tournaments take place in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka.
Sumo wrestlers ("sumotori") are ranked into a hierarchy based on win-loss statistics in competitive tournaments. 
Those who have earned the highest rank are grand champions ("yokuzuna").
Sumo has changed in modern times. Foreign-born wrestlers are part of the sport. For example, Konishiki and Akebono are Hawaiian-born athletes who earned places for themselves.
In 2008, Kotooshu from Bulgaria won a championship. In that same year, two top wrestlers, Asashoryu and Hakuho, were Mongolian. Hakuho won the Nagoya tournament with no losses, 15-0.

</doc>
<doc id="9407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9407" title="List of German districts">
List of German districts

Germany is divided into 402 administrative districts. These consist of 295 rural districts ("Landkreise"), listed fully here, and 107 urban districts ("Kreisfreie Städte" / "Stadtkreise") - cities which constitute a district in their own right.

</doc>
<doc id="9409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9409" title="Bremen (state)">
Bremen (state)

Bremen is the smallest state in Germany. It is a city-state with an area of . Bremen has a population of 664,000 people. 
The official name is "Freie Hansestadt Bremen". This is because Bremen used to be in the "Hanseatic League" which was a group of cities which did a lot of trading. Many goods were sent from the port of Bremen or bought from the port from other countries. "Free" means it was independent of the local dukes and princes.
Bremen. These cities are Bremen and Bremerhaven. The local football club is named Werder Bremen.

</doc>
<doc id="9413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9413" title="Saxony-Anhalt">
Saxony-Anhalt

Saxony-Anhalt is a Bundesland (state) in Germany. It has an area of . 2,580,626 people live there. The capital is Magdeburg.
Big cities in Saxony-Anhalt are:

</doc>
<doc id="9414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9414" title="Erfurt">
Erfurt

Erfurt is the Capital city of the state of Thuringia with an area of . It has a population of 202,450 people. It has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
The Erfurt massacre occurred on 26 April 2002. 

</doc>
<doc id="9415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9415" title="Magdeburg">
Magdeburg

Magdeburg is the capital of the state of Saxony-Anhalt, in Germany. The city covers an area of . 229,266 people live there (June 2006).
A demonstration of air pressure (called the Magdeburg spheres) was done here by Otto von Guericke in 1656. Also, Georg Philipp Telemann was born here.

</doc>
<doc id="9417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9417" title="Romance languages">
Romance languages

The Romance languages are a language family in the Indo-European languages. They started from Vulgar Latin. The biggest Romance languages are Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, Romanian, and Catalan. They are called "romance languages" because they originate from a language spoken by Romans.
The area where the Romance languages are spoken in Europe, corresponds well with the extent of the Western Roman Empire. The Greek language superseded Latin in the Eastern Roman Empire, but Latin survived in Romania, whose language, Romanian, is a Romance language.
The Romance language family is one of the biggest in the world, and in total there are almost a billion first and second language speakers. 
Spanish is the widest used Romance language, then comes Portuguese, and then French.
Spanish is mainly spoken in Spain and Latin America. Portuguese is mostly used/spoken in Brazil, Portugal and parts of Africa. French is spoken in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Canada, and in some areas of Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="9421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9421" title="Stellar evolution">
Stellar evolution

Stellar evolution is the study of how a star changes over time. Stars can change very much between when they are first created and when they run out of energy. Because stars can produce light and heat for millions or billions of years, scientists study stellar evolution by studying many different stars in different stages of their life.
The stages in a star's life are: nebula, main-sequence star, red giant and either white dwarf followed by black dwarf, neutron star or black hole.
A star starts its life as a cloud of dust and gas called a nebula. This is pulled together by gravity which causes it to heat up. It also starts to spin and to look like a ball. When it gets hot enough, it starts to release energy through nuclear fusion, changing hydrogen to helium. This makes it shine very brightly and become what astronomers think of as a main-sequence star. It may stay a main-sequence star, looking about the same, for billions of years.
Sooner or later, almost all of the hydrogen at the center has changed to helium. This causes the nuclear reaction in the middle of the star to stop and the center will start to get smaller due to the star's gravity. The layer of the star just outside the center will begin to change hydrogen to helium, releasing energy. 
The outer layers of the star will get much, much bigger. The star will make much more light, sometimes as much as ten thousand times as much as it did at first. Since the surface of the star will get bigger, this energy will be spread out over a much larger area. Because of this, the temperature of the surface will go down and the color will change to red or orange. It will become a red giant. It can swallow up any planets that orbit around it.
Later, the red giant that was left over from a star like ours stops burning. A cloud of gas is given off and a smaller star called a white dwarf is left behind. After a really long time, the white dwarf cools down into a black dwarf.
But, when a big red giant explodes, the explosion is a lot larger and is called a supernova. Instead of a white dwarf, it leaves behind a much smaller, much denser ball called a neutron star. A neutron star is created because the force of gravity is so strong that the atoms left behind would not have any electrons orbiting the nucleus of the atoms. A teaspoon of that matter might weigh as much as the entire Earth.
A much bigger red giant leaves behind a black hole. A black hole is created because gravity is so strong that even the protons and neutrons collapse in on themselves. Even light can no longer escape a black hole. Since there is nothing we know of stronger than the force that holds atomic nuclei (the plural of 'nucleus') together, some physicists think that a black hole collapses all the way down to a mathematical point called a singularity.

</doc>
<doc id="9424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9424" title="Genetics">
Genetics

Genetics is a discipline of biology. It is the science of heredity. This includes the study of genes, and the inheritance of variation and traits of living organisms. In the laboratory, genetics proceeds by mating carefully selected organisms, and analysing their offspring. More informally, genetics is the study of how parents pass some of their characteristics to their children. It is an important part of biology, and gives the basic rules on which evolution acts.
The fact that living things inherit traits from their parents has been known since prehistoric times, and used to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding. However, the modern science of genetics seeks to understand the process of inheritance. This began with the work of Gregor Mendel in the mid-nineteenth century. Although he did not know the physical basis for heredity, Mendel observed that organisms inherit traits via discrete units of inheritance, which are now called genes.
Living things are made of millions of tiny self-contained components called cells. Inside of each cell are long and complex molecules called DNA. DNA stores information that tells the cells how to create that living thing. Parts of this information that tell how to make one small part or characteristic of the living thing – red hair, or blue eyes, or a tendency to be tall – are known as genes.
Every cell in the same living thing has the same DNA, but only some of it is used in each cell. For instance, some genes that tell how to make parts of the liver are switched off in the brain. What genes are used can also change over time. For instance, a lot of genes are used by a child early in pregnancy that are not used later.
A living thing has two copies of each gene, one from its mother, and one from its father. There can be multiple types of each gene, which give different instructions: one version might cause a person to have blue eyes, another might cause them to have brown. These different versions are known as "alleles" of the gene.
Since a living thing has two copies of each gene, it can have two different alleles of it at the same time. Often, one allele will be "dominant", meaning that the living thing looks and acts as if it had only that one allele. The unexpressed allele is called "recessive". In other cases, you end up with something in between the two possibilities. In that case, the two alleles are called "co-dominant".
Most of the characteristics that you can see in a living thing have multiple genes that influence them. And many genes have multiple effects on the body, because their function will not have the same effect in each tissue. The multiple effects of a single gene is called "pleiotropism". The whole set of genes is called the "genotype", and the total effect of genes on the body is called the "phenotype". These are key terms in genetics.
We know that man started breeding domestic animals from early times, probably before the invention of agriculture. We do not know when heredity was first appreciated as a scientific problem. The Greeks, and most obviously Aristotle, studied living things, and proposed ideas about reproduction and heredity.
Probably the most important idea before Mendel was that of Charles Darwin, whose idea of "pangenesis" had two parts. The first, that persistent hereditary units were passed on from one generation to another, was quite right. The second was his idea that they were replenished by 'gemmules' from the somatic (body) tissues. This was entirely wrong, and plays no part in science today. Darwin was right about one thing: whatever happens in evolution must happen by means of heredity, and so an accurate science of genetics is fundamental to the theory of evolution. This 'mating' between genetics and evolution took many years to organise. It resulted in the Modern evolutionary synthesis.
The basic rules of genetics were first discovered by a monk named Gregor Mendel in around 1865. For thousands of years, people had already studied how traits are inherited from parents to their children. However, Mendel's work was different because he designed his experiments very carefully.
In his experiments, Mendel studied how traits were passed on in pea plants. He started his crosses with plants that bred true, and counted characters that were either/or in nature (either "tall" or "short"). He bred large numbers of plants, and expressed his results numerically. He used test crosses to reveal the presence and proportion of recessive characters.
Mendel explained the results of his experiment using two scientific laws:
Mendel's laws helped explain the results he observed in his pea plants. Later, geneticists discovered that his laws were also true for other living things, even humans. Mendel's findings from his work on the garden pea plants helped to establish the field of genetics. His contributions were not limited to the basic rules that he discovered. Mendel's care towards controlling experiment conditions along with his attention to his numerical results set a standard for future experiments. Over the years, scientists have changed and improved Mendel's ideas. However, the science of genetics would not be possible today without the early work of Gregor Mendel.
In the years between Mendel's work and 1900 the foundations of cytology, the study of cells, was developed. The facts discovered about the nucleus and cell division were essential for Mendel's work to be properly understood.
At this point, discoveries in cytology merged with the rediscovered ideas of Mendel to make a fusion called cytogenetics, (cyto = cell; genetics = heredity) which has continued to the present day.
During the 1890s several biologists began doing experiments on breeding. and soon Mendel's results were duplicated, even before his papers were read. Carl Correns and Hugo de Vries were the main rediscovers of Mendel's writings and laws. Both acknowledged Mendel's priority, although it is probable that de Vries did not understand his own results until after reading Mendel. Though Erich von Tschermak was originally also credited with rediscovery, this is no longer accepted because he did not understand Mendel's laws. Though de Vries later lost interest in Mendelism, other biologists built genetics into a science.
Mendel's results were replicated, and genetic linkage soon worked out. William Bateson perhaps did the most in the early days to publicise Mendel's theory. The word "genetics", and other terminology, originated with Bateson.
Mendel's experimental results have later been the object of some debate. Fisher analyzed the results of the F2 (second filial) ratio and found them to be implausibly close to the exact ratio of 3 to 1. It is sometimes suggested that Mendel may have censored his results, and that his seven traits each occur on a separate chromosome pair, an extremely unlikely occurrence if they were chosen at random. In fact, the genes Mendel studied occurred in only four linkage groups, and only one gene pair (out of 21 possible) is close enough to show deviation from independent assortment; this is not a pair that Mendel studied.
During the process of DNA replication, errors sometimes occur. These errors, called mutations, can have an effect on the phenotype of an organism. In turn, that usually has an effect on the organism's fitness, its ability to live and reproduce successfully.
Error rates are usually very low—1 error in every 10–100 million bases—due to the "proofreading" ability of DNA polymerases. Error rates are a thousandfold higher in many viruses. Because they rely on DNA and RNA polymerases which lack proofreading ability, they get higher mutation rates.
Processes that increase the rate of changes in DNA are called mutagenic. Mutagenic chemicals increase errors in DNA replication, often by interfering with the structure of base-pairing, while UV radiation induces mutations by causing damage to the DNA structure. Chemical damage to DNA occurs naturally as well, and cells use DNA repair mechanisms to repair mismatches and breaks in DNA—nevertheless, the repair sometimes fails to return the DNA to its original sequence.
In organisms which use chromosomal crossovers to exchange DNA and recombine genes, errors in alignment during meiosis can also cause mutations. Errors in crossover are especially likely when similar sequences cause partner chromosomes to adopt a mistaken alignment; this makes some regions in genomes more prone to mutating in this way. These errors create large structural changes in DNA sequence—duplications, inversions or deletions of entire regions, or the accidental exchanging of whole parts between different chromosomes (called translocation).
Developed by Reginald Punnett, Punnett squares are used by biologists to determine the probability of offspring to having a particular genotype.
If B represents the allele for having black hair and b represents the allele for having white hair, the offspring of two Bb parents would have a 25% probability of having two white hair alleles (bb), 50% of having one of each (Bb), and 25% of having only black hair alleles (BB).
Geneticists (biologists who study genetics) use pedigree charts to record traits of people in a family. Using these charts, geneticists can study how a trait is inherited from person to person.
Geneticists can also use pedigree charts to predict how traits will be passed to future children in a family. For instance, genetic counselors are professionals who work with families who might be affected by genetic diseases. As part of their job, they create pedigree charts for the family, which can be used to study how the disease might be inherited.
Since human beings are not bred experimentally, human genetics must be studied by other means. One recent way is by studying the human genome. Another way, older by many years, is to study twins.
Identical twins are natural clones. They carry the same genes, they may be used to investigate how much heredity contributes to individual people. Studies with twins have been quite interesting. If we make a list of characteristic traits, we find that they vary in how much they owe to heredity. For example:
The way the studies are done is like this. Take a group of identical twins and a group of fraternal twins. Measure them for various traits. Do a statistical analysis (such as analysis of variance). This tells you to what extent the trait is inherited. Those traits which are partly inherited will be significantly more similar in identical twins. Studies like this may be carried further, by comparing identical twins brought up together with identical twins brought up in different circumstances. That gives a handle on how much circumstances can alter the outcomes of genetically identical people.
The person who first did twin studies was Francis Galton, Darwin's half-cousin, who was a founder of statistics. His method was to trace twins through their life-history, making many kinds of measurement. Unfortunately, though he knew about mono and dizygotic twins, he did not appreciate the real genetic difference. Twin studies of the modern kind did not appear until the 1920s.
The genetics of bacteria, archaea and viruses is a major field or research. Bacterial mostly divide by asexual cell division, but do have a kind of sex by horizontal gene transfer. Bacterial conjugation, transduction and transformation are their methods. In addition, the complete DNA sequence of many bacteria, archaea and viruses is now known.
Although many bacteria were given generic and specific names, like "Staphylococcus aureus", the whole idea of a species is rather meaningless for an organism which does not have sexes and crossing-over of chromosomes. Instead, these organisms have strains, and that is how they are identified in the laboratory.
Gene expression is the process by which the heritable information in a gene, the sequence of DNA base pairs, is made into a functional gene product, such as protein or RNA. The basic idea is that DNA is transcribed into RNA, which is then translated into proteins. Proteins make many of the structures and all the enzymes in a cell or organism.
Several steps in the gene expression process may be modulated (tuned). This includes both the transcription and translation stages, and the final folded state of a protein. Gene regulation switches genes on and off, and so controls cell differentiation, and morphogenesis. Gene regulation may also serve as a basis for evolutionary change: control of the timing, location, and amount of gene expression can have a profound effect on the development of the organism. The expression of a gene may vary a lot in different tissues. This is called pleiotropism, a widespread phenomenon in genetics.
Alternative splicing is a modern discovery of great importance. It is a process where "from a single gene a large number of variant proteins can be assembled". One particular Drosophila gene (DSCAM) can be alternatively spliced into 38,000 different mRNA.
Epigenetics is the study of changes in gene activity which are "not" caused by changes in the DNA sequence. It is the study of gene expression, the way genes bring about their phenotypic effects.
These changes in gene activity may stay for the remainder of the cell's life and may also last for many generations of cells, through cell divisions. However, there is no change in the underlying DNA sequence of the organism. Instead, non-hereditary factors cause the organism's genes to behave (express themselves) differently.
Hox genes are a complex of genes whose proteins bind to the regulatory regions of target genes. The target genes then activate or repress cell processes to direct the final development of the organism.
There are some kinds of heredity which happen outside the cell nucleus. Normal inheritance is from both parents via the chromosomes in the nucleus of a fertilised egg cell. There are some kinds of inheritance other than this.
Mitochondria and chloroplasts carry some DNA of their own. Their make-up is decided by genes in the chromosomes and genes in the organelle. Carl Correns discovered an example in 1908. The four o'clock plant, "Mirabilis jalapa", has leaves which may be white, green or variegated. Correns discovered the pollen had no influence on this inheritance. The colour is decided by genes in the chloroplasts.
This is caused by a symbiotic or parasitic relationship with a microorganism.
In this case nuclear genes in the female gamete are transcribed. The products accumulate in the egg cytoplasm, and have an effect on the early development of the fertilised egg. The coiling of a snail, "Limnaea peregra", is determined like this. Right-handed shells are genotypes Dd or dd, while left-handed shells are dd.
The most important example of maternal effect is in "Drosophila melanogaster". The protein product maternal-effect genes activate other genes, which in turn activate still more genes. This work won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 1995.
Much modern research uses a mixture of genetics, cell biology and molecular biology. Topics which have been the subject of Nobel Prizes in either chemistry or physiology include:
Many well-known disorders of human behaviour have a genetic component. This means that their inheritance partly causes the behaviour, or makes it more likely the problem would occur. Examples include:
Also, normal behaviour is also heavily influenced by heredity:

</doc>
<doc id="9434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9434" title="Church Square Park">
Church Square Park

Church Square Park is a park in Hoboken, New Jersey between Garden Street and Willow Avenue and 5th and 6th Streets. The Hoboken Public Library is on its north side.

</doc>
<doc id="9437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9437" title="Supply">
Supply

In economics, supply is the amount of something that firms are willing to provide in a market. The law of supply and demand will decide the price at which something will be bought and sold.
There are various factors that can make a seller more or less willing to produce and sell a good. The more common ones are:
There may be other factors that affect the supply of a good, especially since it depends on whether the seller is willing to produce and sell the good.

</doc>
<doc id="9438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9438" title="Demand">
Demand

Demand is the total amount of goods or services which people want to buy, for a set price. The demand for an item indicates how much it is needed or wanted. This is important in economics, because the law of supply and demand will decide the price at which something will be bought and sold.
Demand is the amount of goods that people want to buy at a given price. Prices go up when supply is less, and demand is more. It follows the law of demand where as price increases, demand decreases and vice versa showing an inverse relationship between quantity demanded and price. This is known as the law of demand which assumes that the consumer is alive.
Sometimes the demand does not change much no matter what the price is. One example is when people are addicted to illegal drugs. These people need to get their drugs, they will pay any price they can afford. This effect is known as elasticity. 

</doc>
<doc id="9439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9439" title="Transaction">
Transaction

A transaction is where something is bought, sold or traded.
A bank transaction is when money is taken out of or put into a bank. There are two mode of transactions as we can bank transact in two ways:
Transaction of money can be done through any means-by forms, cheques, etc.

</doc>
