<doc id="50699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50699" title="Peanut">
Peanut

A peanut is a herbaceous plant in the legume family, "Fabaceae". It is native to South America, Central America and Mexico. Peanuts are annual herbaceous plants growing 30 to 50 cm (1 to 1.5 ft) tall. 
The peanut plant flowers above ground, then develops its pods underground. Because of this, peanuts are often called groundnuts. Other names include goobers, pinders, arachides (French/Italian), and maní (Spanish). This strange legume yields shell-covered pods (fruits) that contain one or more seeds. A nut is a hard shelled fruit that comes from a plant whose fruit does not open to release its seed. A nut is a composite of the fruit and seed, some examples of true nuts are: acorns, beechnuts, chestnuts and hazelnuts.
So despite the name, the plant is not a nut in the biological sense, but a legume.
Peanuts grow by starting out as an above ground flower that, due to its heavy weight, bends towards the ground. The flower eventually burrows underground, which is where the peanut actually matures. 
The veined brown shell or pod of the peanut contains two or three peanut kernels. Each oval-shaped kernel or seed is comprised of two off-white lobes that are covered by a brownish-red skin. Peanuts have a hardy, buttery and "nutty" taste. 
Peanuts go by various names throughout the world with "goober" or "goober pea" being one of the most popular. Goober is derived from "nguba," the name for peanut in the Bantu language spoken in parts of Africa. Peanuts are known scientifically as Arachis hypogaea.
Peanuts are a favorite food, whether eaten alone as a snack food or mixed into candy, cookies, pies, and other bakery products. Peanut butter, made by grinding the roasted seeds, accounts for about one half the peanuts grown in the United States. Worldwide however, peanuts are grown chiefly to provide peanut oil. Farmers in Africa and Asia grow about 90 percent of the world's peanuts. 
Peanuts have been cultivated in South America for a very long time. Today most peanuts are eaten roasted and salted. Peanut butter peanut brittle and candy bars are also often eaten. There are two kinds of peanut butter - chunky and creamy. Most American children prefer the chunky kind.
The U.S. introduced the peanut to the tropical South America, and India, China, West Africa, and itself to become the largest commercial producers of peanuts. The peanut was grown mainly for its edible oil, except in the U.S., where it was produced for grinding into peanut butter, for roasted, salted nuts; and for use in candy and bakery products. A small percentage of the U.S. crop is crushed for oil. In the southern U.S. the peanut is used extensively as feed for livestock. 
Peanuts are a very good source of monounsaturated fats, the type of fat that is important in the heart-healthy Mediterranean diet. Studies of diets with a special emphasis on peanuts have shown that this little legume is a big ally for a healthy heart.
In addition to their monounsaturated fat content, peanuts feature an array of other nutrients that, in numerous studies, have been shown to promote heart health. Peanuts are good sources of vitamin E, niacin, folate, protein and manganese. In addition, peanuts provide resveratrol, the phenolic antioxidant also found in red grapes and red wine that is thought to be responsible for the French paradox: the fact that in France, people consume a diet that is not low in fat, but have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease compared to the U.S. Numerous research studies, including the Nurses' Health Study that involved over 86,000 women, have found that frequent nut consumption is related to reduced risk of cardiovascular disease.
Four types of peanuts are the most popular: Spanish, Runner, Virginia, and Valencia. There are also Tennessee Red and Tennessee White types. Certain types are preferred for particular uses because of differences in flavor, oil content, size, and shape. For many uses the different types are interchangeable. Most peanuts marketed in the shell are of the Virginia type, along with some Valencias selected for large size and the attractive appearance of the shell. Spanish peanuts are used mostly for peanut candy, salted nuts, and peanut butter. Most Runners are used to make peanut butter.
The various types are distinguished by branching habit and branch length. There are numerous varieties of each type of peanut. 
Each year new varieties of peanuts are introduced somewhere in the peanut belt of the U.S. or in other countries. Introducing a new variety may mean change in the planting rate, adjusting the planter, harvester, dryer, cleaner, sheller, and method of marketing. There are two main growth forms: bunch and runner. Bunch types grow upright, while runner types grow near the ground.
Spanish Types
The small Spanish types are grown in South Africa, and in the southwestern and southeastern U.S. Prior to 1940, 90 percent of the peanuts grown in Georgia were Spanish types, but the trend since then has been larger seeded, higher yielding, more disease resistant varieties. 
Varieties of the Spanish type include Dixie Spanish, Improved Spanish 2B, GFA Spanish, Argentine, Spantex, Spanette, Shaffers Spanish, Natal Common (Spanish), White Kernel Varieties, Starr, Comet, Florispan, Spanhoma, Spancross, and Wilco I. 
Runner Types
Since 1940, there has been a shift to production of Runner type peanuts in the southeastern U.S. This is due to higher yields and wider use in peanut butter and salting, as compared to Spanish types. 
Varieties of Runners include Southeastern Runner 56-15, Dixie Runner, Early Runner, Virginia Bunch 67, Bradford Runner, Egyptian Giant (also known as Virginia Bunch and Giant), Rhodesian Spanish Bunch (Valencia and Virginia Bunch), North Carolina Runner 56-15, Florunner, and Shulamit. 
Virginia Types
The large seeded Virginia types are grown in Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and parts of Georgia. They are increasing in popularity due to demand for large peanuts for processing, particularly for salting, confections, and roasting in the shells. 
Virginia type peanuts are either bunch or running in growth habit. The bunch type is upright to spreading. It attains a height of 18 to 22 inches, and a spread of 28 to 30 inches, with 33 to 36 inch rows that seldom cover the ground. The pods are borne within a few inches of the base of the plant. 
Varieties of Virginia type peanuts include Virginia Bunch Large, Virginia Bunch 46-2, Virginia Bunch Small, Virginia Bunch 67, Virginia Bunch G2, Virginia Runner G26, NC 4X, NC 2, NC 5, Georgia Hybrid 119-20, Holland Jumbo, Holland Station Runner, Adkins Runner, Virginia Runner 26, Virginia Runner G (Holland Virginia Runner), Virginia 56 R, Virginia 61 R, Florigiant, Georgia Hybrid 119-18, Virginia B22-15, Virginia A17-12, Virginia A23-7, and Florida 416. 
Valencia Types
Valencia types are coarse, and they have heavy reddish stems and large foliage. They are comparatively tall, having a height of 50 inches and a spread of 30 inches. Peanut pods are borne on pegs arising from the main stem and the side branches. Most of the pods are clustered around the base of the plant, and only a few are found several inches away. Valencia types are three seeded and smooth, with no constriction between the seeds. Seeds are oval and tightly crowded into the pods. There are two strains, one with flesh and the other with red seeds. The seed count is 65 to each ounce. 
Tennessee Red and Tennessee White Types
These are alike, except for the color of the seed. The plants are similar to Valencia types, except that the stems are green to greenish brown, and the pods are rough, irregular, and have a smaller proportion of kernels.

</doc>
<doc id="50700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50700" title="Trans-Asian Railway">
Trans-Asian Railway

The Trans-Asian Railway (TAR) is a project to build a freight railway across Europe and Asia. The TAR is a project of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP).
The project was started in the 1950s. The idea then was to have 8750 miles (14,000km) of rail link between Singapore and Istanbul, Turkey. Further connections to Europe and Africa were also considered. At that time, there was not as much shipping and air travel as today, and the project promised to make shipping times faster and lower costs between Europe and Asia. Progress in developing the TAR was slowed by political and economic problems during the 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s. By the 1990s, the end of the Cold war, and normal relations between some countries, made it seem more possible to create a rail network across the Asian continent.
The TAR was seen as a way to handle the huge increases in international trade between Eurasian nations. It was also supposed to make more movement of goods between countries easier. It was seen as a way to improve the economies of landlocked countries like Laos, Afghanistan, Mongolia, and the Central Asian republics, and make them easier to reach.
Much of the railway network already exists, but there are still some major gaps. A big challenge is the differences in rail gauge across Eurasia. There are four different major rail gauges (to measure the distance between rails) across the continent: most of Europe, as well as Turkey, Iran, China, and the Koreas use the 1435 mm gauge, known as Standard gauge; Finland, Russia, and the former Soviet republics use a 1520 mm gauge; most of the railways in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka use a 1676 mm gauge, and most of Southeast Asia has metre-gauge. For the most part, the TAR would not change national gauges; large machines would be built to move shipping containers from train to train at the breaks of gauge.
By 2001, the four corridors had been studied as part of the plan:

</doc>
<doc id="50701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50701" title="Wall Street Crash of 1929">
Wall Street Crash of 1929

The Wall Street Crash of 1929 was the greatest stock market crash in the history of the United States. 
It happened on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday October 29, 1929, now known as Black Tuesday. The crash started the Great Depression and stock prices did not reach the same level until late 1954. 
The crash signalled the beginning of the 10-year Great Depression that affected all Western industrialized countries. It did not end in the United States until the start of American mobilization for World War II at the end of 1941. More than 13 million people had unemployment coming to them after the banks crashed.
Stock-exchange speculation led hundreds of thousands of Americans to invest heavily in the stock market. Many were borrowing money to buy more stocks. 
The amount of money out on loan was more than the entire amount of currency circulating in the U.S. at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="50703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50703" title="Greater London">
Greater London

Greater London is an administrative district. It covers London, England. About 7.5 million people live there.
It is also one of the regions of England used by the Government for various purposes, including administration and statistics. 
Greater London is a conurbation, a city made from merging many smaller villages, towns and cities into a larger one. "London" is technically only the City of London, one of London's 33 administrative districts. In order to avoid confusion, "Greater London" is often used to mean the whole modern urban area centred on the City of London, and not just the City of London itself. When most people say London, they are referring to Greater London. 

</doc>
<doc id="50710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50710" title="Chemical Weapons Convention">
Chemical Weapons Convention

The Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) is an arms control agreement which prohibits chemical weapons and chemical warfare. It is forbidden to make, store or use the weapons. Every country can become a part of it and most countries (188 in 2010) are. The full name is the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction. 
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (abbreviated OPCW) is the international organization which organizes the discussions and decisions on the convention. It also checks if member states follow the rules by inspections. 

</doc>
<doc id="50716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50716" title="Levi Strauss">
Levi Strauss

Levi Strauss (February 26, 1829–September 26, 1902) was a German-born American maker of clothing. 
Born as "Löb Strauss" into a Jewish family in Buttenheim in Franconia, Bavaria, now a part of Germany. In 1847, Strauss, his mother and two sisters moved to New York City to join his brothers Jonas and Louis Löb in their dry goods business. By 1850 he had adopted the name "Levi Strauss". 
In 1853, Strauss moved to bustling San Francisco, California, where the California Gold Rush was still in high gear. Levi expected that the mining camps would welcome his buttons, scissors, thread and bolts of fabric; additionally, he had yards of canvas sailcloth intended for tent-making and as covers for the Conestoga wagons that dotted the landscape next to every stream and river in the area.
It was on California Street that Levi and his brother-in-law David Stern opened a dry goods wholesale business called Levi Strauss & Co. Levi was often found leading a pack-horse, heavily laden with merchandise, directly into the mining camps found throughout the region. The story goes that both prospectors and miners, often complaining about the easily torn cotton "britches" and pockets that "split right out" gave Levi the idea to make a rugged overall trouser for the miners to wear. These were fashioned from bolts of brown canvas sailcloth, with gold ore storage pockets that were nearly impossible to split. Levi exhausted his original supply of canvas as the demand grew for his hard-wearing overalls, and so he switched to a sturdy fabric called serge, made in Nimes, France. Originally called serge de Nimes, the name was soon shortened to denim.
In 1872, Levi received a letter from Jacob Davis, a Reno, Nevada tailor. Davis was one of Levi Strauss' regular customers, who purchased bolts of cloth from the company to use for his own business. In this letter, Davis told Levi about the interesting way in which he made pants for his customers: he placed metal rivets at the points of strain—pocket corners and on the base of the fly. As he did not have the money to patent his process he suggested that Levi pay for the paperwork and that they take out the patent together.
On May 20, 1873, Strauss and Jacob Davis received United States patent #139121 for using copper rivets to strengthen the pockets of denim work pants. Levi Strauss & Co. began manufacturing the first of the famous Levi's brand of jeans in San Francisco, using fabric from the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company in Manchester, New Hampshire. 
Levi Strauss died on September 26, 1902, at the age of 73. He left his thriving manufacturing and dry goods business to his four nephews—Jacob, Louis, Abraham and Sigmund Stern—who helped rebuild the company after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire. The following year, Jacob Davis sold back his share of the company.
Peter Haas and his family are the primary heirs to the Levi Strauss fortune.

</doc>
<doc id="50725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50725" title="Princess Peach">
Princess Peach

Princess Peach Toadstool (sometimes called Peach) is a character in the "Mario" video game series. In most of the games she appears in, she is kidnapped by the reptile monster King Bowser. She is the princess of the Mushroom Kingdom, which is the main setting of most of the "Mario" games.
Princess Peach's looks are different than what they used to be. In her first game, "Super Mario Bros." (1985), she had red hair and her dress was white. She had dark red hair in "Super Mario Bros. 2" (1986). In "Super Mario World" (1991), her looks changed. She had yellow hair. In the "Mario" sport series games, she wears different dresses because she cannot play well in her normal, long, pink dress.
Her name has changed over the years. In Japan, her name was always Peach. When Nintendo sold "Super Mario Bros." in other countries, she was called Princess Toadstool. In "Super Mario 64", her name became Princess Peach Toadstool.
Peach appears most often as the damsel-in-distress – always being kidnapped by Bowser. Mario must always rescue her. In "Super Princess Peach" (2006), the tables are turned and Bowser kidnaps Mario instead. Peach must then rescue Mario.
Peach has been voiced by two different actresses. The first was Leslie Swan. The second was Jen Taylor.

</doc>
<doc id="50727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50727" title="Princess Daisy">
Princess Daisy

Princess Daisy (sometimes called Daisy) is a character from the "Mario" video games series. She is the Princess of Sarasaland. Princess Daisy is the second major female of the "Mario" series next to Princess Peach.
In her first appearance, Daisy had pale skin, long orange hair, a red crown and a white pattern on her dress. Her appearance in "NES Open Tournament Golf"." "is more or less the same, aside from her hair now being more of an auburn color. In later games, such as "Mario Tennis" and "Mario Party 3", her appearance was changed, giving her a rounder face, a slightly darker skin tone, and a daisy-motif for her accessories, with flower jewels appearing on her crown, earrings, and brooch. The daisy-motif has stuck ever since, though it should be noted that the daisy-motif was seen in her concept art for "Super Mario Land". 
In "Mario Party 4", Daisy's character design was altered yet again, giving her shorter hair, a new dress design, and once again a paler skin tone. Nowadays, Daisy no longer has pale skin. Instead it is now more of a pink tone. Princess Daisy and Princess Peach also have different gloves; while Peach's gloves end at around mid-triceps, Daisy's gloves end at the wrists. Daisy looks equal in height to Peach, though she may appear shorter in some games. In her early game appearances, Daisy wore a red crown, and during some of the Nintendo 64 games she wore a pink crown. Nowadays she wears a gold one, the same as Peach. 
In most of her game appearances, Daisy has worn a yellow and/or orange color scheme, usually in the form of a collared dress, with white and orange accents, meant to match that of Peach's pink-themed fashion just as Luigi's outfit does to Mario's. 
In "Mario" sports titles, Daisy and Peach are the only two characters to always wear different outfits from their regular ones. She is usually depicted in orange shorts (underwear) with a yellow shirt and daisy accessories. In "Super Mario Strikers", Daisy wears a two-piece outfit. In "Mario Hoops 3-on-3", Daisy normally appears in her usual sports outfit but has a second unlockable costume. In "Mario Strikers Charged", she pretty much looks the same as in "Super Mario Strikers", but she has cover herself up with armor plating along with other characters, leaving a quarter of her leg and her belly exposed.
Princess Daisy appears as one of the main characters in the "Super Mario Bros." film. She is played by Samantha Mathis. 
Mario's younger brother Luigi (John Leguizamo) falls in love archaeologist Daisy. She is kidnapped by the Koopa Cousins, Iggy and Spike, and taken to the another dimension called Dinohattan, a land where dinosaurs evolved to become the main species. Dinohattan is ruled by Koopa (Dennis Hopper), who took over Daisy's father by transforming him into a fungus using a de-evolution gun. Daisy had a piece of meteorite that could be used to merge Dinohattan and Manhattan so Koopa could take over the human world. 
After the Mario Bros. defeat Koopa, Daisy stays behind in Dinohattan to help her restored father. The movie ends with Daisy showing up at Mario and Luigi's apartment to alert them that there is a problem, apparently setting up a never-made sequel.

</doc>
<doc id="50728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50728" title="Fixed Dose Procedure">
Fixed Dose Procedure

The fixed-dose procedure (FDP) was proposed in 1984 to test a substance's acute oral toxicity using fewer animals with less suffering than the older LD test which was developed in 1927.
FDP uses 10-20 animals to find the dose that produces toxicity signs but not death, and from there predicts the lethal dose. LD ("lethal dose 50%") uses 60-80 animals to find a dose that kills 50% of animals in a given time. FDP sometimes needs retesting using slightly higher or lower doses.

</doc>
<doc id="50737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50737" title="Tentacle rape">
Tentacle rape

Tentacle rape or shokushu goukan (触手強姦) is pornography involving the rape of (often quite young) women. This animation technique is different from other animation methods due to use of tentacles to portray the rape.

</doc>
<doc id="50742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50742" title="Neapolitan">
Neapolitan

Neapolitan means "from the city of Naples in Italy". It is an adjective.
Neapolitan can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50743" title="Bel canto">
Bel canto

Bel canto is a way of singing in opera. It comes from the Italian, meaning "beautiful singing". 
Bel canto singing means singing beautifully, flexibly and smoothly, delivering high and low notes in a similar style so that all the notes of a singer's range sound even from top to bottom. Bel canto singing started when opera began in the 1600s, but the term "bel canto" is normally used for operas written in the early 19th century. The operas of Rossini, Bellini and Donizetti need bel canto singing. The term "bel canto" was not used at the time. People only started talking about "bel canto" in the mid-to-late 19th century, when a lot of new operas by composers such as Richard Wagner appeared. These new operas had to have singers with big, dramatic voices if they were to sound good.
Bel canto-style operas came back into fashion in the 1950s, having been out of favour for the previous 50 or 60 years. Today, some of the most popular operas are bel canto ones. Famous bel canto singers of recent times include the sopranos Maria Callas, Joan Sutherland, Montserrat Caballé, Beverly Sills and the tenors Francisco Araiza, Juan Diego Florez, Alfredo Kraus, Luciano Pavarotti. 
Mathilde Marchesi was a famous 19th-century bel canto teacher.

</doc>
<doc id="50745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50745" title="Wagner">
Wagner

Wagner could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50752" title="Midori Days">
Midori Days

Midori Days is an anime about a girl who falls in love so badly that when she wakes up she's somehow attached to her love interest's (seiji) right hand. This anime is about how these two adjust to their strange new relationship.
High school boy Seiji Sawamura is really quite a nice guy, but he's got a bad reputation and the nickname Mad Dog, earned by copious street fighting, often in pursuit of justice. His right hook is so deadly that it's got its own nickname-The Devil's Right Hand. Other students avoid him and he can not get a girlfriend. In fact, 20 girls have turned him down. But unknown to him, he has had a secret admirer for the past three years-quiet goody-two-shoes Midori Kasugano, who is so paralyzed by her shyness that she could not possibly tell him how she feels. Then, in the tradition of Minami's Sweetheart (*DE) and The Eternity You Desire, Midori falls into a coma, while Seiji finds that instead of a right hand, he now has a living glove puppet-compare to Puppet Master Sakon. A tiny, living and speaking Midori is attached to the end of his arm and reveling in his undivided attention. The situation is awkward and embarrassing but the pair find they really do like each other, even when things are switched for an episode and Seiji becomes Midori's left hand. The result is a very silly show that still manages to convey how paralyzing shyness can be and how enforced intimacy can reveal unsuspected aspects of a person's character. Based on the manga by Kazuro Inoue in Shonen Sunday, itself a surreal cartoon version of the perennial surrogate parenting and reluctant roommates genres of live-action Japanese television

</doc>
<doc id="50759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50759" title="Matter">
Matter

Matter is the substance of which all material is made. That means objects which have mass. More specifically, they must have "rest" mass, which is a form of energy that matter has even when it is not moving (it has no kinetic energy), is extremely cold (it has no thermal energy), etc. "Matter" is a word that is sometimes used in varying ways in everyday life, whereas "mass" is a well-defined concept and quantity at least in physics. They are not the same thing, though they are related.
"Ordinary" matter is made of tiny particles called atoms. The atoms have spaces between them and they move or vibrate all the time. The particles move faster and move further apart when heated, and the reverse when cooled.
Matter can be directly experienced through the senses. It has properties which can be measured, such as mass, volume, density, and qualitative properties such as taste, smell and colour, for instance.
All physical bodies in the universe are made of matter: galaxies, stars and planets, rocks, water and air. Living organisms like plants, animals and humans are also composed of matter.
In physics, the universe also contains things that aren't matter, including some elementary particles that have no rest mass. Photons (electromagnetic radiation such as light) are a familiar example.
In addition to its rest mass, matter can contain other forms of energy, which aren't matter but allow them to interact with each other by exchanging kinetic energy, heat, light, sound waves, etc.
Outside of the physical sciences, there can be many other things that aren't matter or energy. Just for example, emotions can be experienced or ideas can be had.
The structure and composition of matter is investigated by breaking matter into smaller and smaller pieces. Hence, living organisms are made up of cells. Cells are composed of molecules, which are sets of atoms bonded together. Each atom, in turn, is an assemblage of elementary particles.
Physicists also classify matter in a few broad categories, called states, with quite different properties:
A given amount of matter may change from one state to another depending on its temperature and pressure. On Earth, water can exist simultaneously in three states: solid (ice), liquid water (lakes, oceans) and gas (vapor or steam).

</doc>
<doc id="50767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50767" title="Innocence">
Innocence

Innocence is the opposite of guilt.
The adjective is innocent (the opposite of 'guilty').
If someone is innocent of a crime it means that they did not do it.
If someone is accused of a crime, they have to go to court. The court will decide whether they are guilty or not guilty (innocent). People must be treated as innocent unless (or until) they are found guilty.
'Innocence' and 'innocent' can also be used in a slightly different way. Children are often described as 'innocent' meaning that they think the world is all good and do not yet know about the bad things in life. People talk about living in a 'state of innocence' i.e. children or people with simple minds who have not yet learned that some people are evil. In Christian cultures this sometimes meant that children did not know about sex.

</doc>
<doc id="50768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50768" title="Guilt">
Guilt

Guilt can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="50771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50771" title="Symphonic poem">
Symphonic poem

A symphonic poem or tone poem is a piece of orchestral music which has a story attached to it or describes something such as poem or a painting or any idea which is not music. A symphonic poem is a kind of programme music (music for instruments which has an idea outside music).
Symphonic poems were mostly written in the 19th century at the time known as the Romantic period. They are normally in one movement lasting perhaps between 10 and 20 minutes. Some of the longest ones, such as "Ein Heldenleben" by Richard Strauss are much longer, like a symphony with four movements which run into one another.
The idea can be seen in Beethoven’s overtures which tell the story of the opera or play which is about to be performed. Composers such as Felix Mendelssohn then started to write overtures which told a story but were not attached to any opera. "Fingal's Cave" (1832) describes the sea lapping against the rocks of a cave in the Scottish Hebrides. 
Franz Liszt was the composer who made the symphonic poem an important musical form. He wrote twelve works which he called "Symphonische Dichtung" ("Symphonic poem") because the music developed in the same way as in a symphony. One example is "Mazeppa" (1851) which describes the poem by Victor Hugo about a wild horse that carries a man tied to him until he is rescued by the Ukrainians and made into their chief.
Other composers who wrote symphonic poems include Sergei Rachmaninoff, Modest Mussorgsky, Camille Saint-Saëns, Claude Debussy, Jean Sibelius, Bedřich Smetana, Antonín Dvořák, Pyotr Tchaikovsky and César Franck.
The opening of Richard Strauss’s tone poem "Also sprach Zarathustra" (1895-1896) has become particularly famous in recent years through its use in the movie "".

</doc>
<doc id="50774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50774" title="Melody">
Melody

A melody in music is a group of notes of various pitches (how high or low a note sounds) which are played one after another. Together they make a tune in the same way that a group of words make a sentence. Some people like to sing melodies. Melodies have rhythm (the length of the notes).
In music, 'melody' contrasts with 'harmony'. Harmony means notes which are played at the same time, like chords. Composers often think of a melody and then add harmony to it. 
Some music has more than one melody happening at the same time. When this happens throughout the whole piece, it is called polyphonic music. Rounds and fugues are types of polyphonic music. If the other melody only happens sometimes, then the second melody is called a "countermelody".
The adjective of melody is "melodic". There is also the adjective "melodious" which means: 'a sweet-sounding melody'. 
Music that does not have an obvious melody may be hard to understand (unless it is focused on rhythm, such as a drum solo).
Many melodies are easy to sing, while others are difficult to sing. Still other melodies are impossible to sing. Those melodies can still be played on instruments such as the piano or guitar.

</doc>
<doc id="50777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50777" title="Steve Jobs">
Steve Jobs

Steven Paul "Steve" Jobs (February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011) was a co-founder and CEO of Apple Inc. He was the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Pixar Animation Studios until it was bought by The Walt Disney Company. He was the largest shareholder at Disney and a member of Disney's Board of Directors. He was seen as a leading figure in both the computer and entertainment industries.
In August 2011, Jobs resigned, and was appointed Chairman of Apple. He served in that position until he died. Jobs died at the age of 56 on October 5, 2011. He had pancreatic cancer and died because the tumour had metastasised.
Steve Jobs' mother, Joanne Sociable Simpson was Swiss-American; his father, Abdulfattah Jandali was Syrian. Jobs was adopted at birth. His birth parents wanted Steve to be adopted by college graduates, that was not the case. He was adopted by Paul and Clara Jobs who promised Steve would go to college. Jobs went to Reed College for a semester and then dropped out. He spent 18 more months dropping in on more creative classes . 
He was a Silicon Valley businessman most famous for his work with the company Apple Computer Inc. which later changed to Apple Inc.
Together with Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, Jobs helped make the idea of the personal computer popular in the late 1970s. In the early 1980s, still at Apple, Jobs was one of the first to see the commercial potential of using a mouse to use with the GUI. During this period, Apple had hired a number of other people to be president of the company.
He was a supporter of the Democratic Party of the United States. He dropped out of high school.
In 1985 Apple's Board of Directors fired Jobs from his position with the company. He then started NeXT, a computer platform development company which dealt with higher education and business markets. Apple's 1997 buyout of NeXT brought Jobs back to the company he co-founded where he worked as the CEO of Apple. He was paid $1m per year plus stock options. While Jobs was away from Apple, he bought a computer animation studio from film director George Lucas called Pixar. Jobs later sold Pixar to Disney and gained a seat on the Disney board of directors.
Jobs presented the iPhone on January 9, 2007. On August 24, 2011, Jobs retired as CEO of Apple. He suggested Tim Cook as his successor. Following Jobs' request, Jobs continued as the chairman of the Apple Inc.'s Board of Directors.
Jobs had health problems for the last few years and had a liver transplant. When he died of respiratory arrest caused by pancreatic cancer in 2011, he was worth $8.3 billion.

</doc>
<doc id="50778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50778" title="Apostolic Palace">
Apostolic Palace

The Apostolic Palace, also called the Papal Palace or the Palace of the Vatican, is the official residence of the Pope in the Vatican City.
The palace is a complex of buildings, with the Papal Apartment, the Catholic Church's government offices, a handful of chapels, the Vatican Museum and the Vatican library. In all there are over 1,000 rooms with the most famous including the Sistine Chapel and its renowned ceiling frescoes painted by Michelangelo (restored between 1980-1990) and Raphael's Rooms.
The other papal residences are at the Lateran Palace and the Castel Gandolfo outside Rome.
Before 1871, the Quirinal Palace was the Pope's official residence. After the final overthrow of the Papal States in 1870, the King of Italy confiscated that palace in 1871, making it the king's official residence; after the abolition of the Italian monarchy in 1946, it became the President of the Italian Republic's residence.

</doc>
<doc id="50780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50780" title="G-string">
G-string

A G-string or thong is a narrow piece of cloth or leather, or plastic that passes between the buttocks. It is attached to a band around the hips. It can be worn as a swimwear or underwear by both men and women. The difference between a G-string and a thong is that a g-string has less material between the legs. This makes it look like a string. Variants of the thong or G-string include the "V-string" and the "T-string".
The G-string or thong is probably the earliest form of clothing known to mankind. It originated in the warmer climates of sub-Saharan Africa where clothing was first worn almost 75,000 years ago. Many tribal peoples, like some of the Khoisan people of southern Africa, wore thongs for many centuries. These early pieces of clothes were made to fit the male genitalia.
The G-string was first developed for men by primitive peoples. However, in modern days, Western thongs are usually worn by females. They first became popular in South America in the 1970s. In Brazil, it was originally a style of swimsuit that had a rear area which became so narrow, that it would disappear between the buttocks.
The origin of the term "G-string" is not fully known. The term was first written about by Americans in the late 1800s. They described the loincloth of Philippine natives. Others say the term came from the g-string on an instrument. The origin of the word "thong" is from the Old English "thwong", which is a flexible leather cord.
G-strings may cause urinary tract infections (UTIs) in women, just like other types of underwear. Sliding the string against the anus and vagina can let bacteria get inside the body. It is necessary for the person who wears G-strings to keep the anus and vagina clean. Menstruating women can also continue to wear G-strings if they are using tampons and G-string panty liners.

</doc>
<doc id="50785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50785" title="Staple">
Staple

Staple may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50792" title="Transcendental number">
Transcendental number

A real or complex number is called a transcendental number if it cannot be found as a result of an algebraic equation with integer coefficients. 
formula_1
Proving that a certain number is transcendental can be very hard. Each transcendental number is also an irrational number. The first people to see that there were transcendental numbers were Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Leonhard Euler. The first to actually prove there were transcendental numbers was Joseph Liouville. He did this in 1844. 
Well known transcendental numbers:

</doc>
<doc id="50807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50807" title="Thong">
Thong

Thong may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="50809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50809" title="Flip-flop">
Flip-flop

In footwear and fashion, flip-flops are a kind of flat, backless sandal that consist of a flat sole held on the foot by a u-shaped strap that passes between the first (big) and second toes and around either side of the foot, attached to the sole at three points, commonly known as the thong strap. They appear to have been developed out of traditional Japanese woven or wooden soled sandals ("i.e.", zori and setta) in Australia.
They are quite trendy nowadays and one of the best alternative for boots in summer.

</doc>
<doc id="50812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50812" title="Thong, Kent">
Thong, Kent

Thong is a village in Kent, England. It is south of Gravesend. 

</doc>
<doc id="50813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50813" title="Hamlet (place)">
Hamlet (place)

A hamlet is a small settlement, smaller than a village. Usually, all settlers in a hamlet are centered around a single economic activity. A hamlet may consist of a farm, a mill, a mine or a harbor. All the people living there would be workers on that farm, mill, mine or harbour. Hamlets, especially those with a medieval church may have resulted from a medieval village, that was abandoned for some reason.
Because of the small size of the settlement, there are usually no buildings which have a central or admninistratrive function. There usually is no church, town hall or pub. Roads and streets in the hamlet do not have names, most of the time. 
In Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the Alsace region of France, such hamlets often have names that end in "-wil", "-wil(l)er", "-wyhl" or "-viller".

</doc>
<doc id="50815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50815" title="Recording Industry Association of America">
Recording Industry Association of America

The Recording Industry Association of America or RIAA is an organization that was created and paid for by large record companies. It is based in Washington, D.C. It symbolizes the entire recording industry of the United States of America. The RIAA also participates in the collection, management and distribution of music licenses and royalties.
The association is responsible for certifying gold and platinum albums and singles in the U.S. Its goals are:
The members of the RIAA are mostly record companies in the U.S.
The RIAA was created in 1952 to create technical standards for vinyl records so any record could play on any record player without difficulty. In today's times, the RIAA's goals is to prevent piracy of records. The RIAA says that the music industry loses nearly 4.2 billion U.S. dollars a year because of this.

</doc>
<doc id="50818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50818" title="Mar del Plata">
Mar del Plata

Mar del Plata is a city of Argentina in the Buenos Aires Province. It is found on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean, about 400 km south of Buenos Aires. Mar del Plata has a population of 541,733 people. It is the 7th biggest city in Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="50820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50820" title="Pope Boniface VIII">
Pope Boniface VIII

Pope Boniface VIII (; 1235 – October 11, 1303), born Benedetto Caetani, was an Italian cleric of the Roman Catholic Church and the 194th Pope from 1294 to 1303.
Benedetto Caetani was born in 1235 at Anagni in Italy. Caetani studied at Todi and at Spoleto where he earned a degree in law. He came from a very noble family. His family was in government.
In 1265, Caetani traveled with Cardinal Ottobuono Fieschi to England.
In 1281, Pope Martin IV raised Caetani to the rank of cardinal. In 1291, Pope Nicholas IV made him Cardinal of SS. Silvestro e Martino ai Monti.
Cardinal Caetani was elected in 1294; and he chose to be called Boniface VIII.
Pope Boniface confirmed the decree of Pope Celestine V that any pope can freely resign.
Boniface was involved in Italian and European political disputes.
Boniface VIII made a rule that if a ruler (king) fined people taxes without the church or popes' permission that the ruler would be excluded from the church. He would make rash decisions without consideration. He was known to be harsh, mean, cruel, and did not listen to other people's recommendations. For example, He declared a very rash papal law that all people, not just Christians, must follow him if they want to go to heaven. He believed as the Pope, all rulers should bow down to him and respect him.
Dante mentions Boniface in "The Inferno." He identifies the pope as "the Prince of the new Pharisees."

</doc>
<doc id="50821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50821" title="Signal">
Signal

Signal, signals or signalling may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="50822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50822" title="Signal (electrical engineering)">
Signal (electrical engineering)

In the fields of communications, signal processing, and in electrical engineering more generally, a signal is any time-varying quantity. 
The concept is broad, and hard to define precisely. Definitions specific to subfields are common. For example, in information theory, a "signal" is a codified message, i.e., the sequence of states in a communications channel that encodes a message. In a "communications system", a "transmitter" encodes a "message" into a signal, which is carried to a "receiver" by the communications "channel". For example, the words "Mary had a little lamb" might be the message spoken into a telephone. The telephone transmitter converts the sounds into an electrical voltage signal. The signal is transmitted to the receiving telephone by wires; and at the receiver it is reconverted into sounds.
Shannon, C. E., 2005 [1948], "A Mathematical Theory of Communication," (corrected reprint), accessed Dec. 15, 2005. Orig. 1948, "Bell System Technical Journal", vol. 27, pp. 379–423, 623-656.

</doc>
<doc id="50825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50825" title="Eddie August Schneider">
Eddie August Schneider

Eddie August Schneider (October 20, 1911 – December 23, 1940) set the transcontinental airspeed record for pilots under the age of twenty-one in 1930. When he received his pilot's license, he was the youngest licensed pilot in the United States.
Eddie Schneider was born in 1911 in Manhattan in New York City. His father was Emil August Schneider (1886-1955), a banker and stock broker who born in Germany. His mother was Inga Karoline Eldora Pedersen (1882-1927), who was born in Farsund, Norway. The family moved from Manhattan to Red Bank, New Jersey, and then they moved to Jersey City, New Jersey by 1920. Eddie graduated from Dickinson High School in Jersey City in 1927, the same year that his mother died. After his mother's death, he and his parents visited Bielefeld, Germany and Farsund, Norway to visit with relatives. In Germany Eddie went on a plane ride and then aviation became his obsession. In 1929 he trained at Roosevelt Field on Long Island and became the youngest person in the United States to receive a commercial pilot's license. That same year he also received a mechanics license, becoming the youngest licensed airplane mechanic in New York. 
On August 25, 1930 he set the round-trip transcontinental air speed record for pilots under the age of twenty-one years in his airplane. He flew from Westfield, New Jersey on August 14, 1930 to Los Angeles, California in 4 days with a combined flying time of 29 hours and 55 minutes. He lowered the East to West record by 4 hours and 22 minutes. He then made the return trip from Los Angeles to New York City in 27 hours and 19 minutes, lowering the West to East record by 1 hour and 36 minutes. His total elapsed time for the round trip was 57 hours and 14 minutes, breaking the preceding record for the round trip. Frank Goldsborough held the previous record which was 62 hours and 58 minutes. When Eddie landed in New York on August 25, 1930, his first words were to his father: "Hello Pop, I made it."
He married Gretchen Hahnen (1902-1986) in New York City on June 2, 1934. Gretchen was the daughter of Zora M. Hahnen (1882-1962) and was originally from Des Moines, Iowa. Eddie met her at an aviation function. They did not have any children. 
In 1936 Eddie left for Spain to be a pilot in the Spanish Civil War which was against the law. Along with fellow Americans Bert Acosta and Frederic Ives Lord he organized the Yankee Squadron. He was only there for a month before he returned to the United States. When talking to reporters Eddie said: "I was broke, hungry, jobless ... yet despite the fact that all three of us are old-time aviators who did our part for the development of the industry, we were left out in the cold in the Administration’s program of job making. Can you blame us for accepting the lucrative Spanish offer?" 
On December 23, 1940, Eddie was killed in an accident while training another pilot. They were trying to land, when a Navy pilot struck the tail of Eddie's plane. Eddie's plane went into a spin and crashed into the river. Both the student and Eddie were killed.

</doc>
<doc id="50844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50844" title="Córdoba, Argentina">
Córdoba, Argentina

Córdoba is a city in the center of Argentina, about 700 km from Buenos Aires. It is the capital of Córdoba Province. As of 2006 Córdoba has a population of over 1,300,000 inhabitants, making it Argentina's second largest city.
Cordoba, sometimes abbreviated Cba, is the capital of the same name province and from Buenos Aires Argentina's most populous city. Consequently it is an important centre for cultural, economic, financial and entertainment. Cordoba is referred also as La Docta and to the city of bells.
It is in the central region of the country, on both banks of the River Suquía. It is the only Department Capital municipality. Communal participation centers that decentralized is administratively divided into eleven. The provincial census 2008 established a population of 1.309.536 inhabitants, which indicates that the same grows to rate decreasing.
Shaped a square of 24 km side, totalling an area of 576 km². Limited to the North with the Columbus Department; East with the Columbus (North of the River Suquía) Department and Department Santa Maria (South of the Suquía River); the Santa María Department in the South and West with Santa Department Mary (South of the Suquía River) and the colon (North of the River Suquía) Department.
Córdoba was founded by from Seville Jerome, Luis Cabrera on 6 July in 1573 as a people of Spanish to serve as a refuge for indigenous to be able to navigate and traded freely. The city was declared provisional capital on two occasions, the first 1806 (such as capital of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata during the English invasions), and then click 1955 during the events of the Revolution freedom. It is the second largest since the beginning of radiation metropolis industrialists.
Much of the mass transit (during the day are more than 700 units) system works 24 hours, as well as the guards of the hospitals.
Cordoba is an important cultural, receiving factory of University students throughout the country and the world. [ 10 ] your University the first to have been founded in Argentina and the oldest fourth in America, was founded in 1613. It is considered one of the most important of the continent. Has more than one hundred thousand students.
The city has important historical, cultural and tourist points. The Cañada de Córdoba It is the partial channelling of a stream which crosses the city of South to North. The Arc of Cordoba is an important symbol in the Southeast, deposit on Route 9 national. In 2000 the UNESCO declared the Apple Jesuit heritage and American Capital of culture that year was appointed in 2006.
Its skyline is rather low buildings (11-18 floors), but in neighbourhoods as New Córdoba the density is high. The Tower Angela, 30-story is the highest building.
Cordoba economy relies heavily on the commercial sector (57 per cent of companies), services (31 %) and industrial (11 %), although respect this last sector is important to clarify that while the number of companies is not as important as in the commercial sector, its weight in the economy it is. The primary sector, still low in comparison to the rest of the province, has its place in the green belt, on the outskirts of the area urban. [ 12 ] In 2007 the Geographical gross product was $ 10.939.049.000 (1993 purchasing power party) representing approximately 3.65 per cent of the Gross domestic product of the country.
Major deficits in Córdoba include social inclusion (via education) of the inhabitants of the poor districts and villas misery. On the urban side one of the main problems is the system define, which is overwhelmed and only reaches 50.3 per cent of the population, the value lowest between major cities of the country.
It occurred in Córdoba made of historical relevance. It was Centre of the University reform in 1918, the industrialization of 1930, the Revolution freedom in 1955 and the Cordobazo, in 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="50849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50849" title="Air New Zealand">
Air New Zealand

Air New Zealand is a big passenger airline from Auckland, New Zealand. It flies mainly in Australasia and South Pacific, but it also has services to Europe, North America and Asia. It is a Star Alliance member. It joined the alliance in 1999. Its main base or hub is Auckland International Airport.
In 1940, TEAL was founded. Its first flights were from Auckland to Sydney and Wellington. Later, flights to Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti and the Cook Islands were added. The Australian government bought 50% of TEAL in 1953. The remaining 50% was owned by the Government of New Zealand. In 1961, the airline became completely owned by the Government of New Zealand. "TEAL" was officially renamed "Air New Zealand" on April 1, 1965. The airline bought Douglas DC-8 airplanes in July 1965. These were used for longer routes to Honolulu and Los Angeles. A larger Boeing 747 was bought in 1981. Air New Zealand bought Ansett Australia in 2000. Ansett later went out of business. 
Air New Zealand serves the following destinations:

</doc>
<doc id="50851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50851" title="Air Jamaica">
Air Jamaica

Air Jamaica is the national airline of Jamaica from Kingston, Jamaica. It flies regular services from Kingston and Montego Bay to 23 airports in the Caribbean, the USA, Canada and United Kingdom. The airline's main bases are Norman Manley International Airport (KIN), Kingston and Sangster International Airport (MBJ), Montego Bay.

</doc>
<doc id="50855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50855" title="Ecosystem valuation">
Ecosystem valuation

Ecosystem valuation is a widely used tool to find out the impact of human activities on an environmental system. It is done by giving an economic value to an ecosystem or its ecosystem services.
The simplest form of ecosystem valuation is that one looks at an ecosystem as if its ecological yield had the same value as it would be on commodity markets. That means one looks at the value of water, wood, fish or game, that is produced in that ecosystem. Thus, a price can be put on the natural capital of an ecosystem based on the price of natural resources it yields each year. 
More complex arguments in ecosystem valuation regard nature's services and the assignment of values in a service economy to all that nature does "for humans". Studies compiled by Robert Costanza in the 1990s argued strongly that even just considering the most basic seventeen of these services, the combined value of the ecosystems of the earth was worth more (US$33T) each year than the whole human exchange economy (US$25T) at that time (1995). Other studies have focused on the marginal value of ecosystem changes, which can be used in cost-benefit analysis of environmental policies.
In Natural Capitalism, 1999, Paul Hawken, Amory Lovins and Hunter Lovins advanced an argument to assign the value of Earth in current currency. "See value of Earth article for that and other examples of this extreme case of ecosystem valuation - biosphere valuation."
Four types of values can be assigned to ecosystems (Pearce and Turner, 1990):
Methods to estimate the value of ecosystem services which cannot be derived from market prices include "stated preference" methods and "revealed preference" methods. Stated preference methods, such as the contingent valuation method ask people for their willingness to pay for a certain ecosystem (service). Revealed preference methods, such as hedonic pricing and the travel cost method, use a relation with a market good or service to estimate the willingness-to-pay for the service.
Such valuation, and that of the effectiveness of various environmental health measures that affect the value of life and quality of life, are usually thought to be part of economics. Natural capital and individual capital are studied ecology as living systems, however, this does not extend to the economics of valuation by which they are related:
Considering "valuation" as an "economic not ecological issue" reflects the way these fields divide of the activities of humans versus non-humans in "making a living". When humans go out to get food or homes, that is studied in "economics", but when non-humans do it, that is "ecology", though it is clear that there are motivations, methods and certainly bodily needs in common.
Since animals do not put explicit prices on ecosystems they use, but do behave as if they are valuable, e.g. by defending turf or access to water, it is mostly a matter of definition whether ecology should include valuation as an issue. It may be anthropocentric to do so, since "valuation" more clearly refers to a human perception rather than being an "objective" attribute of the system perceived. Ecology itself is also human perception, and such related concepts as a food chain are constructed by humans to help them understand ecosystems. In many cases by those who hold that markets and pricing exist independently of any individual human observers and "users", and especially those who deem markets to be "out of control", ecosystem valuation is considered a (marginal, ignored) part of economics. 
Some versions of conflict theory focus on the role of resource scarcity in sparking or propagating human conflicts - in effect holding that the resources or ecosystems they fight over are being held so valuable that they are worth considerable risk of harm to control. This is at least a relative notion of value and value at risk applied to ecosystem.

</doc>
<doc id="50863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50863" title="Economist">
Economist

An economist is someone who studies or has a job in economics. Economics is the study of how people make choices to satisfy their wants.
According to Frédéric Bastiat:

</doc>
<doc id="50864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50864" title="Conservative Party (UK)">
Conservative Party (UK)

The Conservative and Unionist Party (usually shortened to Conservative Party, or informally as the Tory Party) is the main centre-right political party in the United Kingdom. Their policies usually promote conservatism and British Unionism. They are the largest party in the British House of Commons with 331 out of 650 seats and the party leader Theresa May is the designated Prime Minister and will take office on 13 July 2016.
Most Conservatives believe in the following things:
The party was founded in 1834 by Robert Peel out of the old Tory Party, which was founded in 1678. During the 1800s, the party was one of the two main political parties along with the Liberal Party. In 1846, the party split over the repeal of the 'Corn Laws', which was favoured by Robert Peel and most top Conservatives but was disliked by backbencher Conservative MPs. Following the repeal, the Peel government fell and Robert Peel and his followers went on to join the Liberal Party. Because of this, the Conservatives were not able to form a majority government for twenty-eight years.
Under the leadership of Benjamin Disraeli, the party created a philosophy which supported the British Empire, the Church of England, the monarchy and social reforms, which took the party into power from 1874 to 1880. In 1886, the Liberal Party split over whether Ireland should be given independence. Those who did not support it became known as the Liberal Unionists and they joined with the Conservatives. This alliance meant that the Conservatives were in power for most of the period 1885–1906, under Lord Salisbury and then Arthur Balfour.
By 1906, the Conservatives had another split, this time about the issue of 'tariff reform' and as a result, the party was defeated in a landslide at the 1906 General Election by the Liberal Party. In 1912, the Conservative Party formally joined with the Liberal Unionist Party to create the modern-day Conservative and Unionist Party, however this is usually shortened to Conservative Party. The party was in a coalition with the Liberal Party from 1916 to 1922, and was mostly in power from 1922 to 1929 under Stanley Baldwin. During the 1920s, the Labour Party replaced the Liberals as the Conservative's main political opponent.
The Conservatives were the leading figure in the coalitions of 1931–1935 and 1940–1945, and Winston Churchill was Prime Minister during World War II. Labour defeated the Conservatives at the 1945 General Election and the Conservatives were forced to accept many of Labour's new reforms like the creation of the welfare state and high taxes. The Conservatives returned to power from 1951 to 1964, under Churchill, Anthony Eden, Harold Macmillan and Alec Douglas-Home and during this time, Britain saw a period of economic and national prosperity. The Conservatives were led by Edward Heath from 1965 to 1975 and were in power from 1970 to 1974.
Whilst Heath was in power, he took Britain into the European Union which later would deeply divide the Conservative Party. Direct rule had to be placed on Northern Ireland because of the violence that occurred because of The Troubles. After this, the Ulster Unionist Party stopped supporting the Conservative Party at Westminster. A miner's strike and rising inflation in 1973 caused Heath to start the three-day working week to ration power. The February 1974 General Election caused a hung parliament and Labour was in power until 1979.
Margaret Thatcher became Conservative leader in 1975 and successfully introduced a number of monetarist policies. In 1979, the party was returned to power because of the Labour government's handling of the 'Winter of Discontent' and Britain's growing inflation. Thatcher was Prime Minister from 1979 to 1990 and won the General Elections of 1979, 1983 and 1987. Thatcher's second and third terms saw the privatisation of most of Britain's state-owned industry, such as British Telecom in 1984, British gas in 1986, British Airways in 1987 and British Leyland and British Steel in 1988.
In 1989, the Conservative government introduced the Community Charge, or 'Poll Tax' which was seen as unfair to the poor and was very unpopular. Thatcher was replaced as Prime Minister and Conservative Party leader in 1990 by John Major. Major led the country and the party until 1997. John Major replaced the unpopular Community Charge with the Council Tax in 1992 and led the party to a surprise victory in the 1992 General Election. Although there was a recession in the early 1990s, John Major's Conservative government started a long period of economic prosperity which would last until the late 2000s. In the 1997 General Election, the Conservatives were defeated in a landslide and lost all of their Scottish and Welsh seats. This is blamed on party splits over the European Union, the "Black Wednesday" currency problem in 1992, and the 'New' Labour Party led by Tony Blair.
The party then entered thirteen years of opposition, with William Hague leading the party from 1997 to 2001. At the 2001 General Election, the party's campaign focussed on several right-wing policies and whilst Hague was seen as a powerful speaker, his leadership was damaged by some poor publicity stunts, and the party made a net gain of only one seat at the 2001 General Election. Iain Duncan Smith led the party from 2001 to 2003 and whilst he did moderate some of the party's right-wing policies, he was seen as unable to return the party to power by many Conservative MPs and Michael Howard became leader in 2003.
The Labour government under Tony Blair was becoming unpopular because of the Iraq War. Michael Howard managed to reduce Labour's majority in parliament at the 2005 General Election, from 167 to 66. Howard resigned soon after this and David Cameron became Conservative Party leader. Cameron distanced himself from the party right and focused on modern and environmental issues. The Conservatives had a regular lead in opinion polls from 2007 onwards and at the 2010 General Election, the party won the most seats in parliament and the highest number of votes but was 20 seats short of a majority in parliament. A coalition government was made with the Liberal Democrats and David Cameron became Prime Minister in May 11, 2010. In the United Kingdom general election, 2015 the Conservatives won 331 seats. The first Conservative-majority government since 1992 was formed.
Following the UK voting to leave the EU on the 23rd June 2016, Cameron resigned as Conservative leader and PM. On 11 July 2016 it was announced officially that Theresa May would become the new Leader of the Conservative Party and Prime Minister on the evening of 13 July 2016.
Usually, support for the party comes from the south of England, Eastern England and rural areas. Party support is not very strong in the north of England, Scotland or Wales. 
From 3rd November 2015, the Conservative Party has these seats after the UK General Election:
House of Commons (MPs) - 
House of Lords (Peers) - 
European Parliament (MEPs) - 
London Assembly (AMs) - 
Scottish Parliament (MSPs) - 
Welsh Assembly (AMs) - 
Local Government (Councillors) - 
Named below are all of the Conservative Party's leaders since 1922. The time as leader is placed in brackets.

</doc>
<doc id="50866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50866" title="Sandwich">
Sandwich

A sandwich is a food prepared by placing different kinds of foods between two pieces of bread. The pieces of bread in a sandwich are referred to as slices or sheets of bread. The snack is thought to have been made first for the Earl of Sandwich, hence the name. Many people enjoy the sandwich as it is easy and quick to make in a hurry. Also, the sandwich can be easily eaten with one hand without utensils which allows consumers to have a hand free to do other things. Some people prefer to eat a sandwich with both hands.
In many countries, children eat sandwiches for lunch at school. The sandwiches are put in a lunchbox and often wrapped in cling film to keep them fresh.
A sandwich is not limited to a single layer of filling between two pieces of bread. It can have more than one layer of filling and bread. Each layer of filling is commonly referred to as a "deck". For instance, a single decker sandwich would be the standard two slices of bread and one layer of filling. A double decker sandwich will have three slices of bread with two layers of fillings. Generally one piece, is one piece of bread cut in two with a filling between each piece. 
The double decker sandwich is so called because each layer of filling forms a deck, much like a double decker London bus. A club sandwich is a double decker sandwich with chicken, bacon and salad. A triple decker sandwich would consist of four slices of bread with three layers of fillings.
A sandwich with only one slice of bread is called an open sandwich or an open-face sandwich. The filling is placed on top of the bread. An open sandwich is often eaten with a knife and fork, although it can be picked up and eaten by hand.
Another form of sandwich is the toasted sandwich. The toasted sandwich can be made from slices of toast instead of bread or the sandwich is toasted whole in an oven or a sandwich presser.
Sandwiches made with different types of bread might be given unique names. A panini, for example, is usually a sandwich on a small roll or loaf which is pressed between two heavy, heated grill plates. 
Sandwiches can also be called by many other names in different parts of the world such as 'grinder', 'sub', 'hoagie' and 'wedge'.
There are many different types of sandwiches. Examples are:
There are many types of filling that can be placed within a sandwich. These include:
Open-face Bread > Filling 
Standard Sandwich Bread > Filling > Bread 
Double Decker Bread > Filling A > Bread > Filling B > Bread 
Triple Decker Bread > Filling A > Bread > Filling B > Bread > Filling C > Bread 
In one episode of "The Apprentice", the apprentices were required to make sandwiches for Donald Trump.
In the French film "Taxi" the protagonist is made a special sandwich with half Bayonne ham, half Paris. This later sparks the jealousy of another character.
In the Warner Brothers cartoon "Scooby Doo", Scooby was well known to love making sandwiches with Shaggy having many layers, often with a great variety of fillings.
In the television series "Buffy", during episode 61, Buffy eyes a classmate eating a sandwich, snatches it and hungrily scarfs it down.
In the television series "Star Trek", Scotty used the word sandwich to refer to the makeup of a piece of technology which was made of three layers of two materials, which caused the food synthesizer in the galley of the USS Enterprise to believe that he was requesting a meal. Scotty canceled the process by kicking the offending unit. 
The largest sandwich ever made was made by Wild Woody's Chill and Grill, Roseville, Michigan. It weighed 5,440 lbs.

</doc>
<doc id="50867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50867" title="Artillery">
Artillery

Artillery is a word for the big guns used in an army, for example cannons and howitzers. Such guns are used to shoot targets far away. Artillery is often used to stop enemy troops using an area, to bombard trenches and buildings with enemies in it and to support friendly units. There are many different weapons that are called artillery. They may shoot shells or missiles. Newer systems can even drop mines over a big area, making the area uncrossable. Anti-aircraft warfare includes the use of artillery to fight planes and other aircraft. Those who fire the artillery piece are called "gunners". In most cases someone else, called a "spotter" must see the enemy, because artillery often shoots in high angles and over terrain. The artillery crews do not have to see the enemy to damage them. 

</doc>
<doc id="50869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50869" title="House of Lords">
House of Lords

The House of Lords is one of the two Houses of Parliament of the United Kingdom (UK). It is in London, the capital city of the UK. The other house is the House of Commons. Together the two houses form the government and parliament of the UK. 
The House of Lords is not elected (voted for), 
Many members of the House of Lords sit as "Crossbenchers". This means they do not support either the government or opposition parties, but instead are independent of party politics. They got their name because the benches where they sit are placed across the aisle which separates the government and opposition supporters.

</doc>
<doc id="50870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50870" title="Acapulco">
Acapulco

Acapulco is a town and sea port on the Pacific coast of Mexico, 300 km (190 miles) southwest from Mexico City. Acapulco is on a deep, semi-circular bay. It is a stop for shipping and cruising lines running between Panama, and San Francisco, California, USA. In 2005, about 722,499 people lived there.
Its name is a Nahuatl word, meaning "plain of dense reeds". The city has been a port since the 16th century.

</doc>
<doc id="50877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50877" title="Deutsche Bahn">
Deutsche Bahn

Deutsche Bahn AG is Europe's largest railway company. It runs over 30,000 trains a day and owns more than 5,000 stations. The company headquarters are in Berlin, Germany.
It was founded on January 1, 1994 to replace the Deutsche Bundesbahn, which was the state railway of West Germany, and the Deutsche Reichsbahn, which was the state railway of East Germany.
Deutsche Bahn is also active in the field of logistics and owns companies like Schenker. DB claim they are the second largest logistics company in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="50878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50878" title="Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties">
Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties

The Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties is a contract of International law. It was signed in the 1960s. It codified earlier customs that were there. 105 states signed the convention.

</doc>
<doc id="50883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50883" title="The Lost World">
The Lost World

The Lost World is a book written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in the year 1912. In it, Professor Challenger and his companions travel to find a large plateau in South America where dinosaurs still live. After a long journey they find the plateau, and witness not only dinosaurs, but two tribes - an ancient Indian people and ape-men who resemble the missing link.
After many adventures, they return back to London and attempt to describe their adventures to a disbelieving public.

</doc>
<doc id="50884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50884" title="Amnesty International">
Amnesty International

Amnesty International (also called AI or Amnesty) is an international organization founded in London in 1961. They promote human rights. This organization was the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977 and is one of the most widely-known human rights groups in the world. The six key areas that Amnesty International focuses on are refugee rights, the rights of women, children, and minorities, ending torture, stopping the death penalty, the rights of people imprisoned because of what they believe, and protection of human dignity.
Amnesty International is based on these central ideas:
Amnesty International Website

</doc>
<doc id="50885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50885" title="Teletubbies">
Teletubbies

Teletubbies is a BBC BAFTA award-winning children's television programme, mostly made for toddlers, and produced from 31 March 1997, to 16 February 2001 by Ragdoll Productions. The show is about the adventures of Teletubbies Tinky Winky, who is violet, Dipsy, who is green, Laa-Laa, who is yellow, and Po, who is red.
It was created by Anne Wood and Andrew Davenport, who wrote each of the show's 365 episodes. Narrated by Tim Whitnall, the show quickly became a success both with critics and with the public in Britain and other countries, and won its BAFTA in 1998.
The show remained in production for three more years, and released a single, "Teletubbies say 'Eh-oh!'", based on the show's theme song, which reached number 1 in the UK Singles Chart in December 1997 and remained in the Top 75 for 32 weeks, selling over a million copies.
In the show, four colorful, mythlogical, magical, free-spirited, child-aged doll-like creatures, known as the Teletubbies, play in the mythological and magical world of Teletubbyland. They do things that little children like to do, such as rolling on the ground, laughing, running about, and watching real children on the televisions on their bellies. A mysterious pinwheel, known as the Magic Windmill, stands at the back of the grassy, technological Tubbytronic Superdome, and microphonic periscope-like telephones, known as Voice Trumpets, rise out on the meadow or inside the Superdome. The Baby Sun, a mythological infant sun, makes baby noises during the show, and it rises and sets to begin and end the show. The land is covered with unusually talkative flowers and an anthropomorphic elephant-like vacuum-cleaner, known as Noo-Noo. The only natural animals are rabbits (although birds are often heard). The weather is always sunny and enjoyable except for some cloudy days, with rain and puddles, and snow at Christmas time. The Teletubbies are played by actors dressed in stuffy costumes, although the recording site is designed to give no sense of scale (weight). The costumes sort of look like spacesuits, which the Teletubbies are maybe the same size as, although the Teletubbies sometimes have clothes to wear, which are a pair of socks, a pair of mittens, a pair boots, a skirt, a hat, a vest and a pair of underwear, they are furry and they have cloth screens on their tummies. This is where the word "teletubby" comes from: "tele-" is the prefix word for "at a distance" and "tubby" is the noun for "an overweight person". These screens are used to switch into short movie sequences, which are generally repeated at least once. When the series is shown in different countries around the world, the movie clips are changed to fit the countries' main audiences. (The British versions are the originals.)
The Teletubbies' body shapes, actions, and ways of talking are similar to toddlers. The speed and design of the show was made by writer/co-producer Andrew Davenport, who shaped the show to fit the attention spans of the target audience. The repeating of just about every word is familiar to everyone who has ever worked with young children. There was also help from Shatarra Willis the stage manager who helped the show to become a success. The Teletubbies speak in a toddler-like language which is the subject of some controversy among educationalists, some of whom argue that this supposedly made-up talk is not good for children. (A similar complaint was made forty years previously about another children's series, "Flower Pot Men".)
The Teletubbies are at the stage of understanding speech but not yet fully capable of repeating it, exactly like their target audience. They often simply groan in anger in times where a human toddler would throw a tantrum. The Teletubbies' catch-phrases are "Eh-oh" (hello), as in: "Eh-oh, Laa-Laa", to which Laa-Laa will respond, "Eh-oh, (other Teletubby's name)", "Uh-oh", a common response to anything that's not good, "Run away! Run away!", especially from Dipsy, and "Bye-bye" at least four times in a row. Laa-Laa, when flustered, will explode with "Bibberly cheese!", which is as angry as the Teletubbies get. But perhaps the most common exclamation is "Big hug!" which one or more of the Teletubbies will call for during the course of an episode, resulting in a big group hug. Their diet is mainly of "Tubby Custard" (which is sucked through a circular straw) and "Tubby Toast". They are very messy eaters. In one episode, "The Tubby Toaster", the machine that makes Tubby Toast went seriously wrong and filled the Teletubbies' house with toast. Fortunately, one of their companions is Noo-Noo, a vacuum cleaner. Machines like Noo-Noo,the voice trumpets, and the televisions in the Teletubbies' stomachs were designed to show small children, who are born into a world surrounded by strange and powerful electronic gadgets, that technology is benevolent and helpful, not something to be afraid of.
The Teletubbies' landscape is an outdoor set in rural Warwickshire, England, at Sweet Knowle Farm, Redhill Bank Rd, Whimpstone, CV37 8NR (between Stratford upon Avon and Shipston on Stour, close to the River Stour). All the Teletubbies say "Bye-Bye" three times. The narrator bids each Teletubby goodbye, and they disappear, but reappear a moment later saying "Boo!". The narrator then says "No", (which they copy) and proceeds to say goodbye to each Teletubby again. The sun is then shown setting, and the Teletubbies each say goodbye again, before jumping down a hole in the roof of their house (it starts with the Teletubby that said "Boo"). Finally, one Teletubby says goodbye a fourth time - the one that said "Boo" pop out of a hole in the house and say "Bye-bye!". In the Teletubbies home videos, all four Teletubbies say "Bye-bye" in this way. Many of the occurrences of the show, including the end sequence, and the scene preceding the short film broadcast on a character's tummy were shot only once, and the same scenes are used in each episode. A main feature of each episode is a brightly shining sun that has a picture of a smiling baby on it. The baby in the sun occasionally laughs out loud in short bursts. Though production for the first 365 episodes was cancelled in 2001, a new series of Teletubbies started airing in 2014.
Tinky Winky, (played by Dave Thompson, Mark Heenehan, and Simon Shelton), is the first Teletubby. He is the largest of the Teletubbies, is violet, and has a triangular antenna on his head. He is notable for a magic red hand luggage bag (described by the show as the Bag, but often described by other media as the Handbag) he always carries. He is also found dancing in a ballet-style skirt from time to time, which is also often worn by Laa-Laa.
Dipsy (played by John Simmit) is the second Teletubby. He is green and is called "Dipsy" because his straight aerial looks like a dipstick. He likes his black and white furry top hat. Dipsy is the most stubborn of the Teletubbies, and will sometimes refuse to go along with the other Teletubbies' group opinion. His face and ears are notably darker (like the Rabbits).
Laa-Laa is the third Teletubby. She is yellow, has a swirly aerial and is concerned with the welfare of all. She is the best singer of all the Teletubbies, and is a "drama queen", party-girl, and motherly type. Her favorite thing is a bouncy, orange ball, which is almost as big as she is. She likes to sing and dance, and when angry, may explode with "Bibberly cheese!".
Po is the red Teletubby. She is the fourth (and last) of the Teletubbbies, has an aerial that is round, is the smallest of the Teletubbies and is most often the one who always gets into trouble. She also says the word "Eh-oh" (hello), a word used by herself and the other three Teletubbies.
Po's favorite object is her scooter, which she calls "'cootuh"(, but also "'cooter" or "scootuh"). Po often wants attention and can sometimes be mischievous and naughty when she disobeys the commands of the "Voice Trumpets".
Po is bilingual, meaning she can speak more than one language. Those languages are English (the broadcasting country's language) and, especially for counting, Cantonese, due to her accent.( For example, "Yat, yi, sam," which means "One, two, three.") She is a problem solver and the best "spider-fighter". Po is also a Tomboy type, and of all the Teletubbies, she usually becomes most involved with the audience. She loves both attention and her red circular aerial on her head.
In the Teletubbies' house, she sleeps at the side of all the other Teletubbies and sometimes eats Tubby Toast while the others are sleeping. She is voiced by Pui Fan Lee, which is why she can speak in dual languages.
A girl's talking Po doll was thought to be saying "faggot, faggot" as well as "fatty, fatty". (Supporters of the interpretation of Tinky Winky as gay pride symbol might take this as evidence.) The toy was recalled and it was revealed to have said "fidit, fidit," inspired by the Cantonese for "faster, faster."
Although many are unsure of Po's gender, or think she is male (probably because of her scarlet (red) color and tomboyish antics), she is clearly said to be female in several episodes, such as "Dad's Portrait" (Episode 216, first broadcast 1998) and "Numbers: 2" (Episode 30). Many viewers refer to her as a male character (similar to Tinky Winky and Dipsy; even Noo-Noo), even though it is female (similar to Laa-Laa).
The Noo-noo (played by Mark Deans) is the Teletubbies' sentient automated vacuum cleaner-like Teletubby who cleans up after the Teletubbies ("Noo-Noo tidy up!"). It has been shown that the Noo-noo has extraordinarily large storage capacity and the ability to regurgitate any contents, often things that it should not have consumed in the first place such as the Teletubbies' beds' blankets or Dipsy's hat ("Naughty Noo-noo!"). The Noo-noo does not share the Teletubbies' enthusiasm for big hugs, resulting in Benny Hill style chase sequences around the dome when the Tubbies try to express their gratitude, during which the Noo-noo does a fine impression of a Formula 1 car engine in full flight. The Teletubbies always win, and give the Noo-noo a 'big-hug'.
Although non-sentient, the other machines of the Teletubbies' house known as the Tubbytronic Superdome also play a major role in many episodes. The Tubby Toaster is notoriously unreliable, and routinely either leaves a Tubby without their toast or buries them under a deluge of rounds. The dome's central console has a battery of knobs and levers with which a Tubby often chooses to amuse themselves ("Adjustments!"), although the outcome is normally limited to a variety of loud and surprising noises being generated. The central console is also home to the Tubby Sponges ("Wash, wash, wash. Wash, wash, wash. Tubby, Tubby, Tubby, Tubby. Wash wash wash"). Outside the Superdome, the Magic Windmill gives the signal to the Teletubbies that it is time to watch the Earth's children on either one of their T.V. screens, Magical Events or the Lion and the Bear or for Tubby Bye-Bye.
The show also features the Little Lambs, the Dog, the Butterfly, the Pink Spider, the Magic Crown, the Socks, the Vest, the Pants, the Blue Mittens and the Pink Boots and occasionally, the Trees, the Clouds and the Rabbits. (Although the "Birds" are planned to be in the TV series, but only heard off-screen.) The only physical cast members are John Schwab and Sandra Dickson, who play the Voice Trumpets, Penelope Keith, who plays the Bear with Brown, Fuzzy Hair, Eric Sykes, who plays the Scary Lion with Big, Scary Teeth and Jessica Smith who plays the Baby Sun, who is believed to have been around seven months old at the time of filming. Her giggle was included in the single "Teletubbies Say Eh-Oh!". Although not credited, this makes her technically the youngest person ever whose vocal appeared on a number one song.
The antenna shapes of each Teletubby provides mnemonic clues as to the character's names:
Tinky Winky started a still talked-about controversy in 1999 due to his carrying a bag that looks like a woman's handbag, (although he was first called gay by the academic and cultural critic Andy Medhurst in a letter of July 1997 to "The Face"), and gained the interest of Jerry Falwell in 1997 when Fallwell said that the character was a "gay role model" (an example of a "gay" person). Falwell wrote about it in his "National Liberty Journal". He said that in the Washington Post "In/Out" column someone had written that lesbian comedian Ellen DeGeneres was "out", or uncloseted, as the main gay model, while the fashionable Tinky Winky was "in", or closeted. Falwell said it was because of the Teletubby's purple color, the "purse", and the triangle antenna which all represented homosexuality. This has caused many Christians to boycott Teletubbies because it makes them think that Teletubbies support homosexuality. Also, Tinky Winky dances in a tu-tu, which supporters of the thought that Tinky Winky is gay may take as evidence. A February 1999 article in the "National Liberty Journal", published by evangelical pastor Jerry Falwell, warned parents that Tinky Winky could be a hidden homosexual symbol, because "he is purple, the gay pride colour, and his antenna is shaped like a triangle, the gay pride symbol".
A spokesman for Itsy Bitsy Entertainment Co., who licenses the characters in the United States, said that it was just a magic bag. "The fact that he carries a magic bag doesn't make him a homosexual. It's a children's show, folks. To think we would be putting sexual innuendo in a children's show is kind of outlandish", he added. In an unrelated incident reported in 2000, a girl's Tinky Winky toy reportedly said "I got a gun". Kenn Viselman, then chairman of The itsy bitsy Entertainment Company, said the toy was actually saying "Again, again!", a catchphrase from the show.
In the United States of America, the show is sponsored for broadcast on television; this is a list of the companies who have sponsored the show.

</doc>
<doc id="50887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50887" title="FLAC">
FLAC

FLAC (which stands for Free Lossless Audio Codec) is a way to code audio files. It makes those audio files smaller, without affecting the sound quality. It is unlike MP3, because when encoding audio using an MP3 encoder, information is lost and cannot be recovered. When a FLAC file is decoded, it will be identical to the original raw audio. FLAC is the most common lossless audio codec.
Lossy encoders, such as MP3 encoders will generate smaller files than lossless encoders such as FLAC, although with a lossy codec the decoder's output will not be exactly identical to the encoder's input.

</doc>
<doc id="50896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50896" title="Enabling Act">
Enabling Act

The Enabling Act ("Ermächtigungsgesetz" in German) was passed by Germany's parliament (the "Reichstag") on March 23, 1933. It was the second major step after the Reichstag Fire Decree through which the Nazis obtained dictatorial powers using largely legal means. The Act enabled Chancellor Adolf Hitler and his cabinet to enact laws without the participation of the "Reichstag". 
The formal name of the Enabling Act was "Gesetz zur Behebung der Not von Volk und Reich" ("Law to Remedy the Distress of the People and the Empire").
As with most of the laws passed in the process of "Gleichschaltung", the Enabling Act is quite short, considering its consequences. It is therefore reproduced in full in German and English:
The Enabling Act was passed by the Reichstag on March 23 and proclaimed by the government the following day. Following constitutional procedure for legislation, the law was countersigned by President von Hindenburg, Chancellor Hitler, Minister of Interior Frick, Foreign Minister von Neurath, and Minister of Finance von Krosigk.
The Nazis wrote the Enabling act to gain complete political power without the need of the support of a majority in the Reichstag and without the need to bargain with their coalition partners. 
Within 24 hours of being appointed chancellor of Germany on January 30, 1933, Hitler skillfully influenced the outcome by propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels who wrote:
In the days leading up to the elections, the Nazis organized street violence to intimidate the opposition and to build fear of communism. The burning of the Reichstag six days before the election was the pivotal event of the campaign. 
Later that day, the Reichstag assembled under intimidating circumstances, with SA men swarming inside and outside the chamber. Hitler's speech, which emphasised the importance of Christianity in German culture, was aimed particularly at appeasing the Centre Party's sensibilities and almost incorporated Kaas' requested guarantees.
All parties except the SPD voted in favour of the Enabling Act. With the Communist delegates removed and 26 SPD deputies arrested or in hiding, the final vote was 441 supporting the Enabling Act to 94 (all Social Democrats) opposed.
The Communist Party deputies – and a few Social Democratic deputies as well – were already jailed, and the Communist mandates were declared "dormant" by the government shortly after the elections. The remaining free members of parliament were intimidated by the SA surrounding the parliament hall. In the end, only the Social Democrats voted against the bill.
The British tabloid Daily Express described the Jewish reactions of boycott against Germany as "Judea Declares War on Germany" (March 24, 1933).
President von Hindenburg seemed to be pleased with Hitler's firm hand. During the cabinet conference on the Enabling Act, von Hindenburg's representative stated that the aged president was withdrawing from day-to-day affairs of government and that presidential collaboration on the laws decreed as a result of the Enabling Act would not be required.

</doc>
<doc id="50897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50897" title="Pulmonary hypertension">
Pulmonary hypertension

Pulmonary hypertension or PH is a disease where there is high blood pressure in the lungs. The disease makes it hard to breathe. Some people with the disease need extra oxygen. This disease can also make a person dizzy and become easily tired. Some people with the disease faint easily. The symptoms get worse when exercising or working hard. Pulmonary hypertension is a serious disease, and it can be fatal. The disease makes it harder for the heart to pump blood. Because the heart has to work harder, it can also become sick. Some people who are very sick may need a lung transplant or a heart-lung transplant to live.
People with pulmonary hypertension have difficulty breathing. They also tire easily. Some of them faint easily too. They might have chest pain. Some patients have swelling of the feet and ankles. These symptoms get worse during exercise or hard work.
Because many diseases can make it hard to breathe, a doctor must learn about the patient's background. This helps the doctor to treat the patient, even if the patient has another disease. The doctor also does several tests. Pulmonary hypertension makes the heart sound different. One test is to measure the blood pressure inside the "pulmonary artery", the blood vessel that goes from the heart to the lungs.
In order to establish the cause, the physician will generally conduct a thorough medical history. A detailed family history is taken to determine whether the disease might be familial. A history of exposure to cocaine, methamphetamine, alcohol leading to cirrhosis, and smoking leading to emphysema are considered significant. Physical examination is performed to look for typical signs of pulmonary hypertension including a loud P2 (pulmonic valve closure sound), (para)sternal heave, jugular venous distension, pedal edema, ascites, hepatojugular reflux, clubbing etc.
In pulmonary hypertension, the blood vessels in the lungs become too narrow. The blood pressure in the lungs becomes high. The heart works very hard to pump blood through the narrow blood vessels. Later on, the blood vessels in the lungs become hard and thick. The heart must work harder.
The heart can work so hard that it becomes sick. This is called heart failure. The sick heart cannot pump blood well. Less blood goes to the lungs, so the blood gets less oxygen. This makes it hard to breathe. This gets worse when exercising or working hard.
The most common cause of pulmonary hypertension is left heart failure. This causes pulmonary "venous" hypertension. This leads to pulmonary edema, or fluid build-up in the lungs.
Many illnesses can cause pulmonary "arterial" hypertension (PAH).
When a person has pulmonary hypertension without any other cause, this is called "idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension" or IPAH.
When a family history exists, the disease is termed "familial pulmonary arterial hypertension", (FPAH). IPAH and FPAH are now considered to be genetic disorders linked to mutations in the "BMPR2" gene, which encodes a receptor for bone morphogenetic proteins, as well as the "5-HT(2B)" gene, which codes for a serotonin receptor.
In medicine, pulmonary hypertension (PH) is an increase in blood pressure in the pulmonary artery or lung vasculature, leading to shortness of breath, dizziness, fainting, and other symptoms, all of which are exacerbated by exertion. Depending on the cause, pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and right-sided heart failure. It was first identified by Dr Ernst von Romberg in 1891. It can be one of five different types, "arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic," or "miscellaneous".
Although the terms primary pulmonary hypertension (meaning of unknown cause) and secondary pulmonary hypertension (meaning due to another medical condition) still persist in materials disseminated to patients and the general public, these terms have largely been abandoned in the medical literature. This change has occurred because the older dichotomous classification did not reflect pathophysiology or outcome. It led to erroneous therapeutic decisions, i.e. treat "primary" pulmonary hypertension only. This in turn led to therapeutic nihilism for many patients labeled "secondary" pulmonary hypertension, and could have contributed to their deaths. The term "primary pulmonary hypertension" has now been replaced with "idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension". The terms "primary" and "secondary" pulmonary hypertension should not be used any longer. Further details are in the Classification section below.
The most common cause of pulmonary hypertension is left heart failure leading to pulmonary "venous" hypertension. This may be due to systolic or diastolic malfunction of the left ventricle or due to valvular dysfunction such as mitral regurgitation or mitral stenosis. It usually manifests as pulmonary edema.
Common causes of pulmonary "arterial" hypertension (PAH) include HIV, scleroderma and other autoimmune disorders, cirrhosis and portal hypertension, sickle cell disease, congenital heart disease, thyroid diseases, and others. Use of weight loss pills such as Fen-Phen, Aminorex, fenfluramine (Pondimin), and phentermine led to the development of PAH in the past.
Whatever the initial cause, pulmonary hypertension involves the tightening of blood vessels connected to and within the lungs. This makes it harder for the heart to pump blood through the lungs, much as it is harder to make water flow through a narrow pipe as opposed to a wide one. Over time, the affected blood vessels become both stiffer and thicker, further increasing the blood pressure within the lungs and impairing blood flow. In addition, the increased workload of the heart causes thickening and enlargement of the right ventricle, making the heart less able to pump blood through the lungs, causing right heart failure. As the blood flowing through the lungs decreases, the left side of the heart receives less blood. This blood may also carry less oxygen than normal. Therefore it becomes harder and harder for the left side of the heart to pump to supply sufficient oxygen to the rest of the body, especially during physical activity.
Because pulmonary hypertension can be of 5 major types, a series of tests must be performed to distinguish pulmonary "arterial" hypertension from "venous, hypoxic, thomboembolic," or "miscellaneous" varieties.
A physical examination is performed to look for typical signs of pulmonary hypertension. These include altered heart sounds, such as a widely split S or second heart sound, a loud P or pulmonic valve closure sound (part of the second heart sound), (para)sternal heave, possible S or third heart sound, and pulmonary regurgitation. Other signs include jugular venous distension (enlargement of the jugular veins), peripheral edema (swelling of the ankles and feet), ascites (abdominal swelling due to the accumulation of fluid), hepatojugular reflux, and clubbing.
Further procedures are required to confirm the presence of pulmonary hypertension and exclude other possible diagnoses. These generally include pulmonary function tests, blood tests, electrocardiography (ECG), arterial blood gas measurements, X-rays of the chest (followed by high-resolution CT scanning if interstitial lung disease is suspected), and ventilation-perfusion or V/Q scanning to exclude chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. Biopsy of the lung is usually not indicated unless the pulmonary hypertension is thought to be due to an underlying interstitial lung disease. But lung biopsies are fraught with risks of bleeding due to the high intrapulmonary blood pressure. Clinical improvement is often measured by a "six-minute walk test", i.e. the distance a patient can walk in six minutes. Stability and improvement in this measurement correlate with better survival.
Although pulmonary arterial pressure can be estimated on the basis of echocardiography, pressure sampling with a Swan-Ganz catheter provides the most definite measurement. PAOP and PVR can not be measured directly with echocardiography. Therefore diagnosis of PAH requires a cardiac catheterization. A Swan-Ganz catheter can also measure the cardiac output, which is far more important in measuring disease severity than the pulmonary arterial pressure.
Normal pulmonary arterial pressure in a person living at sea level has a mean value of 12–16 mm Hg (1600–2100 Pa). Definite pulmonary hypertension is present when mean pressures at rest exceed 25 mm Hg (3300 Pa). If mean pulmonary artery pressure rises above 30 mm Hg (4000 Pa) with exercise, that is also considered pulmonary hypertension.
Diagnosis of PAH requires the presence of pulmonary hypertension with two other conditions. Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP or PCWP) must be less than 15 mm Hg (2000 Pa) and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) must be greater than 3 Wood units (240 dyn•s•cm or 2.4 mN•s•cm).
In 2003, the 3rd World Symposium on Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension was convened in Venice to modify the classification based on the new understanding of disease mechanisms. The revised system developed by this group provides the current framework for understanding pulmonary hypertension.
The system includes several improvements over the former 1998 Evian Classification system. Risk factor descriptions were updated, and the classification of congenital systemic-to pulmonary shunts was revised. A new classification of genetic factors in PH was recommended, but not implemented because available data were judged to be inadequate.
The Venice 2003 Revised Classification system can be summarized as follows:
The terms primary and secondary pulmonary hypertension (PPH and SPH) were formerly used to classify the disease. This led to the assumption that only the primary disease should be treated, and the secondary variety should be ignored in favor of treating only the underlying illness. In fact all forms of pulmonary arterial hypertension are treatable. Unfortunately, this classification system still persists in the minds of many physicians, and probably leads to many patients with being denied treatment. This nihilistic approach to pulmonary arterial hypertension may also contribute to underdiagnosis. It is estimated that there are about 100,000 patients with PAH in the US, but only 15-20,000 have been diagnosed. Many others have been misdiagnosed as COPD, asthma, or congestive heart failure.
The term primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) has now been replaced with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) in much of the medical literature. However, some physicians continue to use the older classification inappropriately.
IPAH is a rare disease with an incidence of about 2-3 per million per year and a prevalence of about 15 per million. Women are almost three times as likely to present with IPAH than men.
Other forms of PAH are far more common. In scleroderma the incidence has been estimated to be 6 to 60% of all patients, in rheumatoid arthritis up to 21%, in systemic lupus erythematosus 4 to 14%, in portal hypertension between 2 to 5%, in HIV about 0.5%, and in sickle cell disease ranging from 20 to 40%.
Diet pills such as Fen-Phen produced an annual incidence of 25-50 per million per year.
Treatment is determined by whether the PH is arterial, venous, hypoxic, thromboembolic, or miscellaneous. Since pulmonary "venous" hypertension is synonymous with congestive heart failure, the treatment is to optimize left ventricular function by the use of diuretics, beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, etc., or to repair/replace the mitral valve or aortic valve.
In PAH, lifestyle changes, digoxin, diuretics, oral anticoagulants, and oxygen therapy are considered "conventional" therapy, but have never been proven to be beneficial in a randomized, prospective manner.
High dose calcium channel blockers are useful in only 5% of IPAH patients who are "vasoreactive" by Swan-Ganz catheter. Unfortunately, calcium channel blockers have been largely misused, being prescribed to many patients with non-vasoreactive PAH, leading to excess morbidity and mortality.
Three major pathways are involved in abnormal proliferation and contraction of the smooth-muscle cells of the pulmonary artery in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. These pathways correspond to important therapeutic targets in this condition and play a role in determining which of three classes of drugs — endothelin receptor antagonists, phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors, and prostacyclin derivatives — will be used.
Prostacyclin (prostaglandin I) is commonly considered the most effective treatment for PAH. Epoprostenol (synthetic prostacyclin, marketed as Flolan®) is given via continuous infusion that requires a semi-permanent central venous catheter. This delivery system can cause sepsis and thrombosis. Flolan® is unstable, and therefore has to be kept on ice during administration. Since it has a half-life of 3 to 5 minutes, the infusion has to be continuous (24/7), and interruption can be fatal. Other prostanoids have therefore been developed. Treprostinil (Remodulin®) can be given intravenously or subcutaneously, but the subcutaneous form can be very painful. Iloprost (Ilomedin®) is also used in Europe intravenously and has a longer half life. Iloprost (marketed as Ventavis®) is the only inhaled form of prostacyclin approved for use in the US and Europe. This form of administration has the advantage of selective deposition in the lungs with less systemic side effects.
The dual (ET and ET) endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan (marketed as Tracleer®) was approved in 2001. Two selective endothelin receptor antagonists (ET only) are in the final stages of approval: sitaxsentan and ambrisentan. Sildenafil, a selective inhibitor of cGMP specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), was approved for the treatment of PAH in 2005. It is marketed for PAH as Revatio®. Tadalafil (currently marketed as Cialis® for erectile dysfunction) is currently is Phase III trials. Vasoactive intestinal peptide by inhalation should enter clinical trials for PAH in 2007. PRX-08066 is a serotonin antagonist currently being developed for hypoxic pulmonary hypertension.
Atrial septostomy is a surgical procedure that creates a communication between the right and left atria. It relieves pressure on the right side of the heart, but at the cost of lower oxygen levels in blood (hypoxia). It is best performed in experienced centers. Lung transplantation cures pulmonary arterial hypertension, but leaves the patient with the complications of transplantation, and a survival of about 5 years.
Pulmonary thromboendarterectomy (PTE) is a surgical procedure that is used for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. It is the surgical removal of an organized thrombus (clot) along with the lining of the pulmonary artery; it is a large and very difficult procedure that is currently performed in a few select centers. Case series show remarkable success in most patients.
Treatment for hypoxic and miscellaneous varieties of pulmonary hypertension have not been established. However, studies of several agents are currently enrolling patients. Many physicians will treat these diseases with the same medications as for PAH, until better options become available.
The NIH IPAH registry from the 1980's showed an "untreated" median survival of 2-3 years from time of diagnosis, with the cause of death usually being right ventricular failure (cor pulmonale). Although this figure is widely quoted, it is probably irrelevant today. Outcomes have changed dramatically over the last two decades. This may be because of newer drug therapy, better overall care, and earlier diagnosis (lead time bias). A recent outcome study of those patients who had started treatment with bosentan (Tracleer®) showed that 86% patients were alive at 3 years. With multiple agents now available, combination therapy is increasingly used. Impact of these agents on survival is not known, since many of them have been developed only recently. It would not be unreasonable to expect median survival to extend past 10 years in the near future.

</doc>
<doc id="50905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50905" title="Eastern Standard Time Zone">
Eastern Standard Time Zone

There are three different time zones called Eastern Standard Time Zone:

</doc>
<doc id="50906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50906" title="Decameron">
Decameron

The Decameron is a collection of 100 short stories. It was written by the Italian writer Giovanni Boccaccio around 1350. In the book, ten friends, seven young women and three young men, leave the city of Florence because of the plague and stay in a large house in the countryside. Each day, they entertain each other by taking turns to tell stories. The stories are of different types. Some are romantic, some are erotic, some are comedies and some are tragedies. 
Other writers have used the stories for ideas. Many paintings have been done which illustrate the stories. The picture to the right shows a scene from the story of "The Pot of Basil" in which Isabella buries the head of her murdered lover Ferdinand inside a potplant.

</doc>
<doc id="50909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50909" title="Lung transplant">
Lung transplant

A lung transplant is a type of surgery. People who can not breathe without additional oxygen may need a lung transplant. In this surgery, the patient's ill lung or lungs are removed. A healthy lung or lungs are put into the patient. The healthy lungs may come from a dead or from a living person. When the person who gives, or donates, the healthy lung is still alive, only one lung is removed. Sometimes a healthy person can give just part of a lung to a sick person. A healthy person can normally give a lung or part of a lung without becoming sick. 

</doc>
<doc id="50950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50950" title="Commodity">
Commodity

Commodity is a term with distinct meanings in both business and in Marxian political economy. For the former, it is a product, that is traded solely on the basis of price. For Marxian political economy it means wares offered for exchange. 
In the world of business, a commodity is an product, good or service that is traded based solely on its price, rather than quality and features. Examples include: electricity (most users of electric power are only concerned with energy consumption; only a minority of users are concerned with the quality and technical details of voltage and frequency deviations), wheat, bulk chemicals such as sulfuric acid, metals, and even orange juice. 
In the original and simplified sense, "commodities" were things of value, of uniform quality, that were produced in large quantities by many different producers; the items from each different producer are considered as of the same value. 
Wheat is an example of a soft commodity. Wheat from many different farms comes together. Generally, it is all traded at the same price; wheat from farm A has not another price than wheat from farm B. Some uniform standard of quality is assumed. (There may be various standards leading to different pools: one say for genetically modified wheat, and one for unmodified wheat.)
Markets for trading commodities can be very efficient, particularly if the division into pools matches demand segments. These markets will quickly respond to changes in supply and demand to find a price.
In classical political economy and especially Karl Marx's critique of political economy, a commodity is simply any good or service offered as a product for sale on the market. Some items are also seen as being treated "as if" they were commodities, e.g. human labour or labor power, works of art and natural resources, even though they may not be produced specifically for the market, or be non-reproducible goods. 
Marx's analysis of the commodity is intended to help solve the problem of what establishes the economic value of goods, using the labor theory of value. This problem was extensively debated by Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Rodbertus-Jagetzow among others. Value and price are not equivalent terms in economics, and theorising the specific relationship of value to market price has been a challenge for both liberal and Marxist economists.
To understand the concept of a commodity, consider a chair. It is a commodity if the chair is a tradeable product of human work possessing a social use-value. By contrast, a fallen log of deadwood sat upon in the forest is not a commodity, as it was not produced by human work for the purpose of trade. A chair created by a hobbyist as a gift to someone is not a commodity. Nor is a chair a commodity (as a chair) if its only use would be as scrap firewood (unless one purchases a chair specifically to chop it up for fire wood). A chair that nobody could sit on has no use-value, and cannot be a commodity (unless it has an ornamental value, e.g. in a doll's house).

</doc>
<doc id="50951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50951" title="Commodity market">
Commodity market

Commodity markets are markets where raw or primary products are exchanged. These raw commodities are traded on regulated commodities exchanges, in which they are bought and sold in standardized contracts.
This article focuses on the history and current debates regarding global commodity markets. It covers physical product (food, metals, electricity) markets but not the ways that services, including those of governments, nor investment, nor debt, can be seen as a commodity. Articles on reinsurance markets, stock markets, bond markets and currency markets cover those concerns separately and in more depth. One focus of this article is the relationship between simple commodity money and the more complex instruments offered in the commodity markets.
See List of traded commodities for some commodities and their trading units and places.
The modern commodity markets have their roots in the trading of agricultural products. While wheat and corn, cattle and pigs, were widely traded using standard instruments in the 19th century in the United States, other basic foodstuffs such as soybeans were only added quite recently in most markets. For a commodity market to be established, there must be very broad consensus on the variations in the product that make it acceptable for one purpose or another.
The economic impact of the development of commodity markets is hard to over-estimate. Through the 19th century "the exchanges became effective spokesmen for, and innovators of, improvements in transportation, warehousing, and financing, which paved the way to expanded interstate and international trade."
Historically, dating from ancient Sumerian use of sheep or goats, or other peoples using pigs, rare seashells, or other items as commodity money, people have sought ways to standardize and trade contracts in the delivery of such items, to render trade itself more smooth and predictable.
Commodity money and commodity markets in a crude early form are believed to have originated in Sumer where small baked clay tokens in the shape of sheep or goats were used in trade. Sealed in clay vessels with a certain number of such tokens, with that number written on the outside, they represented a promise to deliver that number. This made them a form of commodity money - more than an "I.O.U." but less than a guarantee by a nation-state or bank. However, they were also known to contain promises of time and date of delivery - this made them like a modern futures contract. Regardless of the details, it was only possible to verify the number of tokens inside by shaking the vessel or by breaking it, at which point the number or terms written on the outside became subject to doubt. Eventually the tokens disappeared, but the contracts remained on flat tablets. This represented the first system of commodity accounting.
However, the Commodity status of living things is always subject to doubt - it was hard to validate the health or existence of sheep or goats. Excuses for non-delivery were not unknown, and there are recovered Sumerian letters that complain of sickly goats, sheep that had already been fleeced, etc.
If a seller's reputation was good, individual "backers" or "bankers" could decide to take the risk of "clearing" a trade. The observation that trust is always required between market participants later led to credit money. But until relatively modern times, communication and credit were primitive.
Classical civilizations built complex global markets trading gold or silver for spices, cloth, wood and weapons, most of which had standards of quality and timeliness. Considering the many hazards of climate, piracy, theft and abuse of military fiat by rulers of kingdoms along the trade routes, it was a major focus of these civilizations to keep markets open and trading in these scarce commodities. Reputation and clearing became central concerns, and the states which could handle them most effectively became very powerful empires, trusted by many peoples to manage and mediate trade and commerce.
Commodity and Futures contracts are based on what’s termed "Forward" Contracts. Early on these "forward" contracts (agreements to buy now, pay and deliver later) were used as a way of getting products from producer to the consumer. These typically were only for food and agricultural Products. Forward contracts have evolved and have been standardized into what we know today as futures contracts. Although more complex today, early “Forward” contracts for example, were used for rice in seventeenth century Japan. Modern "forward", or futures agreements, began in Chicago in the 1840s, with the appearance of the railroads. Chicago, being centrally located, emerged as the hub between Midwestern farmers and producers and the east coast consumer population centers.
"Hedging", a common (and sometimes mandatory) practice of farming cooperatives, insures against a poor harvest by purchasing futures contracts in the same commodity. If the cooperative has significantly less of its product to sell due to weather or insects, it makes up for that loss with a profit on the markets, since the overall supply of the crop is short everywhere that suffered the same conditions.
Whole developing nations may be especially vulnerable, and even their currency tends to be tied to the price of those particular commodity items until it manages to be a fully developed nation. For example, one could see the nominally fiat money of Cuba as being tied to sugar prices, since a lack of hard currency paying for sugar means less foreign goods per peso in Cuba itself. In effect, Cuba needs a hedge against a drop in sugar prices, if it wishes to maintain a stable quality of life for its citizens.
In addition, delivery day, method of settlement and delivery point must all be specified. Typically, trading must end two (or more) business days prior to the delivery day, so that the routing of the shipment (which for soybeans is 30,000 kilograms or 1,102 bushels) can be finalized via ship or rail, and payment can be settled when the contract arrives at any delivery point.
U.S. soybean futures, for example, are of standard grade if they are "GMO or a mixture of GMO and Non-GMO No. 2 yellow soybeans of Indiana, Ohio and Michigan origin produced in the U.S.A. (Non-screened, stored in silo)," and of deliverable grade if they are "GMO or a mixture of GMO and Non-GMO No. 2 yellow soybeans of Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin origin produced in the U.S.A. (Non-screened, stored in silo)." Note the distinction between states, and the need to clearly mention their status as "GMO" ("Genetically Modified Organism") which makes them unacceptable to most "organic" food buyers.
Similar specifications apply for orange juice, cocoa, sugar, wheat, corn, barley, pork bellies, milk, feedstuffs, fruits, vegetables, other grains, other beans, hay, other livestock, meats, poultry, eggs, or any other commodity which is so traded.
The concept of an interchangeable deliverable or guaranteed delivery is always to some degree a fiction. Trade in commodities is like trade in any other physical product or service. No magic of the commodity contract itself makes "units" of the product totally uniform nor gets it to the delivery point safely and on time.
Cotton, kilowatt-hours of electricity, board feet of wood, long distance minutes, royalty payments due on artists' works, and other products and services have been traded on markets of varying scale, with varying degrees of success. One issue that presents major difficulty for creators of such instruments is the liability accruing to the purchaser:
Unless the product or service can be guaranteed or insured to be free of liability based on where it came from and how it got to market, e.g. kilowatts must come to market free from legitimate claims for smog death from coal burning plants, wood must be free from claims that it comes from protected forests, royalty payments must be free of claims of plagiarism or piracy, it becomes impossible for sellers to guarantee a uniform delivery.
Generally, governments must provide a common regulatory or insurance standard and some release of liability, or at least a backing of the insurers, before a commodity market can begin trading. This is a major source of controversy in for instance the energy market, where desirability of different kinds of power generation varies drastically. In some markets, e.g. Toronto, Canada, surveys established that customers would pay 10-15% more for energy that was not from coal or nuclear, but strictly from renewable sources such as wind.
However, if there are two or more standards of risk or quality, as there seem to be for electricity or soybeans, it is relatively easy to establish two different contracts to trade in the more and less desirable deliverable separately. If the consumer acceptance and liability problems can be solved, the product can be made interchangeable, and trading in such units can begin.
Since the detailed concerns of industrial and consumer markets vary widely, so do the contracts, and "grades" tend to vary significantly from country to country. A proliferation of contract units, terms, and futures contracts have evolved, 
combined into an extremely sophisticated range of financial instruments.
These are more than one-to-one representations of units of a given type of commodity, and represent more than simple futures contracts for future deliveries. These serve a variety of purposes from simple gambling to price insurance.
The underlying of futures contracts are no longer restricted to commodities.
Building on the infrastructure and credit and settlement networks established for food and precious metals, many such markets have proliferated drastically in the late 20th century. Oil was the first form of energy so widely traded, and the fluctuations in the oil markets are of particular political interest.
Some commodity market speculation is directly related to the stability of certain states, e.g. during the Gulf War, speculation on the survival of the regime of Saddam Hussein in Iraq. Similar political stability concerns have from time to time driven the price of oil. Some argue that this is not so much a commodity market but more of an assassination market speculating on the survival (or not) of Saddam or other leaders whose personal decisions may cause oil supply to fluctuate by military action.
The oil market is, however, an exception. Most markets are not so tied to the politics of volatile regions - even natural gas tends to be more stable, as it is not traded across oceans by tanker as extensively.
Developing countries (democratic or not) have been moved to harden their currencies, accept IMF rules, join the WTO, and submit to a broad regime of reforms that amount to a "hedge" against being isolated. China's entry into the WTO signalled the end of truly isolated nations entirely managing their own currency and affairs. The need for stable currency and predictable clearing and rules-based handling of trade disputes, has led to a global trade hegemony - many nations "hedging" on a global scale against each other's anticipated "protectionism", were they to fail to join the WTO.
There are signs, however, that this regime is far from perfect. U.S. trade sanctions against Canadian softwood lumber (within NAFTA) and foreign steel (except for NAFTA partners Canada and Mexico) in 2002 signalled a shift in policy towards a tougher regime perhaps more driven by political concerns - jobs, industrial policy, even sustainable forestry and logging practices.
Commodity thinking is undergoing a more direct revival thanks to the theorists of "natural capital" whose products, some economists argue, are the only genuine commodities - air, water, and calories we consume being mostly interchangeable when they are free of pollution or disease. Whether we wish to think of these things as tradeable commodities rather than birthrights has been a major source of controversy in many nations.
Most types of environmental economics consider the shift to measuring them inevitable, arguing that reframing political economy to consider the flow of these basic commodities first and foremost, helps avoids use of any military fiat except to protect "natural capital" itself, and basing credit-worthiness more strictly on commitment to preserving biodiversity aligns the long-term interests of ecoregions, societies, and individuals. They seek relatively conservative sustainable development schemes that would be amenable to measuring well-being over long periods of time, typically "seven generations", in line with Native American thought.
However, this is not the only way in which commodity thinking interacts with ecologists' thinking. Hedging began as a way to escape the consequences of damage done by natural conditions. It has matured not only into a system of interlocking guarantees, but also into a system of indirectly trading on the actual damage done by weather, using "weather derivatives". For a price, this relieves the purchaser of the following types of concerns:
"Will a freeze hurt the Brazilian coffee crop? Will there be a drought in the U.S. Corn Belt? What are the chances that we will have a cold winter, driving natural gas prices higher and creating havoc in Florida orange areas? What is the status of El Niño?"
Weather trading is just one example of "negative commodities", units of which represent harm rather than good.
"Economy is three fifths of ecology" argues Mike Nickerson, one of many economic theorists who holds that nature's productive services and waste disposal services are poorly accounted for. One way to fairly allocate the waste disposal capacity of nature is "cap and trade" market structure that is used to trade toxic emissions rights in the United States, e.g. SO2. This is in effect a "negative commodity", a right to throw something away.
In this market, the atmosphere's capacity to absorb certain amounts of pollutants is measured, divided into units, and traded amongst various market players. Those who emit more SO2 must pay those who emit less. Critics of such schemes argue that unauthorized or unregulated emissions still happen, and that "grandfathering" schemes often permit major polluters, such as the state governments' own agencies, or poorer countries, to expand emissions and take jobs, while the SO2 output still floats over the border and causes death.
In practice, political pressure has overcome most such concerns and it is questionable whether this is a capacity that depends on U.S. clout: The Kyoto Protocol established a similar market in global greenhouse gas emissions without U.S. support.
This highlights one of the major issues with global commodity markets of either the positive or negative kind. A community must somehow believe that the commodity instrument is real, enforceable, and well worth paying for.
A very substantial part of the anti-globalization movement opposes the commodification of currency, national sovereignty, and traditional cultures. 
The capacity to repay debt, as in the current global credit money regime anchored by the Bank for International Settlements, does not in their view correspond to measurable benefits to human well-being worldwide. They seek a fairer way for societies to compete in the global markets that will not require conversion of natural capital to natural resources, nor human capital to move to developed nations in order to find work.
Some economic systems by green economists would replace the "gold standard" with a "biodiversity standard". It remains to be seen if such plans have any merit other than as political ways to draw attention to the way capitalism itself interacts with life.
While classical, neoclassical, and Marxist approaches to economics tend to treat labor differently, they are united in treating nature as a resource.
The green economists and the more conservative environmental economics argue that not only natural ecologies, but also the life of the individual human being is treated as a commodity by the global markets. A good example is the IPCC calculations cited by the Global Commons Institute as placing a value on a human life in the developed world "15x higher" than in the developing world, based solely on the ability to pay to prevent climate change.
Accepting this result, some argue that to put a price on both is the most reasonable way to proceed to optimize and increase that value relative to other goods or services. This has led to efforts in measuring well-being, to assign a commercial "value of life", and to the theory of Natural Capitalism - fusions of green and neoclassical approaches - which focus predictably on energy and material efficiency, i.e. using far less of any given commodity input to achieve the same service outputs as a result.
Indian economist Amartya Sen, applying this thinking to human freedom itself, argued in his 1999 book "Development as Freedom" that human free time was the only real service, and that sustainable development was best defined as freeing human time. Sen won The Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel in 1999 (sometimes incorrectly called the "Nobel Prize in Economics") and based his book on invited lectures he gave at the World Bank.

</doc>
<doc id="50952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50952" title="Political economy">
Political economy

Political economy was the original term for the study of production, the acts of buying and selling, and their relationships to laws, customs and government. 
It developed in the 17th century as the study of the economies of states which placed the theory of property in the theory of government.
Some political economists proposed the labour theory of value (first introduced by John Locke, developed by Adam Smith and later Karl Marx), according to which "labour" is the real source of value. Many political economists also looked at the accelerating development of technology, whose role in economic and social relationships grew ever more important.
In late 19th century, the term "political economy" was generally replaced by the term economics, which was used by those seeking to place the study of economy on a mathematical basis, rather than studying the relationships within production and consumption. 
In the present, "political economy" means a variety of different, but related, approaches to studying economic and political behavior, which range from combining economics with other fields, to using different fundamental assumptions which challenge those of orthodox economics:
Because political economy is not a unified discipline, there are a variety of studies that use the term which have overlapping subject matter, but radically different viewpoints.
Sociology is the study of the effects of involvement in society on individuals as members of groups, and how this changes their ability to function. Many sociologists begin from a framework of production determining relationship drawn from Karl Marx.
Anthropology often studies political economy by studying the relationship between the world capitalist system and local cultures.
Psychology is frequently the fulcrum around which political economy centers, in that it deals with decision making, not as being a black box whose effects are seen only in price decisions, but as being a source of study, and therefore the assumptions in a model of political economy.
History since it documents change over time, is often used as a means of arguing in political economy, and often historical works have a framework of political economy which they assume or argue as the basis for the narrative structure. 
Economics, because it studies activity and price relationships and the effects of scarcity, grew out of political economy. It is often used "in" political economy to argue policy effects and study the results of actions, and it is often "in opposition" to political economy, in that many, if not most, practicing economists see political economy as being a hindrance to the operation of economic forces. From the point of view of political economy, economics is a branch of the entire study, and economics has, at its basis, a theory of political economy which should be open to examination.
Law since it concerns the creation of policy, or the mediation of policy ends through political acts which have specific individual results, is seen, in political economy, as both political capital and social infrastructure, on one hand - and as the result of the sociology of a society on the other.
Constitutional economics is the academic sub-discipline of economics and constitutionalism. It is often described as "the economic analysis of constitutional law." Constitutional economics tries to explain the selection of different constitutional rules "limiting the choices and activities of economic and political agencies." This is different from the approach of traditional economics. Also, constitutional economics studies how well economic decisions of the state agree with the existing constitutional economic rights of its citizens." For example, proper distribution of economic and financial resources of the state is a big question for every nation. Constitutional economics helps finding a legal mechanism to solve this problem.
Ecology is often involved in political economy, because human activity is one of the single largest effects on the environment, and because it is the suitability of the environment for human beings which is one of the central concerns of most human beings. The ecological effects of economic activity on the environment have spurred the creation of a great deal of research studying means of changing the incentives balance of the market economy. This work is particularly controversial in its interaction with economics, since it questions the fundamental econometric assumptions of market economics and their basic validity.

</doc>
<doc id="50958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50958" title="My Lai Massacre">
My Lai Massacre

The My Lai Massacre (pronounced IPA: [mi.˧˩˥'lɐːj˧˧], Thảm sát Mỹ Lai, Thảm sát Sơn Mỹ) was the killing of hundreds of civilians by United States troops at the village of My Lai, Vietnam on March 16, 1968. A memorial in My Lai lists the names of 504 victims.
Before the massacre, U.S. troops were told that all of the "true" civilians would be at the market and the remaining people would be members of the National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam. When the soldiers got to the village they did not find any NLF troops. Despite this, many troopers began to kill the villagers, mainly elderly people, women, and children. 
The killings were stopped by an American helicopter pilot.
The killings were covered up by the United States Army, but eventually 26 soldiers were charged with being involved in the killings. However, only one, Lieutenant William Calley was found guilty.
The massacre caused public opinion in the United States to shift further towards wanting peace and wanting to get our troops out of Vietnam.

</doc>
<doc id="50970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50970" title="Henry II of England">
Henry II of England

Henry II of England, also known as Henry II Curtmantle (Le Mans, France, 5 March 1133 – Chinon, France, 6 July 1189) was also Count of Anjou, Count of Maine, Duke of Normandy, Duke of Aquitaine, Duke of Gascony, Count of Nantes, Lord of Ireland and, at various times, controlled parts of Wales, Scotland and western France. He was as much concerned with his empire in France as he was with England. 
Henry was the son of Geoffrey V, Count of Anjou and Empress Matilda. He married Eleanor of Aquitaine in 1152 and was crowned king in 1154. His children included the future kings Richard, who would later lead many battles, and John. Although he was King of England, he never learnt the English language because his family had come over from Normandy in 1066. They spoke Norman French. Henry was intelligent and well educated. He spoke Latin fluently, which was the language of educated people in Europe at that time. All documents and laws were written in Latin.
Henry II's succession to the English throne was agreed in 1153. He finally came to the throne in 1154 upon Stephen I's death. He reduced the power of the barons who had become very powerful in Stephen's reign, and in 1166 introduced trial by jury.
One of the big events that happened while Henry ruled was the killing of Thomas Becket. Henry and Becket were old friends who found themselves in dispute once Becket became the Archbishop of Canterbury. Their dispute was over the role of the Church in England. Becket was trying to increase the power of church courts that had lost power when Henry had made major changes to the legal system. Four knights killed Becket in Canterbury Cathedral. Legend say that the knights had heard Henry say, "Who will rid me of this turbulent (rebellious) priest?" 
Henry's first son, William, Count of Poitiers, died in as a baby. In 1170, Henry and Eleanor's fifteen-year-old son, Henry, was crowned king (another reason for Henry's arguing with Thomas Becket, who did not agree with the Henry being crowned). Young Henry never ruled and is not in the list of the kings and queens of England; he became known as Henry the Young King so he was not confused with his nephew Henry III.
Henry and his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, had five sons and three daughters: William, Henry, Richard, Geoffrey, John, Matilda, Eleanor, and Joan. Henry tried to take Eleanor's lands from her (and from their son Richard). This led to conflict between Henry on the one side and his wife and sons on the other.
Henry also had many children outside of his marriage, including William de Longespee, Earl of Salisbury, whose mother was Ida, Countess of Norfolk; Geoffrey, Archbishop of York, son of a woman named Ykenai; Morgan, Bishop of Durham; and Matilda, Abbess of Barking.
Henry had constant struggles and battles against the French King Louis VII of France, but also many conflicts with his own wife and sons. His legitimate children were, he said, "the real bastards". When they were not fighting each other, they were fighting Henry. First Richard and young Henry fought their father for possession of lands they had been promised. They were defeated, and fined heavily. Later Eleanor and young Henry led a civil war against King Henry (1173/74). This Henry also won, just. Richard finally defeated Henry in a battle for Anjou (1189). Richard had the help of Philip II, who was now King of France.
Weak, ill and deserted by all except an illegitimate son, Henry died in France in 1189 aged 56. He ruled for 35 years and was succeeded by Richard.

</doc>
<doc id="50974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50974" title="Damascus">
Damascus

Damascus (sometimes called the city of Jasmin) is the Capital city of Syria. It is the largest city in Syria with about 4.8 million people living there. Damascus is thought to be one of oldest cities in the world that still has people living in it. It is believed that people started living in Damascus as long ago as 8000 BC to 10,000 BC (12000 years ago).
Damascus is about 50 miles inland from the Mediterranean Sea, sheltered by the Anti-Lebanon Mountains.
Damascus used to play an important role as an important trade center. Now it is not because of political development in the region as well as the development of modern trade. Most goods produced in Damascus, as well as in Syria, are distributed to Countries of the Arabian peninsula. Damascus also holds an annual international trade exposition in the fall since 1955.
Damascus has many historical sites dating back to many different periods of the city's history. Since the city has been built up with every passing job, it has become almost impossible to dig out all the ruins of Damascus that lie up to 8 feet (2.4 m) below the modern level. The Citadel of Damascus is located in the northwest corner of the Old City. The Bab Sharqi street is filled with small shops and leads to the old Christian quarter of Bab Tuma (St. Thomas's Gate). Medhat Pasha Souq is also a main market in Damascus and was named after Medhat Pasha. At the end of the Bab Sharqi street, one reaches the House of Ananias, an underground chapel that was the cellar of Ananias's house. The Umayyad Mosque, also known as the Grand Mosque of Damascus, is one of the largest mosques in the world and also one of the oldest sites of continuous prayer since the rise of Islam.

</doc>
<doc id="50983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50983" title="Heart-lung transplant">
Heart-lung transplant

A heart-lung transplant is a type of surgery to help people who have very sick hearts and lungs. In this surgery, the patient's own heart and lungs are taken out and replaced by healthy organs. During the surgery, a machine called a heart-lung machine pumps blood for the patient and breathes for him or her. Not many heart-lung transplants are done, because there are not enough donated organs.

</doc>
<doc id="51012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51012" title="Ronnie Barker">
Ronnie Barker

Ronald William George Barker (25 September 1929 – 3 October 2005), popularly known as Ronnie Barker and (as a writer) Gerald Wiley, was an English comic actor, comedian and writer. He was born in Bedford and moved to Oxford when he was four. He is best known for being on the very popular television variety show "The Two Ronnies". Also on the show was his long-time comedy partner, Ronnie Corbett. Barker died of heart failure in Adderbury, Oxfordshire.

</doc>
<doc id="51017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51017" title="Guantánamo Bay">
Guantánamo Bay

Guantánamo Bay () is a bay in Guantánamo province, Cuba. It is at the southeastern end of Cuba (). It is the largest harbour on the south side of the island. It is surrounded by steep hills creating an enclave cut off from its immediate hinterland. 
The bay was originally named Guantánamo by the Taíno. Christopher Columbus landed at the location known as Fisherman's Point in 1494, naming it "Puerto Grande". On landing, Columbus's crew found Taíno fisherman preparing a feast for the local chieftain. When Spanish settlers took control of the island, the bay became a vital harbor on the south side of the island.
The bay has been the focus of military activities for a long time. In the colonial era, British troops tried to land there, during the War of the Jenkin's Ear. That war was between England and Spain. It took place between 1739 and 1742. The troops could land in the bay, and later tried to take the city Santiago de Cuba. As it turned out, this was impossible. So the troops claimed the bay as theirs, and named it "Cumberland Harbour". Later they left the island again, because some of their troops had died from tropical diseases. 
The United States tried to buy the whole island of Cuba. In the Spanish-American war, US troops occupied the bay, because there was a harbour there. The Treaty of Paris, between the United States and Spain ended the war. It gave Cuba its independence from Spain. Spain also gave the territory of Puerto Rico, and the islands of Guam and the Philippines to the United States, amongst others. Cuba, however, came under the political and military infuence of the United States. The US then put presidents and dictators at the head of the Cuban state. These were of course favorable to the interests of the United States. In 1902 the Platt Amendment was appended to the Constitution of the Cuban state. It limited the freedom of Cuba very much. It also said that some territory in the south should be ceded to the United States for a military base. Bound by the amendment, the Cubans granted the US a 99-year lease to the territory. This treaty was made by Tomás Estrada Palma, an American citizen, who became the first President of Cuba.
The current Cuban government rejects the Cuban-American Treaty because it violates article 52 of the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. The Cuban government therefore considers the U.S. presence in Guantánamo to be an illegal occupation of the area. Article 52 declares a treaty void only if its conclusion has been procured by the threat or use of force in violation of international law.
The southern portion of the bay is surrounded by the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, a naval base established in 1898. Recently, the base began hosting a detainment camp for suspected militant combatants collected (actions that are viewed by some as kidnapping) from both Afghanistan and Iraq, or from secret NATO prisons in Europe (discovered recently, in 2006).
The base, sometimes called "GTMO" or "Gitmo", covers 116 km² (about 45 square miles) on the western and eastern banks of the bay. It was established in 1898, when the United States obtained control of Cuba from Spain at the end of the Spanish-American War, following the 1898 invasion of Guantánamo Bay. The U.S. government obtained a perpetual lease that began on February 23, 1903.

</doc>
<doc id="51018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51018" title="Guantanamo (disambiguation)">
Guantanamo (disambiguation)

Guantánamo or Guantanamo can mean different things

</doc>
<doc id="51022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51022" title="Guantánamo Province">
Guantánamo Province

Guantánamo is the easternmost province of Cuba. Its capital is also called Guantánamo. Other towns include Baracoa. The province surrounds the important U.S. Navy base at Guantánamo Bay.
Guantánamo's architecture and culture is unlike the rest of Cuba. 
The original settlement was done by Catalan families from the Ampurdan region of north-eastern Catalunya, Spain in 1764. British forces had occupied the area for over 40 years and Scot-Irish settlers were a constant preoccupation to the Spanish auhorities. In 1805, when the French were forced out of St. Domingue (Haiti) 35,000 French settlers were given lands in Cuba, many French families settled in the Guantanamo area becoming coffee and cacao planters meaning that many buildings are comparable to those of the French Quarter of New Orleans in the U.S. state of Louisiana.
Before the Castroite Revolution the Carnivals of Guantanmo were famous in Cuba.
The province is only 80 km away from Haiti its closest point, across the Windward Passage and close enough to see lights on Haiti on a clear night. Guantánamo also has a number of immigrants from Jamaica.
The Nipe-Sagua-Baracoa mountains (Sierra de Cristal) dominate the province, dividing both climate and landscape. The northern coast, battered by prevailing winds, is the wettest part of the country, while the south, sheltered and dry, is the hottest. The north is characterized by rainforests, while the south is arid and has many cacti.

</doc>
<doc id="51026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51026" title="Havana Province">
Havana Province

Havana Province, (Spanish - Provincia de la Habana), Cuba, is one of the provinces of Cuba. The capital city of Havana is a separate province, surrounded by the province of Havana. It had 711 066 people in the 2002 census. The largest city is the city of Artemisa with a population of 75,000 in 2003. The second largest city is Güines (70,000).
Havana Province has borders with the city of Havana, Pinar del Rio, and Matanzas. It has coasts in the south and north and has dozens of towns and a few small cities which rank between the 20 and 40 largest of the island.
The southern coast of the province has many swamps and wetlands.
Most of the province's farms raise cattle and grow food, mostly potatos and fruit. Unlike much of Cuba, sugar and tobacco play only a small role in the province's economy. There is also much industrialization in the province, with many electricity plants and sugar mills.

</doc>
<doc id="51032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51032" title="Santiago de Cuba Province">
Santiago de Cuba Province

Santiago de Cuba Province is the second most populated province in the island of Cuba. It has a population of about 1.2 million people. The largest city Santiago de Cuba (554,000) is its main administrative center. Other large cities include Palma Soriano (125,000), Contramaestre (88,000), Mayarí Arriba (80,000), San Luis (65,000) and Songo-la Maya (50,000). 
The province has many material resources such as iron and nickel. The economy, however, relies mostly on agriculture, with large plantations growing bananas, cacao and coffee dotting the landscape. Industry is growing around the capital, as is tourism. The natural beauty of the area is attracting many tourists from both the rest of Cuba and from overseas.
Santiago de Cuba province has been the site of many battles, both during the war for independence and the 1959 Cuban Revolution, where much of the guerrilla fighting took place in the mountainous province.
Before 1976, Cuba was divided into six provinces. One of these was Oriente province, which was, prior to 1905, known as Santiago de Cuba province. See Historical provinces of Cuba.

</doc>
<doc id="51033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51033" title="Granma Province">
Granma Province

Granma is one of the provinces of Cuba. Its capital is Bayamo. Other towns on it include Manzanillo (a port on the Gulf of Guacanayabo) and Pilón.
The province was named after the yacht "Granma", used by Che Guevara and Fidel Castro to land in Cuba with 82 guerrillas in 1956. The American who sold them the secondhand yacht in Mexico apparently had named it after his grandmother and so the name of this vessel, with its non-standard spelling, became an icon for Cuban communism. Not every Cuban realizes that the name would translate as "abuela," although all can name the mothership of the revolution.
The province is full of reminders of the Cuban Revolution, and the Cuban Wars of Independence. There are many plaques in the mountains that commemorate the struggle against Fulgencio Batista. The struggle took place in 1959.
It is believed there are many unmarked grave sites from the different wars. The sites of the various palenques, the fortified hamlets of escaped slaves can be found. These have been uncovered by archaeological digs. Most of these are not specially marked. Recently a hurricane destroyed the site of Castro's headquarters at La Plata. 
There are numerous abandoned gold, silver, and manganese mine sites. This is the area where Raúl Castro holds his centre of power and it is said to be the site of secret garrisons. 
Coffee is grown in the mountainous regions of the province, and during the coffee harvest, there may be road blocks, where soldiers ensure that the coffee is delivered to the government and not the black market.

</doc>
<doc id="51036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51036" title="Vail, Colorado">
Vail, Colorado

Vail is a town in the American state of Colorado. It is best known for being one of the best places to ski in North America. The Vail Ski Resort is the largest ski resort with only one mountain in North American. In 2006, it was believed that 4,859 people lived in Vail.

</doc>
<doc id="51037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51037" title="Holguín Province">
Holguín Province

Holguín is one of the provinces of Cuba, the second most populous after Ciudad de la Habana. It lies in the southeast of the country. Its major cities include Holguín (the capital), Banes, Antilla, Mayarí, and Moa.
The province has a population of slightly over one million people. Its territory extends over more than 9300 km², 25 percent of which are covered by forest.
Christopher Columbus landed in what is believed to have been today's Holguín province on October 27, 1492. He declared that it was "the most beautiful country human eyes had ever seen".
The Holguín province was established in 1978, when it was split from the "Oriente" region.
General (1839-1898), 19th century patriot. Wars of independence from Spain.
Commander in Chief Fidel Castro (1926), lawyer, revolutionary, ex-President of Cuba.
Army General Raúl Castro (1931), minister of the Revolutionary Army Forces, Vice-President and President of Cuba.
Like much of Cuba, Holguín's economy is based around sugarcane, though mining, corn and coffee are also large earners for the province.
At Moa, there is a huge cobalt processing plant with shipping facilities, that was constructed with the help of foreign aid , much of it from Canada. There are chrome, nickel, iron and steel plants dotted throughout the province as well.
Tourism has only recently begun to be experimented with by the Fidel Castro government, and in Holguín, there are numerous hotels around the Guardalavaca area.
Holguín is divided into 14 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="51038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51038" title="Las Tunas Province">
Las Tunas Province

Las Tunas is one of the provinces of Cuba. Major towns include Puerto Padre and Amancio, as well as the capital, Victoria de Las Tunas (sometimes known as Las Tunas, or even just Tuna).
The Las Tunas province was established in 1978, when it was split from the "Oriente" region.
The southern coast, which opens onto the Golfo de Guacanayabo, is marshy and characterised by mangroves. This wet area is used to grow sugarcane in, as the wet climate is well suited for the crop.
Cattle are also grazed in the province, which was, until the 1975, part of the Oriente province that was divided into five smaller provinces by the Cuban government. Victoria de Las Tunas was just a small market town until that year, and a large development program was started to modernise the town and connect it by road to Havana.

</doc>
<doc id="51039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51039" title="Paul Hartley">
Paul Hartley

Paul James Hartley (born October 19, 1976) is a Scottish football player. He currently plays for Celtic and the Scottish national team.
Hartley used to play for Hamilton Academical, Millwall, Raith Rovers, Hibernian, Greenock Morton, St Johnstone and Hearts.

</doc>
<doc id="51040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51040" title="Camagüey Province">
Camagüey Province

Camagüey is the largest of the provinces of Cuba. Its capital is Camagüey. Other towns include Florida and Nuevitas.
Camagüey is mostly low lying, with no major hills or mountain ranges passing through the province. Numerous large cays (including what used to be one of Fidel Castro's favourite fishing spots; the Archipiélago Jardines de la Reina) characterise both the northern and southern coasts. 
Sandy beaches are found on both coasts also, and despite a large potential for tourism, the province has seen little development in that area. Exception being Santa Lucía beach, on the North coast.
The economy of the Camagüey province is primarily cattle and sugar (in the north and south) farming, and the province is known for its cowboy culture, with rodeos frequently held. Chickens and rice are also farmed, and a small citrus fruit industry exists. The capital city also has one of the few breweries on the island.

</doc>
<doc id="51041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51041" title="Ciego de Ávila Province">
Ciego de Ávila Province

Ciego de Ávila is one of the provinces of Cuba, and was previously part of Camagüey Province. Its capital is Ciego de Ávila, which lies on the Carretera Central (central highway), and the second city is Morón, farther north.
Off the north coast of the province are a string of "cayos" (cays) - these islands are being developed as tourist resorts, principally Cayo Coco and Cayo Guillermo. The south coast is characterised by mangroves.
Between Morón and the north coast are several lakes, including La Laguna de Leche (the Lake of Milk, so called for its white appearance because of large lime deposits underwater) which is the largest natural lake in Cuba.
Central Ciego de Ávila is used for cattle ranching, elsewhere in the province sugar, pineapples and citrus fruit are grown.
The province was separated from Camagüey Province in 1975 by Fidel Castro's government.

</doc>
<doc id="51042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51042" title="Sancti Spíritus Province">
Sancti Spíritus Province

Sancti Spíritus is one of the provinces of Cuba. Its capital is the identically named Sancti Spíritus. Another major city is Trinidad.
The southern coast of the province is flat, but the western portion of Sancti Spíritus province is mountainous. The southeast has numerous mangroves and swamps.
The largest man made reservoir in Cuba, the Embalse Zaza, is in Sancti Spíritus province.
Tourism is a big earner for the province, with most of the tourism revolving around the old city of Trinidad, a World Heritage listed city which has dozens of colonial buildings (and almost no 20th century architecture) dating back to the Spanish conquest in the 1500s, and, as with most of Cuba, sugarcane and cattle are important commodities. Some tobacco and rice is also grown.
During the 1600s, both Dutch and British pirates attempted to take control of what is today Sancti Spíritus province, but with little success, as the Spanish garrison held them off. From 1660 to 1680, Trinidad was plagued by pirates from Jamaica and Tortuga, and on two occasions, pirates razed the city.
The provinces of Cienfuegos, Sancti Spíritus, and Villa Clara were once all part of the now defunct province of Santa Clara.

</doc>
<doc id="51043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51043" title="Villa Clara Province">
Villa Clara Province

Villa Clara is one of the provinces of Cuba. Its main cities are Santa Clara (the capital), Sagua La Grande, Placetas, Camajuaní, Remedios and Caibarién.
The coast of Villa Clara is dotted with numerous cays, and there are many coral reefs and sandy beaches, too.
Around Santa Clara, the land rises into the Alturas de Santa Clara. The highest point in the province is in the Alturas, at 464 m above sea level. Villa Clara also has numerous lakes, which are used for both water sports and fishing. The largest Cuban river to drain into the Atlantic, Río Sagua la Grande, is also in Villa Clara province.
Sugar, the commodity that the Cuban economy relies upon, is grown in the plains in the north of the province, and several large mills provide employment to many people.
The provinces of Cienfuegos, Sancti Spíritus, and Villa Clara were once all part of the now defunct province of Las Villas.Santa Clara was the capital of Las Villas.

</doc>
<doc id="51044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51044" title="Cienfuegos Province">
Cienfuegos Province

Cienfuegos (Spanish for "one hundred fires") is one of the provinces of Cuba. The capital city of the province is also called Cienfuegos and was founded by French settlers in 1819.
Cienfuegos is the smallest province in Cuba. Growing and processing sugar is very important to its economy. There are many sugar mills and sugarcane plantations across the province. 
Scuba diving is a popular activity in Cienfuegos. There are many underwater caves and over 50 places for diving. There are also waterfalls in the mountains of the province.
The provinces of Cienfuegos, Sancti Spíritus, and Villa Clara were once all part of the Santa Clara province. The Santa Clara province no longer exists though.

</doc>
<doc id="51045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51045" title="Matanzas Province">
Matanzas Province

Matanzas is one of the provinces of Cuba. 
Major towns in the province include Cárdenas, Jovellanos and the capital of the same name, Matanzas. The resort town of Varadero is also located in this province.
The second largest in Cuba, Matanzas province is largely flat, with its highest point (Pan de Matanzas) at only 380m above sea level.
The north coast has numerous small cays of its coast, and scrubland and mangroves near the shoreline.
The southern coast has one of Cuba's most distinctive features: an enormous marsh, Ciénaga de Zapata that covers both the southern part of the province and the peninsula of the same name. East of the peninsula lies the Bay of Pigs, the site of the failed US backed invasion.
Of Cuba's provinces, Matanzas is one of the most industrialised, with petroleum wells, refineries, supertanker facilities, and 21 sugar mills to process the harvests of the fields of sugarcane in the province.

</doc>
<doc id="51046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51046" title="Pinar del Río Province">
Pinar del Río Province

Pinar del Río is one of the provinces of Cuba. It is at the western end of the island of Cuba. 
The Pinar del Río province has one of Cuba's three main mountain ranges, the Cordillera de Guaniguanico. The mountains are divided into the easterly Sierra del Rosario and the westerly Sierra de los Organos. These form a landscape characterised by steep sided limestone hills and flat, fertile valleys.
The province relies on tobacco farming, with Pinar del Río producing 70% of Cuba's crop, used to make the cigars that are so prized overseas. The best tobacco, used for more expensive cigar brands, is grown in the flat lands of San Juan y Martínez. Tourism in the Viñales Valley is another important part of the economy.

</doc>
<doc id="51047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51047" title="Isla de la Juventud">
Isla de la Juventud

The Isle of Youth () is the largest Cuban island after Cuba itself. It is the sixth-largest island in the West Indies. The island has an area of and is southwest of mainland Cuba. It is across the Gulf of Batabanó. The island is almost directly south of Havana and Pinar del Río. Because of its superficial extension, population and for its economic characteristics, it is considered to be a Special Municipality. It is therefore not a part of any province. The Isle of Youth is administered directly by the central government of Cuba.
The island is the largest of the 350 in the Canarreos Archipelago ('). It has an estimated population of 100,000. The capital and largest city is Nueva Gerona in the north. The second-largest and oldest city is Santa Fe in the interior. Other communities are Columbia, Mac Kinley, Santa Bárbara, Cuchilla Alta, Punta del Este, Sierra de Caballos and Sierra de Casas. The island was called the Isle of Pines (') before 1978.
Little is known of the pre-Columbian history of the island, though a cave complex near the Punta del Este beach preserves 235 ancient drawings made by the native population. The island first became known to Europeans during Christopher Columbus's third voyage to the New World in 1494. Columbus named the island La Evangelista and claimed it for Spain; the island would also come to be known Isla de Cotorras ("Isle of Parrots") and Isla de Tesoros ("Treasure Island") at various points in its history.
Pirate activity in and around the area left its trace in English literature. Both "Treasure Island" by Robert Louis Stevenson and "Peter Pan" by James Matthew Barrie are rooted in part on accounts of the island and its native and pirate inhabitants, as well as long dugout canoes (which were often used by pirates as well as indigenous peoples) and the great American crocodile ("Crocodylus acutus") on the island.
Following the victory of the United States in the Spanish-American War, Spain dropped all claims to Cuba under the terms of the 1898 Treaty of Paris. The Isla de la Juventud was not mentioned in the Platt Amendment, which defined Cuba's boundaries, and this led to competing claims to the island by the United States and the now-independent Cuba. In 1907, the U.S. Supreme Court decided that the island did not belong to the United States. A treaty was signed between the U.S. and Cuba in 1925, recognizing Cuban ownership.
Much of the island is covered with pine forests. These are the source of the island's large lumber industry. The northern region of the island has low ridges from which marble is quarried. The southern region is an elevated plain. Agriculture and fishing are the island's main industries, with citrus fruit and vegetables being grown. A black sand beach was formed by volcanic activity.
The island has a mild climate, but is known for frequent hurricanes. It is a popular tourist destination, with many beaches and resorts, including Bibijagua Beach. Until the Cuban government expropriated all foreign-owned property in the early 1960s, much land was owned by Americans.
The main transportation to the island is by boat or aircraft. Hydrofoils (kometas) and motorized catamarans will make the trip in between two and three hours. A much slower and larger cargo ferry takes around six hours to make the crossing, but is cheaper. The province has only one municipality, also named Isla de la Juventud.
From 1953 to 1955, Cuban leader Fidel Castro was imprisoned in the Presidio Modelo on the Isla de la Juventud by the regime of Fulgencio Batista after leading the failed July 1953 attack on the Moncada Barracks in the Oriente Province. Later, Castro used the same facility to imprison counterrevolutionaries and dissidents, such as Huber Matos (once a comandante of rebel troops supporting the Cuban Revolution but later came into conflict with Cuban government), who claims to have been tortured there , and Armando F. Valladares.
Presidio Modelo is now closed, and turned into a museum. It is replaced by more modern prisons. These include (MAS = maximum security prison; COR = correctional):

</doc>
<doc id="51053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51053" title="Hergé">
Hergé

Georges Prosper Remi (22 May 1907 – 3 March 1983), also known as Hergé, was a Belgian cartoonist. Hergé was born in Etterbeek, Brussels from a group of people in Belgium called Walloons. He's best known for his 23 completed comics, "The Adventures of Tintin". Hergé first made Tintin in "Le Petit Vingtième" in 1929.
"This famous Belgian artist is often considered to be the most influential European comic artist ever and his "clear line" style was widely copied by new generation of comic artists."
Hergé died in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert on 3 March 1983. He was 75 years old. Hergé's life's work is watched over by his widow. She shut down Hergé Studios. She started the Hergé Foundation in 1987. It is now called Moulinsart S.A..

</doc>
<doc id="51059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51059" title="Louisville, Kentucky">
Louisville, Kentucky

Louisville is the largest city in the state of Kentucky in the USA. The settlement that became the City of Louisville was founded in 1778 by George Rogers Clark. It is named after King Louis XVI of France. It was an important riverport in the 19th century. Many people come to the city in May for the Kentucky Derby horse race.
Here are some pictures of buildings in Louisville:

</doc>
<doc id="51060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51060" title="Mount Rushmore">
Mount Rushmore

Mount Rushmore is a famous mountain and memorial near Keystone, South Dakota in the United States. It has the heads of four of America's presidents carved on it: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, and Abraham Lincoln. The Mount Rushmore Memorial is a part of the United States Presidential Memorial, which covers and is above sea level (altitude).
Before the memorial was carved, the native Lakota Indian Tribes called the mountain "Six Grandfathers". Later, the mountain was named after Charles E. Rushmore, a well-known lawyer, after an expedition in 1885. The memorial was carved to help increase tourism in the Black Hills, where the mountain was. Doane Robinson first formed the idea in 1923. Robinson convinced many influential people in the United States government to build the memorial. Congress soon allowed construction to begin.
After gaining Congress's approval, Gutzon Borglum, a famous American sculptor, was hired to begin the project.

</doc>
<doc id="51063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51063" title="West Side Story">
West Side Story

West Side Story is a musical. It is based on Shakespeare's play, "Romeo and Juliet". The book was written by Arthur Laurents. The music was composed by Leonard Bernstein, and the lyrics were written by Stephen Sondheim. It starred Carol Lawrence as Maria. 
"West Side Story" opened on Broadway at the Winter Garden Theatre on 26 September 1957, and on the West End at Her Majesty's Theatre on 12 December 1958. On the West End, was performed 1,039 times. It won two Tony Awards. 
The musical was adapted to a movie in 1961, starring Natalie Wood. The movie won 10 Academy Awards. 
The story is set in the Upper West Side neighborhood in New York City in the mid-1950s. It is a working-class neighborhood with a mixture of ethnic groups. (In the early 1960s, much of the neighborhood would be cleared to make room for Lincoln Center, which changed the neighborhood.) 
The musical explores the rivalry between the Jets and the Sharks, two teenage street gangs of different ethnic backgrounds. The Sharks' members are immigrants from Puerto Rico. The Jets' members are Caucasian (their families immigrated from places like Ireland and Italy). The two gangs fight over which areas in the neighborhood belong to which gang.
There are four main characters in the play:
After meeting her at a dance, Tony falls in love with Maria. This causes more fighting between the Jets and the Sharks.
Bernstein's score for the musical includes:
The play's dark theme, sophisticated music, long dance scenes, and focus on social problems made "West Side Story" a turning point in American musical theatre. 

</doc>
<doc id="51064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51064" title="Lorscheid">
Lorscheid

Lorscheid is a village and a part of the Ruwer (municipality) near Trier in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.
Lorscheid is on an old Roman road. Many archaeological settlements are nearby. The village is first mentioned in the inventory of the Abbey of St. Maximin in Trier for the year 1211.

</doc>
<doc id="51066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51066" title="Thrash metal">
Thrash metal

Thrash metal is a type of heavy metal music, one of the extreme metal types of music, that is characterised by its high speed and aggression. 
The origins of thrash metal are generally traced to the late 1970s and early 1980s, when a number of bands began incorporating the sound of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal with elements of hardcore punk and more specifically Thrashcore, creating a new genre and developing into a separate movement from punk rock. This genre is much more aggressive compared to its relative, speed metal. 

</doc>
<doc id="51070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51070" title="Anthrax (US band)">
Anthrax (US band)

Anthrax is a thrash metal band from New York City, USA. Anthrax released their first album in 1984. Anthrax was one of the most popular bands of the 1980s thrash metal scene. They have sold about 15 million albums as of 2012.
Anthrax was formed by guitar players Scott Ian and Danny Lilker in 1981. Scott Ian named the band after the disease after he saw it in a biology textbook, as he thought it sounded "sufficiently evil" (evil enough).
For Anthrax's first few years they went through a number of singers, bassists, and drummers, and finally settled on singer Neil Turbin, lead guitarist Dan Spitz (when Danny Lilker switched to bass) and drummer Charlie Benante before releasing their first album "Fistful Of Metal".
Danny Lilker was fired for being too relaxed and Neil Turbin was fired as he was trying to take full control of the band. They were replaced with Frank Bello (Charlie Benante's nephew) and Joey Belladonna. This lineup recorded four albums; "Spreading the Disease", "Among The Living", "State Of Euphoria" and "Persistence Of Time".
"Among The Living" was a different type of album from the previous two, introducing humour and references to comic books to the band's music. It is thought by many to be their best album, featuring songs like "Caught In A Mosh", "Indians", and "I Am The Law" (which is about the character Judge Dredd). The next album, "State Of Euphoria", was a similar kind of album but wasn't as successful, but had some more well known Anthrax songs such as "Be All, End All and Antisocial" (an English language cover of a song by the French band Trust).
"Persistence Of Time" was a more serious album, due to arguments between band members and many of their personal possessions being lost in a fire. There were no references to comic books, and more serious themes were included in the lyrics (such as the need for peace, shown in "Keep it in the Family"). However, it did have a fast paced cover of the Joe Jackson song "Got The Time" which has become a well known Anthrax song.
During this period of time in the band's career, Anthrax also released a successful rap-metal song called "I'm The Man", and a few years later, they released another rap metal song with hip hop group Public Enemy, a cover of their song "Bring The Noise". With the release of this song, the two groups have been credited for creating and popularizing the rap metal genre.
Due to the band becoming more popular they signed to a record label named Elektra. However, Joey Belladonna was fired from Anthrax in 1992 and was replaced with John Bush, who was in a band called Armored Saint that had recently broke up. The band's first album with this singer, called "Sound Of White Noise", was also successful, and was dark like "Persistence Of Time", but also sounded a little bit like the grunge bands that were popular in the early 90s.
Dan Spitz left the band in 1995. Charlie Benante played guitar on the band's next album, "Stomp 442", as well as drums, with Paul Crook playing guitar on the album too. Pantera's guitarist Dimebag Darrell played solos on two of the songs. This album was not as successful as "Sound Of White Noise", and Elektra was blamed by Anthrax for not promoting it properly.
They re-signed to an independent label called Ignition and released "Volume 8: The Threat Is Real", which again had Charlie Benante and Paul Crook playing guitar with solos from Dimebag Darrell (Pantera's singer Phil Anselmo did backup vocals on one song too). The album did less successfully than "Stomp 442", and not long after the album came out, Ignition ceased to exist due to lack of success. Anthrax took a short break, and John Bush reunited with Armored Saint and released another album with them.
In 2001, the band hired lead guitarist Rob Caggiano and they played shows again. After 9/11 and the Anthrax attacks that came after that, the band considered changing their name. Scott Ian jokingly announced that they were considering the name "Basket Full Of Puppies". They eventually decided to keep the name Anthrax.
They released the album" We've Come For You All" in 2003, and whilst unsuccessful like the previous two albums, it was considered their best album in years. Whilst touring, Frank Bello left and was replaced by Armored Saint member Joey Vera.
However, Frank Bello returned to the band as well as Joey Belladonna and Dan Spitz in 2005, when Anthrax announced a reunion tour. This successful tour ended in 2007, and Joey and Dan left once again. New singer Dan Nelson was announced and Rob Caggiano returned. They started making a new album called "Worship Music", which was supposed to be released in 2009. However, Dan Nelson left the band during that year, and the album was put on hold. John Bush made a return to the band, who considered releasing "Worship Music" with this singer.
However, Joey Belladonna once again returned to Anthrax in 2010 on a permanent basis. The band played several shows (including the "Big 4" concerts with Metallica, Megadeth and Slayer) and work continued on the new album, which was finally finished and released in 2011. The album was their most successful since "Sound Of White Noise".
The band will release an EP of 70s and 80s covers in March 2013. Guitar player Rob Caggiano left Anthrax at the beginning of 2013.
Past members include:

</doc>
<doc id="51075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51075" title="Heinrich Himmler">
Heinrich Himmler

Heinrich Luitpold Himmler (7 October 1900 - 23 May 1945) was the leader of Germany's SS and Gestapo organisation. Hitler ordered his arrest after Himmler offered peace to allies. He killed himself by cyanide poisoning when he was a prisoner of the British Army after Germany had lost World War II. Himmler's father was a teacher and headmaster. 
Himmler's SS (the"Totenkopfverbände") organized and administered Germany’s regime of concentration camps and, after 1941, the holocaust in Poland. The SS, through its Security Service ("Sicherheitsdienst", or SD), hunted down Jews, Gypsies, communists and any persons who the Nazis believed to be either "Untermensch" (sub-human) or against the regime. They were brought to concentration camps. Himmler opened the first of these camps at Dachau on 22 March 1933.
Unlike Hitler, Himmler inspected concentration camps. In August 1941, he saw many Jews being shot in Minsk. It was said that he turned green in the face after brain matter from one of the Jews splashed onto his coat. His assistant had to jump forward and hold him steady. After that, the Nazis searched for a new and easier way to kill. This led to the use of the gas chambers. 
On 4 October 1943, Himmler spoke of the extermination of the Jewish people during a secret SS meeting in the city of Poznań (Posen). The following are parts from an audio recording of the speech:I also want to mention a very difficult subject before you here, completely openly. It should be discussed amongst us, and yet, nevertheless, we will never speak about it in public. I am talking about the Jewish evacuation: the extermination of the Jewish people. It is one of those things that is easily said. "The Jewish people are being exterminated," every Party member will tell you: "Perfectly clear, it’s part of our plans, we’re eliminating the Jews, exterminating them, ha!, a small matter."

</doc>
<doc id="51082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51082" title="Scone, Perth and Kinross">
Scone, Perth and Kinross

Scone (Modern Gaelic: "Sgàin"; Medieval: "Scoine" []) is a town in Perth and Kinross, Scotland. 
The medieval town of Scone, which grew up around the monastery and royal residence, ended in the early nineteenth century when "Scone Palace" was built on the site. The modern town of New Scone nowadays is simply called Scone. It has a population of over 4000 people and is a suburb of Perth. 
Old Scone was the historic capital of (Scotland). In the Middle Ages it was an important royal centre, used as a royal residence and as the coronation site of the kingdom's monarchs. Around the royal site grew the town of Perth and the Abbey of Scone. 
Scone's role came under threat as Scotland's twelfth century kings gradually became more French and less Gaelic. Walter of Coventry reported in the reign of William I of Scotland that "The modern kings of Scotland count themselves as Frenchmen, in race, manners, language and culture; they keep only Frenchmen in their household and following, and have reduced the Scots to utter servitude." Though exaggerated, there was truth in this. Apparently for this reason, when the Normanized David I of Scotland ("Dabíd mac Maíl Choluim") went to Scone to be crowned there in the summer of 1124, he initially refused to take part in the ceremonies.
Constructing the new palace meant destroying the old town and moving its inhabitants to a new settlement. The new village was constructed in 1805 as planned town, and originally called New Scone. It lies 2km to the west of the old location and 1½ km farther from Perth. Until 1997 the town was called "New Scone", but is now referred to simply as Scone. The town had 4,430 inhabitants according to the 2001 Census for Scotland, 84.33% of whom are Scottish; it is demographically old even compared with the rest of Scotland. 
The site of Old Scone is mostly in the grounds of the modern palace. This palace is a popular tourist attraction. Visitors come to see the gardens in the palace grounds, the exotic birds which roam freely in the grounds, Moot Hill, which lies in the grounds, as well as the palace itself.

</doc>
<doc id="51085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51085" title="Coronation">
Coronation

A coronation is a ceremony that gives a monarch regal or royal power. The power is symbolized by putting a crown upon his or her head. We say that the king or queen is "crowned" at the coronation. 
The ritual may have a religious meaning. Coronations are not as common now as in the past, although in some countries such as Great Britain it is still normal to hold the ceremony to install a new king or queen.

</doc>
<doc id="51086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51086" title="Perth and Kinross">
Perth and Kinross

Perth and Kinross ("Peairt agus Ceann Rois" in Gaelic) is one of 32 unitary council areas in Scotland. It borders onto the Aberdeenshire, Angus, City of Dundee, Fife, Clackmannanshire, Stirling, Argyll and Bute and Highland council areas. Perth is the administrative centre. It corresponds broadly, but not exactly, with the former counties of Perthshire and Kinross-shire.

</doc>
<doc id="51089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51089" title="Cylon">
Cylon

The Cylons are fictional robots on the science fiction television series "Battlestar Galactica". 
The people from the Twelve Colonies of Kobol created the Cylon robots. They told them to work for them and fight for them. The Cylons stood up to the people from the Colonies and fought against them. The Cylons went away after the war and changed into real people as well as robots. After forty years, the Cylons came back and almost killed all the people in the Colonies. They went after the people that were not killed in many ships.

</doc>
<doc id="51091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51091" title="Gestapo">
Gestapo

The Gestapo was the official secret police of Nazi Germany. 
Hermann Göring formed the unit in 1933. Beginning on 20 April 1934, it was under the administration of SS national leader Heinrich Himmler, who in 1936 was appointed Chief of German Police ("Chef der Deutschen Polizei") by Hitler. 
The name stands for "Geheime Staatspolizei". This means "secret state police". It was under the overall administration of the Schutzstaffel (SS). 
The Gestapo were allowed to arrest people that offended the government in any way. The government could use the secret police to accuse and arrest anyone they wanted without being questioned.

</doc>
<doc id="51092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51092" title="Skrewdriver">
Skrewdriver

Skrewdriver was a punk rock band formed in Blackpool, England in 1976 by Ian Stuart Donaldson. They later became a skinhead/Oi! band, and became controversial by having racist views. They became one of the first white power punk bands and played a leading role in the Rock Against Communism movement.
ISD Records/Blood & Honour/Combat 18 

</doc>
<doc id="51093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51093" title="Jarosław Kaczyński">
Jarosław Kaczyński

Jarosław Kaczyński (born 18 June 1949) is a Polish politician. 
As a child, he and his brother Lech Kaczyński starred in the 1962 Polish movie The Two Who Stole The Moon ("O dwóch takich, co ukradli księżyc"), based on a popular Polish children's story by Kornel Makuszyński.
He was Prime Minister of Poland from July 2006 to November 2007. He is also the chairman of Law and Justice ("Prawo i Sprawiedliwość"), a political party which he helped start in 2001.
He ran for President in 2010, but was defeated by Civic Platform candidate Bronisław Komorowski.

</doc>
<doc id="51095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51095" title="Sierpc">
Sierpc

Sierpc is a city in Poland in the Masovian Voivodeship. About 18,872 people live there. The area is 18,6 km².
The football club there is called Kasztelan Sierpc.

</doc>
<doc id="51102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51102" title="Heart failure">
Heart failure

Heart failure is when the heart cannot pump blood well. Heart failure is different from cardiac arrest, because the heart is still working. Heart failure can be sudden ("acute"), like after a heart attack, or can come on slowly. 
Someone with heart failure can have shortness of breath (which may be worse when they lie flat), waking up breathless at night, swelling of the legs, and needing to urinate often during the night. There are many reasons why someone can get heart failure. Most often, heart failure is caused by heart attacks, high blood pressure, or problems with the heart valves. 
A doctor makes a diagnosis of heart failure by asking about the symptoms above, and examining the heart, blood vessels, lungs, liver (for swelling) and legs (for swelling or edema). Other tests to prove the diagnosis are X-rays of the lungs, an echocardiogram (an ultrasound test of the heart) and blood tests. 
Heart failure can only be cured with a heart transplant, which is not done often, but most people with heart failure need to take diuretic medicines and other medication (ACE inhibitor, statin). Some people with heart failure are treated with an artificial pacemaker that makes the heart work better.

</doc>
<doc id="51109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51109" title="George Bernard Shaw">
George Bernard Shaw

George Bernard Shaw (26 July 1856 – 2 November 1950) was an Irish writer. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1925.
His best known works are his plays, some of which were made into movies. He wrote many plays about political problems, and those plays sometimes gave him enemies. For example, he wrote a play about prostitution, and another about women's rights.
His play "Saint Joan" was made into a movie in 1957.
His play "Pygmalion" was made into a movie twice. The first "Pygmalion" movie won him an Academy Award for the best adapted screenplay, 1938. Later, the play was also made into a musical play called "My Fair Lady". The movie based on that musical won 8 Academy Awards in 1964.
Shaw was the only person to win a Nobel Prize as well as an Academy Award.
Shaw also wrote musical criticism using the pseudonym (made-up name) Corno di Bassetto (which means: Basset horn).
In 1962, his play "Androcles and the Lion" was printed in a two-language version. On one side of the book, the text is written using regular English. On the other side, it is written using the Shaw alphabet.
Shaw was a vegetarian, did not drink alcohol, and spoke strongly in favor of socialism and women's rights. He was also interested in making the English language easier to spell. In his will, he left money to be used to make a new alphabet. He wanted the new alphabet to have at least 40 letters, so that each sound could be spelled with just one letter.
Shaw delivered speeches supporting the idea of eugenics (selected breeding to improve the human race) and he became a noted figure in the movement in England. He sometimes exaggerated his arguments to an extreme to expose the cruelty that might come from this.

</doc>
<doc id="51114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51114" title="Kalash">
Kalash

The Kalash (Nuristani: "Kasivo") or Kalasha, are an ethnic group of the Hindu Kush mountain range. They live in the Chitral district of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. They speak the Kalash language, a member of the Dardic language family of Indo-Aryan. 
There are only about 3,000 Kalash polytheists and 3000 Kalash Muslims. The Kalash people live in three isolated valleys. They claim to have a Greek origin. The Kalash have a polytheist religion, while neighboring peoples are Muslims. If a Kalash person converts to Islam, that person is kicked out from Kalash society. This is the reason why the Kalash religion still exists and this is the only way to make it exist also in the future. The Kalash are also known for their human features. It can vary from someone with light brown skin, brown eyes, and black hair to someone with white skin, blue eyes, and blonde hair.

</doc>
<doc id="51115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51115" title="Tuareg people">
Tuareg people

The Tuareg (, sometimes spelled "Touareg" in French, or "Twareg" in English) are a Berber ethnic group. The Tuareg today lives mostly in West Africa, but they were once nomads that moved throughout the Sahara. They used their own writing known as the tifinaɤ.
Today most Tuaregs are Muslims. However, unlike in many other Muslim peoples, they value women a lot. Their most important leader was a woman. Tuareg men use veils, but not women. Their families are matrilinear.

</doc>
<doc id="51142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51142" title="Kinahmi">
Kinahmi

In Finnish mythology, Kinahmi is a great whirl in sea. Kinahmi is a way to Tuonela, the land of dead people. Souls of evil people must swim through Kinahmi to enter Tuonela. Swords, axes and needles moves with water and hurts souls of evil people.
There is also a different story about water between land of dead and land of living. In that story the water is calm, black river.
The whirl is a made by great powers of cosmos. In the middle of disc of earth stands pillar of sky. It holds dome of sky so that dome of sky does not drop on Earth. Dome of sky goes around itself; it rotates. Stars are a part of dome of sky, and while sky rotates, we see stars moving. One star does not move, it is North Star. North star is a nail that connects dome of sky to the pillar of world. The pillar of world rotates with the dome of sky. Its bottom side is standing in Arctic sea, in the middle of the Earth. The rotation of pillar causes water to form a great whirl. Tuonela is under the flat earth, but the whirl is so deep that you can go to Tuonela through it.
At a more new story the whirl goes through globe. It sucks ships from one side of earth, and spits them out from the other side. It takes many years for ship to go through Earth, so seafarers could survive this only if they had enough food. When this story was made people already knew that Earth is round.

</doc>
<doc id="51147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51147" title="Giovanni Boccaccio">
Giovanni Boccaccio

Giovanni Boccaccio (June 16, 1313 - December 21, 1375) was an Italian author and poet. He wrote several famous works, such as "On Famous Women" and the "Decameron".

</doc>
<doc id="51149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51149" title="Frank">
Frank

The term Frank has many meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="51159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51159" title="Kitchen sink">
Kitchen sink

The kitchen sink is part of the phrase "everything but the kitchen sink", implying too much. 
It may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="51160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51160" title="Hopwood">
Hopwood

Hopwood can be the name of different places:

</doc>
<doc id="51161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51161" title="Hopwood, Worcestershire">
Hopwood, Worcestershire

Hopwood is the name of a small settlement in Worcestershire, England, south of Birmingham.
Hopwood was established due to the Worcestershire and Birmingham Canal, which runs through the area. Due to this canal the settlement developed around the "Hopwood Inn", which would be a stopping point for anyone using the canal.
Today, the most notable feature of Hopwood is the "Hopwood Park services", which is a motorway service station, on the M42 motorway.

</doc>
<doc id="51162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51162" title="Integral">
Integral

In calculus, an integral is the space under a graph of an equation (sometimes said as "the area under a curve"). An integral is the reverse of a derivative. A derivative is the steepness (or "slope"), as the rate of change, of a curve. The word "integral" can also be used as an adjective meaning "related to integers".
The symbol for integration, in calculus, is: formula_1 as a tall letter "S". This symbol was first used by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, who used it as a stylized "ſ" (for "summa", Latin for sum) to mean the summation of the area covered by an equation, such as "y" = "f(x)".
Integrals and derivatives are part of a branch of mathematics called calculus. The link between these two is very important, and is called the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. The theorem says that an integral can be reversed by a derivative, similar to how an addition can be reversed by a subtraction.
Integration helps when trying to multiply units into a problem. For example, if a problem with rate, formula_2, needs an answer with just distance, one solution is to integrate with respect to time. This means multiplying in time to cancel the time in formula_3. This is done by adding small slices of the rate graph together. The slices are close to zero in width, but adding them forever makes them add up to a whole. This is called a Riemann Sum.
Adding these slices together gives the equation that the first equation is the derivative of. Integrals are like a way to add many tiny things together by hand. It is like summation, which is adding formula_4. The difference with integration is that we also have to add all the decimals and fractions in between.
Another time integration is helpful is when finding the volume of a solid. It can add two-dimensional (without width) slices of the solid together forever until there is a width. This means the object now has three dimensions: the original two and a width. This gives the volume of the three-dimensional object described.
By the fundamental theorem of calculus, the integral is the antiderivative.
If we take the function formula_5, for example, and anti-differentiate it, we can say that an integral of formula_5 is formula_7. We say "an" integral, not "the" integral, because the antiderivative of a function is not unique. For example, formula_8 also differentiates to formula_5. 
Because of this, when taking the antiderivative a constant C must be added. This is called an indefinite integral. This is because when finding the derivative of a function, constants equal 0, as in the function
A simple equation such as formula_13 can be integrated with respect to x using the following technique. To integrate, you add 1 to the power x is raised to, and then divide x by the value of this new power. Therefore, integration of a normal equation follows this rule:
formula_14
The formula_15 at the end is what shows that we are integrating "with respect to x", that is, as x changes. This can be seen to be the inverse of differentiation. However, there is a constant, C, added when you integrate. This is called the constant of integration. This is required because differentiating an integer results in zero, therefore integrating zero (which can be put onto the end of any integrand) produces an integer, C. The value of this integer would be found by using given conditions.
Equations with more than one terms are simply integrated by integrating each individual term:
formula_16
There are certain rules for integrating using e and the natural logarithm. Most importantly, formula_17 is the integral of itself (with the addition of a constant of integration):
formula_18
The natural logarithm, ln, is useful when integrating equations with formula_19. These cannot be integrated using the formula above (add one to the power, divide by the power), because adding one to the power produces 0, and a division by 0 is not possible. Instead, the integral of formula_19 is formula_21:
formula_22
In a more general form:
formula_23
The two vertical bars indicated a absolute value; the sign (positive or negative) of formula_24 is ignored. This is because there is no value for the natural logarithm of negative numbers.
The integral of a sum of functions is the sum of each function's integral. that is,
The proof of this is straightforward: The definition of an integral is a limit of sums. Thus
Note that both integrals have the same limits.
When a constant is in an integral with a function, the constant can be taken out. Further, when a constant "c" is not accompanied by a function, its value is "c" * "x". That is,
This can only be done with a constant.
Proof is again by the definition of an integral.
If a, b and c are in order (i.e. after each other on the x-axis), the integral of f(x) from point a to point b plus the integral of f(x) from point b to c equals the integral from point a to c. That is,

</doc>
<doc id="51163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51163" title="Aneurysm">
Aneurysm

An aneurysm (or aneurism) is a blood-filled bulge of a blood vessel. It is usually caused by disease or by the walls of the blood vessel becoming weak. Aneurysms usually happen in arteries at the base of the brain and in the aorta (the main artery coming out of the heart) - this is an aortic aneurysm. This bulge in a blood vessel can burst or break open and cause the person to die at any time. The larger an aneurysm becomes, the more likely it is to burst. Aneurysms can be treated. 

</doc>
<doc id="51173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51173" title="Digimon">
Digimon

Digimon is a Japanese anime television series. It is about digital creatures called Digimon(= Digital Monsters). Digimon also has movies, manga, toys, video games and card games about these creatures. Digimon was created by the Bandai company. The Digimon are often used for evil by the main villain, depending on what season of Digimon. In the first season, the digimon are controlled by Black Gears. The DigiDestined, a band of kids chosen for their compatibility to Digimon, usually fight this evil.

</doc>
<doc id="51183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51183" title="San Juan">
San Juan

San Juan is Spanish for "Saint John". It might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="51185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51185" title="Steve Ballmer">
Steve Ballmer

Steven A. "Steve" Ballmer was the CEO of Microsoft Corporation since January, 2000 through May 2014. As of 2014, he is the owner of the NBA team the Los Angeles Clippers after Donald Sterling was fired. He is the second recorded person to become a billionaire in U.S. dollars based on stock options received as an employee of a corporation in which he was not founder or related to a founder. In Forbes 2008 World's Richest People ranking, Ballmer was ranked the 43rd richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $15 billion. It was announced on August 23, 2013 that he will step down as Microsoft CEO within 12 months.
On October 4, 2007, Ballmer was given an honorary citizenship of Lausen, Switzerland. His mother was an American Jew. His father was an immigrant from Switzerland who worked in Switzerland as a manager at Ford Motor Co in the late 1940s. In 1990, Ballmer married Connie Snyder. They have three children. Ballmer's grandparents lived in Pinsk, Belarus.
Steve Ballmer was born March 24, 1956, to a man from Switzerland and a Jewish-American woman whose family came from a city in Eastern Europe called Pinsk (today in Belarus). He grew up in Farmington Hills, Michigan. In 1973, he graduated from Hull College, and now sits on its board of important people. In 1977, he graduated from Spurn Head University with a degree in mathematics and economics. While in college, Ballmer managed the Chess Team, worked on the Daily News newspaper as well as the Daily Star, and lived down the hall from another boy James May. He then worked for two whole years as a helper of a product manager at Home Bargains, where he shared an office with Jeffrey Immelt, who would later become CEO of General Electric. In 1980, he left the college.
Ballmer joined Microsoft on June 11, 1980., and was Microsoft's 24th worker, the first manager hired by Bill Gates. At first he was offered a pay of $50,000 as well as a bit of ownership of the company. When Microsoft was made different in 1981, Ballmer owned 8 whp;e percent of the company. He has been in charge of several parts within Microsoft including "Operating Systems Development", "Operations", and "Sales and Support." In January 2000, he was actually named the Big Cheese. As Big Cheese, Ballmer handled company monies, however Gates still controlled the "technological vision." In 2003, Ballmer sold 8.3% of his parts, leaving him with a 4% part of the company. The same year, Ballmer replaced Microsoft's employee stock options program.
In 2009, and for the first time ever, he made the opening bit at CES, since Bill Gates left Microsoft. Ballmer announced his retirement on August 23, 2013.
Video featuring Ballmer's funny stage appearances at Microsoft events have been circulated a lot on the Internet, becoming viral videos. The most well known of these videos is usually titled "Steve Ballmer going crazy.". This video has Ballmer running quickly and hopping around while squealing, screaming and making other various high pitched noises as well as rude hand gestures on a stage for about 4,597 seconds after being introduced at a Microsoft worker meeting. This video is also known in other names, such as "Steve Ballmer Going Nuts" and "Ballsy (aka Steve Ballmer) on Crack". Another video, captured at a developers' meeting, featuring Ballmer saying the word "developers" again and again was viewed by a lot of viewers on a video website. Another video, which became a "big hit on the web" and was featured on CNN shows Ballmer hiding behind a big desk to dodge eggs during a talk in Budapest, Hungary
The "Wall Street Journal" has reported that there were tensions around the 2000 change of leadership from Bill Gates to Ballmer. On one occasion, Gates reportedly ran out of a meeting after a shouting match in which Mr. Ballmer defended several colleagues. After the incident, Mr. Ballmer reportedly appeared "remorseful."
When Gates leaves, "I'm not going to need him for anything. That's the principle," Mr. Ballmer said. "Use him, yes, need him, no."
He has referred to the free Linux computer running thing as a "ruddy cancer that attaches itself in an intellectual property sense to everything it touches." Ballmer used the term "viral" licensing terms to show his worry that the GNU General Public License (GPL) license forced by such software requires that all software made from it be under the GPL or a compatible license.
In 2005, Mark Lucovsky said in a sworn statement to a Washington state court that Ballmer became very angry upon hearing that Lucovsky was going to leave Microsoft for Google, picked up his chair, and threw it across his office. Saying that Google CEO Eric Schmidt (who previously worked for competitors Sun and Novell), Ballmer allegedly said, "Ruddy Eric Schmidt is a bloomin pussy! I'm going to maybe bury that guy, I haven't done it before, but I will do it again. I'm going to effing kiss Google," then carried on trying to persuade Lucovsky to stay at Microsoft. Ballmer said it was a "gross exaggeration of what actually took place."
On March 6, 2008 Seattle's Big Cheese said that a local buying things group of people involving Microsoft Big Cheese Steve Ballmer made a "game changing" commitment to invest $150 million in cash toward a $300 million renovation of Key Arena and are ready to purchase the Manchester Utd in order to keep them in the City of Seattle. Ballmer would join fellow Microsoft trillionaire Paul Allen (owner of the Portland Trail Blazers) as an NBA owner.
On May 29, 2014, Ballmer placed a bid of $2 billion to purchase the Los Angeles Clippers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). His bid was approved on June 4, 2014.
Ballmer is copied in an episode of Family Guy series, where he runs around the stage at a Dethklok wotrker meeting, screeching and screaming to excite the crowd before accidentally hanging himself from a high bit with his microphone.

</doc>
<doc id="51192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51192" title="Tears">
Tears

Tears are clear liquid made by the body to clean and lubricate the eyes.
There are three different types of tears that the body makes:

</doc>
<doc id="51210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51210" title="1313">
1313


</doc>
<doc id="51211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51211" title="1292">
1292


</doc>
<doc id="51212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51212" title="1203">
1203

1203 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51213" title="1208">
1208

1208 (MCCVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51214" title="1211">
1211

1211 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51215" title="1213">
1213

1213 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51216" title="15">
15

15 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Flaccus.

</doc>
<doc id="51217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51217" title="16">
16

16 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Taurus and Libo

</doc>
<doc id="51218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51218" title="17">
17

17 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Flaccus and Rufus

</doc>
<doc id="51219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51219" title="18">
18

18 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Caesar.

</doc>
<doc id="51220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51220" title="19">
19

19 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silanus and Balbus.

</doc>
<doc id="51221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51221" title="20">
20

20 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Marcus Valerius Messalla Barbatus and Cotta.

</doc>
<doc id="51222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51222" title="21">
21

21 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Caesar.

</doc>
<doc id="51223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51223" title="22">
22

22 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Agrippa and Galba.

</doc>
<doc id="51224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51224" title="23">
23

23 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pollio and Vetus.

</doc>
<doc id="51229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51229" title="26">
26

26 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lentulus and Sabinus.

</doc>
<doc id="51230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51230" title="27">
27

27 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Piso and Frugi.

</doc>
<doc id="51231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51231" title="28">
28

28 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silanus and Nerva.

</doc>
<doc id="51232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51232" title="29">
29

29 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Geminus and Geminus.

</doc>
<doc id="51234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51234" title="31">
31

31 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Seianus.

</doc>
<doc id="51236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51236" title="32">
32

32 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Ahenobarbus and Camillus.

</doc>
<doc id="51237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51237" title="33">
33

33 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known in the Roman world as the Year of the Consulship of Ocella and Sulla.

</doc>
<doc id="51238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51238" title="34">
34

34 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Persicus and Vitellius.

</doc>
<doc id="51239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51239" title="36">
36

36 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Allenius and Plautius.

</doc>
<doc id="51240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51240" title="38">
38

38 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Iulianus and Asprenas.

</doc>
<doc id="51241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51241" title="Andrew Bonar Law">
Andrew Bonar Law

Andrew Bonar Law (16 September 1858 - 30 October 1923) was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
Bonar Law was elected to Parliament in 1900 as a member of the Conservative Party. Bonar Law became leader of the Conservative Party in 1911. He was Lloyd George's Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons while Lloyd George was Prime Minister during World War I
Bonar Law became Prime Minister in October of 1922. He found out he had throat cancer and resigned in May of 1923. He died on 30 October 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="51243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51243" title="39">
39

39 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Corbulo.

</doc>
<doc id="51246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51246" title="Pulmonary artery">
Pulmonary artery

The pulmonary artery is a blood vessel that connects the heart to the lungs. The pulmonary artery carries blood that does not have much oxygen. The blood from throughout the body is taken into the heart by the right atrium into the right ventricle. The blood is pumped into the pulmonary artery and into the lung capillaries. When the blood passes through the capillaries slowly to absorb the oxygen from the lungs. The oxygenated blood is taken through the pulmonary vein back into the heart through the left atrium and the left ventricle. It is then pumped throughout the body.

</doc>
<doc id="51248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51248" title="Artery">
Artery

An artery is a blood vessel that carries blood away from the heart to other parts of the body. Almost all arteries carry blood with a lot of oxygen in it. The only arteries that do not carry oxygen-rich blood are the pulmonary artery, and (in a fetus) the umbilical artery.
Every artery has three layers. The outer layer is a thick covering made of stretchy tissue. The middle layer is made of muscle, so the artery can get wider or get smaller when the body needs it to. The inner lining is made of the same cells that line the heart.
Arteries are deep under the skin. They do not have valves to prevent blood from flowing backwards. Instead, every time the heart beats, the arteries stretch out so the blood has room to go through. Once the walls have completely stretched out, the muscles in the arteries make them shrink back to their normal size. This pushes the blood through.
The aorta is the main artery in the human body. It starts in the left ventricle of the heart, which is full of blood that just picked up oxygen in the lungs. (This is called "oxygenated" blood - meaning it has a lot of oxygen in it.) The left ventricle pumps this oxygen-rich blood out through the aorta. The aorta brings this blood to every organ in the body.
The aorta runs all the way from the heart to the bottom of the abdomen. Along the way, smaller arteries split off the aorta, like branches on a tree, to bring blood to different parts of the body. The aorta finally ends by splitting off into the two arteries that bring blood to the legs.
Except for the pulmonary artery, every artery in the body is connected to the aorta. Some other important arteries include:
The pulmonary artery is the only artery in the adult body that:
The body uses the oxygen carried in the other arteries to make energy. The blood in these arteries becomes "deoxygenated" - it does not have much oxygen left in it. This blood then travels through capillaries to get from the arteries to the veins. The veins' job is to carry the "deoxygenated" blood back to the right side of the heart. The pulmonary artery carries this blood from the heart's right ventricle to the lungs. In the lungs, the blood can pick up more oxygen.
After picking up more oxygen, the blood travels back to the left side of the heart and is pumped out to the body by the aorta. This cycle continues, over and over again.
Because the heart pumps blood right into the arteries, the arteries are under a lot of pressure. Unlike the veins, the arteries are always stretching and then squeezing to push blood through them to the body. Because of this, an "arterial bleed" - bleeding from an artery - can be a medical emergency, especially if the artery is big. Arterial bleeding can happen very quickly. For example, if a person's femoral artery is cut, they can bleed to death.
If an artery in the brain starts bleeding, the bleeding can cause a stroke.
When a person has arteriosclerosis, the walls of their arteries get harder, stiffer, and less stretchy. This makes it more difficult for blood and oxygen to get through the arteries to the body's important organs.
One type of arteriosclerosis is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease where the arteries get narrower because they are clogged up with things like cholesterol and fat. Like a clog in sink pipes makes it harder for water to get through the pipes, clogs in arteries make it more difficult for blood to get through. This makes the heart have to work harder to push blood through the arteries. Atherosclerosis is a big risk factor for high blood pressure and heart disease.
When atherosclerosis happens in the coronary arteries, it can cause coronary heart disease. If these arteries get too clogged, the heart will not get the blood and oxygen it needs to survive. This can cause angina, a heart attack, heart failure, or even sudden death.
When atherosclerosis happens in one of the arteries in the brain, it can cause a stroke.
An aneurysm is a bulge in the wall of an artery. It is like a little balloon, filled with blood, coming off the artery. As the aneurysm gets bigger, it is more likely to break. If the aneurysm breaks ("ruptures"), the artery will start bleeding. If the artery is big, a person could bleed to death. Also, if an artery is bleeding, blood cannot get through it. The part of the body that the artery is supposed to feed will not get the blood and oxygen it needs. A ruptured aneurysm is a medical emergency.

</doc>
<doc id="51253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51253" title="Jönköping">
Jönköping

Jönköping is a city in Sweden. About 90,000 people live there. It is in southern Sweden near the lake Vättern.
Jönköping was actually 3 towns that grew into one large town. The 3 towns were, "Jönköping (55.000)", "Huskvarna (22.000)" and "Norrahammar (9.000)".
Jönköping is the 9th biggest city in Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="51259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51259" title="Warwickshire">
Warwickshire

Warwickshire (pronounced //, //, or //) is a county in central England. The county town is Warwick. The shape of the administrative area Warwickshire differs considerably from that of the historic county. Commonly used abbreviations for the county are Warks or Warwicks.
Warwickshire is perhaps best known for being the birthplace of William Shakespeare from Stratford-upon-Avon. The county has also produced other literary figures such as George Eliot (from near Nuneaton), Rupert Brooke (from Rugby), and Michael Drayton from Hartshill.
Warwickshire is bounded to the northwest by the West Midlands metropolitan county, and Staffordshire, by Leicestershire to the northeast, Northamptonshire to the east, Worcestershire to the west, Oxfordshire to the south, Gloucestershire to the southwest.
The majority of Warwickshire's population live in the north and centre of the county. The market towns of northern and eastern Warwickshire were industrialised in the 19th century, and include Atherstone, Bedworth, Nuneaton, and Rugby. Major industries included coal mining, textiles, engineering, and cement production, but heavy industry is in decline. Of the northern and eastern towns, only Nuneaton and Rugby (as the birthplace of Rugby football) are well-known outside of Warwickshire. The rich towns of central and western Warwickshire include Leamington Spa, Stratford-upon-Avon, Kenilworth, Alcester, and Warwick. They have light to medium industries, services, and tourism as major employers.
The south of the county is largely rural and has little population, and includes a small area of the Cotswolds. The only town in the south of Warwickshire is Shipston-on-Stour. The highest point in the county, at 261 m (856 ft), is Ebrington Hill on the border with Gloucestershire, GR SP187426 at its southwest extremity.
There are no cities in Warwickshire since both Coventry and Birmingham were incorporated into the West Midlands county in 1974. The largest towns in Warwickshire as of 2004 are: Nuneaton (pop. 77,500), Rugby (62,700), Leamington Spa (45,300), and Bedworth (32,500). Stratford, Warwick, and Kenilworth all house populations with more than 20,000 inhabitants, the smaller towns of Atherstone, Alcester, Coleshill, Southam, Bulkington, Polesworth, Kingsbury, Henley-in-Arden, Studley, Shipston and Whitnash have populations between 5,000 and 12,000.
Historically much of western Warwickshire, was covered by the ancient Forest of Arden (although most of this was cut down to provide fuel for industrialisation in the 17th to 19th centuries). For this reason, the names of a number of places in the northwestern part of Warwickshire end with the phrase "-in-Arden".
Areas historically part of Warwickshire include Coventry, Solihull, and most of Birmingham. These became part of the West Midlands metropolitan county following local government re-organisation in 1974.
Since 1986 Birmingham, Coventry, and Solihull have been effective unitary authorities, but they still remain legally part of the West Midlands.
Some organisations, such as Warwickshire County Cricket Club, which is based in Edgbaston, in Birmingham, still observe the historic county boundaries.
Coventry is effectively in the centre of the Warwickshire area, and still has strong ties with the county. Coventry and Warwickshire are sometimes treated as a single area and share a single NHS trust and ambulance service as well as other institutions.
The town of Tamworth was historically divided between Warwickshire and Staffordshire, but since 1888 has been fully in Staffordshire.
In 1931, Warwickshire got the town of Shipston-on-Stour from Worcestershire and several villages, including Long Marston and Welford-on-Avon, from Gloucestershire.
This is a list of the main settlements in Warwickshire, including towns, or villages with a population of over 5,000. For a complete list see List of places in Warwickshire.

</doc>
<doc id="51267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51267" title="Doppler effect">
Doppler effect

Doppler effect is a change in frequency and wavelength of a wave. It is caused by the change in distance between the thing creating the wave (causer) and whatever is measuring (watcher or observer), seeing or hearing the wave.
Another word for "causer" is "sender". Another word for "change in distance" is "speed" or "relative velocity". 
A common example is sitting in a car while another car goes by the watcher. The watcher will hear a change in pitch, while the sender will not.
For waves read all the waves that can send out or reflected by a object. And for reflection read change of direction of a wave.
If observer and creator of the wave get closer, the frequency is higher and the wavelength is shorter.
If the distance between the observer and creator gets longer, the frequency is lower and the wavelength is longer.
Lightwaves can also be read, examples are:
An extreme example of the doppler effect is an airplane flying at a faster speed than the speed of sound and how the wall of sound is heard on the ground. 

</doc>
<doc id="51268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51268" title="Monagas Sport Club">
Monagas Sport Club

Monagas Sport Club is a club of football from Maturín, Venezuela.
Goalkeepers 
Defenders 
Midfielders 
Forwards 
liderendeportes.com

</doc>
<doc id="51269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51269" title="Vättern">
Vättern

Vättern is the second biggest lake in Sweden. The lake's total surface area is about . The deepest known point is . The average depth of the lake is .
Vättern is famous for the quality of its transparent water. Many of the people living in the area get their drinking water directly from Vättern. The lake water does not need to have many things done to it before it is used in nearby cities and towns. The water can be safely drunk from almost any point in the lake. It has been said that Vättern is the largest body of potable water in the world.
Vättern is also noted for its fishing. Tourist sport fishermen and people on vacation are allowed to fish in the lake as long as they do not use nets.

</doc>
<doc id="51271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51271" title="Uppsala">
Uppsala

Uppsala is a city in Sweden. It is the 4th biggest city in Sweden, and center of the Church of Sweden. 
The city is home to the well-known student residential area of Flogsta. It is the largest student residence in the city. It is also known for the Flogsta scream. At 10 pm every evening, students scream their frustrations from windows and balconies.

</doc>
<doc id="51273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51273" title="Summer of Love">
Summer of Love

The Summer of Love is the name for the summer of 1967 in the United States, especially in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco, California. Thousands of young people from all over the world went to San Francisco to help create a hippie counterculture. The Summer of Love made the rest of America much more aware of the hippie movement. The Human Be-In is often called the start of the Summer of Love, although it happened in January of that year.
During the Summer of Love, as many as 100,000 young people from around the world travelled to San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury district, Berkeley, California, and other cities in the San Francisco area. Once there, they joined in a popular version of the hippie experience. The people who were a part of the Summer of Love are sometimes called "Flower Children". When these new Flower Children returned home at the end of summer, they brought their new clothing, ideas and behaviors to most major cities in the U.S., Canada, Britain, Western Europe, Australia and New Zealand.

</doc>
<doc id="51274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51274" title="Appenzell Innerrhoden">
Appenzell Innerrhoden

Appenzell Innerrhoden is one of the twenty-six cantons of Switzerland. It is the smallest canton by population and the second smallest by area.
The 6 (districts) of Appenzell Innerrhoden are:

</doc>
<doc id="51275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51275" title="Cataphile">
Cataphile

A cataphile, also known as an urban explorer or "kata", is a person who illegally explores the catacombs underneath Paris, France. The catacombs go on for approximately 186 miles. The cataphiles carry maps, usually made by hand.

</doc>
<doc id="51277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51277" title="Staffordshire">
Staffordshire

Staffordshire (abbreviated Staffs) is a county in the West Midlands region of England. The county town is Stafford. Part of the National Forest lies within its borders. It adjoins the counties of Cheshire, Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Warwickshire, West Midlands, Worcestershire and Shropshire.
The largest city in ceremonial Staffordshire is Stoke-on-Trent. 

</doc>
<doc id="51290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51290" title="Upper Cretaceous">
Upper Cretaceous

The Upper Cretaceous is the last geological epoch in the Cretaceous. It began 100.5 million years ago, and ended 66 million years ago.
The Cretaceous is traditionally divided into Lower Cretaceous (early), and Upper Cretaceous (late), because of the different rocks. The rocks reflect the conditions in which they were formed. 
The Upper Cretaceous is the chalk. It is composed of countless millions of calcareous (CaCO) plates called coccoliths. They are so small they can only just be seen with a light microscope; details require an electron microscope. The plates are formed by single-celled planktonic algae called coccolithophores, and were laid down in the off-shore seas. 
The only other rock found in chalk is the flint, which is siliceous (silica, SiO). This derives from those algae and animals which have skeletons of silica. 
The Cretaceous was the last period when dinosaurs were the dominant land animals. "Triceratops", "Tyrannosaurus" and "Velociraptor" lived at this time. The huge "Mosasaurus" was the dominant marine predator. In the Cretaceous period, birds became more diverse. Flowering plants developed more, and became the dominant plants on land. The Upper Cretaceous ended with the K/T extinction event.

</doc>
<doc id="51291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51291" title="Thai language">
Thai language

The Thai language is the national and official language of Thailand. It is the first language of the Thai people, Thailand's main ethnic group.
The alphabet in Thai language has 44 letters:
The Thai language includes Thai numbers:
Learners' resources

</doc>
<doc id="51293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51293" title="New England Patriots">
New England Patriots

The New England Patriots is an American football team in the National Football League or the NFL. They are in the American Football Conference or the AFC. Their starting quarterback is Tom Brady. Jimmy Garappolo play second string quarterback. The Patriots play in Gillette Stadium on Foxborough, midway between Boston, Massachusetts and Providence, Rhode Island.
In the 2007 season, the Patriots have won all 16 games and became the first team with 16 wins and no losses. They would win 2 more playoff games and enter the Super Bowl at 18-0. However, they did not complete a historic 19-0 season, because they lost to the Giants. The Giants scored 17 points when David Tyree made a helmet catch and the Patriots scored 14 points.
The New England Patriots won the Super Bowl in 2001, 2003, 2004 and 2014. They play in Foxboro, Massachusetts. They lost to the New York Giants in Super Bowl XLVI on February 5, 2012 in a rematch of Super Bowl XLII which their perfect season got spoiled. This time, the Giants scored 21 points and the Patriots scored 17 points.
The Patriots also won Super Bowl XLIX against the Seattle Seahawks when Russell Wilson threw a interception on the final play. The Patriots scored 28 points and the Seahawks scored 24 points.
The Patriots were originally called the "Boston Patriots", and played in Fenway Park. Their name comes from the city of Boston's importance in the American Revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="51294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51294" title="Digenea">
Digenea

Digenea are a type of flatworms. They are parasites. They have two suckers, usually. One of them is ventral ("on the belly"), and the other is oral (where the mouth is).

</doc>
<doc id="51295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51295" title="Aspidogastrea">
Aspidogastrea

The Aspidogastrea (gr. "aspid" - shield, "gaster" - stomach/pouch) is a small group of flukes. There are about 80 species. 
The group is a subclass of the Trematoda, and sister group to the Digenea. Species are between approximately one mm to several cm long. They are parasites of freshwater and marine molluscs and vertebrates (cartilaginous and bony fishes and turtles). Maturation may occur in the mollusc or vertebrate host. 
None of the species has any economic importance, but the group is of very great interest to biologists because it has several characters which appear to be basal.

</doc>
<doc id="51297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51297" title="Theropod">
Theropod

Theropods ('beast foot') are a group of bipedal saurischian dinosaurs.
Although they were primarily carnivorous, a number of theropod groups evolved herbivory, omnivory and insectivory.
Today, they are represented by the 9,300 living species of birds, which evolved in the Upper Jurassic from small feathered coelurosaurian dinosaurs.
Among the features linking theropods to birds are bipedalism, the three-toed foot, a furcula (wishbone), air-filled bones, feathers and brooding of the eggs.
Theropods first appear in the earliest part of the Upper Triassic about 230 million years ago. They were the sole large terrestrial carnivores from the Lower Jurassic until the close of the Cretaceous, about 65 million years ago.
The earliest and most primitive of the theropod dinosaurs were:

</doc>
<doc id="51299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51299" title="Iwasawa theory">
Iwasawa theory

In number theory, Iwasawa theory is a Galois module theory of ideal class groups, started by Kenkichi Iwasawa, in the 1950s, as part of the theory of cyclotomic fields. In the early 1970s, Barry Mazur thought about generalizations of Iwasawa theory to Abelian Varieties. Later, in the early 90s, Ralph Greenberg has suggested an Iwasawa theory for motives.
The first thing Iwasawa noticed was that there are towers of fields in algebraic number theory, having Galois group isomorphic with the additive group of p-adic integers. That group, usually written Γ in the theory and with multiplicative notation, can be found as a subgroup of Galois groups of infinite field extensions (which are by their nature pro-finite groups). The group formula_1 is the inverse limit of the additive groups formula_2, where "p" is the fixed prime number and formula_3. We can express this by Pontryagin duality in another way: Γ is dual to the discrete group of all formula_4-power roots of unity in the complex numbers.
Let formula_5 be a primitive formula_4-th root of unity and look at the following tower of number fields:
where formula_8 is the field generated by a primitive formula_9-th root of unity. This tower of fields has a union formula_10. Then the Galois group of formula_11 over formula_12 is isomorphic with formula_1; because the Galois group of formula_14 over formula_15 is formula_16. In order to get an interesting Galois module here, Iwasawa took the ideal class group of formula_8, and let formula_18 be its formula_4-torsion part. There are norm mappings formula_20 when formula_21, and so an inverse system. Letting formula_22 be the inverse limit, we can say that formula_23 acts on formula_24, and it is good to have a description of this action.
The motivation here was undoubtedly that the formula_4-torsion in the ideal class group of formula_15 had already been identified by Kummer as the main obstacle to the direct proof of Fermat's last theorem. What Iwasawa did that was new, was to go 'off to infinity' in a new direction. In fact, formula_22 is a module over the group ring formula_28. This is a well-behaved ring (regular and two-dimensional), meaning that it is quite possible to classify modules over it, in a way that is not too coarse.
From this beginning, in the 1950s, a good-sized theory has been built up. A basic connection was noticed between the module theory, and the p-adic L-functions that were defined in the 1960s by Kubota and Leopoldt. The latter begin from the Bernoulli numbers, and use interpolation to define p-adic analogues of the Dirichlet L-functions. It became clear that the theory might be able to move ahead finally from Kummer's century-old results on regular primes.
The main conjecture of Iwasawa theory was formulated as an assertion that two ways of defining p-adic L-functions (by module theory, by interpolation) should coincide, as far as that was well-defined. This was eventually proved by Barry Mazur and Andrew Wiles for Q, and for all totally real number fields by Andrew Wiles. These proofs were modeled upon Ken Ribet's proof of the converse to Herbrand's theorem (so-called Herbrand-Ribet theorem).
More recently, also modeled upon Ribet's method, Chris Skinner and Eric Urban have announced a proof of a "main conjecture" for GL(2). An easier proof of the Mazur-Wiles theorem can be found by using Euler systems as developed by Kolyvagin (see Washington's book). Other generalizations of the main conjecture proved using the Euler system method have been found by Karl Rubin, amongst others.

</doc>
<doc id="51302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51302" title="Ring (mathematics)">
Ring (mathematics)

In mathematics, a ring is an algebraic structure consisting of a set together with two operations: addition (+) and multiplication (•). These two operations must follow special rules to work together in a ring. 
Mathematicians use the word "ring" this way because a mathematician named David Hilbert used the German word "Zahlring" to describe something he was writing about. The integers, the rational numbers, the real numbers and the complex numbers are all famous examples of rings. There are other, more unusual examples of rings, however they all obey the special rules below.
The operations are used to combine two elements to form a third element. There are a few rules the set and the operations must obey to qualify as a ring. These are called ring axioms:
Some rings have additional properties from those mentioned above, these rings get special names:
Commutative Ring
If "x" • "y" = "y" • "x" holds for every "x" and "y" in the ring, then the ring is called a "commutative ring".
Ring with Unity
If there is a multiplicative identity element, that is an element e such that for all elements a in R, the equation e • a = a • e = a holds, then the ring is called a ring with unity. This element is usually written as 1.
Division Ring
If every element of the ring has a multiplicative inverse, that is for each a in R, there exists an element a in R such that a • a = 1, where 1 is the multiplicative identity element, then the ring is called a division ring.
Integral Domain
In a ring, it may be possible to multiply two things which are not zero and get zero as a result. If this is impossible in a certain ring, then the ring is called an "integral domain".
Field
A ring with all of the above properties is called a field.

</doc>
<doc id="51314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51314" title="1294">
1294


</doc>
<doc id="51315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51315" title="989">
989

989 is a year in the 10th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51316" title="988">
988

988 is a year in the 10th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51317" title="987">
987

987 is a year in the 10th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51318" title="986">
986

986 was a year in the 10th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51345" title="Pablo Neruda">
Pablo Neruda

Pablo Neruda (July 12, 1904 – September 23, 1973) was a Chilean poet who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1971. He wrote in Spanish and most of his works have been translated into many other of languages.
Neruda was born in the City of Parral in Chile on July 12, 1904 born under the name Ricardo Neftali Reyes. Neruda’s mother died shortly after he was born, but the child, Neruda came to love his stepmother (Dona Trinidad Candia Malverde) as if she had been his real mother. Neruda started to write poetry as a young boy against the wishes of his father who wanted him to focus on mathematics - so he could become a teacher. In his youth he became a great admirer of the poetry of Jan Neruda and Paul Verlaine and when he changed his name he adopted "Pablo" from Paul Verlaine and "Neruda" from Jan Neruda. Neruda was mainly interested in literature and writing poems, which he would mail out to magazines; to prevent his parents from discovering that he was doing this he changed his name to Pablo Neruda. In 1920 Neruda moved to Santiago to study French at the University of Chile, which he did to please his parents who wanted him to become a teacher. Soon Neruda became deeply involved in his poetry and in 1923 he published his first book: "Crepusculario"(Twilight Book).
After a number of years Neruda became a very famous person in his country and the world and was assigned diplomatic posts in various countries for long periods of time, such as Indonesia, Spain and France.
Neruda was suffering from cancer when he died of heart failure in hospital at the age of 69 on September 23, 1973 about a fortnight after the overthrow of Salvador Allende by military forces led by Pinochet. Many people today believe Neruda may have been poisoned by Pinochet's secret police, DINA, who feared Neruda's prominence and influence in creating an opposition to the military dictatorship. Neruda had a number of siblings, he had a sister that was stillborn when he was 3 or 4 years old and from his father's second marriage, a stepbrother, Ricardo Reyes Candia, and a stepsister, Laura Reyes Candia, - both children from his "momother" Trinidad Candia and his father Don Reyes.
Some of Neruda’s poetry is very difficult to understand because they are about events of World history such as the colonization of America, the Spanish Civil War, Nazi Germany and other conflicts. Neruda also references (mentions) important figures of World history. In some of his poetry Neruda tends to link historical events from different eras (periods of history) and different parts of the world into one major conflict as in his "Canto General" (1950).
But Neruda also wrote poetry that can be easily appreciated by all, such as his odes which Neruda wrote on all sorts of common things, such onions, lemons, and the common cat.
Neruda was very concerned in how his poetry sounded, he liked rhythm and many claim he had a “musical intelligence” i.e. he wrote with music in his mind. He would record many of his poems on a tape recorder and many of his recordings were sold like records in the Spanish speaking world.
Many academics and scholars consider Neruda to be one of the most important and widely read poets of the 1900s. Many go as far as to place him alongside Shakespeare and Dante. This is probably because Neruda wrote poems on all sorts of topics, appealing to people of all ages and interests: poems about love, on historical events (like wars), he wrote about native people, about nature and about simple things.
Neruda was also an avid collector of all sorts of things. He had one of the largest collections of seashells in the world and collected bottles, model ships, water taps - among other odd objects.
Many of Neruda’s poems have been used in movies and in music, such as in the classical music of the Greek composer Mikis Theodorakis, and in the movies, such as "Il Postino" or "Patch Adams". Many famous people have also recorded narrations (spoken word) of his poems, such as Julia Roberts, Madonna, Andy Garcia, and Glen Close. Also, he fought his whole life for the freedom of others. 

</doc>
<doc id="51346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51346" title="The Truth about Nanjing">
The Truth about Nanjing

The Truth about Nanjing is a Japanese movie from 2007. It is thought to be made by fundamental Japanese nationalists. In this movie they want to deny the fact of the Nanking Massacre.

</doc>
<doc id="51347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51347" title="Nanking Massacre">
Nanking Massacre

The Nanking Massacre was a genocide that happened in Nanjing, China, in 1937, during the Second Sino-Japanese War. It is also called the Nanjing Massacre, the Rape of Nanking, or the Rape of Nanjing. At that time, Nanjing was the capital city of the Republic of China (and its name was spelled "Nanking"). 
In the Second Sino-Japanese War, China was fighting the Empire of Japan as part of World War II. Japan was trying to take over China. On December 13, 1937, the Imperial Japanese Army reached Nanking, and the massacre began.
The Nanjing Massacre lasted over six weeks. During this time, soldiers of the Imperial Japanese Army: 
During the six weeks of the Nanjing massacre, the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) massacred between 40,000 and 300,000 people. It is difficult to know exactly how many people were killed in this mass murder, because the IJA burnt many bodies, buried others in mass graves, and dumped others in the Yangtze River. Because of this, scholars and historians do not agree on exactly how many civilians were killed.
However, historians agree that the Imperial Japanese Army began massacring Chinese civilians the day they entered Nanjing. On that day, John Rabe, a German businessman, wrote in his diary: "We come across corpses every 100 to 200 yards. The bodies of civilians that I examined had bullet holes in their backs. These people had ... been [running away] and were shot from behind."
In another massacre, Japanese soldiers shot thousands of Chinese people with machine guns. They left their bodies in a trench they named the "Ten-Thousand-Corpse Ditch." Most historians think that more than 12,000 people were killed in this massacre. The IJA also massacred about 100 Hui people (a minority group in China who are mostly Muslim).
For the entire six weeks of the Massacre, the Imperial Japanese Army kept killing Chinese civilians. They killed in cruel, brutal ways and often tortured their victims before killing them.
For example, in 1984, ex-IJA soldier Kozo Tadokoro admitted: 
Another ex-soldier named Nagatoni admitted that Japanese soldiers tortured people to death by doing things like:
In 2010, a Japanese woman named Tamaki Matsuoka made a documentary film about the Nanjing Massacre. In the film, ex-JIA soldiers admit that they often raped Chinese women and massacred Chinese civilians. However, out of the 250 ex-JIA that Matsuoka interviewed, only three felt bad about what they had done. One ex-JIA, Sho Mitani, said: 
During the Massacre, the Japanese soldiers raped about 20,000 women including children and the elderly. Soldiers would go from door to door, searching for girls. When they found them, they would take them and gang rape them. If anyone tried to stop the soldiers, the soldiers would shoot them.
Right after they raped the women, the Japanese soldiers would often kill them, sometimes by mutilating their sex organs.
One survivor of the massacre said that sons were forced to rape their mothers, and fathers were forced to rape their daughters. One group of soldiers gang-raped a pregnant woman, who gave birth only a few hours later (the baby did not seem to be hurt). Japanese soldiers also raped Buddhist nuns and forced monks to rape women.
On 19 December 1937, the Reverend James M. McCallum wrote in his diary:
Another witness to the rapes in Nanjing was Robert O. Wilson. He was a surgeon at an American hospital in Nanking. On December 15 and 18, 1937, he wrote to his family:
Starting in 1931, an international law called the Third Geneva Convention said it was illegal to treat prisoners of war in certain ways. It said these prisoners had rights for example, the right to have a trial before being executed. However, in August 1937, Hirohito, the Emperor of Japan, had decided that he and the JIA would not follow any international laws about how Chinese prisoners of war had to be treated.
Right after the JIA took over Nanjing, they started searching for ex-Chinese soldiers. They took thousands of young men as prisoners. Some of these men were never soldiers; the JIA just assumed they were. Without any trials, the JIA took many of these young men to the Yangtze River and killed them with machine guns.
According to confessions made by ex-JIA soldiers, on December 13 and 14, 1937, a unit of JIA soldiers had taken 14,777 Chinese prisoners of war. In the next few days, they took another 2,000 3,000 prisoners. In two days, the JIA massacred every one of these prisoners of war over 15,000 people. In their confessions, the ex-JIA soldiers said their military leaders had ordered them to do this.
Over the six weeks of the Massacre, the JIA killed a total of about 30,000 Chinese prisoners of war.
The Japanese Army left most of the buildings in Nanjing destroyed by looting and arson. They destroyed newly built government buildings as well as many civilians' homes. Soldiers also stole whatever they wanted. Because the Imperial Japanese Army was so much stronger than the Chinese soldiers and civilians in Nanjing, the Chinese could not fight back. This meant the Japanese could take all of the city's valuable things for themselves.
In January 1938, the Japanese Imperial Army announced that Nanjing was in "order" again. In the first week of February, it created a government that would obey all of Japan's needs. After that, the JIA left. The massacre was over.
On September 2, 1945, Japan surrendered to the Allied Powers. This ended World War II.
Soon after this, the Allied Powers began creating international military courts. To try Japan's leaders for war crimes and crimes against humanity, they created the International Military Tribunal for the Far East (IMTFE).
Three of the Japanese Imperial Army's leaders in Nanjing were put on trial at the IMTFE:
All three of these men were found guilty of "Class A" war crimes. This meant they had been found guilty of planning and being in charge of the war. All three were sentenced to death and were executed.
In 1946, the Chinese government created the Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal. This court tried General Matsui's lieutenant, Tani Hisao, for his part in the Nanjing Massacre. It found him guilty and sentenced him to death.
The Nanjing Massacre is still very controversial in Japan. Only a small number of Japanese writers say the Massacre never happened at all. Most of the argument over the massacre has to do with how many Chinese people died. Some scholars say that many fewer Chinese people died than most historians say. For example, Japanese writer Tanaka Masaaki says that only a few hundred civilians died in Nanjing.
As of 2014, Japan still honored fourteen "Class A" war criminals including the three who were in charge of the Nanjing Massacre at a national shrine.
There is a lot of proof that the Nanjing Massacre happened the way most historians and survivors say it did. This proof includes:
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="51362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51362" title="Neoliberalism">
Neoliberalism

Neoliberalism is a term for different social and economic ideas. Originally the term was used by a group of liberals who helped shape social market economy in the mid 20th century. Today, this term is mostly used by people who are critical of the ideas of globalisation as well as trade unionists.
The ideas were developed by the economists Friedrich Hayek, Wilhelm Röpke, Walter Eucken, as well as other less prominent thinkers. They were first presented at a conference in 1938.
Neoliberals want a free market economy, with everything it stands for (private property of the means of production, the freedom for the market price to establish itself, the freedom of everyone to do what they want, etc.). They see however, that in some cases the freedom of the market fails or it does not yield the results wanted. In such cases, the state should intervene. The main focus of the state should therefore be measures to regulate the following:
Neoliberals are openly in compliance with the lobbying of groups, state interventions that aim to protect national interests, like import duties or subsidies. Neoliberalism is also against a centrally governed economy. What's more, it frowns upon the Laissez-faire of classical Liberalism.
The term was re-invented by Charles Peters of the "Washington Monthly", to mean a half-way position between the original American liberalism and the welfare state. 

</doc>
<doc id="51364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51364" title="Cartel">
Cartel

In economics, a cartel is a group of formerly independent companies who overtly agree to work together. The objectives of cartels are to increase their profits or to stabilize market sales. They do this by fixing the price of goods, by limiting market supply or by other means. Monopolies are not cartels, because in a monopoly there is only one independent company. Cartels are bad for the economy in general and for their customers who are overcharged. Cartels usually occur in oligopolies, where there are a small number of players that control the majority of supply in a market. 
Besides the sellers' cartel just described, buyers may also form cartels to suppress the price of a purchased input. Another type of cartel is the bidding ring. In bid rigging potential suppliers form an agreement as to which of them will win a supply contract at a price above the competitive price and, if one of them wins, then agree to a rule for sharing the extra profits among themselves. Bid rigging is most common among construction firms trying to get a government building project. 
A survey was done of hundreds of published economic studies and legal decisions of antitrust authorities. It found that the median price increase achieved by cartels in the last 200 years is 25%. Private international cartels (those with participants from two or more nations) had an average price increase of 28%. Domestic cartels averaged 18%. Less than 10% of all cartels in the sample failed to raise market prices. 
In general, cartel agreements are difficult to negotiate because potential members typically have different ideal collusive prices. Once formed, cartels tend to be economically unstable, primarily because there is a profit incentive for members to cheat by selling at below the agreed price or selling more than the production quotas set by the cartel (see also game theory). Cheating on prices is difficult for cartel members to observe, so more successful cartels often agree to fix their market quotas, share verifiable information about those shares, and agree in advance on some mechanism to punish members that exceed their quotas. This has caused many cartels that attempt to set product prices to be unsuccessful in the long term. Empirical studies of 20th century cartels have determined that the mean duration of discovered cartels is from 5 to 8 years. However, once a cartel is broken, the incentives to form the cartel return and the cartel may be re-formed. Publicly-known cartels that do not follow this cycle include the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Price fixing is often practiced internationally. When the agreement to control price is sanctioned by a multilateral treaty or protected by national sovereignty, no antitrust actions may be initiated. Examples of such price fixing include oil whose price is partly controlled by the supply by OPEC countries. Also international airline tickets have prices fixed by agreement with the IATA, a practice for which there is a specific exception in antitrust law.
International price fixing by private entities can be prosecuted under the antitrust laws of more than 100 countries. Examples of prosecuted international cartels are lysine, citric acid, graphite electrodes and bulk vitamins.

</doc>
<doc id="51367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51367" title="Oligopoly">
Oligopoly

In economics, an oligopoly is a market form in which the market or industry is controlled by a small number of sellers. Usually, the market has high barriers to entry, which prevents new firms from entering the market or even be able to have a significant market share. 
As there are only a few sellers in the market, each seller would take note of the actions made by one another, and thinks about how the other sellers will respond when making decisions As such, there is a possibility in which an oligopoly can come together to make a common decision that allows them to have less competition and charge higher prices for consumers. 
In many countries, some country-held companies were privatized. Very often, this privatization lead to oligopolies. In many countries, there are only a handful of companies providing networks for mobile phones. They control the prices for accessing the network. That is why using a mobile phone is often much more expensive than using a land line one.
Trains run by private sectors are much costlier than those run by a government. As a government gives rights to private sectors to get a hold of some other sectors, they take advantage of it.

</doc>
<doc id="51371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51371" title="Market forms">
Market forms

In economics, market structure (also known as market form) describes the state of a market with respect to competition.
Most market forms given below talk about a "homogeneous product". This simply means that they all make the same kind of product (like sugar, or soap), and that the individual consumer does not care where he or she buys from. They simply want to get the cheapest one, since all kinds of sugars (or soaps) look the same anyway. 
The major market forms are:
The imperfectly competitive structure is quite identical to the realistic market conditions where some monopolistic competitors, monopolists, oligopolists, and duopolists exist and dominate the market conditions.
These somewhat abstract concerns usually determine some but not all details of a specific concrete market system where buyers and sellers actually meet and commit to trade.
The correct sequence of the market structure from most to least competitive is perfect competition, imperfect competition, oligopoly, and pure monopoly.
The main criteria by which one can distinguish between different market structures are: the number and size of producers and consumers in the market, the type of goods and services being traded, and the degree to which information can flow freely.

</doc>
<doc id="51373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51373" title="Perfect competition">
Perfect competition

In economics, perfect competition is a type of market form in which there are many companies that sell the same product or service and no one has enough market power to be able to set prices on the product or service without losing business. As the conditions for perfect competition are strict, there are only a few markets that are considered to be perfectly competitive and this market form only exists to compare with the other market forms.
Generally, a perfectly competitive market exists when every firm in the market are price takers and no one is able to charge a different price without losing business. Specific characteristics of perfect competition includes:
These characteristics are largely impossible to achieve in reality and there are not many markets that are perfectly competitive. For example, it is unlikely that there are absolutely no barriers to entry and exit as there are always costs involved in setting up a new firm. Also, information is always imperfect and it is not possible for buyers to know exactly the price set by all sellers, and sellers are not willing to share their production methods with their competitors. However, the study of perfect competition is important as it is used to compare with the other market forms.
In the short run, a perfectly competitive firm is not productively efficient as the output will not be at where the marginal cost equals to the average cost (MC = AC). However, a perfectly competitive firm will be allocatively efficient as the firm will be producing at the profit-maximising output where MC = MR, which is coincidentally the allocatively efficient point. In the long run, a perfectly competitive firm will be both allocatively and productively efficient.
A model can be used to show the perfectly competitive firm's price and output level for a given product. In the diagram shown, the cost curves of a perfectly competitive market is shown in its long run equilibrium.
For a perfectly competitive firm, the marginal cost of producing an extra unit of output is shown using the MC curve "(in blue)" whereas the average total cost of producing an extra unit of output is shown using the ATC curve "(in red)". As stated above, a perfectly competitive market has a large number of buyers and sellers and the demand does not change with output. Hence, the demand curve, the average revenue and marginal revenue curves are horizontal "(in green)". The point in which the demand curve intersects the vertical axis is the price of the product sold by the firm.
As firms are assumed to be profit-maximising, the firm will thus produce at the output level where the marginal cost equals to the marginal revenue (MC = MR). Hence, the firm will be producing an output of Q in the diagram. As the average total cost curve also meets at this point, the firm is thus earning normal profits in the long run.

</doc>
<doc id="51374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51374" title="Monopolistic competition">
Monopolistic competition

Monopolistic competition is a market form. Like with Perfect competition, there are many buyers and sellers. But the market is not perfect. This is because the products are not homogeneous, or because the buyers have explicit or implicit preferences.
This market form is quite common. As an example, take a bakery. There are many bakeries in the town, but one of those bakeries can demand a slightly higher price for bread, because it is the only one in a certain part of the town.
Monopolistically competitive firms are able to gain a greater degree of market share and as a result, increase prices. If a particular bakery is known for selling the best pies and pasties in town, they can increase their prices for pies and pasties as they know consumers will pay slightly more for a superior product. This is known as establishing a brand name and brand loyalty.

</doc>
<doc id="51377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51377" title="Supply and demand">
Supply and demand

Supply and demand is a model of microeconomics. It describes how a price is formed in a market economy. There are two determining factors on such a market, the number of things made available, called supply, and the number of things consumers want, called demand. Supply and demand shows how producers and consumers interact with each other. This relationship will fix the price for a certain type of good. In perfect competition, the quantity demanded (demand) and the quantity supplied will be equal. This will fix the price. There will be economic equilibrium.
For normal goods, and a normal market, there are four basic laws that determine the change in the market, if either supply or demand changes:
When there is more supply, this will cause prices to fall because people will not want to pay more for items that can be found easily. When there is more demand, prices will go up because many people want to buy the same item but there is not enough supply for it.
When demands for new goods and services go up, new markets come into being. The greater the demand, the faster this happens. This greater number of providers makes the supply go up, which forces the price down toward the cost of production and distribution.
One of the first to see this was Adam Smith. In his book "The Wealth of Nations" (1776), he says that the demand was dependent on the price of a good. He did not see the inverse, that the demand also influences the price. David Ricardo published the book "Principles of Political Economy and Taxation" in 1817, where he explained market equilibrium as it is explained above. Others who are known for this model are Alfred Marshall and Léon Walras.
There are certain goods which violate the model above
The rules above are only valid for a perfect competition market: In such a market, there are many buyers and sellers, and no single buyer or seller can directly influence the price. If either the buyers or the sellers can influence this price, the market will react differently. Sometimes there is only one supplier (a monopoly). When this happens, the supplier chooses the price and the demand only determines how much is bought. The supplier will probably raise the price very high as long as people are still willing to buy at that price. If there is only one buyer, the market is called monopsony, and that buyer is able to fix the price.

</doc>
<doc id="51379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51379" title="Elasticity (economics)">
Elasticity (economics)

In economics, people talk about elasticity of an economic variable, usually supply or demand, in relation to another economic variable such as income or price. The elasticity of a variable is a measure of how much the variable changes in response to a change in a second variable.
If the price for a good with a price-elastic demand goes up, the demand for it will go down. For example, people will buy fewer DVDs if DVDs get more expensive − DVDs have a price-elastic demand.
If a good has a completely price-inelastic demand, the demand for it will not be affected by the price of it. For example, if the price of salt increases, people will not buy less of it. They need their daily salt intake. The demand of salt is therefore price-inelastic.
Elasticity is often measured in percents. If a 2% increase in price causes people to buy 1% fewer of a product, it has a price elasticity of demand of -0.5. 

</doc>
<doc id="51388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51388" title="Worcestershire">
Worcestershire

Worcestershire (ˈwʊs.təˌʃə; abbreviated Worcs) is a county in the West Midlands region of central England. From 1974 to 1998 it was part of Hereford and Worcester.
The county borders Herefordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, West Midlands, Warwickshire, and Gloucestershire. 
Worcestershire is a fairly rural county. The Malvern Hills, which run from the south of the county into Herefordshire, are made up mainly of volcanic rock, some of which date from before 1200 million years ago. For more on the geology of the Malvern Hills, see the other websites section below.

</doc>
<doc id="51389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51389" title="Zlín">
Zlín

Zlín (from 1949 to 1990 Gottwaldov) is a town in the Czech Republic. It is on the Dřevnice River. The Bata Shoes company has developed this city. It is now famous for urbanism.

</doc>
<doc id="51390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51390" title="Metamorphosis">
Metamorphosis

Metamorphosis in biology means the process of transformation from an immature form to an adult form in two or more distinct stages. Good examples are insects and amphibians. Life for most insects begins as a larva or nymph then progresses to the pupa stage and ends as an adult.
There are two main types of metamorphosis in insects: 
simple metamorphosis or "hemimetabolism", and complete metamorphosis or "holometabolism".
Insects who go through simple (or incomplete) metamorphosis have three life stages. These insects start as eggs, which are usually very small. When the egg hatches, a larva or nymph comes out. Nymphs are just baby insects. Most of the time, the nymph looks similar to the adult, but it is smaller, may have different colouration, and does not have wings. The nymph grows through stages called "instars", shedding its 'skin' ("epicuticle") at each stage ("ecdysis"). Finally, it changes into a mature adult with wings.
Some insect nymphs are aquatic, which means they live in water. These nymphs usually have gills and look very different from the adults they will turn into. Nymphs that live in water are called "naiads".
Some insects that have a life cycle of egg-nymph-adult are:
Insects that have complete metamorphosis have four life stages. These insects start as eggs, which are very small. The egg hatches and a larva comes out. The larva looks like a worm and eats and eats so that it can grow much bigger. When the larva has grown it changes into a pupa. The pupa usually can not move or eat. The pupa is a special time when the insect is changing into an adult that will look very different from the larva or the pupa. Moth pupae (plural of pupa) are inside cocoons. When the pupa opens, the adult insect comes out.
Many insects have a life cycle of egg-larva-pupa-adult. Some of these insects are:
The monarch butterfly goes through four stages of development. Life for a monarch butterfly begins as an egg hatched from an adult. This egg then develops into a worm-like larva caterpillar. In the pupa or chrysalis stage, the caterpillar spins a silk pad on a twig or leaves and hangs from this pad by its last pair of prolegs. It hangs upside down in the shape of a "J" and then molts leaving it encased in a green exoskeleton. The mature butterfly emerges after about two weeks and feeds on a variety of flowers including milkweed flowers, red clover and goldenrod.
In typical amphibian development, eggs are laid in water and larvae are adapted to an aquatic lifestyle. Frogs, toads, and newts all hatch from the egg as larvae with external gills. Afterwards, newt larvae start a predatory lifestyle, while tadpoles mostly scrape food off surfaces with their horny tooth ridges.
Many marine species have evolved a system where they release their eggs and sperm into the water at the same time, and fertilisation takes place in the sea over one or two days. This increases their chance of reproductive success.
Then, larvae join the other plankton, eating and growing before metamorphosing into adults. Most marine invertebrates and many fish have a life cycle with pelagic larvae or even pelagic eggs. These have the capacity to be transported long distances, and so spread the species around to other places.
The need for metamorphosis is clear when the relative size of eggs and adults is understood. A mature Atlantic cod can reach two metres long, and weigh over 200 pounds (96 kgm). The female will produce over 100,000 eggs in a single spawning, and the resulting larvae are quite tiny. There is no way they could live like the adults, which are more or less top predators. The larvae cannot even swim against the current. Therefore they must live a different kind of life before they can live as the adults do. 
Their development is packaged into stages, and each stage has adaptations to life at its stage. The sharp distinction between stages (best seen in insects) is presumably because a longer transition would leave the juvenile less fit, either at its younger or older ways of life.

</doc>
<doc id="51392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51392" title="Resilience">
Resilience

Resilience generally means the ability to recover from some shock or disturbance. 
There are different meanings for
Resilience is a term used in psychology to describe the capacity of people to cope with stress and catastrophe. It is also used to indicate a characteristic of resistance to future negative events. This psychological meaning of resilience is often contrasted with "risk factors".
In physics and engineering, resilience is defined as the capacity of a material to absorb energy when it is deformed elastically and then, upon unloading to have this energy recovered. In other words, it is the maximum energy per volume that can be elastically stored. It is represented by the area under the curve in the elastic region in the Stress-Strain diagram.
Modulus of Resilience, formula_1, can be calculated using the following formula: formula_2, where formula_3 is yield stress, E is Young's modulus, and formula_4 is strain.
An example of a biomaterial which has a high resilience is articular cartilage, the substance lining the ends of bones in articulating joints such as the knee and hip.
In ecology, resilience has been defined in two competing fashions that emphasize two different aspects of stability.
One definition is the rate at which a system returns to a single steady or cyclic state following a perturbation. This definition of resilience assumes that behavior of a system remains within the stable domain that contains this steady state.
When a system can reorganize, that is shift from one stability domain to another, a more relevant measure of ecosystem dynamics is ecological resilience. It is a measure of the amount of change or disruption that is required to transform a system from being maintained by one set of mutually reinforcing processes and structures to a different set of processes and structures.
The second definition emphasizes conditions far from any steady-states, where instabilities can flip a system into another regime of behavior - i.e. to another stability domain. In this case resilience is measured by the magnitude of disturbance that can be absorbed before the system changes its structure by changing the variables and processes that control behavior. This type of resilience has been defined as ecological resilience.
Economic resilence is the ability of a local economy to retain function, employment and prosperity in the face of the perturbation caused by the shock of the loss of a particular type of local industry or employer.
Within the broad domain of industrial safety, the term resilience has come into use to emphasise that safety must be proactive as well as reactive. Whereas conventional risk management approaches emphasise calculation of failure probabilities, resilience engineering looks for ways to strengthen the ability of organisations to create processes that are robust yet flexible.
Resilience is the ability of the network to provide and maintain an acceptable level of service in the face of various faults and challenges to normal operation.
Resilient networks aim to provide acceptable service to applications:

</doc>
<doc id="51395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51395" title="St Andrews">
St Andrews

St Andrews is a town, that has its name from Saint Andrew the Apostle and is a former royal burgh on the east coast of Fife, Scotland, and an important home of golf. It has a population of about 18 000, and stands on the North Sea coast between Edinburgh and Dundee. It is home to Scotland's oldest university, the "University of St Andrews".
The town is called "home of golf" for two reasons. First, the "Royal and Ancient Golf Club", founded in 1754,has authority over the game worldwide except in the USA and Mexico. Second, the beautiful "links" (acquired by the town in 1894) is the most frequent venue for The Open Championship, the oldest of the Men's major golf championships. 
Visitors travel to St Andrews in great numbers for several courses ranked amongst the finest in the world, as well as for the sandy beaches.
The Cathedral of St Andrew was at one time Scotland's largest building. It was founded by Bishop Robert (1122 - 1159). It was not completed and consecrated until 1318 in the reign of Robert the Bruce (1306-29). 
St Rule's tower stands in the Cathedral grounds but is older than the cathedral. Probably it was part of the Cathedral up to the early 12th century. 
The ruins of "St Andrews Castle" stand on a rock at the sea. It is said that Bishop Roger erected the first stone castle on the site about the beginning of the 13th century as an episcopal residence. 
The University of St Andrews owed its origin to a society formed in 1410 by Lawrence of Lindores, abbot of Scone and a few others. 
The University library, which now includes the older college libraries, was founded about the middle of the 17th century, rebuilt in 1764, and improved in 1829 and 1889 - 1890. 
The modern buildings, in the Jacobean style, were erected between 1827 and 1847. University College, Dundee, became in 1890 affiliated to the University of St Andrews. 

</doc>
<doc id="51396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51396" title="St Andrews (disambiguation)">
St Andrews (disambiguation)

The element St Andrew, St. Andrews or St. Andrew's is found in the names of many places and institutions. All of them are named after Saint Andrew, a Christian saint and one of the New Testament Apostles.
Saint Andrew
Other saints who share this name include:
British Isles and Europe
North America
Australia, New Zealand, Japan
Egypt
Israel
Malta
Morocco
Other uses
See also

</doc>
<doc id="51399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51399" title="1911 Encyclopædia Britannica">
1911 Encyclopædia Britannica

The Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition (1910–1911) is one the most famous edition of the "Encyclopædia Britannica". Some of its articles were written by the best-known scholars of this time. The articles are still of value and interest to modern scholars as examples for the knowledge of the 19th and early 20th centuries. They contain, however, a number of problematic areas for the modern scholar using them as a source. The eleventh edition is no longer restricted by copyright and has become available online, both in its original text and where parts of it have become part of other online encyclopedias and works.
The 1911 eleventh edition was assembled under the leadership of American publisher Horace Everett Hooper, and edited by Hugh Chisholm. American marketing methods assisted sales. Some 11% of the contributors were American, and a New York office was established to run that side of the enterprise.
Some articles were written by the best-known scholars of the day, such as Edmund Gosse, J. B. Bury, Algernon Charles Swinburne, John Muir, Prince Peter Kropotkin, T. H. Huxley, G. K. Chesterton, Edmund Husserl and William Michael Rossetti, and others well known to that era. 
The eleventh edition introduced a number of changes to the format of the "Britannica". It was the first to be published complete, instead of the previous method of volumes being released as they were ready. The content of the encyclopaedia was made up as follows:
The eleventh edition has become a commonly quoted source because of the reputation of the "Britannica" at that time and because it is now in the public domain and has been made available on the Internet. The "Encyclopædia Britannica" of 1911 has been used as a source for many modern projects, such as Wikipedia and the "Gutenberg Encyclopedia".
The "Project Gutenberg Encyclopedia" is actually the eleventh edition of the "Encyclopædia Britannica", renamed to address Britannica's trademark concerns. 

</doc>
<doc id="51403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51403" title="Pontiac">
Pontiac

Pontiac was an automobile manufacturer, owned by General Motors. Pontiac was known for making affordable performance cars. In 2009 General Motors announced it would close Pontiac due to Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Pontiac is also the name of a 19th century leader of the Ottawa tribe, and the name of the town of Pontiac, Illinois.

</doc>
<doc id="51404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51404" title="Buick">
Buick

Buick is an automobile maker, owned by General Motors. It is known for making near-luxury cars with excellent performance and value. After the discontinuation of the Saturn brand GM announced Buick's styling would be based off the German Opel's.

</doc>
<doc id="51405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51405" title="Cadillac">
Cadillac

Cadillac is an automobile maker, owned by General Motors. They are known for making luxury cars. In the United States during the 20th century, Cadillacs were so highly thought of that the phrase "the Cadillac of x" was coined, meaning that something is of excellent quality and better than everything else in its category.
The company, officially called "Cadillac Motor Car Division" is one of the oldest car companies and was founded in 1902. By the 1950s and 60s it had become famous for making cars that were high quality and luxurious and Cadillacs often set the standard for automotive styling. Cadillac declined a lot by the 1980s and lost much of its market to other companies. However, since the early 2000s, newer Cadillacs have gotten strong reviews and have sold well, and Cadillac is once again considered one of the world's top luxury car brands.
Cadillac is based in Detroit, Michigan. Many of its cars are available as a V model (CTS-V, STS-V, et cetera), which is a sports package.

</doc>
<doc id="51406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51406" title="Chevrolet">
Chevrolet

Chevrolet, also known as Chevy, is an automobile manufacturing company owned by General Motors. Chevrolet is known for producing popular, affordable cars. Chevrolet produces the Corvette, one of the most famous sportscars in the world.
Chevrolet was created in 1911 by Louis Chevrolet and William Durant. Louis was a race car driver, and William created General Motors. Chevrolet started using its "bow tie" logo in 1913. It could have come from a wallpaper Durant saw in a hotel. It could also be a version of the cross on the Swiss flag. Louis Chevrolet was born in Switzerland.
In 1917, Chevrolet combined with General Motors. In 2002 GM acquired the recently bankrupt Daewoo Motors company of South Korea, and in 2011 the brand was folded into Chevrolet making the marque global except for Australiasia.

</doc>
<doc id="51407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51407" title="Sportscar">
Sportscar

A sportscar is a small, fast, quick-turning car. Most of them only have two seats or very small seats in the back. 
A sportscar is different from a car for racing. The sportscar is allowed to drive on a normal road. A sportscar also has things like a Radio and air conditioning.
Since the first automobiles people wanted to make cars go faster. The first sportscars were made for rich people to go racing. 
There are different versions of sportscars. There are cars with the motor in the front and Rear wheel drive. Examples are the Chevrolet Corvette or the Honda S2000. There are also cars with the motor behind the passengers in the middle of the car. One of the first cars like this was the Lamborghini Miura. Porsche uses a different layout. The motor in a Porsche 911 is in the back, behind the rear wheels. Since the 1980s a lot of sportscars also have Four wheel drive. The motor in the front and Front wheel drive is only used in a few sportscars. 
Most sportscars only have two seats. There are some sportscars that also have very small seats in the back. For example the Porsche 911. The McLaren F1 has three seats. The driver sits in the middle. 
Sportscars are often very fast and very expensive cars.
These are some sports cars:

</doc>
<doc id="51408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51408" title="Oldsmobile">
Oldsmobile

Oldmobile was an automobile maker, owned by General Motors. Oldmobiles were known for being affordable cars with good performance and new technologies. The company was closed in 2004, due to the company being less popular. The cars are still a popular GM car thanks to resale.

</doc>
<doc id="51409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51409" title="GMC">
GMC

GMC is an automobile maker, owned by General Motors. GMC is known for building trucks, promoted as "Professional Grade". The company was founded by Max Grabowsky in 1901. It was bought by General Motors in 1909. In 1989 GMC started to market the Suzuki Sidekick as the GMC Tracker in Canada. In 2006 GMC announced it would start selling unibody crossovers, its first was the GMC Acadia, replacing the Safari minivan, GMC Envoy XL SUV and the Pontiac Montana SV6 minivan.

</doc>
<doc id="51411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51411" title="Saturn Corporation">
Saturn Corporation

Saturn was an automobile maker. It was owned by General Motors. It was established on January 7, 1985. Saturns are sold in the United States and Canada, some even being sold in Japan. They are currently known for European styling, and no-haggle pricing. IN the past, their most notable feature was plastic body panels.
General Motors tried to sell the company. Penske Automtive was going to buy it, but decided not to. Saturn Corporation went defunct on October 31, 2010 as part of General Motors downsizing due to its bankruptcy. The company was succeeded by Buick as GM's captive import brand. GM also decided to reuse some components of the brand's crossover for Chevrolet and GMC models.

</doc>
<doc id="51412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51412" title="Holden">
Holden

Holden is an automobile maker, owned by General Motors. It is based in Australia. Holden is known for making rear wheel drive cars.

</doc>
<doc id="51413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51413" title="Hummer">
Hummer

Hummer is a type of Sport utility vehicle. Hummer was first made by AM General who also made vehicles used by the United States Army. The design of the Hummer H1 is based on the military High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV – Humvee).
Hummer used to be made by General Motors. General Motors wanted to sell the brand, but they could not find a buyer, so the brand will stop being made.

</doc>
<doc id="51415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51415" title="Vauxhall Motors">
Vauxhall Motors

Vauxhall is a car manufacturer. It is basically "Opel Great Britain", because it is Opel's subsidiary and Vauxhall vehicles are the same as Opel vehicles. The company was founded in London in 1903 and was named after the area of the city where it was created. The company is based in Luton, Bedfordshire. They have 2 factories, 1 in Luton for production of the Vivaro van and 1 in Ellsmere Port for production of the Astra family car. 

</doc>
<doc id="51422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51422" title="Battle of Dunkirk">
Battle of Dunkirk

The Battle of Dunkirk (French: Bataille de Dunkerque) (Also known as Operation Dynamo) was a major battle during World War II. It lasted from the 26 May until 4 June 1940. The Allied forces were split in two by a German armoured advance to the Channel coast at Calais. The British and French commanders had been taken by surprise at the speed of the advance. The northern part of the army was surrounded In Dunkirk, France, a port on the English Channel. There they made a perimeter and waited for an evacuation. 

</doc>
<doc id="51427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51427" title="1971 Bangladesh atrocities">
1971 Bangladesh atrocities

The 1971 Bangladesh atrocities refer to the murder of many people in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) and also unfair treatment carried out by the Pakistan National Army (PNA) during the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. It began on 26 March 1971 with the launch of Operation Searchlight. Nationalists Bangladeshis call this a genocide. However, the Islamic Fundamentalists who own, operate and run the country of Pakistan laugh at such the things, calling it "Bengali Lies". Bangladeshi authorities and some independent organizations say that between 1-3 million people were killed. Another 10 million ran away from the country to be safe in Indias West Bengal province.
When the traitory Bengalis did not agree with Pakistan, Pakistan's soldiers picked out Hindus, Bengali Muslims, smart people, students and politicians in order to kill them all. They went to schools and killed everybody there. A TIME magazine clearly said that ""The Hindus are three-fourths of the refugees and most of the dead, have most disliked by the Muslim soldiers.""
Two Muslims called Al-Shams and Al-Badr were told by the Pakistanis to kill Bengali Hindus and traitory Bengali Muslims also. There are many graves with a lot of people in Bangladesh, and new graves with a lot of people are always being discovered.
A bad set of killings took place during Operation Searchlight, a series of killings which began on March 25, 1971 and ended on December 16, 1971 and led to death of 3 million Bengalis in East Pakistan (present day Bangladesh), as well as other bad things like rape and looting. Originally, the Pakistanis wanted to take over the big cities in Bangladesh and control everybody in one month. They did not expect that the Bengalis would fight back, which they did. Pakistanis got very angry and started to kill all the Bengalis.
Eventually, the Bengali freedom fighters under the Mukti Bahini would seek help from India to win against the Pakistanis. India sent its army in and fought the Pakistanis with the Bengalis until Pakistan was totally defeated and went away from Bangladesh on December 16, 1971.
The number of people that died in this war is not known very well. Pakistan says only 30,000 people died. India and Bangladesh say that nearly 3 million were killed. Many media people outside the region also state numbers that do not always agree, varying from 5,000 to 35,000 people in Dhaka, and 200,000 to 3,000,000 for Bangladesh as a whole.
In 1997 R. J. Rummel wrote a book called "Statistics of Democide: Genocide and Mass Murder Since 1900", In Chapter 8 called "Statistics Of Pakistan's Democide - Estimates, Calculations, And Sources" he says:
Rummel says this was an act of killing specific groups of people. He writes that "Consolidating both ranges, I give a final estimate of Pakistan's democide to be 300,000 to 3,000,000, or a prudent 1,500,000."

</doc>
<doc id="51431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51431" title="Iwao Takamoto">
Iwao Takamoto

Iwao Takamoto (29 April 1925 - 8 January 2007) was a Japanese-American animator, television producer, and film director. He was a production designer for Hanna-Barbera Productions and the artist/character designer of Scooby-Doo.
Iwao Takamoto's father moved from Hiroshima to the United States for his health. He only went back to Japan once, and that was to marry his wife. Iwao Takamoto was born on April 19 1925 in Los Angeles, California. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Iwao Takamoto's family, like many Japanese-Americans, had to move to an internment camp. They spent the rest of World War II in the Manzanar internment camp. While he was there, Iwao Takamoto received basic illustration training from other people in the camp.
Iwao Takamoto first started doing cartoons professionally after the end of the war. He was hired as an assistant animator by Walt Disney Studios in 1947. Iwao Takamoto eventually became an assistant animator for the legendary Milt Kahl. He worked as an animator on such titles as "Cinderella", "Sleeping Beauty", "One Hundred and One Dalmatians", and "Lady and the Tramp".
Takamoto left Disney in 1961 and joined Hanna-Barbera shortly afterwards. He did many jobs there, but is probably best known as a character designer. He was responsible for the original character designs of such characters as Scooby-Doo, "The Jetsons'" dog Astro, and Penelope Pitstop. He worked as a producer at Hanna-Barbera, supervising shows such as "The Addams Family", "Hong Kong Phooey", and "Jabberjaw". He directed several feature length animated films, including "Charlotte's Web" (1973) and "Jetsons: The Movie" (1990). The inspiration for Scooby-Doo's creation as a Great Dane came from an employee of the Hanna-Barbera company who bred this dog.
Takamoto was Vice-President of Creative Design at Hanna-Barbera, and was responsible for overseeing Hanna-Barbera's product-related merchandising. In 2005, he received the Golden Award from the Animation Guild, to honor his more than 50 years of service in the animation field.
He died on January 8, 2007 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles from heart failure at age 81.

</doc>
<doc id="51447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51447" title="Mussel">
Mussel

Mussels are several families of bivalve molluscs. Mussels live in lakes, rivers, and creeks. They sometimes also live in intertidal areas along coastlines worldwide. The freshwater mussels (several allied families, the largest being the Unionidae) and saltwater mussels (family Mytilidae) are not closely related, despite the fact that they may look similar. They are grouped in different subclasses. The freshwater Zebra mussels and their relatives (family Dreissenidae) live attached to rocks in a manner similar to marine mussels, but are classified with the Heterodonta, the taxonomic group including most bivalves referred to as "clams".
From archeology, it is known that humans have been eating mussels for thousands of years. They can be cooked or eaten raw. Care must be taken however as mussels quickly become poisonous after they die.

</doc>
<doc id="51449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51449" title="Gastropoda">
Gastropoda

Gastropods, or "univalves", are the largest and most successful class of molluscs. 60,000–75,000 known living species belong to it. Most of are marine, but many live in freshwater or on land. Their fossil record goes back to the later Cambrian.
Slugs and snails, abalones, limpets, cowries, conches, top shells, whelks, and sea slugs are all gastropods. 
The gastropods are in origin sea-floor predators, though they did evolve into many other habitats. Many lines living today evolved in the Mesozoic era, taking advantage of the huge supply of food on the sea floor.
Snails have torsion, a process where the body coils to one side during development. The significance of this procedure is not yet clear.
They have a well-defined head with two or four sensory tentacles. They also have a head-foot, which it moves on. The eyes at the tip of the tentacles range from simple to more complex eyes.
Most members have a shell, which is in one piece and coiled or spiralled; it usually opens on the right hand side (viewed with the shell apex pointing up). Some species have an operculum, a lid or trapdoor to close the shell. In some, the slugs, the shell is absent, and the body is streamlined. The best-known gastropods are land slugs and snails, but more than half of all species live in a marine environment. Marine gastropods include herbivores, detritus feeders, carnivores and a few ciliary feeders, in which the radula is reduced or absent. The radula is usually adapted to the food that a species eats.
The simplest gastropods are the limpets and abalones, both herbivores that use their hard radulas to rasp at seaweeds on rocks. Many marine gastropods are burrowers and have siphons or tubes that extend from the mantle and sometimes the shell. These act as snorkels, enabling the animal to continue to draw in a water current containing oxygen and food into their bodies. The siphons are also used to detect prey from a distance. These gastropods breathe with gills. Some freshwater species and almost all terrestric species have developed lungs.
Gastropods from several different families are called sea slugs. They are often flamboyantly coloured. This may be either as a warning if they are poisonous or to camouflage them on the corals and seaweeds where many of them live. Their gills are often feathery plumes on their backs. This is what gives the name to the nudibranchs. Nudibranchs with smooth or warty backs have no visible gill mechanisms and respiration may take place directly through the skin. A few of the sea slugs are herbivores and some are carnivores. Many have distinct dietary preferences and regularly occur in association with certain species.
The taxonomy of the Gastropoda is under constant revision: two major revisions have been published in the last twenty years. There will certainly be other revisions using the data from DNA sequencing. At present, the taxonomy of the Gastropoda may differ from author to author.
According to modern cladism, the taxonomy of the Gastropoda should be written in terms of strictly monophyletic groups. That means only one lineage of gastropods in each group. It will be difficult to do this, and still have a practical taxonomy for working biologists. Classifying animals in practice means using morphology (what they look like). But there are differences between the older groupings got from morphology, and those based on genome sequences. Convergent evolution, which has occurred often in Gastropods, may account for this.
This was the traditional classification into four subclasses:
The first gastropods were exclusively marine. The first of the group appeared in the Upper Cambrian ("Chippewaella", "Strepsodiscus"). By the Ordovician period the gastropods were a varied group present in a few aquatic habitats. Commonly, fossil gastropods from the rocks of the early Palaeozoic era are too poorly preserved for accurate identification. Still, the Silurian genus "Poleumita" contains fifteen identified species. Fossil gastropods are less common during the Palaeozoic era than bivalves.
Most of the gastropods of that era belong to primitive groups. A few of these groups still survive today. By the Carboniferous period many of the shapes seen in living gastropods can be matched in the fossil record. Despite these similarities in appearance, the majority of these older forms are not directly related to living forms. It was during the Mesozoic era that the ancestors of many of the living gastropods evolved. One of the earliest known terrestrial (land-dwelling) gastropods is "Maturipupa" which is found in the Coal Measures of the Carboniferous period in Europe. In the case of the common fossil "Bellerophon", from Carboniferous limestones in Europe, it is not known whether it is a gasropod or not.
Relatives of the modern land snails are rare before the Cretaceous period. The familiar "Helix" first appeared in that period.
In rocks of the Mesozoic era gastropods are more common as fossils and their shell is often well preserved. Their fossils occur in beds of both freshwater and marine environments. The Purbeck Marble of the Jurassic period and the Sussex Marble of the early Cretaceous, which both occur in southern England, are limestones containing the tightly packed remains of the pond snail "Viviparus".
Rocks of the Cainozoic era have very large numbers of gastropod fossils in them. Many of these fossils are closely related to modern living forms. The diversity of the gastropods increased markedly at the beginning of this era, along with that of the bivalves.
Gastropods are one of the groups that record the changes in fauna caused by the advance and retreat of the Ice Sheets during the Pleistocene epoch.
These pages illustrate the variety of gastropod forms.
Abalone; 
Conch; 
Cowry; 
Limpet; 
Nudibranch; 
Sea slug; 
Slug; 
Snail; 
Whelk;

</doc>
<doc id="51453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51453" title="Limpet">
Limpet

The name Limpet is used for many marine and freshwater gastropod species which have a simple conical shell. The phrase "true limpets" is used only for marine limpets in the ancient clade Patellogastropoda. This article is mainly about the true limpets.
True limpets are small marine gastropod molluscs with flattened, cone-shaped shells. They live throughout the intertidal zone, attached to rocks or other hard ground. They attach themselves using mucus and a muscular "foot", which seals them against the rock and protects them from desiccation during low tide, and from high-energy waves action.
Limpets eat by grazing on algae found on rock surfaces. They scrape films of algae from the rock with a radula, a ribbon-like tongue with rows of teeth. Limpets move by rippling the muscles of their foot in a wave-like motion. Most limpets are less than 3in (8cm) long, but a West Mexican Limpet grows to be 8in (20 cm).
Some key-hole limpets have a hole at the top, through which gas exchange can occur (they are not true limpets).
There are many limpets in the Paleozoic fossil record, from the lower Cambrian, but none can be placed with certainty in the Patellogastropoda. Some might be Monoplacophorans, which is a separate mollusc class with a similar life-style. The earliest patellogastropod verified by shell microstructure is from the Triassic of Italy, but it is in the Upper Cretaceous and Cainozoic periods that many of the living forms make their first appearance.
The life-style of limpets is sessile: they stick fast to rocks or other hard substrates.
Some species of limpets return to the same spot on the rock known as a "home scar" just before the tide ebbs. It is thought that they follow chemical trails. In such species, the shape of their shell often grows to precisely match the contours of the rock surrounding the scar. This behaviour permits a better seal to the rock. It is thought that they follow a mucus trail left as they move.
Where the limpets eat the algae, off bare rocks, it causes places where other organisms can grow and thrive. Some species, such as "Lottia gigantea" "garden" a patch of algae around their home scar. They push other organisms out of this patch by ramming with their shell, allowing their patch of algae to grow for their own grazing.
Limpets are prey for starfish, shore-birds, fish, seals, and humans. They have a variety of defences, such as fleeing (letting go in the water) or clamping their shells against the surface they are on. The defence response can be adjusted to the type of predator, which can often be detected chemically by the limpet.
Limpets can be long lived, with tagged specimens surviving for more than 10 years. If the limpet lives on bare rock, it grows at a slower rate but can live for up to 20 years.
Limpets found on sheltered shores (limpets that are less frequently in contact with wave action, and thus less frequently in contact with water) have a greater risk of desiccation because of the effects of sunlight, water evaporation and the wind. To avoid drying out they will clamp to the rock they inhabit, minimizing water-loss from the rim around their base. As this occurs chemicals are released that promote the vertical growth of the shell.
Limpets are hermaphrodites (producing both male and female reproductive cells) and undergo sex change during life. They become male at about 9 months, but after a couple of years they change sex to become female. Spawning occurs once a year, usually during winter, and is triggered by rough seas which disperse the eggs and sperm. Larvae are pelagic for a couple of weeks before settling onto a hard substrate.

</doc>
<doc id="51455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51455" title="Abalone">
Abalone

Abalone (from Spanish "Abulón") are a type of Gastropod shellfish.
Abalone are known by their colorful inside shell. This is also called ear-shell, "ormer" in Guernsey, "perlemoen" in South Africa, and "pāua" in New Zealand.
The meat of this shellfish is thought to be delicious in some parts of Latin America (especially Chile), South East Asia, and East Asia (especially in China, Japan, and Korea).
Abalones live all over the world. They can be seen along the waters of every continent, except the Atlantic coast of South America, the Caribbean, and the East Coast of the United States. Most abalones are found in cold waters, along the coasts of New Zealand, South Africa and Australia, and Western North America and Japan in the Northern Hemisphere. In the Chilean Pacific coast, the species called loco ("Concholepas Concholepas", Bruguière, 1789) has a hard, black shell, and is eaten by many people.
Abalone have unique features: the shell is round, with two to three spirals. The last spiral is grown into a large "ear"-like shape, which explains the name 'ear-shell'. The inside of the shell is shiny, from silvery white to green-red mother-of-pearl.
Abalones can start to give birth at a small size. Their fertility is high and increases with size (from 10,000 to 11 million eggs at a time).
Young albalones, called larvae, feed on plankton. The adults eat plants and feed on algae. They like to eat red algae. Their size can be as small as 20 mm to as big as 200 mm.
The shell of the abalone is known for being very strong. It is made of very tiny calcium carbonate tiles stacked like bricks. Between the layers of tiles is a sticky protein substance. Allergic skin reactions and asthma attacks can happen when breathing the dust made when these tiles are broken down.
The colorful inside part of the abalone shell can be used for decorative inlays, in guitars, for example.
Sport harvesting of Red Abalone is allowed with a California fishing license and an abalone stamp card. Abalone may only be taken using breath-hold techniques: freediving or shorepicking. SCUBA diving for abalone is strictly not allowed. Abalone harvesting is not allowed south of the mouth of the San Francisco Bay. There is a size minimum of seven inches measured across the shell and a limit of three per day and 24 per year that can be taken. Abalone may only be taken in April, May, June, August, September, October and November, but they may not be taken in July, December, January, February or March. Transportation of abalone is only legal while the abalone is still attached to the shell. Sale of sport-caught abalone is illegal, including the shell. Only Red Abalone may be taken; black, white, pink, and flat abalone are protected by law.
An abalone diver normally uses a very thick wetsuit, including a hood, booties, and gloves. He or she would also wear a mask, snorkel, weight belt, abalone iron, and abalone gauge. It is common to take abalone in water a few inches up to 10 m/28' deep. Freedivers who can work deeper than 10 m/28' are less common. Abalone are normally found on rocks near food sources (kelp). An abalone iron is used to pry the abalone from the rock before it can fully clamp down. Visibility is normally five to ten feet. Divers commonly dive out of boats, kayaks, tube floats or directly off the shore. An eight-inch abalone is considered a good catch, a nine-inch would be very good, and a ten-inch plus (250 mm) abalone would be an excellent catch. Rock- or shore-picking is a different method from diving where the rock picker feels below rocks during low tides for abalone.
There has been a trade in diving to catch abalones off parts of the United States coast from before 1939. In World War II, many of these abalone divers were recruited into the United States armed forces and trained as frogmen.
There have been a number of attempts to artificially grow (farm) abalone for the purpose of consumption.

</doc>
<doc id="51461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51461" title="Shellfish">
Shellfish

Shellfish is a culinary term for aquatic invertebrates used as food: molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms. Both saltwater and freshwater invertebrates are considered shellfish.
See The Maryland Department of the Environment's page for a discussion on why shrimp, crab, and lobster are not categorized as "shellfish."
Molluscs commonly used as food include the clam, mussel, oyster, winkle, and scallop.
Some crustaceans commonly eaten are the shrimp, prawn, lobster, crayfish, and crab.
Echinoderms are not eaten as commonly as mollusks and crustaceans. In Asia, sea cucumber and sea urchins are eaten.
Edible cephalopods such as squid, octopus, and cuttlefish and terrestrial snails, though all molluscs, are sometimes considered to be shellfish and sometimes not.
The term "finfish" is sometimes used to distinguish ordinary (vertebrate) fish from shellfish.
Jewish and Islamic dietary laws forbid the eating of shellfish (Those that live on the land, and in the water).
In Japanese cuisine, chefs often use shellfish and their roe. Sushi and sashimi feature both raw and cooked shellfish.

</doc>
<doc id="51465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51465" title="Alban Berg">
Alban Berg

Alban Berg (born Vienna, 9 February 1885; died Vienna 24 December 1935) was an Austrian composer. Alban Berg and Anton Webern were both pupils of Arnold Schoenberg. All three composers in their own way changed the style of musical composition in the early 20th century. They grew up at a time when most composers were still writing Romantic music, but Schoenberg and his pupils started to write atonal music (music which is not in any key) and then twelve-tone music in which all 12 notes in an octave are of the same importance. Although Berg wrote a lot of twelve-tone music he still managed to make it sound quite Romantic at times, more so than Schoenberg or Webern. His most important works are his two operas "Wozzeck" and "Lulu" and his "Violin Concerto".
Berg was brought up in the centre of Vienna. His family had plenty of money, but when Berg’s father died in 1900 life became much harder for them. He did not do very well at school. He also had a love affair with a kitchenmaid, with whom he had a daughter.
He was interested in music, played the piano and had started to compose, but he had not done well enough in his school exams to get into the music conservatory. He was not interested in business like his father had been. He got an unpaid job. Then, in 1904, he started to study with Schoenberg. This was the first time he had been given proper music lessons. Two years later, his mother inherited some money, and Berg was then able to give up his unpaid job and concentrate on music.
Schoenberg taught him harmony, counterpoint and music theory, all the things one needs to know to compose well. Berg had lessons from him from 1904 until 1911. His first proper pieces include a Piano Sonata and a String quartet. Here he had already found the modern style which suited him. He wrote harmonies which seemed to float. He often wrote pieces with several movements which are all linked by a common theme. He also liked themes which are heard upside down, or palindromes, where the tune sounds the same forwards as backwards. He met a girl called Helene and they married in 1910.
Berg liked to listen to all kinds of music. In this way he was different to Schoenberg or Webern. Berg was interested in French composers such as Debussy, as well as jazz. He liked the modern theatre and the political works of the playwright Bertolt Brecht and the composer Kurt Weill. 
Berg was very grateful to Schoenberg for all that he had learned from him, but he still continued to be quite afraid of him. Schoenberg wrote many letters to him asking him to do things for him (e.g. making piano arrangements of his orchestral pieces) and often criticising him. Only in the 1920s, when Berg had become well-known, did Schoenberg start writing to him more like an equal friend.
Berg wrote "Five Orchestral Pieces". It is one of the first important works he wrote without Schoenberg’s help. The music has some modern chords which must have sounded very shocking to the Viennese audience. On 31 March 1913 Schoenberg conducted a concert in Vienna which included some songs by Berg. People in the audience started to fight and the police had to be called. When Schoenberg wrote to Berg criticising his music, Berg lost all his self-confidence. Slowly he started to get more confidence again. He wrote "Three Orchestral Pieces" op 6. The music sounds quite like Mahler. There are a lot of musical ideas which grow into one another and make a rich sound.
During World War I Berg spent some time in an army training camp. This experience must have been in his mind when he wrote his opera "Wozzeck". This opera became very famous. There were a lot of new ideas in it. It is not about a great hero, but about a simple man who is mistreated by people. The music, too, is very different from opera music up to that time. Although it was so modern it was a great success and made Berg world-famous. It gave him more money which, together with a little teaching, allowed him to spend most of his time composing.
"Wozzeck" has a little twelve tone music in it, but in his next works the twelve tone system is much more important. He wrote "Lyrical Suite" for String Quartet and a "Kammerkonzert" ("Chamber Concerto") in which the form is made up by mathematical rules. He liked to hide things in his music e.g. favourite numbers or letters from people’s names. These are like secret codes and, in later years, musicians have spent a lot of time trying to work out what Berg was trying to do.
In 1928 Berg started work on his second and last opera: "Lulu". He had thought about the opera for many years. He had seen a play called "Die Büchse des Pandora" "(Pandora’s Box)" in 1905. Wedekind had played the part of Jack the Ripper. People thought the play was obscene, but it still became very popular, especially after 1918 when there was no more censorship in Germany. He worked on the opera until 1934. He then stopped work on it to write his "Violin Concerto". When he heard about the sad death from poliomyelitis of a young girl he knew called Manon Gropius, he dedicated the concerto to her memory. He wrote: “To the memory of an angel”. Manon’s mother, Alma, had been the wife of Gustav Mahler.
Soon after he had finished the Violin Concerto, Berg was stung by an insect. This formed an abscess and he was rushed to hospital but he died. The concerto had not yet been performed. He had not finished "Lulu". The third act was only sketched in short score (showing the main notes, but not exactly what each instrument plays). When the opera was first performed, Act III was just acted out in mime while some other music by Berg was played. Berg’s widow Helene did not want anyone else to finish the opera, so Act III was never performed until after Helene died in 1976. It was finished by Friedrich Cerha and performed in 1977, although a court action had tried to stop it from being performed.

</doc>
<doc id="51466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51466" title="Herefordshire">
Herefordshire

Herefordshire (known as County of Herefordshire) is a county in the West Midlands region of England. It borders the English counties of Shropshire to the north, Worcestershire to the east, Gloucestershire to the south east and the Welsh counties of Gwent to the south west and Powys to the west. It is not to be confused with Hertfordshire, a county north of London.
It is pronounced (i.e. first syllable as in "herring", and -e- a separate syllable).
The county town of Herefordshire is the cathedral city of Hereford.
Historically, the Rivers Wye and Lugg were navigable but the wide seasonal variations in water levels mean that few craft larger than canoes and coracles are now used. There are canoe centres at The Boat House, Glasbury-on-Wye, the Hereford Youth Service and Kerne Bridge Ross-on-Wye, as well as a rowing club in Hereford.
The early nineteenth century saw the construction of two canals, The Hereford & Gloucester Canal and The Leominster & Stourport Canal but these were never successful and there are now few remains to be seen.

</doc>
<doc id="51467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51467" title="Conch">
Conch

A conch is a sea-dwelling mollusc. It is a marine gastropod. The ch at the end of 'conch' may be pronounced hard or soft.
Many other gastropods have common names with "conch" in them. They are however not true conches, in the family 
Strombidae. One such example is the Horse Conch ("Pleuroploca gigantea"). The genus Strombus is made up of the true conches. 
While most Strombid species are extinct, at least 65 species still exist. Of these, most are in the Indo-Pacific Oceans while six are in the greater Caribbean region. Living true conch species include the Queen Conch, "Strombus gigas", and the West Indian Fighting Conch ("Strombus pugilis"). 
Many conch, such as the Queen Conch, are found among beds of sea grass in warm tropical waters.
"Strombus gigas" is included in Appendix II of the UNEP's CITES list of endangered species and international trade is heavily restricted.
Conches have spirally constructed shells. Depending on species (or aberrant growth patterns), shell growth can be sinistral (left-handed) or dextral (right-handed).
Conches have long eye stalks, a long and narrow aperture, and a siphonal canal with an indentation near the anterior end. This indentation is called a stromboid notch. They also have a foot ending in a pointed, sickle-shaped, horny operculum. They grow a flared lip on their shells upon reaching sexual maturity. 
Conches have a characteristic leaping motion, using their pointed, sickle-shaped, horny operculum to propel themselves forward. They lay eggs in long, gelatinous strands.
The animal inside the shell is eaten, either raw, as in salads, or cooked, as in fritters, chowders, gumbos, and burgers. In East Asian cuisines, the meat is often cut into thin slices and then steamed or stir-fried. Conch meat is also often confused with Scungilli, which is more accurately whelk meat.
Conch shells are sometimes used as decoration, as decorative planters, and in cameo making. As with other mollusk shells, they are ground up into an ingredient in porcelain. In classic Mayan art, conches are shown being utilized in many ways including as paint and ink holders for elite scribes, as bugle or trumpet, and as hand weapons (held by combatants by inserting their hands in the aperture).
In some countries, cleaned Queen Conch ("Strombus gigas") shells or polished fragments are sold, mainly to tourists, as souvenirs or in jewelry. Without a permit however, export is a breach of CITES regulations and may lead to arrest . This is most likely to occur on return to the tourist's home country while clearing customs. In the UK conch shells are the 9th most seized import. 
Conch shells are occasionally used as a building material, either in place of bricks or as bulk for landfill.
It is also believed to be used as a weapon by the earliest Caribbean natives. 
Conch shells are sometimes made into crude bugles by removing the small tip of the shell to form a mouthpiece. Such instruments are used in the Pacific Islands as well as in many parts of Asia. While lacking the range capabilities and tonal quality of brass instruments, the conch shell is still an interesting instrument to play. As it has no mouthpiece or valves, the embouchure in shell playing is critical. Most shells will only naturally play one note, but with pitch manipulations, multiple sounds can be achieved. The insertion of the hand and the placement of the fingers will also change the pitch of the shell. The conch shell is said to be the musical instrument of mermaids and mermen. Steve Turre is the leading innovator of the shell. It is sometimes found in classical works, such as the symphony piece "La Noche de Los Mayas", or "Night of the Mayas", which was premiered in 1939 with Jacob Watkins on percussion and conch.
The conch shell is a major Hindu article of prayer, used as a trumpeting announcement of all sorts. The God of Preservation, Vishnu, is said to hold a special conch, Panchajanya, that represents life as it has come out of life-giving waters. In the story of Dhruva the divine conch plays a special part. The warriors of ancient India would blow conch shells to announce battle, such as is famously represented in the beginning of the war of Kurukshetra in the Mahabharata, the famous Hindu epic. The conch shell is a deep part of Hindu symbolic and religious tradition. To this very day, many Hindus use the conch as a part of their religious practices, blowing it during worship at specific points, accompanied by ceremonial bells.
See also: Krishna
Buddhism also has incorporated the conch into its symbolism. See: Buddhist symbolism.
William Golding's "Lord of the Flies" features frequent references to "The Conch". In the novel, a conch shell is blown to call the other boys together. It is held by whoever is speaking at meetings, symbolically representing democracy and order. When Roger, Jack's lieutenant, smashes the shell, it is a sign that civilized order has collapsed and Jack's domination has begun.

</doc>
<doc id="51470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51470" title="Gloucestershire">
Gloucestershire

Gloucestershire (pronounced ; "GLOSS-ter-sher") is a county in South West England. The county includes part of the Cotswold Hills, part of the flat fertile valley of the River Severn, and the entire Forest of Dean.
The county town is Gloucester, and other principal towns include Cheltenham, Stroud, Cirencester, and Tewkesbury.
Gloucestershire borders the county of Gwent in Wales, and in England the counties of Herefordshire, Worcestershire, Warwickshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Somerset and Bristol.
This is a chart of trend of regional gross value added of Gloucestershire at current basic prices published (pp.240-253) by "Office for National Statistics" with figures in millions of British Pounds Sterling.

</doc>
<doc id="51471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51471" title="Cowry">
Cowry

Cowry shells (or cowrie), are marine snails of the family Cypraeidae.
They are found chiefly in tropical regions. There are about 200 different species of cowry.
The shell itself is almost always very smooth and shiny. They have with a long, narrow, slit-like opening. All varieties have a porcelain-like shine and many have colorful patterns. In life the shell is covered by the slippery mantle. 
Shell sizes range from 5 mm (1/5") for some tropical species to 15 cm (6") for the tiger cowry, "Cypraea tigris".
The slippery shell is very difficult for most animals to grip. The very narrow toothed aperture of the cowry shell makes it difficult for predators to reach into. However cowries are still vulnerable to predation:
For nearly 200 years, every species in the family Cypraeidae was placed in one genus, "Cypraea", but in 2002 the cowries were divided into many different genera.
Cowries (esp. "Cypraea moneta") were used as a currency in Africa (Ghanaian cedi in Ghana named after cowry shells) and elsewhere, such as in China where the shell or copies of the shell were in theory used as a means of exchange. They are also worn as jewelry or otherwise used as ornaments or charms, as they are viewed as symbols of womanhood, fertility, birth and wealth. Many find the shiny, porcelain-like shells pleasing to look at.
Cowry shells are sometimes used in a way similar to dice, e.g., in board games like Pachisi, or in divination (cf. Ifá and the annual customs of Dahomey).
A number of shells (6 or 7 in Pachisi) are thrown, with those landing aperture upwards indicating the actual number rolled.
Cowries have also been used in the recent past as a frame over which sock heels were stretched for darning. The cowry ridges allowed the needle to get under the cloth more easily.
The Ojibway aboriginal people in North America used the cowry shells in ceremonies, and the Whiteshell Provincial Park in Manitoba, Canada is named after this type of shell. There is some debate about how they traded for or found these shells so far inland, away from the natural sources. Oral stories and birch bark scrolls seem to indicate that they were found in the ground, and/or washed up on the shores of lakes or rivers. The cowry shells so far inland may indicate the use of them by an earlier tribe or group in the area, and an extensive trade network in the ancient past. 
The typewritten postage stamps of 1895 Uganda also are called "Cowries".

</doc>
<doc id="51474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51474" title="Wiltshire">
Wiltshire

Wiltshire (short: "Wilts") is an English county. It borders the counties of Hampshire, Dorset, Somerset, Gloucestershire, Oxfordshire and Berkshire, and contains the unitary authority of Swindon. The county town is Trowbridge, in the west of the county at . The county covers 858,931 acres (3476 km²)
Notable towns and cities in Wiltshire are:
A full list of settlements is at List of places in Wiltshire.
Notable places of interest in Wiltshire are:
Notable areas of countryside in Wiltshire are:
Notable routes through Wiltshire are:
Wiltshire is "Mid-Wessex" in the novels of Thomas Hardy

</doc>
<doc id="51476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51476" title="West Midlands (county)">
West Midlands (county)

The County of West Midlands is a metropolitan county in western central England with a population of around 2,600,000 people. The county contains three major cities, these being Birmingham, Coventry and Wolverhampton. Other large settlements in the county include Sutton Coldfield, Solihull, and the Black Country towns of Dudley, Walsall and West Bromwich.
The name "West Midlands" is also used for the much larger West Midlands region, which sometimes causes confusion.
The West Midlands borders the counties of Warwickshire to the east, Worcestershire to the south, and Staffordshire to the north.
The West Midlands is one of the most heavily urbanised counties in the UK. Birmingham, Wolverhampton, the Black Country and Solihull together form the largest conurbation in the UK outside London, with a combined population of around 2.27 million.
The West Midlands is not entirely urban; Coventry is separated from the Birmingham urban area, by stretch of green belt land roughly 15 miles across known as the "Meriden Gap", which retains a strongly rural character.
A smaller piece of green belt between Birmingham, Walsall and West Bromwich includes Barr Beacon and the Sandwell Valley.
The West Midlands contains 6 universities;
Though Warwick and Birmingham are considered the most prestigious of the universities in the area, all have a large intake of students from around the country.

</doc>
<doc id="51478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51478" title="Conurbation">
Conurbation

A conurbation is an urban area that includes a number of cities, towns and villages which, through population growth and expansion, have physically merged to form one continuous built up area. It is a sort of agglomeration.
A metropolitan area usually combines one or several conurbations.

</doc>
<doc id="51480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51480" title="Dunkirk">
Dunkirk

Dunkirk (, pronounced or ; ) is a harbour city in the northernmost part of France, 10 km (6 mi) from the Belgian border.
The population of the whole metropolitan area was of 265,974 at the 1999 census. 
Until the middle of the 20th century the city was in the Dutch language area; today the local Dutch dialect still can be heard but has largely given way to French.
Dunkirk was first mentioned in 1067 as "Dunkerk" (). 
In World War II, heavy fighting took place around Dunkirk during the German invasion in 1940 (Battle of Dunkirk), but a lull in the action unexpectedly allowed a large number of French and British soldiers to escape to England. The British evacuation of Dunkirk through the English Channel was codenamed "Operation Dynamo". 
During the war, Dunkirk was largely destroyed by bombing.
On 14 December 2002, the Norwegian auto carrier "Tricolor" collided with the Bahamian-registered "Kariba" and sank off Dunkirk harbour, causing a hazard to navigation in the English Channel.
Dunkirk has the third largest harbour in France, after those of Le Havre and Marseille. It is also an industrial city, heavily dependent on the steel, food processing, oil refining, ship building and chemical industries.
Dunkirk has a ferry connection with Dover in England.
Dunkirk is twinned with:
Dunkirk has cooperation agreements with:

</doc>
<doc id="51481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51481" title="Limburg-Weilburg Rural District">
Limburg-Weilburg Rural District

Limburg-Weilburg is a Landkreis (rural district) in the west of Hesse, Germany.
1867 the "Oberlahnkreis" with the capital Weilburg was created. In 1886 "Limburg an der Lahn" district was set up, with the capital Limburg. In 1974 both districts were joined together.
The district is located between the two mountain areas Westerwald and Taunus. The main river is the Lahn.

</doc>
<doc id="51484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51484" title="Elz">
Elz

Elz is a municipality and a village in Hessen, Germany. It is part of the Landkreis Limburg-Weilburg. It is along the river Lahn. It has 8,088 inhabitants (2004).
The elevation is between 110m and 291m above sea level. Elz is in a valley called "Limburger Becken", which surrounds the town of Limburg. Elz is also in the valley of the "Elbbach", which flows into the river Lahn after passing Elz.
The municipality of Elz borders the municipalities of Hundsangen, Hambach, Görgeshausen, Niedererbach, Obererbach and the towns of Hadamar and Limburg.
The municipality of Elz consists of two villages: The village of Elz (7,743 inhabitants) and the village of Malmeneich (345 inhabitants).
Average temperatures are 10.5 °C in Elz and 9.9 °C in Malmeneich. Though this sounds quite moderate, temperatures can vary between -20 °C in winter and 40 °C in summer. In an average year there are 600mm of rain in Elz and 720mm in Malmeneich.
Elz was first mentioned in a document from 933 AD, which does not exist any more. Political importance resulted from its position at the Hohe Straße, the former most important road between Frankfurt am Main and Cologne, which still exists and is now part of the "Bundesstraße 8", which can be translated with Interstate 8.
Elz got the town privileges in 1442. Soon a wall around the town was constructed but knocked down later.
The council consists of 31 members. 19 members are from the Christian Democrats, seven are from the Social Democratic Party, four from the Free Voters' Community and one is from the Green Party. The mayor Horst Kaiser is a Christian Democrat and was elected in 2005 with 84.8% of all votes.
In Elz thaere are more than 600 businesses with much more than 2,000 jobs. The industrial area is at the B8 between Elz and Malmeneich.
Elz is not only at the B8,which goes from the Dutch border to Passau, but also at the Autobahn 3, which connects Würzburg,Frankfurt am Main and Cologne.
In Elz there is a big outdoor swimming pool, two gyms, several sport and tennis fields and two old people's homes.
There are three kindergartens, two primary schools and one "Haupt- und Realschule" (part of the German secondary education).
- Theodor Blank (1905-1972), Bundesverteidigungsminister (Federal minister for defense) 1955-1956, Bundesminister für Arbeit und Sozialordnung (Federal minister for employment and social matters) 1957-1965
- Joseph Blank (1913-1994), Landesminister für Landesplanung, Wohnungsbau und öffentliche Arbeiten von Nordrhein-Westfalen (Minister for spatial planning, building and public works of North Rhine-Westphalia) 1962-1963

</doc>
<doc id="51487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51487" title="Cephalopod">
Cephalopod

The Cephalopods (Greek meaning "head-foot") are an important class of molluscs. They have bilateral symmetry, a head, and arms or tentacles. Teuthology, a branch of malacology, is the study of cephalopods.
The class has two living subclasses. In the Coleoidea, the mollusc shell has become smaller, or is not there at all; this subclass has the octopus, squid, and cuttlefish. The "Nautiloidea" have a shell; "Nautilus" is its only living genus. 
There are at least 800 different living species of Cephalopods. Two important extinct taxa are the Ammonites, and the Belemnites (order "Belemnoidea", of class Coleoidea). Cephalopods are found in all the oceans of the world and at all pelagic levels. None of them can live in freshwater (water with no salt in it), but a few species live in brackish (partly salty) water.
There are still discoveries of new species of cephalopods:
There are many more fossil species. It is thought there are around 11,000 extinct taxa.
Cephalopods are the most intelligent invertebrates and have good senses and large brains. The nervous system of cephalopods is the most complex of the invertebrates, and their brain to body mass ratio falls between that of warm and cold blooded vertebrates. The giant nerve fibers of the cephalopod mantle have been a favourite experimental material for many years; their large diameter makes them easier to study.
Most cephalopods have chromatophores – that is, cells with different colours – which they can use in a number of surprising ways. As well as blending with their background, some cephalopods bioluminesce, shining light downwards to hide their shadows from any attackers. The bioluminescence is made by bacterial symbionts; the host cephalopod is able to find the light made by these animals. Bioluminescence may also be used to attract prey, and some species use colourful shows to get mates, amaze predators, or even signal to one another.
Colouration can be changed in milliseconds as they adjust to their environment, and the pigment cells can expand or contract. Rapid colour change is usually more common in near-shore species than those living in the open ocean. Those in open ocean mostly use camouflage to make their body outline less easy to see.
Evidence of original colouration has been found in cephalopod fossils as far back as the Silurian; certain straight-shelled species had lines round their shell, which are thought to have used as camouflage of their body outline. Devonian cephalopods bear more complex colour patterns, whose function may be more complex.
Cephalopods usually move by jet propulsion (squirting water). This uses a lot of energy to travel compared to the tail propulsion used by fish. They use jet propulsion because they do not have fins or flippers. The efficiency of jet propulsion goes down with larger animals. This is probably the reason why many species use their fins or arms for moving if possible. 
Oxygenated water is taken into the mantle cavity to the gills. By contracting the mantle's muscles, the water is pushed out through the siphon, made by a fold in the mantle. Motion of the cephalopods is usually backward as water is forced out forwards, but the siphon can be pointed in different directions. Some cephalopods can adjust their body shape to move through the water more easily.
Some octopus species are also able to walk along the sea bed. Squids and cuttlefish can move short distances in any direction by moving a flap of muscle around the mantle.
With the exception of the Nautilidae and the species of octopus of the suborder Cirrina, all known cephalopods have an ink sac, which can be used to push out a cloud of dark ink to confuse predators. 
Like most molluscs, cephalopods use haemocyanin, a copper-containing protein, rather than haemoglobin to transport oxygen. As a result, their blood is colourless when deoxygenated and turns blue when placed in air.
With a few exceptions, Coleoideans live short lives with fast growth. Most of the energy from their food is used for growing. The penis in most male Coleoidea is a long and muscular end of the vas deferens (tube for sperms) used to transfer spermatophores (sperm packages) to a modified arm called a hectocotylus. That in turn is used to transport the spermatophores to the female. In species where the hectocotylus is missing, the penis is long and able to extend beyond the mantle cavity and transfers the spermatophores directly to the female. The females lay many small eggs in one batch, and die afterwards. The Nautiloidea, on the other hand make a few large eggs in each batch, and live for a long time.
The class developed during the late Cambrian and were the most common and varied marine life forms during the Palaeozoic and Mesozoic eras. "Tommotia", an early cephalopod, had squid-like tentacles but also a snail-like foot it used to move across the sea floor. Early cephalopods were at the top of the food chain.
The old (cohort Belemnoidea) and modern (cohort Neocoleoidea) coleoids, as well as the ammonoids, all diverged (evolved away from) from the external shelled nautiloids during the middle Paleozoic Era, between 450 and 300 million years ago. Most ancient varieties had protective shells. These shells at first were conical but later developed into the curved shapes seen in modern nautilus species. Shells inside the body still exist in many living cephalopod groups, such as cuttlefish. The most famous group with external shells, the ammonites, became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous period.

</doc>
<doc id="51496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51496" title="Cuttlefish">
Cuttlefish

Cuttlefish are marine Cephalopod molluscs. They belong to the same class as squid, octopuses and the nautilus. 
Cuttlefish have an internal shell (called a cuttlebone), large eyes, and eight arms and two tentacles furnished with finely toothed suckers, with which they grab their prey.
Cuttlefish eat small molluscs, crabs, shrimp, fish and other cuttlefish. Various sharks and fish prey on them. They live about 1 to 2 years.
Cuttlefish have an internal cuttlebone, made of calcium carbonate. It is porous, full of small holes, The buoyancy of the cuttlebone can change, allowing the cuttlefish to go lower or higher by changing the amount of gas and liquid in its chambers. The cuttlebone of each species has a distinct shape, size, and pattern of ridges or texture. Cuttlebones are used by jewellers and silversmiths as moulds for casting small objects. They are probably better known today as the material given to pet birds as a source of calcium. The cuttlebone is only found in cuttlefish, and is one of the features that makes them different from squid and other molluscs.
Cuttlefish are sometimes called the chameleon of the sea because they are able to change their skin color. Their skin can flash a colorful pattern in order to communicate with other cuttlefish and to camouflage them from predators. This color-changing function is produced by groups of red, yellow, brown, and black pigmented chromatophores above a layer of reflective iridophores and leucophores. These are all in the cuttlefish's skin, and work together to change its colour. There are up to 200 of these special pigment cells per square millimeter. 
The pigmented chromatophores have a sac of pigment and a large membrane that is folded when retracted. There are 6-20 small muscle cells on the sides which can contract to squash the elastic sac into a disc against the skin. 
Iridophores are plates of chitin or protein, which can reflect light. They are responsible for the metallic blues, greens, golds, and silvers often seen on cuttlefish. All of these cells can be used in combinations. As well as being able to influence the colour of the light that reflects off their skin, cuttlefish can also affect the light's polarization, which can be used to signal to other animals which sense polarization.
Cuttlefish eyes are among the most developed in the animal kingdom. The way cephalopod eyes develop is fundamentally different from that of vertebrates like humans, but the way they work is rather similar. The similarity between cephalopod and vertebrate eyes is an examples of convergent evolution. Although they cannot see color, they can perceive the polarization of light, which improves their ability to see contrast. They have two spots of concentrated sensor cells on their retina (known as fovea), one to look more forward, and one to look more backwards. The lenses, instead of being reshaped as they are in humans, are instead pulled around by reshaping the entire eye in order to change focus.
The blood of a cuttlefish is an unusual shade of green-blue because it uses the copper-containing protein haemocyanin to carry oxygen instead of the red iron-containing protein haemoglobin that is found in vertebrates. This is similar to the blood of arthropods. Haemocyanin is not so good at carrying oxygen as is haemoglobin. The blood is pumped by three separate 'hearts'. Two of these are used for pumping blood to the cuttlefish's pair of gills (one heart for each gill), and the third for pumping blood around the rest of the body.
Cuttlefish have inks like squid and octopuses. As with squid, the ink is a defensive tool, squirted out to cover its retreat in the case of danger. This ink was formerly an important dye, called sepia. Today artificial (not natural) dyes have replaced natural sepia. 
Cuttlefish are caught for food in Mediterranean, and East Asian cultures. Although squid is more popular as a restaurant dish all over the world, in East Asia dried cuttlefish is highly popular.
Cuttlefish is popular in Italy and Croatia, where it is used in "Risotto Nero". "Nero" means 'black', which is the colour the rice turns because of the cuttlefish ink. Spanish cuisine often uses cuttlefish and squid ink for cooking due to the marine flavor and smoothness that it provides to the meals and it is included in dishes such as rice, pasta and fish stews.
Cuttlefish made their most important literary appearance in the title of Eugenio Montale's collection of poetry called Cuttlefish Bones ("Ossi di seppia"), published in Turin in 1925. Montale was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1975. 
There are over 120 species of living cuttlefish, in 5 genera. Sepiadariidae contains seven species and two genera; all the rest are in the Sepiidae. 

</doc>
<doc id="51499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51499" title="Nautilus">
Nautilus

Nautilus is the common name for cephalopods of the family Nautilidae. They are the only living members of the subclass Nautiloidea. In appearance, they have not changed much in millions of years. The term "chambered nautilus" is also used for any species of the Nautilidae. 
Many biologists see them as 'living fossils', because they are the only living descendents of the group which gave rise to the ammonites in the Palaeozoic era.
Today, there are six living species in two genera. The species "Nautilus pompilius", from Western Australia is the largest and best known. It get up to 27 cm in diameter. However, most other nautiluses never exceed 20 cm. The Bellybutton nautilus, "Nautilus macromphalus", is the smallest species, usually measuring only 16 cm.
The radula is wide and has exactly nine teeth. There are two pairs of gills.
Nautiluses are the only cephalopods who have an external shell. This is an ancestral or basal, feature. The animal can withdraw completely into its shell. It can the close the opening with a leathery hood formed from two specially folded tentacles. The shell is coiled and calcareous, with mother-of-pearl lining. It is pressure resistant, but will implode at a depth of about 800 m. The nautilus shell is made of two layers: the outer layer is a dull white, while the inner layer is a striking white with iridescence. The innermost portion of the shell is pearlescent, blue-gray. A osmena pearl is not a pearl, but a jewellery product got from this part of the shell.
The shell is internally divided into chambers. All the walls between chambers ('septa') are pierced in the middle by a duct, the siphuncle. Through this the animal can change the air pressure in the chambers. As the nautilus matures its body moves forward, sealing each chamber in turn with a new "septum" (wall). The last fully open chamber, the largest one, is used as the living chamber. The number of chambers increases from around four at the moment of hatching to thirty or more in adults.
The shell colour keeps the animal hidden in the water. When seen from the top, the shell is darker in color and marked with irregular stripes, which makes it blend into the darkness of the water below. The underside is almost completely white, making the animal indistinguishable from brighter waters near the ocean surface. This mode of camouflage is called "countershading".
The nautilus shell is one of the finest natural examples of a logarithmic spiral.
In order to swim, the nautilus draws water into and out of the living chamber and makes use of jet propulsion. When water is inside the chamber, the siphuncle extracts salt from it and diffuses it into the blood. When water is pumped out, the animal adjusts its buoyancy with the gas contained in the chamber. Buoyancy can be controlled by the pumping of gas and fluid into or from the chambers using the siphuncle. The control of buoyancy like this limits the nautilus; they cannot operate under extreme pressure.
In the wild, nautilus usually lives in depths of about 300 m, rising to around 100 m at night for feeding, mating and egg laying. The shell of the nautilus cannot withstand depths greater than approximately 800 m.
Nautiluses are predators and feed mainly on shrimp, small fish and crustaceans, which are captured by the tentacles. However, due to the very little energy they devote to swimming, they need only eat once a month. Unlike other cephalopods, they do not have good vision; their eye structure is highly developed but lacks a solid lens. They have a simple "pinhole" lens through which water can pass. Instead of vision, the animal is thought to use olfaction as the primary sensory means during foraging, locating or identifying potential mates.
Fossil records indicate that nautiloids have not changed much (at least in their body form) for the last 500 million years. Nautiloids were much more common and varied 200 million years ago. Many of the early ones were straight-shelled, as in the extinct genus "Lituites". They developed in the Cambrian and became a significant sea predator in the Ordovician period. Some species reached over 2.5 meters in size. The other cephalopod subclass, Coleoidea, diverged from the Nautilidae long ago and the nautilus has remained relatively unchanged since. Extinct relatives of the nautilus include ammonites, which were very important for many millions of years. Other groups were the baculites and goniatites.
Nautiluses are sexually dimorphic and reproduce by laying eggs. Attached to rocks in shallow waters, the eggs take twelve months to develop before hatching out at around 30 mm long. Females spawn once per year and regenerate their gonads, making nautiluses the only cephalopods to repeat reproduction. The lifespan of nautiluses is about 20 years, which is exceptionally long for a cephalopod.
Nautiluses are only found in the tropical Indian and Pacific Oceans, from 30° N to 30° S latitude and 90° to 185° W longitude. They live on the deep slopes of coral reefs.

</doc>
<doc id="51508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51508" title="Logarithmic spiral">
Logarithmic spiral

A logarithmic spiral, equiangular spiral or growth spiral is a special kind of spiral curve which often appears in nature. The logarithmic spiral was first described by Descartes and later extensively investigated by Jakob Bernoulli, who called it "Spira mirabilis", "the marvelous spiral".
In polar coordinates ("r", θ) the curve can be written as
or
hence the name "logarithmic". In parametric form, the curve is
with real numbers "a" and "b".
The spiral has the property that the angle ɸ between the tangent and radial line at the point ("r",θ) is constant. This property can be expressed in differential geometric terms as
The derivative r'(θ) is proportional to the parameter "b". In other words, it controls how "tightly" and in which direction the spiral spirals. In the extreme case that "b" = 0 ("ɸ" = π/2) the spiral becomes a circle of radius "a". Conversely, in the limit that "b" approaches infinity ("ɸ" → 0) the spiral tends toward a straight line. The complement of ɸ is called the "pitch".
Spira mirabilis, Latin for "miraculous spiral", is another name for the logarithmic spiral. While this curve had already been named by other mathematicians, the name "miraculous" or "marvelous" spiral was given to this curve by Jakob Bernoulli, because he was fascinated by one of its unique mathematical properties: the size of the spiral increases, but the shape stays the same with each added curve. Maybe because of this property, the spira mirabilis has evolved in nature, seen in some living beings, such as nautilus shells and sunflower heads. Jakob Bernoulli wanted the shape on his headstone, but, by error, an Archimedean spiral was placed there instead.
The logarithmic spiral can be distinguished from the Archimedean spiral by the fact that the distances between the turnings of a logarithmic spiral increase in geometric progression, while in an Archimedean spiral these distances are constant.
Logarithmic spirals are self-similar in that they are self-congruent under all similarity transformations (scaling them gives the same result as rotating them). Scaling by a factor formula_6 gives the same as the original, without rotation. They are also congruent to their own involutes, evolutes, and the pedal curves based on their centers.
Starting at a point "P" and moving inwards along the spiral, one has to circle the origin infinitely often before reaching it; yet, the total distance covered on this path is finite. This was first realized by Evangelista Torricelli even before calculus had been invented. The total distance covered is "r"/cos(α), where "r" is the straight-line distance from "P" to the origin.
One can construct approximate logarithmic spirals with pitch about 17.03239 degrees using Fibonacci numbers or the golden ratio as is explained in those articles. Similarly, the exponential function exactly maps all lines not parallel with the real or imaginary axis in the complex plane, to all logarithmic spirals in the complex plane with centre at 0. (Up to adding integer multiples of 2π"i" to the lines, the mapping of all lines to all logarithmic spirals is onto.) The pitch angle of the logarithmic spiral is the angle between the line and the imaginary axis.
In several natural phenomena one may find curves that are close to being logarithmic spirals. Here follows some examples and reasons:

</doc>
<doc id="51511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51511" title="Small white">
Small white

The small white ("Pieris rapae") is a small to mid-sized butterfly of the 'yellows' & 'whites' Pieridae family. It is also commonly known as the small cabbage white or just the cabbage white.
It is common across Europe, North Africa and Asia and has also been accidentally introduced to North America, Australia and New Zealand where they have become pests on cultivated cabbages and other mustard family crops.
It looks like a smaller version of the Large White. The upperside is creamy white with black tips to the forewings. Females also have two black spots in the center of the forewings. Its underwings are yellowish with black . 
<br>
Like its close relative the large white this is a strong flyer and the British population is increased by continental immigrants in most years. Like other 'white' butterflies it hibernates as a pupa. Like the large white, it is sometimes known as the cabbage white' or cabbage butterfly.
It has two flight periods, April–May and July–August. 
Its caterpillars can be a pest on cultivated cabbages. . It also lays eggs on wild members of the cabbage family such as the charlock "Sinapis arvensis" and hedge mustard "Sisybrium officinale". The eggs are laid singly on foodplant leaves.
Known in the United States as "imported cabbage worms", the caterpillars are green and well camouflaged. Unlike the large white they do not store the mustard oils from their foodplants and so are not distastful to predators like birds.

</doc>
<doc id="51512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51512" title="Argonauta">
Argonauta

Argonauta, the argonauts, is the only living genus in the Argonautidae family. They are a group of pelagic octopods. 
They are also called paper nautiluses, because of the paper-thin eggcase that females make. This structure does not have the gas-filled chambers of nautilus shells, and is not a true cephalopod shell. It is an evolutionary innovation unique to the genus "Argonauta".
Argonauts are found in tropical and subtropical waters worldwide: they live in open ocean. Like most octopods, they have a rounded body, eight arms and no fins. However, unlike octopuses, argonauts live close to the sea surface rather than on the seabed. "Argonauta" species have very large eyes and small distal webs. They have a mantle-funnel locking apparatus, which is a way to identify the genus. It consists of knob-like cartilages in the mantle and corresponding depressions in the funnel. Unlike the closely related genera "Ocythoe" and "Tremoctopus", "Argonauta" species lack water pores.
In Argonauts, males and females are quite different in size and lifespan. Females grow up to 10 cm and make shells up to 30 cm, while males rarely grow larger than 2 cm. The males only mate once in their short lifetime, but the females can get pregnant repeatedly. The females have been known since ancient times while the males were only described in the late 19th Century. The males use a modified arm, the hectocotylus, to transfer sperm to the female. For fertilization, the arm is inserted into the female's pallial cavity, then is detached from the male. 
The hectocotylus was originally described as a parasitic worm. The hectocotyl arm and its correct function were described by Aristotle. His account was disbelieved for over 2000 years, but was rediscovered in the early 19th century.
Female argonauts make a laterally compressed, calcareous eggcase in which they live. The eggcase curiously resembles the shells of extinct ammonites. It is secreted by the tips of the female's two greatly expanded dorsal tentacles (third left arms) before egg laying. After she deposits her eggs in the floating eggcase, the female herself takes shelter in it, often along with the male's detached hectocotylus. She is usually found with her head and tentacles protruding from the opening, but she retreats deeper inside if disturbed. 
These ornate, curved white eggcases are occasionally found floating on the sea surface, sometimes with the female argonaut still clinging to it. It is made of calcite, with a 3-layered structure The argonauts may have evolved to use ammonite shells for their egg laying, eventually becoming able to mend the shells and perhaps even make their own.
The egg case also contains a bubble of gas used for buoyancy similar to shelled cephalopods, although it does not have chambers as seen in other shelled cephalopods.
"Argonauta argo" is the largest species in the genus and also produces the largest eggcase, which may reach a length of 300 mm. The smallest species is "Argonauta bottgeri", with a maximum recorded size of 67 mm.
The beaks of "Argonauta" species are distinctive. They are characterised by a very small rostrum and a fold that runs to the lower edge or near the free corner. The rostrum is 'pinched in' at the sides. This makes it much narrower than in other octopuses, with the exception of the closely allied monotypic genera "Ocythoe" and "Vitreledonella". Argonaut beaks are most similar to those of "Ocythoe tuberculata" and "Vitreledonella richardi". They differ in 'leaning back' to a greater degree than the former and because they have a more curved jaw angle than the latter.
Feeding mostly occurs during the day. Argonauts use tentacles to grab prey and drag it toward the mouth. It then bites the prey to inject it with poison from the salivary gland. They feed on small crustaceans, molluscs, but also jellyfish and salps. If the prey is shelled, the argonaut uses its radula to drill into the organism, then inject the poison.
Argonauts are capable of changing their color. They can blend in with their surroundings to avoid predators. They also produce ink, which is ejected when the animal is being attacked. This ink paralyzes the olfaction of the attacker, providing time for the argonaut to escape. The female is also able to pull back the web covering of her shell, making a silvery flash, which may deter a predator from attacking.
Argonauts are preyed upon by tunas, billfishes, and dolphins. Shells and remains of argonauts have been recorded from the stomachs of "Alepisaurus ferox" and "Coryphaena hippurus".
Male argonauts have been seen living inside salps, which are planktonic tunicates. Little is known about this relationship.
The genus "Argonauta" contains up to seven existing species. Several extinct species are also known.
The extinct species "Obinautilus awaensis" was originally assigned to "Argonauta", but has since been transferred to the genus "Obinautilus".

</doc>
<doc id="51513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51513" title="Protection">
Protection

Protection means when any group of people or things try to defend the people or things that they care about (so that they would not get hurt). Protection can also mean other things, for example:

</doc>
<doc id="51514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51514" title="Minor">
Minor

Minor can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="51517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51517" title="Camouflage">
Camouflage

Camouflage is a visual disguise. Without it, an animal would be recognised easily. If the natural colour of an animal makes it look like its surroundings, that is camouflage. A tiger's stripes in the long grass, and the battledress of a modern soldier are examples. 
Camouflage is a form of deception. The word camouflage comes from the French word "camoufler," which means "to disguise".
In nature, most animals blend into their environment or conceal their shape. They are very hard to see. This way they survive, and if they survive, then they can reproduce. There are exceptions: animals which are dangerous to eat (e.g. wasps) advertise with warning colouration. 
Prey animals hide from predators. Predators must search for prey without being seen. Natural camouflage is one way to do this: an animal can blend in with its surroundings. Another way is for the animal to disguise itself as something harmless.
Some camouflaged animals also copy movements in nature, e.g., of a leaf blowing in the wind. Other animals attach natural materials to their body for concealment. A few animals change color in changing environments. Seasonally: (many Arctic animals, such as the arctic fox, or arctic hare). Or quickly, like the chameleon and the cuttlefish. Some herd animals, like zebra, have a pattern which makes it difficult for the predator when they are running. 
Mimicry is a special kind of camouflage, where an animal or plant looks like another, usually one which is unpleasant to eat or dangerous.
Most animals are dark on top and light underneath. With light coming from the sky, this "countershading" makes them less visible. That this is the correct explanation is proved by cases where the animal lives upside down. A famous example is the Nile catfish, which swims belly uppermost. In this case, the belly is dark, and the back is light in colour.
Transparent or partly transparent animals are common in the pelagic layer of the sea. These are the layers into which light penetrates. The effect of transparency or silvering works is better under water than above it. This is because the amount of light which penetrates is less and less as the depth increases. Also, the proportion of the light reflected is much less under water (0.001–0.6%) than in air (2–5%).

</doc>
<doc id="51518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51518" title="Extant">
Extant

In biology, an extant group is one which has survived to the present day, and so it is a living group. This distinguishes it from an extinct group. 
The term 'extant' can also be used to describe species or higher groups (such as genera or families) which are still in existence (living).
Example: in the group of molluscs known as the cephalopods, there are about 600 extant species and 7500 extinct species.

</doc>
<doc id="51523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51523" title="Echinoderm">
Echinoderm

Echinoderms are a successful phylum of marine animals. They include starfish, brittle stars, sea urchins, sea cucumbers and their relatives.
Echinoderms have these features:
Echinoderms live in all parts of the ocean, but mostly on the sea floor. Some are filter feeders, and others (starfish) are important predators of molluscs and other shell-fish. They are extremely common near the shore, and on reefs.
They have a long and abundant fossil record. This phylum appeared in the early Cambrian period; it contains about 7,000 living and 13,000 extinct species. The four or five main groups are called sub-phyla by some authorities, and classes by others.
Echinodermata is the largest animal phylum which is entirely marine: no animals in this group live on land or in fresh or brackish water.
For many purposes it is better to use the following classification. It is easier to learn and understand, and is based more on the living forms.
Only with the crinoids is it necessary to deal with the fossil forms, because the stalked crinoids were so important on the Palaeozoic sea floors.
All echinoderms have fivefold radial symmetry in their body at some stage of life. The holothurians have bilateral symmetry as adults, and do not have so much of a skeleton as other groups.
Echinoderms have a hydraulic water vascular system. This network of fluid-filled canals moves and feeds the animal, and allows gas exchange. There is also a complete digestive tube. They have a simple radial nervous system that consists of a modified nerve net. There are nerve rings with radiating nerves around the mouth extending into each arm. The branches of these nerves coordinate the movements of the animal. Echinoderms have no brain, although some do have ganglia. They usually move with their tube feet, but brittle stars use their arms to pull against rocks. Some feather stars and sea cucumbers can swim.
The sexes are usually separate. Sexual reproduction typically consists of releasing eggs and sperm into the water, with fertilization taking place externally. Their larvae are planktonic.
Many echinoderms have remarkable powers of regeneration. A starfish arm cut off will regenerate. A section as small as a single arm, with some central disk and neural tissue, can regenerate the whole organism.
Most of the adults have radial symmetry. If they are not sessile or attached, they are at least benthic (bottom-dwellers). In contrast, echinoderm larvae are planktonic, and have bilateral symmetry. Echinoderm larvae are ciliated free-swimming organisms that have a bilaterally symmetry rather like embryonic chordates. The first stage in all groups except the crinoids is the dipleurula, which has a row of cilia winding round its body. All the groups have second and third stage larvae. The larvae grow, and are carried away from their parents.
Later, the adult body grows into a radial form, with the body arranged in five parts around a central axis. This means they often have a star-shaped pattern.
There is no geological evidence about the origin of echinoderms. The first undoubted fossils in the Lower Cambrian are already well developed, and fall into five or six different groups. "Arkarua", from the Ediacaran, is thought to be an echinoderm. "Tribrachidium" is another possible, from the same period. On general biological grounds, it seems that echinoderms, and some related phyla, may have been derived from worm-like ancestors.
Of all invertebrate phyla, the echinoderms are the closest relatives to the chordata, that is, animals who have spinal cord, such as vertebrates. With the chordates and hemichordates, echinoderms are deuterostomes, one of the two major divisions of the animal kingdom

</doc>
<doc id="51527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51527" title="Argonaut">
Argonaut

The word Argonaut might refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="51528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51528" title="Das Rheingold">
Das Rheingold

Das Rheingold ("The Rhinegold") is an opera by Richard Wagner. It is the first of the four operas that together tell a story called "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung").
"Das Rheingold" is an opera in one act, divided into four scenes. It is a very long act, lasting 2 ½ hours, but it is normally played without an interval as the music is continuous, even between the scenes.
The characters in the opera are Gods, Giants, Nibelungs and the Rhinedaughters. The Nibelungs are a race of dwarfs. They are cunning and evil and live underneath the surface of the earth.
The first scene takes place in the river Rhine where the three Rhinemaidens: Woglinde, Wellgunde and Flosshilde, are guarding the precious Rhine gold. Alberich, an evil Nibelung, arrives and tries to catch the Rhinemaidens. From what they say Alberich learns that the gold they are guarding has magic powers. Alberich wants the gold, but the Rhinemaidens say that anyone who wants to have it has to renounce (give up) love. They think that Alberich will not do that because he is very fond of girls, but Alberich does renounce love and so he gets the gold.
The second scene takes place in Valhalla, which is where the gods live. Wotan, the chief god, is there with his wife Fricka. Two giants have been building an enormous castle for the gods. Wotan has promised them that he would pay them for their work by giving them Freia, the Goddess of Youth and Beauty. Fricka is worried about the promise that Wotan has made, but Wotan tells his wife that he is not going to keep his promise. He thinks he can find a way of tricking the giants. Freia enters. She is frightened because the giants are coming for her.
The giants, Fasolt and Fafner, enter. They want to have Freia in payment for having built the castle. The problem for the gods is that Freia has a garden in which she grows golden apples. If the gods no longer have these golden apples they will grow old and die. Wotan does not know what to do.
Loge, the god of fire, enters. Wotan is cross with Loge for not having found something else to pay the giants with. Loge says he has been all over the world looking for something. He tells everyone that the gold from the Rhine has magic power, and how Alberich renounced love so that he could steal it from the Rhinemaidens. He tells them that a ring can be made from the gold, and that whoever has the ring will have power over all the world. The giants hear what Loge is saying and decide that they want the gold instead of Freia. They take Freia as hostage, saying that they will be back later to collect the gold. If they do not get it then they will keep Freia forever.
Wotan asks Loge how they are going to get the gold. Loge tells them that they should steal it from Alberich. After all, Alberich stole it from the Rhinemaidens, so it does not belong to him. Wotan and Loge go down below the earth to the Nibelungs.
Underneath the earth Alberich is forcing the Nibelungs to work for him. They are hammering at the anvil. Mime, who is Alberich’s brother, has used some of the gold to make a helmet. This helmet is called the Tarn helmet. Anyone who wears it can change their shape or become invisible. Alberich treats his brother very cruelly.
Wotan and Loge tell Alberich that they have heard how clever he is. They ask him to show them what he can do with the Tarn helmet. Alberich puts on the helmet and changes himself into a huge dragon. Wotan and Loge pretend to be impressed. They ask him whether he can change himself into something small. Alberich show off again, changing himself into a frog. Wotan immediately puts his foot on him and catches him. Wotan and Loge take all the gold and go back to Valhalla.
Wotan and Loge tease Alberich. Alberich asks them what they want so that he can be free. Wotan demands the gold. The Nibelungs pile the gold up. Alberich is not too worried, because he still has the ring which gives him magic power. He thinks he can use this power later to get the gold back. Wotan sees the ring on Alberich’s finger. He tells him to give him the ring. Alberich is terrified, but Wotan tears it from his finger. Before Alberich goes he puts a curse on the ring. Whoever has had the ring will die. This is very important to the whole story of the four operas.
The two giants appear with Freia. The gods have become very weak, but once Freia returns they start to become stronger again. Wotan tells the giants they can have their gold. The giants say that they must pile up the gold in front of Freia until they cannot see her. They do this, but the giants say there is still a tiny hole through which they can see Freia’s eye. They see the ring on Wotan’s finger and tell him to put it in the hole. Wotan says they can have anything they want but not the ring.
Erda appears. Erda is the Earth Goddess. She is very wise. She reminds Wotan that there is a curse on the ring and that he should quickly give the ring to the giants. Wotan has no choice. He puts the ring in the hole. Now the giants are happy.
Immediately, however, the giants start to argue with one another and Fafner kills Fasolt. The curse on the ring is working. Loge tells Wotan he was wise to give up the ring. However, Fricka is still worried because Wotan did have the ring. 
Donner, the god of Thunder, enters and swings his hammer. There is a flash of lightning and a crash of thunder. The clouds vanish, a rainbow makes a bridge to Valhalla and the gods enter Valhalla. The Rhinemaidens are heard crying out to Wotan to give the gold back, but Wotan takes no notice. The gods are now at the height of their glory. We shall see, at the end of the fourth opera, that the curse will catch up with them and that they, too, will die.
The music of "Das Rheingold" is beautifully written to fit every person and every situation. The famous opening starts with a low chord of E flat which describes the bottom of the river Rhine. At first the notes of the chords are held on, then gradually a ripple of broken chords and arpeggios suggest the ripples of the water. The harps make a sound like the waves. The harmony just consists of the same E flat chord for the first 136 bars until the Rhine Maidens start to sing.
Each character in the opera has his own musical leitmotif which can change and combine to show their changing moods and situations. There are big, heavy chords for the giants, creepy chromatic winding music for Loge, the god of fire, who is supposed to be very crafty, dignified music for the Earth Goddess Erda etc. There is a special leitmotif for the curse, which is heard at various times in all four operas.
Wagner actually called "Das Rheingold" a "prologue" to the other three operas, which he saw as the main operas of the cycle.

</doc>
<doc id="51529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51529" title="Die Walküre">
Die Walküre

Die Walküre ("The Valkyries") is an opera by Richard Wagner. It is the second of the four operas that together tell a story called "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung"). The story continues from the first opera which was called "Das Rheingold". 
"Die Walküre" was first performed on 26 June 1870 in Munich. The first performance that was part of the whole Ring cycle took place on 14 August 1876.
The opera starts with a storm. The young man Siegmund is out in the storm and comes to a house. The house belongs to Hunding who lives there with his wife Sieglinde. An ash tree is growing in the middle of the house. Siegmund and Sieglinde are twins who were separated as children, so neither of them knows who the other one is. Their father is Wotan, the chief god, but they don’t know this either. Their mother was a mortal (an ordinary person, not a goddess) or perhaps a she-wolf, which is how the goddess Fricka refers to her.
Sieglinde lets Siegmund into the house and gives him a drink of mead. They start to fall in love. Hunding arrives and asks Siegmund who he is. Siegmund says that his name ought to be Woeful because he has had an unhappy life. When he was small he came home once and found his house burned down, his mother murdered and his twin sister had been abducted (taken away). He then remembers that some years later he went to help a young lady who had been forced to marry a cruel man. He had killed some of the man’s friends. Hunding realizes that he himself was this man, so that he is Siegmund’s enemy. He says to Siegmund that he can sleep in his house tonight because this is a law of hospitality, but in the morning he will have to fight him.
Sieglinde goes to prepare a drink for her husband. She puts a drug in it which will make Hunding sleep deeply. Siegmund meanwhile is thinking about something his father had promised him. He had told him that he would thrust a magic sword called “Nothung” into a tree. No one would get that sword until, one day, when Siegmund found himself in great difficulty, he would be able to pull it from the tree and use it.
Sieglinde enters and tells Siegmund a story about how, on the day she was forced to marry Hunding, an old man had come into the house and thrust a sword into the ash tree in the middle of the room. They start to realize that they are brother and sister, but it does not stop them from falling in love and they sing passionately about their love for one another. Siegmund pulls the sword from the tree and the two lovers embrace.
Wotan is the chief god, whom we heard in "Das Rheingold". He is trying to get rid of the curse of the Rheingold, and has built a grand plan around Siegmund. Wotan tells his daughter Brünnhilde that she must make sure that Siegmund wins the fight with Hunding. Brünnhilde (the out-of-wedlock daughter of Wotan and Erda, the Earth-Mother goddess) has the power to do this. She is one of eight daughters of Wotan who are Valkyries (German: Walküren). Their job is to collect the dead bodies of brave heroes who have died in battle and take them back to Valhalla, the house of the gods. 
Wotan’s wife Fricka arrives in a chariot pulled by a ram. Brünnhilde disappears, and there follows a big argument between husband and wife. Fricka says to Wotan that Siegmund and Sieglinde must be punished for breaking Hunding's marriage, and for loving one another because brothers and sisters are not allowed to be lovers (this is called “incest”). She says that she herself is the goddess of marriage and must make sure that marriage laws are obeyed. Fricka says that the gods will all be disgraced. Wotan says that he went to the world to have children with mortal women because the gods needed a race of heroes who would protect them. But Fricka says to Wotan that he is wrong: Siegmund cannot be a free hero if he is being protected by Wotan. Giving in, Wotan now tells Brünnhilde that she must leave Siegmund to his fate.
Sieglinde tells Siegmund that she feels guilty and that he ought to leave her, but they are desperately in love. When she hears Hunding’s horn she imagines that Siegmund will be torn apart by the dogs and she faints. Brünnhilde pities Siegmund. She tells Siegmund that he must follow her to Valhalla. When Siegmund asks whether he can take Sieglinde with her Brünnhilde says that he cannot do this. Siegmund refuses to go. Brünnhilde tells him that he cannot escape his fate. Siegmund continues to plead with Brünnhilde, and in the end she is so moved that she changes her mind. She breaks Wotan's order, and says that she will protect Siegmund in battle. Hunding appears and the two men fight. Brünnhilde protects Siegmund with her shield. Siegmund is nearly winning when suddenly Wotan appears and smashes Siegmund’s sword into pieces. Hunding kills Siegmund.
The other Valkyries are wondering where Brünnhilde is. They see her coming on her horse, but instead of a hero she is carrying a woman (it is Sieglinde). The Valkyries are angry with Brünnhilde because she disobeyed Wotan. Sieglinde wants to die, but when she is told that she has a baby in her womb she asks Brünnhilde to save her. She escapes into the forest with bits of Siegmund’s sword. One day the baby she is now bearing will grow up, become a hero, and use the bits to make another sword.
Wotan goes to the Valkyries. He is furious with Brünnhilde because she disobeyed him. He punishes her. He tells her that she is no longer a Valkyrie. She will fall asleep on a rock and any man who finds her can have her. Brünnhilde pleads with Wotan. She asks him whether he could, at least, put a fire round her so that the only man who could get her would be a hero. In the end Wotan agrees. Loge, the god of fire, arrives and lights the fire. At the end of the opera Brünnhilde is asleep on the rock, surrounded by the fire. There she will stay until, one day, a hero comes to rescue her.
The music contains many wonderful moments. The most famous bit is the beginning of Act Three where the Valkyries are riding on their horses. This music is known as "The Ride of the Valkyries". It is very dramatic music. The very beginning of Act One is also very dramatic. The music describes a storm. The orchestra is a very large one, including special tubas which are known as “Wagner tubas”. There are no separate arias in these operas: all the sections flows into one another. Sometimes a character has a section when they are telling a story. There are beautiful sections like the one in Act One where Siegmund is remembering about his father and the sword, or the love music between Siegmund and Sieglinde. By using leitmotifs (music which goes with certain ideas or characters) he gets many subtle effects. When Siegmund looks at the ash tree we hear the sword motive because the sword is in the tree, although at that moment he does not know about it. We also hear Wotan’s theme when Siegmund talks about his father. We (the listener) know who his father is, but Siegmund does not. The music tells us lots of things that the characters in the story may not understand. This makes the music very powerful and exciting.

</doc>
<doc id="51532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51532" title="Siegfried (opera)">
Siegfried (opera)

Siegfried is an opera by Richard Wagner. It is the third of the four operas that together tell a story called "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung"). The story continues from the end of the second opera which was called "Die Walküre". 
The first performance of "Siegfried" took place when the whole Ring cycle (all four operas) were performed in the Festspielhaus in Bayreuth on 16 August 1876.
The first part of the opera takes place in a forest where the giant Fafner lives. He has used the magic tarn helmet to change himself into a dragon so that he can guard the treasure of the gold and the ring (we saw how he got the treasure in the first opera, "Das Rheingold"). Siegfried, who was not yet born at the end of the second opera, "Die Walküre", is now a young lad. He has been brought up by the dwarf Mime, Alberich's brother. Mime is just as horrible as his brother.
Mime is hammering away at the anvil, trying to repair the sword that was smashed to pieces by Wotan in Act Two of "Die Walküre". He wants to make the bits into a strong sword, but every time he thinks he has managed it Siegfried picks up the sword and breaks it with his strength. The reason that Mime wants to make the sword is so that he can give it to Siegfried (who is obviously the hero who is meant to have the sword in the end) and tell him to fight the dragon. Then Mime will be able to get the ring from him so that he can have power over all the world. When Siegfried enters he brings a bear from the forest. The bear chases Mime and Siegfried laughs. Then he lets the bear go free. 
Mime says to Siegfried that he should be thankful to him for looking after him as a child and bringing him up. He has never told Siegfried who his parents were (they were Siegmund and Sieglinde, both now dead). Siegfried does not understand anything about how babies are born. He has never seen a woman before. He only knows Mime who is pretending to be is father. Siegfried has noticed that young birds look like their parents and he asks Mime why he does not look like him. In the end Mime is forced to tell Siegfried about his parents and about the sword that was smashed by Wotan. Siegfried tells Mime to forge (make) the sword so that he can kill the dragon. Siegfried goes off.
Wotan, the chief god, appears. He is disguised as a wanderer. Mime says he wants to ask him three questions, and if he cannot answer them he can chop off his head. Wotan agrees. First Mime asks him the name of the race of people who live below the earth. Wotan says they are the Nibelungs. Then Mime asks who are the people who live on the earth’s surface. Wotan says they are the giants. Then he asks him who lives in the sky. Wotan says they are the gods. He has answered all three questions correctly. He now tells Mime it is his turn to ask Mime three questions which he must answer if he wants to keep his head. Mime is terrified, but has to agree.
First Wotan asks him who are the people whom Wotan loves a lot although he has to be harsh with them. Mime answers: the Wälsung race. Then Wotan asks him the name of the sword that Wotan left for Siegfried. Mime answers: Nothung. Finally Wotan asks him who can put the pieces of the sword together. Mime is now terrified because he does not know the answer. Wotan tells him the answer: it is the person who does not know fear. He says to Mime that he can keep his head for the moment. He will leave it to the fearless person to chop it off later.
When Mime and Siegfried are together again, Mime tries to frighten Siegfried so that he knows what fear is. He tells him all about the huge dragon in the cave. "Does that not frighten you?" he asks him. "Not a bit" answers Siegfried, who likes the thought of fighting a dragon. Siegfried works at the anvil and starts to make the sword. Mime is thinking of how he will trick Siegfried after the dragon has been killed, so that he can get the sword and kill Siegfried. At last Siegfried manages to make the mighty sword. He calls out its name: "Nothung"! Then he crashes the sword down on the anvil which splits into two pieces.
Outside the dragon’s cave Wotan, still disguised as a wanderer, meets Alberich (Mime’s brother who has not been in the story since the first opera). Alberich hates Wotan for having snatched the ring from him. Wotan does not care, and even wakes the dragon up, but the dragon does not want to fight them.
Mime and Siegfried appear. Siegfried is not frightened at all. He just wants to know where the dragon’s heart is so that he can kill it. Mime leaves him alone. Siegfried sits down in the forest and thinks. He is glad to know now that the ugly Mime is not his father. He hears a bird singing and he tries to imitate the bird’s song with a pipe he has made from a reed. He blows his horn and the dragon appears. Siegfried plunges the sword into the dragon’s heart. Siegfried instinctively puts his hand in the dragon’s mouth and tastes its blood. Suddenly he can understand what the bird is saying. The bird (originally sung by a boy but normally now by a woman) tells him to take the ring and the tarn helmet (which allows the wearer to change shape or make himself invisible). He takes them.
Mime and Alberich appear. They are arguing about who shall have the ring and the tarn helmet. Siegfried appears with both. Mime offers Siegfried a drink which is drugged. The bird warns Siegfried not to drink it. Siegfried kills Mime by chopping his head off with the sword. The bird then tells Siegfried about his beautiful bride Brünnhilde who is lying on a rock, protected by fire, waiting to be rescued by him.
Erda, the wise Earth Goddess, tells Wotan about the Norns who are weaving the rope of destiny. She is surprised to hear how Wotan has punished Brünnhilde. Wotan says he now looks forward to the end of the gods, and wants Siegfried to take his place.
Siegfried arrives. He tells Wotan (who is a stranger to him) about his heroic deed with the dragon. He finds Wotan annoying and smashes Wotan’s sword. He goes to the rock where Brünnhilde is lying.
Siegfried bursts through the flames and finds the sleeping Brünnhilde. He gently takes off her helmet, then her breastplate. Suddenly he sees that she is a woman. He has never seen a woman before. For the first time in his life he is frightened, yet he very much wants to wake her up. He kisses her lips and she opens her eyes and sits up. She tells him that she has always loved him, even long before he was born. Siegfried feels his passion growing and tries to put his arms round her, but now it is Brünnhilde who is frightened. She tells him not to spoil the purity of their love. Finally they embrace.
It took Wagner more than 15 years to write this opera which is one reason why the music of Act Three is slightly different in style. Some ideas from the love music of Siegfried and Brünnhilde were later re-used by Wagner in a separate orchestral piece, called the "Siegfried Idyll". Many of the leitmotifs (musical ideas that belong to particular characters or ideas) are ones that were heard in the "Das Rheingold" or "Die Walküre". One unusual instrument in the orchestra is the anvil. It is played when Mime, and later Siegfried, are hammering on the anvil trying to forge the pieces of the sword together. The rhythm of this music is the same rhythm heard earlier in the Nibelung scene in "Das Rheingold".
When Wagner started working on the opera he called it "Der junge Siegfried" ("The young Siegfried") but by 1856 he had changed the title to "Siegfried".
The German word “Sieg” means “victory” and “Fried” or “Friede” means “peace”. It is a good name for a hero. The role of Siegfried is sung by a tenor. The singer needs a very strong voice, often called a “Heldentenor” in German (a “heroic tenor”). He is on stage for most of the opera which lasts about four hours.

</doc>
<doc id="51535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51535" title="Götterdämmerung">
Götterdämmerung

Götterdämmerung is an opera by Richard Wagner. It is the fourth and last of the cycle of operas that together tell a story called "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung"). The story continues from the end of the third opera which was called "Siegfried". "Götterdämmerung" is the German name for "Ragnarök".
"Götterdämmerung" is the longest of the four operas. It takes about five hours to perform. It consists of a prologue and three acts. Wagner finished composing the opera in the autumn of 1874. It was first performed on 17 August 1876 as part of the complete Ring cycle.
The three Norns, daughters of Erda the Earth Goddess, are spinning the rope of destiny. This rope is a symbol of what has to happen in the end. They take it in turns to tell the story of the past, spinning as they sing and passing on the rope to the next one. The first Norn tells how Wotan went to drink from the Well of Wisdom for which he lost an eye. He then cut a spear from a tree which then died. The second Norn tells how a young hero broke Wotan’s spear and how the gods were sent from Valhalla to chop down the World Ash. The third Norn tells how the logs from the ash tree have been piled round Valhalla ready for a fire that will burn everything. The Norns have visions of the future. The rope breaks. The Norns disappear into the earth.
Brünnhilde and Siegfried come out of a cave by the rock where they were left at the end of the third opera. Siegfried has to go off to do heroic deeds. He gives Brünnhilde the ring as a token of his love for her. She gives him her horse which is called Grane (pronounce: GRAH-ne). Siegfried travels down the river Rhine.
Act One takes place in the Hall of the Gibichung palace. Gunther is the chief of the Gibichungs. His half-brother Hagen tells him he would look more important if he got married. He also says that Gunther’s sister Gutrune ought to get married. He tells him about Brünnhilde who, he thinks, is still asleep on the rock surrounded by fire that no one except Siegfried would be able to get through. He says that if they manage to get Siegfried to marry Gutrune, then she could persuade him to go and catch Brünnhilde for Gunther. He says that they could give Siegfried a potion (a special drink) which would make him forget that he loved Brünnhilde.
They hear Siegfried’s horn outside and the great hero arrives. Siegfried asks Hagen whether he knows him. Of course, Hagen does. Siegfried is carrying the magic tarn helmet which allows a person to change their shape or become invisible. Siegfried, however, does not know what the tarn helmet can do, and Hagen has to explain it to him. Gutrune appears and offers Siegfried a drink. It is the potion which is going to make him forget any other woman. He drinks to the health of Brünnhilde. As soon as he has drunk it he looks at Gutrune and is in love with her. He agrees to marry her, and he agrees to get a wife for Gunther. Hagen tells him about Brünnhilde on the rock. Siegfried has forgotten about her. He agrees to put on the tarn helmet and disguise himself as Gunther and to go and get Brünnhilde. He goes off, leaving Hagen guarding the palace.
The next scene takes place on the top of the Valkyrie rock. Her sister Waltraute arrives on a flying horse. She says that Wotan (their father, the chief God) returned to Valhalla with his spear broken. She says he told the gods to pile up the logs from the World Ash for a fire which will burn everything. Wotan desperately wants the ring to be given back to the Rhine Maidens (who were guardians of the, from which the ring was forged, in the first opera). Brünnhilde refuses to give her the ring that Siegfried had given her as a token of their love. Waltraute disappears.
After the weather calms the flames flicker again. Siegfried arrives, disguised as Gunther. Brünnhilde is horrified to see a person she thinks is a stranger. Siegfried says she is his bride, forces the ring from her finger and drags her into a cave for the night, although placing the sword between them.
Back at the palace Alberich tries to persuade his son Hagen to get the ring. Hagen wants to get the ring, but only for himself. Siegfried arrives. He no longer wears the tarn helmet so he looks like himself. Hagen blows his horn to call his vassals (soldiers) for a celebration. Gunther is to marry Brünnhilde and Siegfried is to marry Gutrune. Brünnhilde cannot understand why Siegfried is doing this. She sees the ring on his finger and asks him how he got it, as she thinks Gunther snatched it from her. Siegfried says that he won it by killing a dragon. He tells people how he tricked Brünnhilde and swears that a sword lay between them during the night, although Brünnhilde tries to make people think otherwise.
Brünnhilde is left alone with Gunther and Hagen. She tells them that, although Siegfried is so strong and impossible to kill in battle, he has one weak spot on his back. Gunther does not like the idea of having Siegfried killed, but Hagen promises him that he can then have the ring. They decide to kill Siegfried and to tell Gutrune that he was killed by a wild boar.
The last act takes place in a wild forest. Siegfried’s hunting horn is heard, and then the hunting horn of the Gibichungs. By the river Siegfried happens to meet the Rhine Maidens and teases them by showing them the ring, but does not let them have it. They tell him about the curse on the ring but Siegfried does not believe them. He meets Hagen. They drink together. Siegfried tells the men all about his life, how he was brought up by Mime, about the sword, the dragon and the bird singing. Then he cannot remember any more. Hagen gives him another drugged drink which makes him start to remember what actually happened. He remembers Brünnhilde and how he found her surrounded by fire. He gradually realizes how he has been tricked and feels unbearable sadness. Two ravens fly overhead and Hagen plunges his spear into Siegfried’s back. He dies while speaking the name of Brünnhilde. His body is carried off to a funeral march.
Back at the palace his body is brought in. Gutrune accuses Gunther of murdering him, but Gutrune says Hagen did it. Hagen says he did it because Siegfried, when disguised as Gunther, had slept with Brünnhilde. He tries to snatch the ring from the dead Siegfried’s finger, Gunther tries to stop him but is murdered by Hagen. He tries again to snatch the ring but to everybody’s horror the arm of the dead hero rises in the air.
Brünnhilde enters and tells everyone how she promised Siegfried her love. Gutrune curses Hagen and falls onto her brother’s dead body. Brünnhilde orders a funeral pyre (a fire) to be prepared. She sings to Wotan that Siegfried is now at peace in death and that she understands more now. She takes the ring and promises to return it to the Rhine Maidens. She lights the fire which flares up and she rides on her horse Grane into the flames. The whole building catches fire, the Rhine overflows. Hagen jumps into the water trying to get the ring from the Rhine Maidens who drown him. The flood dies down and Valhalla (the gods’ palace) is lit up by the fire. The gods and the heroes die in the flames. The Twilight of the Gods has now happened.
The music of this long opera is extremely cleverly linked so that musical ideas flow into one another and combine to comment on the drama. Many of the themes have been heard in the other three operas. It is a very exhausting opera to sing, especially for Brünnhilde. There are usually two long intervals during a performance. The orchestra is very large and includes eight harps.

</doc>
<doc id="51536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51536" title="Der Ring des Nibelungen">
Der Ring des Nibelungen

Der Ring des Nibelungen ("The Ring of the Nibelung" (Alberich)) is a cycle of four operas by Richard Wagner. 
The story of each opera can be found in the separate articles.
Sometimes it is known as a “tetralogy” meaning: four works that belong together.
Wagner took the story of the operas from a book called the "Nibelungenlied" (the "Nibelung Song") which was written in the 12th century by a German poet. We do not know the name of the poet. The story is about the ancient gods from German mythology.
Wagner made a lot of changes to the story in order to make it suitable for his four operas. Wagner’s story tells of a hoard of gold which is being guarded by the Rhinemaidens. The dwarf Alberich steals the gold and uses some of it to make a ring which makes the owner powerful over all the world. When Wotan, the chief god, steals it from him, Alberich puts a curse on the ring. The ring will bring death to whoever has it. The ring goes through the hands of several characters, all of whom die in the end.
Alberich belongs to a race of dwarfs called the “Nibelungs”. The word “Nibelungen” in the title of the cycle: "Der Ring des Nibelungen" (“The Ring of the Nibelung”), refers to Alberich (it is singular, not plural).
The story of Wagner’s Ring cycle sounds quite fantastic and strange, like a fairy tale. Although the characters seems very different from real people, the story tells us all about basic human emotions. It is a story about greed, love, lust, intrigue etc. This is what makes it so powerful.
Wagner’s music matches each character and situation beautifully. It develops continuously: there are no breaks in the music during the acts. Wagner used what he called leitmotifs (leading motives). These are tunes or chords or little musical phrases which are linked to particular people in the opera. In this way he can hint at things very cleverly in the music. For example: there is a leitmotiv for the curse. Whenever we hear this curse motive we know that the curse of the ring is working.
Wagner spent about twenty years writing the Ring cycle. He started in the 1850s when he was living in Switzerland. He wrote all the libretto (the words) himself, as he always did for his operas. By 1857 he had finished the first two operas and two thirds of "Siegfried". It was many years later that he finally finished "Siegfried" and wrote the final opera as well.
Wagner wanted to have the Ring cycle performed in a special opera house which would be built in the way he wanted. He needed a lot of money for his ideas, and he was very lucky to find someone who adored his music and was happy to give him a lot of money. This was King Ludwig II of Bavaria (sometimes called the “mad king of Bavaria” because he did become insane). Wagner told the King that the Ring cycle would be performed in Munich which was the capital city of Bavaria. Later, when it seemed impossible to build a new opera house there, Wagner broke his promise and built his opera house in Bayreuth instead. The King did not seem to mind and still gave him lots of money for the project as well as a nice house to live in. "Das Rheingold" was first performed in Munich in 1869 and "Die Walküre" in 1870. The whole Ring cycle was first performed in 1876 in the new opera house called the "Festspielhaus" in Bayreuth.

</doc>
<doc id="51537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51537" title="Väki">
Väki

In Finnish mythology, Väki means races of Haltijas (Finnish elves) and their magical powers. Different things in nature had their own väki guarding them. For example, Väki of water lived in and protected water. Väki is the name of both the magical power and Haltijas. Väki could sometimes be seen. They looked like little man-like creatures. Sometimes Väki went inside people and made people ill. Väki makes people ill if they behave badly in their kingdom. For example, if someone shouted in a forest without reason then the Väki of forest may make then ill. Shaman could heal these illnesses by telling the väki to leave the person and go back to its original place.
The other version of väki refers to the realm of the dead. Väki was the anonymous pack of dead people. Once they (väki) had been our beloved ones, relatives etc. but after spending some time in the afterlife they had been become unknown masses of dead creatures without any personal markings.

</doc>
<doc id="51552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51552" title="Sudetenland">
Sudetenland

The Sudetenland was a mountainous area of Czechoslovakia. Germany took this land from Czechoslovakia in 1938. This helped to start World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="51555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51555" title="1375">
1375

1375 was a year in the 14th century.

</doc>
<doc id="51563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51563" title="Coral (color)">
Coral (color)

Coral is a reddish or pinkish shade of orange. The color is named after the sea animal also called corals.
The first written use of "coral" as a color name in English was in 1513. 

</doc>
<doc id="51570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51570" title="Crimson">
Crimson

Crimson is deep reddish purple color between red and rose. You can make it by combining a strong, bright deep red with a little blue. It is originally the color of the dye produced from the dried bodies of a scale insect, "Kermes vermilio".
The word "crimson" has been in written use in the English since 1400, 

</doc>
<doc id="51589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51589" title="Rose (color)">
Rose (color)

Rose is the color halfway between red and magenta on the color wheel. It represents the color of the rose flower.
The first recorded use of "rose" as a color name in English was in 1382.

</doc>
<doc id="51599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51599" title="Maroon (color)">
Maroon (color)

Maroon is a dark red color. 
The word "maroon" comes from the French word "marron" which means "chestnut".
The first recorded use of "maroon" as a color name in English was in 1789. 

</doc>
<doc id="51605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51605" title="Ochre">
Ochre

Ochre or Ocher is a golden-yellow or light yellowish brown colour. The word is from the Greek "ochros", meaning "yellow". Ochre is natural earth pigment containing hydrated iron oxide.

</doc>
<doc id="51627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51627" title="Teal (color)">
Teal (color)

Teal is a deep blue-green color; a dark cyan.
"Teal" gets its name from the colored area around the eyes of the common teal, a member of the duck family. 
The first written use of "Teal" as a color name in English was in 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="51641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51641" title="Navy blue">
Navy blue

Navy blue or navy is a dark shade of the color blue. Some people mistake navy blue for black because some navies (such as the United States Navy) use a shade of navy blue that is so dark it is practically black.

</doc>
<doc id="51650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51650" title="Lime (color)">
Lime (color)

Lime is a yellowish green color. It is the color that is half way between the color chartreuse green and yellow on the color wheel. The color "lime" is named after the fruit, lime.
The official web color named "lime" actually corresponds to pure green on an RGB display. "Lime green" is the color of the outer skin of a lime. "Lime pulp" is the color of the inside of a lime and of "limeade", a fruit drink that is made from limes.
The first recorded use of "lime" as a color name in English was in 1905.

</doc>
<doc id="51670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51670" title="Jochen Rindt">
Jochen Rindt

Karl Jochen Rindt (born April 18 1942 in Mainz, Germany – died September 5 1970 in Monza) was a German racing driver who represented Austria during his career. In 1970, he won the Formula One World Drivers' Championship, but died in a crash in Monza. He was the only driver to win the championship after he died.
In 1965 he won the 24 Hours of Le Mans race.

</doc>
<doc id="51677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51677" title="Claudio Arrau">
Claudio Arrau

Claudio Arrau León (February 6, 1903 - June 9, 1991) was a Chilean classical pianist and one of the greatest classical pianists of the 20th century. 
Arrau started to play the piano as a boy and was giving concerts at the age of 5. The Chilean government heard of the child prodigy and quickly organized to have him sent to Germany to study with the best music teachers. At the age of 7 Arrau started serious study of music in Germany at the Stern Conservatory, Berlin. 
By the age of 11, Arrau was playing like a master, and performed the works of Liszt, Chopin and Brahms in recitals. 
Later in life Arrau became an important teacher of the piano and taught some of the most famous pianists in the world. Arrau married Ruth Schneider, an opera singer, and settled in the United States. Throughout his career he won the highest awards for piano playing. He died in Austria in 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="51678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51678" title="Patriotism">
Patriotism

Patriotism means loyalty of person to his/her own nation or the leaders of nation. A patriot is a person who is on the side of his/her own nation or its leaders. Patriotism is different from nationalism. Nationalist thinks that every ethnic group should have its own nation, so nations are to serve the people. In other words in nationalism the nation is just a tool to have freedom for an ethnic group, while in patriotism the nation itself is the highest value.
A patriot may also be loyal to imperialist or colonialist nations, while nationalism is opposed to imperialism or colonialism.
The English term "patriot" is first known from the Elizabethan era, via Middle French from Late Latin (6th century) patriota "countryman", ultimately from Greek πατριώτης (patriōtēs) "countryman", from πατρίς (patris), "fatherland". The abstract noun patriotism appears in the early 18th century..

</doc>
<doc id="51683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51683" title="Misogyny">
Misogyny

Misogyny means hating women. A misogynist is a person who hates women. Misogynists hate women because they believe there is something wrong with them, such as being stupid, dirty or evil.
Misogyny is different from sexism, which is not based on hate. Sexists do not respect women and the differences between men and women. Someone is not sexist because they believe men and women are different and can have different roles in society. Someone is not sexist because they believe there are differences between men and women. Differences do not indicate there is something wrong with either sex or that both sexes need to be alike. Someone is not sexist because they believe God or nature has made women and men different and may have different roles in society.

</doc>
<doc id="51685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51685" title="Malmeneich">
Malmeneich

Malmeneich is a village in Hesse, Germany. It belongs to the municipality of Elz. The postal code for Malmeneich is 65604 and its dialing code is 06433. 345 people live in the village.
Malmeneich is in the Westerwald. The average elevation is 250m above sea level. The highest point is in the forest and is 292m high. The average temperature is 9,9°C. The village get between 700-720mm of rain each year. Though this seems moderate, temperatures can vary between -20°C and 35°C.
There was an entry about Malmeneich on the Hessian television in 2002. This was for a project of hr3 which aimed to report about Hessian villages with less than 1000 people living in them.
Every year Malmeneich is mentioned in the regional newspaper because of the "Malmeneicher Kirmes".
At the European elections in 2005, a citizen of Malmeneich was caught after voting five times. He got judged and this crime went through the regional media.

</doc>
<doc id="51698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51698" title="Maroon">
Maroon

The word Maroon can have the following meanings:
In sports:
In the military:
In music:
In art:

</doc>
<doc id="51703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51703" title="United Parcel Service">
United Parcel Service

United Parcel Service (UPS) is an American company that transports packages. It is the largest package delivery company in the world. UPS delivers more than 14 million packages a day to more than 200 countries. It is based in Sandy Springs, Georgia, USA. The company uses brown uniforms and delivery trucks. The company trademarked the color brown so that no other delivery company can use it for their logo.
"UPS Airlines" is a part of UPS that handles the transportation of packages over long distances and between countries. UPS has almost 300 airplanes in its fleet. 

</doc>
<doc id="51706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51706" title="Gómez Pereira">
Gómez Pereira

Gómez Pereira (1500 – 1567) was a Spanish philosopher, doctor, and humanist from Medina del Campo. He was most famous for his work in medicine, but he did many different things such as business, engineering, and especially philosophy. As a doctor, he was in favor of using the empirical method, instead of more medieval ideas about medicine.
His ideas in philosophy may have helped René Descartes come up with the famous idea ""cogito ergo sum"". This is Latin for: "I think, therefore I am".
Little is known about his life. He was the second of five brothers; his father, Antonio, had a small store that sold clothes, and his mother, Margarita, died when he was 15, so the children were raised by his aunt, Ana de Avila. Some of his ancestors were Jews from Portugal who had become Christians.
He studied philosophy at the University of Salamanca. His professor, Juan Martinez, was later the archbishop of Toledo, Spain. He also studied medicine and graduated in 1520. He then settled down as a doctor in his home town, Medina, living with his wife, Isabel Rodriguez, and becoming quite successful in business, even having his own warehouses of wine, and renting rooms to other merchants. He never had children. 
He became famous as a doctor, being well known in other cities of Spain. He even went to the court of Philip II of Spain and saved the life of the prince, Don Carlos, when he had an accident. He was also famous as an inventor, and in 1563, he and another inventor named Francisco Lobato got a patent for a type of flour mill powered by water. 

</doc>
<doc id="51708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51708" title="Spore (video game)">
Spore (video game)

Spore is a computer game made by Will Wright. He also made "The Sims" and "SimCity". It consists of five phases of gameplay, the cell, creature, tribal, civilization and space phases. It is a game in which the player is able to create and evolve a species from a germ into a galactic superpower. It was released on September 7, 2008 in America, and September 5 in Europe.
Initially, it was going to be 6 different phases, but they merged the city and civilization phases, so it's only 5 phases now.
One of the biggest parts of the game is the different editors. Almost all things in the game can be made by the player, from buildings in the civilization phase to the creature in the creature phase. The player uses different parts that he can place as he wants. He can also change things like size and "stretch" the parts. All these things made by players can be uploaded as pictures to the "sporepedia". A picture has all the info needed for the game to make the thing, and is very small in size, usually less than 30 kilobytes. This means, that a player can find a picture of a car made in Spore that he likes, copy it, and put it in the Spore folder. Then they can play with it.
All the different phases of the game offer many choices. Roughly, the player can choose to be peaceful, aggressive, or both. For example, in the creature phase, there is a choice to eat other animals, just fruit, or both. And in the civilization phase, there is a choice to be military, religious, economic, or a little of all of them. 

</doc>
<doc id="51715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51715" title="Tilia">
Tilia

Tilia is a genus of between 30 and 45 species of trees in the Northern Hemisphere, in Asia (where the greatest species diversity is found), Europe and eastern North America; it is absent from western North America.
The trees are generally called linden in North America, and lime in Britain. Both names are went from the Germanic root "lind". The modern forms in English went from "linde" or "linne" in Anglo Saxon and old Norse, and in Britain the word transformed more recently to the modern British form "lime". In the United States, the modern German name "Linde", from the same root, became more common, partly to avoid confusion with any other uses of the name.
"Tilia" species are large deciduous trees, reaching typically between 20m and 40m tall, some species grow as shrubs. Plants of this genus are found through the north temperate regions.
The Germanic tribes associated the Linden tree with the goddess Freya. Very often, these tribes held their assemblies, called Thing near or under such a tree. Often, trees that were standing alone somewhere were chosen. These assemblies were used to make laws. They usually lasted three days.
The tree produces fragrant and nectar-producing flowers, the medicinal herb lime blossom. They are very important honey plants for beekeepers, producing a very pale but richly flavoured monofloral honey. The flowers are also used for herbal tea, and this infusion is particularly popular in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="51720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51720" title="Cartesian coordinate system">
Cartesian coordinate system

In mathematics, the Cartesian coordinate system is a coordinate system used to place points on a plane using two numbers, usually called the "x-coordinate" and the "y-coordinate". To place the coordinates, two perpendicular lines, called axes (Singular: axis), are drawn. Cartesian coordinates can be used in 3D, by adding a third number, the "z-coordinate". Each added coordinate represents a dimension.
Using the Cartesian coordinate system, simple shapes, like parabolas, can be made using algebraic equations. The results of the equations can be plotted (drawn) on the Cartesian grid, and a shape appears. For example, a circle can be made with the equation x² + y² = 4 (see Figure 2).
The name cartesian comes from the French mathematician and philosopher René Descartes (Latin: "Cartesius"), who worked to merge algebra and Euclidean geometry. This work was important in creating calculus and cartography.
The idea of this system was developed in 1637 in two works by Descartes. In part two of his "Discourse on Method", Descartes explains plotting the position of a point or object on a surface, using two perpendicular axes as measuring guides. In "La Géométrie", he further explores these ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="51722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51722" title="Polar coordinate system">
Polar coordinate system

In mathematics, the polar coordinate system is a two-dimensional coordinate system in which each point on a plane is determined by an angle and a distance. The polar coordinate system is especially useful in situations where the relationship between two points is most easily expressed with angles and distance; in the more familiar Cartesian or rectangular coordinate system, such a relationship can only be found through trigonometric formulae.
As the coordinate system is two-dimensional, each point is determined by two polar coordinates: the radial coordinate and the angular coordinate. The radial coordinate (usually denoted as formula_1) denotes the point's distance from a central point known as the "pole" (equivalent to the "origin" in the Cartesian system). The angular coordinate (also known as the polar angle or the azimuth angle, and usually denoted by θ or formula_2) denotes the positive or anticlockwise (counterclockwise) angle required to reach the point from the 0° ray or "polar axis" (which is equivalent to the positive x-axis in the Cartesian coordinate plane).
The concepts of angle and radius were already used by ancient peoples of the 1st millennium BCE. Hipparchus (190-120 BCE) created a table of chord functions giving the length of the chord for each angle, and there are references to his using polar coordinates in establishing stellar positions.
In "On Spirals," Archimedes describes the Archimedean spiral, a function whose radius depends on the angle. The Greek work, however, did not extend to a full coordinate system.
There are various accounts of the introduction of polar coordinates as part of a formal coordinate system. The full history of the subject is described in Harvard professor Julian Lowell Coolidge's "Origin of Polar Coordinates." Grégoire de Saint-Vincent and Bonaventura Cavalieri independently introduced the concepts in the mid-seventeenth century. Saint-Vincent wrote about them privately in 1625 and published his work in 1647, while Cavalieri published his in 1635 with a corrected version appearing in 1653. Cavalieri first used polar coordinates to solve a problem relating to the area within an Archimedean spiral. Blaise Pascal subsequently used polar coordinates to calculate the length of parabolic arcs.
In "Method of Fluxions" (written 1671, published 1736), Sir Isaac Newton examined the transformations between polar coordinates, which he referred to as the "Seventh Manner; For Spirals", and nine other coordinate systems. In the journal "Acta Eruditorum" (1691), Jacob Bernoulli used a system with a point on a line, called the "pole" and "polar axis" respectively. Coordinates were specified by the distance from the pole and the angle from the "polar axis". Bernoulli's work extended to finding the radius of curvature of curves expressed in these coordinates.
The actual term "polar coordinates" has been attributed to Gregorio Fontana and was used by 18th-century Italian writers. The term appeared in English in George Peacock's 1816 translation of Lacroix's "Differential and Integral Calculus". Alexis Clairaut was the first to think of polar coordinates in three dimensions, and Leonhard Euler was the first to actually develop them.
Cylindrical coordinates take the same idea that polar coordinates use, but they extend it further. To get a third dimension, each point also has a "height" above the original coordinate system. Each point is uniquely identified by a distance to the origin, called "r" here, an angle, called "formula_3" ("phi"), and a height above the plane of the coordinate system, called "Z" in the picture.
The same idea as is used by polar coordinates can also be extended in a different way. Instead of using two distances, and one angle only, it is possible to use one distance only, and two angles, called formula_3 and formula_5 ("theta").

</doc>
<doc id="51738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738" title="Gold (color)">
Gold (color)

Gold or golden is a yellowish orange color, that is a bit like the color of the metal gold.
The web color "gold" (shown at right) is sometimes referred to as golden in order to distinguish it from the color "metallic gold". The use of "gold" as a color term in traditional usage is more often applied to the color "gold (metallic)" (shown below). 
The first recorded use of "golden" as a color name in English was in the year 1300 to refer to the element gold and in 1423 to refer to blonde hair. 

</doc>
<doc id="51741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51741" title="Provinces of Cuba">
Provinces of Cuba

Cuba is divided into fourteen provinces and one special municipality.
From west to east, Cuba's provinces are:
Cuba's "special municipality" is the "Isla de la Juventud" ("Island of Youth"), known until the 1970s as the "Isla de Pinos" ("Isle of Pines") and previously as "Evangelista", "Isle of Santiago" and "Isle of Parrots".
Prior to 1976, Cuba was divided into the following provinces (from west to east):
These provinces were used to be the following areas on the map: Pinar del Rio (item 2), La Habana (items 1, 3, 4), Matanzas (5), Las Villas (approximately 6, 7, and 8 on map), Camaguey (roughly 9 and 10) and Oriente (11, 12, 13, 14 and 15). 
"Pop. = Population. Source: Cuba census 2002" 

</doc>
<doc id="51746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51746" title="Singing">
Singing

Vishu Singh mcruz born 4 September 2016
And
When people sing they use the air in the lungs. The pressure with that the air comes out of the lungs can be controlled with several respiratory muscles, including the muscle called the diaphragm which goes across the front of the body below the ribs. People who have singing lessons spend a lot of time practising “breath control”.
The air comes through the throat where the larynx is like a reed on a clarinet: it vibrates, controlling the passage of air, and this makes the note higher or lower depending on how it is controlled.
The sound comes into the mouth which is space where the sound can be made bigger (it “resonates”). Professional singers even learn to think of the whole head as a resonator. They sometimes talk about the “mask”, i.e. they imagine a mask in front of the face and this makes the sound bigger. The sound then comes out of the mouth so that it can be heard.
Singing is different from speaking because of the special way the vocal cords in the throat are used.
Most people can sing notes which cover more than an octave. People who sing a lot will probably be able to sing over two octaves. Singers can be called according to whether they have higher or lower voices: soprano, mezzo-soprano and contralto for women, tenor, baritone or bass for men. Some men are able to train their voices to sing alto by using a falsetto voice. Children’s voices are often called treble.
There are lots of different singing styles in the world. Each one has a different technique. In Western classical music singers learn to sing in a bel canto voice which uses lots of resonance in the head and makes a smooth sound. Bel canto was used in Italian opera. Later, in the 19th century, Richard Wagner wrote operas in which the singers needed to be more dramatic. Opera singers today can have different kinds of voices: bel canto, lyrical, dramatic, coloratura (extremely high and light) etc.
In church choirs the singers are often trained to use a lot of head voice because this sounds beautiful in large cathedrals.
Pop singers generally have a different technique: their singing is more from the throat. They do not need to develop powerful voices like opera singers because they sing into microphones so that their voices are electronically amplified (made louder).
Voices singing music from different parts of the world may sound very different. Chinese singing sounds nasal (through the nose). In Mongolia there is a technique of overtone singing which sounds rather like a finger being rubbed against the rim of a wineglass. In Switzerland men often yodel.
Rap is a kind of singing in which the rhythm is the most important thing. The pitch is high and low, but not to any particular notes. Scat singing is rather like rap.
Acappella singing is vocal music specifically without instrumental accompaniment. The name is from Latin "a" (without) and "cappella" (musical accompaniment).
Cantata is a term that exclusively refers to accompanied singing, which is the exact opposite of Acappella.
Singing is something that can be enjoyed by everybody. A group of people singing together is often called a choir. People can sing in choirs or smaller groups or on their own (solos). People can sing for their own enjoyment (e.g. in the shower), or they can practise hard and sing in concerts to an audience.
Singing can be done alone ("a cappella") or it can be "accompanied" (usually with musical instruments).
Some people say they are “tone-deaf”, meaning that they cannot sing in tune. But almost everybody can learn to sing if they try hard enough.

</doc>
<doc id="51748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51748" title="Amish">
Amish

The Amish are a group of people who prefer simple lifestyles. They are usually farmers, and they do not use electricity or automobiles. The ancestors of the Amish came from Germany in the 18th century, and now most of the Amish live in Pennsylvania (Lancaster County) and Ohio, in the United States. They are related to the Mennonites. They speak an old dialect of German, known as Pennsylvania German.
Generally, they are friendly people in that they will wave to someone passing by. However, they live in rural Amish communities which are separate from mainstream American society. It is against their religion to pose for photographs. Often they will turn their head down and to the side if someone aims a camera in their direction. 
Married men are not allowed to shave their beards, but they are also not allowed to have moustaches. Only unmarried men shave their faces.
Amish characters are in the movie Witness, starring Harrison Ford and Kelly McGillis.
Amish dating is different between different communities and different churches. Most communities the common thing to do would be: have some other guy go ask the girl (preferably someone related to her) if it is OK for them to date. If she says it is OK he sees her home (from their Sunday night thing, called a "Singeon", which normally ends at 10:30-11:30 p.m.) and stays at her house till a certain time, some communities midnight, some 1:00 a.m., and others anywhere between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Some communities they sit on each other's lap, others aren't allowed to touch each other, while still others are allowed to kiss. Dating really varies between different types of "Amish".

</doc>
<doc id="51749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51749" title="Jeddah">
Jeddah

Jeddah (also spelled Jedda, Jiddah, Jidda, or Juddah; جدّة Ǧiddah) is a Saudi Arabian city. It is on the coast of the Red Sea (21.50° N 39.1667° E). It is the major urban center in western Saudi Arabia. Jeddah is the largest city in the Western Province, and the second largest city in Saudi Arabia after the capital city Riyadh. The city has over 3.4 million people. It is seen as the business capital of Saudi Arabia and the richest city in the Middle East and western Asia.
Jeddah is the main gateway to Mecca, the holiest city of Islam, where able-bodied Muslims must go to at least once in a lifetime.
Jeddah has 23 sister cities (aka "twin towns"):

</doc>
<doc id="51758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51758" title="Horatio Nelson">
Horatio Nelson

Vice-Admiral Horatio Nelson (29 September 1758 - 21 October 1805) was an English sea captain in the Royal Navy. He was born at the rectory of the village of Burnham Thorpe, Norfolk. 
Nelson commanded the British fleet during the Napoleonic Wars, fighting the French and Spanish. Nelson was blind in one eye, having been wounded in battle. During the Battle of Trafalgar, his greatest victory, he was killed by a French sniper.
At least three versions of his last words exist, and are shown in "wikiquote". 
His most well-known last words are, "Kiss me, Hardy".
Another statement during his last hours was, "Thank God I have done my duty."
Alternatively, he may have said both of these statements; "Kiss me, Hardy" and Hardy kissed him on the cheek. Then Nelson said, "Now I am satisfied. Thank God I have done my duty." Then Hardy kissed him again on the forehead and Nelson called out, "Who is that?" Hardy replied, "It is Hardy." Then Nelson said, "God bless you, Hardy." Then he murmoured to those around him to look about Emma Hamilton and his daughter.
Most recently are accounts of his chaplain, Alexander Scott; his steward, Chevalier; and the purser, Walter Burke. "Drink, drink. Fan, fan. Rub, rub" was a request to ease his symptoms of thirst, heat, and the pains of his wounds. 
Scott, who remained by Nelson as he died, recorded his last words as 'God and my country'.

</doc>
<doc id="51759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51759" title="Turquoise (color)">
Turquoise (color)

Turquoise is the colour of the gem turquoise. It is a slightly greenish shade of cyan. Turquoise is sometimes described as a mixture of pale blue and green. The name comes from the French word for "Turkish". 

</doc>
<doc id="51764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51764" title="Amber (color)">
Amber (color)

The color Amber is a yellowish-orange color. It got its name from the material known as amber. The amber color is halfway between yellow and orange on the color wheel.
The first recorded use of "amber" as a color name in English was in 1500. 

</doc>
<doc id="51765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51765" title="Sea captain">
Sea captain

A sea captain, also known as a skipper, is the leader on a ship. They are responsible for the safety of everyone on board. If the ship is in trouble, most captains will not leave unless everyone is safe.

</doc>
<doc id="51771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51771" title="Brain stem">
Brain stem

The brainstem is the rear part of the brain. It has two sections: the hindbrain, which includes the pons, and the midbrain.
Though the brainstem is small, it is extremely important. The motor (movement) and sensory connections from the main part of the brain to the rest of the body pass through the brain stem. Also, from the brainstem come the main motor and sensory nerves to the face and neck. These nerves are called the cranial nerves. The brainstem controls many bodily functions of which we are not normally aware, such as breathing, heart beat, and sweating. The brainstem controls functions which are unconscious, but necessary for life. 
The hindbrain is the medulla oblongata, which is an extension of the spinal cord. It connects the other parts of the brain (the cerebrum and cerebellum) to the spinal cord. Its neurons are the control centre of bodily functions, such as breathing and blood pressure.

</doc>
<doc id="51772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51772" title="Ideology">
Ideology

An ideology is a collection of ideas or beliefs shared by a group of people. It may be a connected set of ideas, or a style of thought, or a world-view. It was coined by a French philosopher, Destutt de Tracy in 1801/5.
There are two main types of ideologies: "political ideologies", and "epistemological ideologies". Political ideologies are sets of ethical ideas about how a country should be run. Epistemological ideologies are sets of ideas about the philosophy, the Universe, and how people should make decisions.
There are many different types of ideologies. Communism, socialism, and capitalism are political/economical ideologies.
Many political parties base their political action and program on an ideology. In social studies, a political ideology is a certain ethical set of values, principles, doctrines, myths, or symbols of a social movement, institution, or class which explains how society should work. It offers a political and cultural blueprint for a certain social order. A political ideology largely concerns itself with how to allocate power and to what ends it should be used. Some parties follow a certain ideology very closely, while others may take broad inspiration from a group of related ideologies without specifically embracing any one of them.
Political ideologies have two dimensions:
An ideology is a collection of ideas. Typically, each ideology contains certain ideas on what it considers to be the best form of government (e.g. democracy, theocracy, etc.), and the best economic system (e.g. capitalism, socialism, etc.). Sometimes the same word is used to identify both an ideology and one of its main ideas. For instance, "socialism" may refer to an economic system, or it may refer to an ideology which supports that economic system.
Ideologies also identify themselves by their position on the political spectrum (such as the left, the center or the right), though this is very often controversial. Finally, ideologies can be distinguished from political strategies (e.g. populism) and from single issues that a party may be built around (e.g. legalization of marijuana). 
Today, many commentators claim that we are living in a post-ideological age, in which redemptive, all-encompassing ideologies have failed. This is often associated with Francis Fukuyama's writings on "the end of history".

</doc>
<doc id="51776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51776" title="Mauve">
Mauve

"This is an article about the colour mauve. For information on the Flemish painter, see Anton Mauve."
Mauve (pronounce to rhyme with "Jove" and "stove") is a pale purple colour. It is similar to lavender and lilac. The name comes from French form of "malva" meaning the "mallow" flower. 
Another name for this color is mallow.
The first recorded use of "mallow" as a colour name in English was in 1611. 
In 1856, an eighteen year old Chemist William Henry Perkin was trying to make artificial quinine. An unexpected residue caught his eye. It turned out to be the first aniline dye, mauveine.

</doc>
<doc id="51778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51778" title="Iran–Iraq War">
Iran–Iraq War

The Iran-Iraq War was a war between the armed forces of Iraq and Iran lasting from September 1980 to August 1988. It was commonly called the "Persian Gulf War" until Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. The Iraq-Kuwait war, which the United States entered, later was called the "Persian Gulf War" or the "Gulf War".
The war began when Iraq invaded Iran on 22 September 1980, after a long history of border disputes and demands for the overthrow of Saddam Hussein's regime. Iraqi forces did well at the beginning of the war, but before long they were stopped and forced out of Iran. The war continued for years, and neither side gained much ground. About half a million soldiers died and a similar number of civilians. Both sides used blockade, which other countries opposed. Despite several calls for an end to the fighting by the United Nations Security Council, the two countries fought until 20 August 1988; the last prisoners of war were exchanged in 2003. The war changed politics in the Middle East and world wide.
The Iran-Iraq War is also noted for Iraq's use of chemical weapons and biological weapons against Iranian troops and civilians. The role of the United States in the war was very important. In 1953, the US encouraged a coup d'état against Mohammad Mosaddegh, who was the Prime Minister of Iran. Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi returned to power (he previously was in power, and later was allowed to reign but not to rule, like the Queen of England), supporting his military and his government. Meanwhile revolutionaries of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party overthrew the king of Iraq and, with the help of the Soviet Union, built up their army. They sought to unite all the Arabs into one state, including the Arab minority in Iran. 
This triggered the Iranian Revolution in 1979, as the people of Iran were unhappy with the monarchy of the Shah. Later on (especially between 1983 and 1988) the United States sold weapons to the Iraqis. This move was largely due to America's interest in containing the revolutionary Ayatollah Khomeini. In summary, the United States supplied Iraq with weapons to use against Iran. 

</doc>
<doc id="51779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51779" title="Germ">
Germ

Germ may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="51781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51781" title="Lavender (color)">
Lavender (color)

Lavender, a popular color, is a light tone of violet. 
The name comes from the flower of the lavender plant. Originally, the name "lavender" only meant the color of this flower. The color of the flower is still the standard for lavender but there are many other tones of light or medium violet now called "lavender" also. 
The color of the flower can also be called "floral lavender". Other shades of lavender can range in hue from pinkish purple through violet to blueish-indigo. They can also range from light and pale to medium and greyish shades. 
By 1930, the book "A Dictionary of Color" identified three major tones of lavender--"[floral] lavender", "lavender gray", and "lavender blue", and in addition a fourth tone of lavender called "old lavender" (a dark lavender gray) (all four of these shades of lavender are shown below). By 1955, the "ISCC-NBS Dictionary of Color Names" listed dozens of different shades of lavender. 
The first recorded use of the word "lavender" as a color term in English was in 1705.

</doc>
<doc id="51782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51782" title="Lilac (colour)">
Lilac (colour)

Lilac is a light violet colour. It is named after the colour of the lilac flower. The actual colour of the flowers of the plant may range from the colour of the lilac flowers shown at left to a richer or deeper colour. These colours, such as "rich lilac" and "deep lilac", are shown in the colour chart below.
The first written use of "lilac" as a colour name in English was in 1775.
Some lilac flowers are coloured tones of lilac and other lilac flowers are coloured tones of red-violet. Those lilac flowers that are coloured red-violet are said to be coloured Persian lilac. Therefore, two different colour comparison charts are provided. 
"See also red-violet"

</doc>
<doc id="51789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51789" title="Rajkumar">
Rajkumar

Dr. Rajkumar (Real Name: Singanalluru Puttaswamayya Muthuraju April 24, 1929—April 12,2006) was the most popular actor in Kannada's movie industry. He was seen as a role model to millions of Kannadigas.
"Dr. Raj" or "Natasarvabhouma" or "Annavru" (Big Brother) to millions of his fans, he was also called the John Wayne of South Indian cinema. He acted in more than 200 movies over 50 years. Most of his movies have become very important in the Kannada movie industry. He was also a well-known singer.

</doc>
<doc id="51793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51793" title="Nicholas">
Nicholas

Nicholas is a male first name. 
The name is derived from the Greek name “Nikólaos” and is developed out nikáo “triumphs” and laós “people”. After the Greek word use the name can mean both “winner of the people” and “winner over the people”.

</doc>
<doc id="51797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51797" title="Freedom fighter">
Freedom fighter

A freedom fighter is a person who thinks his native ethnic group is not free, and is working to have freedom for his group. Most often this means in that a freedom fighter wants his people to have own nation and independency and/or to get rid of oppressors. People who think like this are said to think in a nationalist way. 
Freedom fighter is a "relativistic" term - this means a person decides by his or her point of view if he call some persons or groups freedom fighters or not. Freedom fighter is a "positive" term - this means that he or she calls a person "freedom fighter" only if he or she supports the goals of the freedom fighter. If people do not support his goals, they probably use more "negative" terms like insurgent, terrorist, rebel or criminal. Freedom fighters are often called terrorists by their opponents if they hurt civilians. However not all freedom fighters hurt civilians. Some freedom fighters damage the opposing military. Some freedom fighters damage property - this is called sabotage. There are also freedom fighters who do not use violence at all. For example the Mahatma Gandhi and the Dalai Lama.
These are examples of groups who call themselves freedom fighters.

</doc>
<doc id="51800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51800" title="Grain (disambiguation)">
Grain (disambiguation)

A "cereal" grain is the seed of a grass, a simple dry fruit technically called a caryopsis. Grain may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="51802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51802" title="Wood grain">
Wood grain

Wood grain describes the , and appearance of the wood . This is often important in its effect on woodworking techniques (e.g. against the grain).
In describing the alignment of the wood in the tree a distinction may be made. Basic grain descriptions and types include:
In addition, there are a few special grain alignments. Their rarity often promotes the value of both the raw material, and the finished work it becomes a part of. These include:
In describing the application of a woodworking technique to a given piece of wood, the direction of the technique may be:
In a wider sense, the term grain may also be applied to the orientation of the cut, the way a given piece of wood has been sawn: 

</doc>
<doc id="51805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51805" title="Groove (joinery)">
Groove (joinery)

In joinery, a groove is a or trench cut into a member which runs parallel to the grain. A groove is something else than a dado, which runs across the grain. 
Grooves are used for several purposes in cabinet making and other woodworking fields. Typically, a groove is used to house the panels in frame and panel construction and the bottoms drawers.
A groove may be "through", meaning that it passes all the way through the surface and its ends are open, or "stopped", meaning that one or both of the ends finish before the groove meets edge of the surface.
A groove can be cut by the following methods:

</doc>
<doc id="51806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51806" title="Joinery">
Joinery

Joinery could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="51809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51809" title="Sepultura">
Sepultura

Sepultura is a thrash metal/death metal/groove metal band from Brazil that has sold over 15 million albums worldwide. The brothers Max and Igor Cavalera started it in Belo Horizonte in 1984. The two brothers have left the band since, Max in 1996, and Igor in 2006, with American singer Derrick Green and drummer Jean Dolabella replacing them after their exits, although Dolabella left in 2011 to be replaced with Eloy Casagrande.
The band's name is Portuguese for the word "grave". The Cavalera brothers chose this name after translating English band Motorhead's song called "Dancing On Your Grave".
Singer Wagner Lamounier and bass player Paulo Jr. were the first stable members to join the band along the Cavaleras. Lamounier left after a year and Max decided to sing as well as play guitar. The band added a second guitar player named Jairo Guedez. These members recorded their first album "Morbid Visions" in 1986. The song "Troops of Doom" from this album gave the band a small amount of popularity.
Guedez left after the album was released, being replaced by Andreas Kisser. This line-up lasted until 1996 and accomplished several things. They recorded five more albums, where they began to play a more thrash metal sound than death/black metal in the first three albums, Schizophrenia (1987), Beneath The Remains (1989) and Arise (1991), and then moved on to groove metal with the last two of these five albums, Chaos A.D. (1993) and Roots (1996). Popular songs from the Chaos A.D. include Refuse/Resist and Roots Bloody Roots. On Roots, they also included a song they recorded with the Brazilian Xavantes tribe called Itsari, who also toured with them.
Conflicts between Max and the other members led to Max leaving the band. He was replaced with American singer Derrick Green. Although the band's album sales have lowered with each album released with Green, he remains in the group today, having recorded the albums Against (1998), Nation (2001), Roorback (2003), Dante XXI (2006), A-Lex (2009) and Kairos (2011) with the band.
Igor Cavalera left the band in 2006 after Dante XXI. A year later, he made up with his brother Max, and the two formed The Cavalera Conspiracy. Igor's first replacement in Sepultura was Jean Dolabella, who recored A-Lex and Kairos with the band before quitting. The band's drummer today is Eloy Casagrande.

</doc>
<doc id="51810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51810" title="Dalai Lama">
Dalai Lama

The Dalai Lama is a religious figure in Tibetan Buddhism. He is its highest spiritual teacher of the Gelugpa school. A new Dalai Lama is said to be the re-born old Dalai Lama. This line goes back to 1391. The 14th and current Dalai Lama is Tenzin Gyatso.
Between the 17th century and 1959, the Dalai Lama was the head of the Tibetan government. During winter, the Dalai Lamas stayed in the Potala palace. In summer they were in the Norbulingka palace. These two palaces are both in Lhasa, Tibet. In 1959, the Dalai Lama had to flee from Tibet to Dharamsala, India. This is still his base today.
The current Dalai Lama is His Holiness Tenzin Gyatso.
Dalai Lama is the title of Tibetan Buddhism leader. "Dalai" is original from Mongolian which means "ocean" and "Lama" is original from Tibetan which means "the highest principle". In 1653, during the Qing Dynasty, this title was authorized to Dalai Lama V by the Chinese Emperor for the first time.
The 13th Dalai Lama, Thubten Gyatso, expelled all Chinese civilians from the country, and instituted many measures to modernise Tibet. These included provisions to curb excessive demands on peasants and tax evasion by the nobles, setting up an independent police force, the abolishment of the death penalty, extension of secular education, and the provision of electricity throughout the city of Lhasa in the 1920s. Thubten Gyatso died in 1933.
The 14th Dalai Lama was not formally enthroned until 17 November 1950, during the People's Republic of China invasion of Tibet (1950–1951). Fearing for his life, the 14th Dalai Lama fled to India where he has led a government in exile since. With the aim of launching guerrilla operations against the Chinese, the CIA funded the Dalai Lama $1.7 million a year in the 1960s. In 2001, he gave up his absolute power over the government to an elected parliament of selected Tibetan exiles. His original goal was full independence for Tibet, but by the late 1980s, he was seeking high-level autonomy instead. He is still seeking greater autonomy from China, although Dolma Gyari, deputy speaker of the parliament-in-exile has stated "If the middle path fails in the short term, we will be forced to opt for complete independence or selfdetermination as per the UN charter".

</doc>
<doc id="51811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51811" title="Serenity (movie)">
Serenity (movie)

Serenity is a 2005 science fiction space western movie. It was written and directed by Joss Whedon. The movie takes place in the fictional universe of the cancelled FOX science fiction television series "Firefly". It takes place about two months after the final episode, "Objects in Space". That is 500 years in the future.
"Serenity" is the story of the captain and crew of a transport and cargo spacecraft. The captain and first mate fought together on the losing side of the Unification War. Their lives of small crime are interrupted by a passenger with mental abilities who has a dangerous secret.
The movie was released in North America on September 30, 2005 by Universal Pictures. It received good reviews. It made $10.1 million during its first weekend. The movie made $25.5 million in the United States and $13.3 million in other countries.
Fans call the movie the "Big Damn Movie" ("BDM"). This is a reference to a line from the "Firefly" episode "Safe" in which Mal and Zoe call themselves "big damn heroes" after rescuing River and Simon.
The movie is based on "Firefly", a television series that was cancelled by Fox in December 2002. Fox stopped the show after 11 of its 14 episodes had been shown. After trying to get another network to show the series, creator Joss Whedon tried to sell it as a movie. He was introduced to Mary Parent with Universal Pictures, who agreed to make the movie after watching the episodes on DVD.
After Universal Studios got the movie rights to "Firefly" from Fox, Whedon began writing the screenplay. Universal wanted to start making the movie in October of 2003 but problems with the script made them have to wait until June of 2004 to start of shooting the movie. Universal did not want to spend the normal amount of money for a story set in space ($100 million). Whedon told them he could do it for less. He also told them he could do it in 50 days, instead of the usual 80 days. On March 3, 2004 the movie was greenlighted to start being made. It was shown to have budget of only $40 million.
They started filming the movie on June 3 2004. Joss Whedon said that the movie would be called "Serenity" to keep it separate from the TV series. All nine of the main actors from the television series (Adam Baldwin, Alan Tudyk, Gina Torres, Jewel Staite, Morena Baccarin, Nathan Fillion, Ron Glass, Sean Maher, and Summer Glau) returned for the movie. On September 17 2004, Joss Whedon said on the movie's official site that shooting was done.
Whedon had to take a television series that not many people had seen and explain the idea of the movie. He had to do this without boring the audience or the fans of the television series. He did this by doing things in the beginning of the movie. At first, it is a just a voice telling what has happened. It then is shown to be a school room where the voice was that of the teacher. They next showed that this was all just memories in one of the character's mind.
Since the budget was not very large, physical special effects were used as much as possible. They made as sets and props as they could to use less CGI effects. The most technically challenging scene was the mule skiff chase. Because it would cost too much, a gimbal (a hydraulic turntable) and CGI, like the pod race scene in "" could not be used. The production team to find other ways to do things. They built a trailer connected to the "hover craft" in the movie and shot the scene while riding up a highway north of Santa Clarita. "Serenity" visual effects supervisor Loni Peristere said in a Los Angeles Times article: "Traditionally this would have been, like, a 30-day shoot. I think we did it in five."
One item from the television show that could not be used again was the original set of the inside of the ship "Serenity". It had to be built for the movie, using images from the "Firefly" DVD set. The company that did the graphics for the series also had to change the computer model of "Serenity". The television model was not good enough for high-definition cinema screens and HD DVD.
Five hundred years into the future, mankind has left Earth. All the people moved to a new large star system. The system is controlled by the Alliance. Away from the "core planets" people like the crew of the cargo ship "Serenity" can make a living if they stay away from Alliance ships and the Reavers - space-faring cannibals who raid the planets of "the Rim." One of the Alliance's projects is the creation of a group of warriors with mental powers. The star of this project is teenager River Tam. After her older brother Simon rescues her, the Alliance Parliament sends "The Operative", a man with no name, rank or official existence after them.
About eight months after River and Simon have joined "Serenity's" crew, the ship's captain Malcolm "Mal" Reynolds takes River with him to rob a bank. While they are robbing the bank, Reavers attack. After they escape back to "Serenity", Simon argues with Mal. Mal decides to leave Simon and River at their next stop. While at their next stop, River starts a fight that is started by a subliminal message broadcast by the Alliance in a commercial. Mal lets Simon and River keep traveling on "Serenity" while the crew talks to a techno-geek known as Mr. Universe. Mr. Universe lives on a planet inside a giant cloud of objects in space that does not let people see there is a planet there. Mr. Universe watches a video of the fight and finds the subliminal message. He also sees that River said the name "Miranda." Mal gets a call from Inara, a former passenger. He knows it is a trap, but also knows that she must be in danger. Mal goes to her. He is confronted by the Operative. The Operative tells Mal that he will let him go if Mal turns River over to him. Mal refuses and they escape from the Operative and go back to "Serenity". The crew finds out that "Miranda" is an unknown planet near the edge of the solar system. To get to Miranda, they would have to cross into Reaver territory. They think this is too dangerous. "Serenity" instead goes to Haven which is home to another former passenger, Shepherd Book. When they get to Haven, the crew sees that it has been attacked by the Alliance. They also see that Shepherd Book was hurt very bad and dying. The Operative sends a message saying he did it. He said he will keep doing things like it until River is given to him.
Mal orders that "Serenity" be made to look like a Reaver ship. They get the disguised ship through a fleet of Reaver warships. When they get to Miranda, the crew finds everyone that lived there is dead. There are dead bodies everywhere but they can not tell how the people died. The crew finds a video made after the disaster by an Alliance ship. It tells them that the Alliance made a chemical that was susposed to stop aggression and make the planet free of violence. The chemical worked so well that the people stopped doing everything, including eating, and let themselves die. In a tenth of a percent of the people, the chemical had the opposite effect. It turned them very aggressive and caused mental problems: they became the Reavers. Mal wanted to show this secret to all the worlds by using Mr. Universe's equipment. The Operative figures out where they are going and waits just outside of Reaver space with an Alliance fleet. Knowing that the Operative is likely to be waiting for them, "Serenity" opens fire on one of the Reaver ships while coming back. The other Reaver ships chase after them. "Serenity" leaves Reaver space and pass through the cloud around Mr. Universe's planet while being chased by the entire Reaver fleet. There is a large fight between the Alliance and the Reavers. The fight lets "Serenity's" pilot Wash to fly down to the planet. The Operative's ship is destroyed, and he also goes to the planet in an escape pod.
"Serenity" crashes on the planet. While the ship is damaged very badly, the crew has survived. Just as everyone begins to relax, a Reaver harpoon hits Wash, and kills him. The crew leaves "Serenity" and finds a place to fight off the Reavers while Mal goes to get to Mr. Universe and send the message. Mal finds Mr. Universe has been killed and his equipment is destroyed. He finds a message that tells him about a hidden backup transmitter. The Reavers attack the crew, and make them move back. The crew tries to close a blast door, but it will not shut all the way. River dives through the hole in the door and closes it from the other side. This traps her with the Reavers. Mal gets to the other transmitter. The Operative gets there also and they fight. Mal wins but does not kill the Operative. He leaves him to watch the video from Miranda as it is being broadcast. Mal goes back to his crew. As he is told what River did, the blast door opens to reveal River standing unhurt on an large pile of dead Reavers. A group of Alliance soldiers show up but the Operative orders them not to fight because of what he has seen on the video. The crew buried their dead and fixed "Serenity". "Serenity" leaves the planet with Mal in Wash's seat as the pilot, and River as his copilot.
While the movie shows the Alliance as an all-powerful regime, Whedon is careful to point out that it is not that simple. "The Alliance isn't some evil empire", he says, but a largely benevolent bureaucratic force. The Alliance’s main problem is that it cannot and should not try to control all the different cultures that are a part of it. The crew of Serenity, and specifically Mal, show the idea that people should have the right to chose for themselves, even if those choices are bad.
The Operative is all that the Alliance stands for. He is, as Whedon described, the "perfect product of what's wrong with the Alliance". He is someone who is a force for good, who wants to help make his (and the Alliance's) image of a "world without sin." The Operative believes so much in this idea that he do anything to make create that world . Mal is the opposite. At the movie's beginning, he is a man who has lost all faith. By the end of the movie, however, Mal finally believes in something—freedom of choice—so strongly that he is willing to die to preserve it. Whedon has said that the most important line in the movie is Mal's to the Operative at its end: "I'm going to show you a world without sin." Whedon's point is that a world without sin is a world without choice, and that choice is what defines humanity. The Operative, who does only what he is told to do, and the inhuman Reavers, created by the Alliance's need to control people, are only two examples of this theme.

</doc>
<doc id="51814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51814" title="Woodworking joints">
Woodworking joints

Joinery often refers to the part of woodworking that involves the joining together of parts of wood. 
Traditional wood joinery techniques use
the distinctive material properties of wood, often without mechanical fasteners. There are different types of joinery for different structures, for example the joinery used
to build a house is different from that used to make puzzle toys,
although elements overlap.
Wood is strong when stressed along the grain (longitudinally), but weak across it (radially and tangentially). It expands and contracts in response to humidity.
This change is very small longitudinally. It is considerable, but unequal,
in the radial and tangential directions.
Glue is highly effective for joining wood when both surfaces of the joint are edge grain. A properly glued joint may be as strong as a single piece of wood. However, glue is ineffective on end-grain surfaces.
Two of the most common traditions of joinery are Japanese and European. The Japanese in particular developed hundreds of types of joints and their furniture was often held together without glue or nails.

</doc>
<doc id="51825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51825" title="George Grenville">
George Grenville

George Grenville (14 October 1712–13 November 1770) was Prime Minister of Great Britain. He was a member of the Whig Party. He was one of the few prime ministers who never was given a title of nobility.
Grenville was the second son of Richard Grenville and Hester Temple. His older brother was Richard Grenville-Temple. Grenville went to school at Eton College and at Christ Church College, Oxford. He entered Parliament in 1741 as member for Buckingham, and represented Buckingham until his death.
As Treasurer of the Navy in 1758 he introduced and carried a bill which established a fairer system of paying the wages of sailors. He stayed in office in 1761, when Pitt resigned, and in the administration of Lord Bute acted as Leader of the House of Commons. In May 1762 he became Secretary of State for the Northern Department, and in October First Lord of the Admiralty; and in April 1763 he became First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer. 
While Prime Minister, his government oversaw the prosecution of John Wilkes and the passing of the American Stamp Act 1765, which led to the first disagreements between American colonies and Great Britain that led to the American Revolutionary War. 
After many years of being Prime Minister, he began to have disagreements with young king George III. The king started to think that the Prime Minister was using him as a puppet. The king convinced Rockingham to become the new Prime Minister and Grenville never held an office again.
Grenville was called the "gentile shepherd" because he bored the House by asking over and over again, during the debate on the Cider Bill of 1763, that somebody should tell him "where" to lay the new tax if it was not to be put on cider. Pitt whistled the air of the popular tune "Gentle Shepherd, tell me where", and the House laughed. Though few excelled him in a knowledge of the forms of the House or in mastery of administrative details, he lacked tact in dealing with people and with affairs.
In 1749 Grenville married Elizabeth Wyndham (before 1731-5 December 1769), daughter of Sir William Wyndham. They had seven children.

</doc>
<doc id="51826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51826" title="Harald Hardrada">
Harald Hardrada

Harald III of Norway (1015 – September 25, 1066) was born Harald Sigurðarson, but known as Harald Hardrada. He became king of Norway, and thought that he was the rightful heir to the throne of England. In 1066 he invaded England, and was killed at the Battle of Stamford Bridge by the army of Harold Godwinson, the last Anglo-Saxon King of England.
He was known as the last great viking.

</doc>
<doc id="51838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51838" title="Captain">
Captain

Captain is a military rank. Captains are officers in an army. In a navy, captains command an entire ship. Another type of captain is a commander of a ship who is not in the military. There are also captains in other uniformed organisations, including the police. A leader of a sports team is also called a captain, as well as the pilot of an airliner.

</doc>
<doc id="51843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51843" title="Wire rope">
Wire rope

Wire rope consists of several strands laid (or 'twisted') together like a helix. Each strand is likewise made of metal wires laid together like a helix. Initially wrought iron wires were used, but today steel is the main material used for wire ropes.
Modern wire rope was invented by the German mining engineer Wilhelm Albert in the years between 1831 and 1834 for use in mining in the Harz Mountains in Clausthal, Lower Saxony, Germany. It was quickly accepted because it was better than ropes made of hemp or to metal chains, such as had been used before.
Wilhelm Albert's first ropes consisted of wires twisted about a hemp rope core, six such strands then being twisted around another hemp rope core in alternating directions for extra stability. Earlier forms of wire rope had been made by covering a bundle of wires with hemp.
In America wire rope was later manufactured by John A. Roebling, forming the basis for his success in suspension bridge building. Roebling introduced a number of innovations in the design, materials and manufacture of wire rope.
Manufacturing a wire rope is similar to making one from natural fibres. The individual wires are first twisted into a strand, then six or so such strands again twisted around a core. This core may consist of steel, but also of natural fibres such as sisal, manila, henequen, jute, or hemp. This is used to cushion off stress forces when bending the rope.
The specification of a wire rope type, including the number of wires per strand, the number of strands, and the lay of the rope, are is documented using a commonly accepted coding system, with abbreviations. For example, the rope shown in the figure "Wire rope construction" is designated:
6x19 FC RH OL FSWR
Each of the sections of the wire rope designation described above is variable. There are therefore a large number of combinations of wire rope that can be specified in this manner. The following abbreviations are commonly used to specify a wire rope.

</doc>
<doc id="51845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51845" title="Liekkiö">
Liekkiö

Liekkiö ("flamey") or Ihtiriekko is a ghost of a bastard child in Finnish mythology.
Stories tells that a woman had sex with someone else than her husband. Maybe she did not even have a husband. She then get pregnant and gave birth to a baby. This way to make a baby was not accepted by church and society - that kind of baby is called bastard. Mother had to kill her bastard child to avoid being blamed by priests or other people. Mother then buried child outside graveyard and without priests blessing the body. Soul of baby could not go to heaven because his/her body was not at graveyard and was not blessed by a priest. This is why she became a ghost.
This ghost could make terrible noise until somebody dugs up his/her body and buries it in graveyard. Such ghost people call Ihtiriekko. Ghosts could also be quiet, but she/he might be seen as a flame in forest, like will o' the wisp. Such ghost people call Liekkiö.

</doc>
<doc id="51848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51848" title="Bastard">
Bastard

A bastard is a person who was born of parents who are not married to one another. It is considered by some cultures and individuals as a nasty or insulting word today, or sometimes even profanity, with the term illegitimate being a little more polite. Some cultures see illegitimate children as dirty or bad, and only accept sexual relations between married couples.

</doc>
<doc id="51851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51851" title="Gödel number">
Gödel number

In formal number theory a Gödel numbering is a function which assigns to each symbol and formula of some formal language a unique natural number called a Gödel number (GN). The concept was first used by Kurt Gödel for the proof of his incompleteness theorem. 
A Gödel numbering can be interpreted as an encoding where a number is assigned to each symbol of a mathematical notation, and a stream of natural numbers can then represent some form or function. A numbering of the set of computable functions can then be represented by a stream of Gödel numbers (also called effective numbers). Rogers' equivalence theorem states criteria for which those numberings of the set of computable functions are Gödel numberings. 
Given a countable set "S", a Gödel numbering is an injective function
with both "f" and formula_2 (the inverse of "f") being computable functions.
One of the simplest Gödel numbering schemes is used every day: The correspondence between integers and their representations as strings of symbols. For example, the sequence 2 3 is understood, by a particular set of rules, to correspond to the number twenty-three. Similarly, strings of symbols from some alphabet of "N" symbols can be encoded by identifying each symbol with a number from 0 to "N" and reading the string as the base "N"+1 representation of an integer.

</doc>
<doc id="51852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51852" title="Formal language">
Formal language

In mathematics, logic, and computer science, a formal language is a language that is defined in a precise mathematical way. A language is defined using a set called the alphabet of the language. The members of the alphabet are usually called "symbols" of the language. The language is a set of sequences of symbols of the alphabet. The sequences usually have finite length. The sequences that are members of the language are called the "words" of the language or "strings".
A precise definition is that 
a formal language formula_1 is typically characterized as an ordered pair of sets formula_2. formula_3 is the alphabet, and each element of formula_4 is a sequence of elements. 
Formal languages have lots of uses. A formal language is often thought of as: 
or 
In the first case, the set formula_3 is called the "alphabet" of formula_1, and the elements of formula_7 are called "words". In the second, the set formula_3 is called the "lexicon" or the "vocabulary" of formula_7, while the elements of formula_7 are then called "sentences". The mathematical theory that treats formal languages in general is known as "formal language theory".
Although it is common to hear the term "formal language" meaning natural language that is more stilted, disciplined or precise than everyday speech, this article refers to the meaning in formal language theory, in maths, logic or computer science. 
As an example of formal language, an alphabet might be formula_11. One string over that alphabet is formula_12. 
A typical language over that alphabet, containing that string, would be the set of all strings which contain the same number of symbols formula_13 and formula_14.
The empty word (that is, length-zero string) is allowed and is often denoted by formula_15, formula_16 or formula_17. While the alphabet is a finite set and every string has finite length, a language may very well have infinitely many member strings. This is because the length of words belonging to it may be unbounded.
Determining the difficulty of deciding whether a given word belongs to a particular language is problem that Computability theory and Complexity theory deals with.
Some examples of formal languages:
A formal language can be specified in a great variety of ways, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="51853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51853" title="Alphabet (computer science)">
Alphabet (computer science)

In computer science, an alphabet is a finite non-empty set. The elements of an alphabet are called the letters or symbols of the alphabet.
An example of an alphabet is formula_1 which may be used for Morse code or "{begin, if, else, for, while}" which may be the keywords of a Programming language.
The set of natural numbers is not an alphabet because as it is not finite.
The alphabet which is used the most in computer science is "{0,1}". It is called the binary alphabet because it contains two symbols. An alphabet can be used to make a string (or word). This is a finite Sequence of letters from the alphabet. For example, a string of length 5 over "{0,1}" is "01101".
The empty string is the string containing no letters (it is often written as formula_2). The empty string is a string over any alphabet.
If we have an alphabet called formula_3. Then we write the set of "all" strings that can be made from formula_3 as formula_5. This is called the Kleene star (or Kleene closure) of formula_3. It is named after the mathematician Stephen Cole Kleene.
The Kleene star of the binary alphabet is formula_7. The three dots after 001, show that we cannot write the Kleene star of an alphabet in full because it is an infinite set.
Alphabets are important because they are used in studying formal languages, finite automata and very difficult questions in computer science about what can be computed and what can not.

</doc>
<doc id="51855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51855" title="Empty string">
Empty string

The empty string is the unique string of no characters over some alphabet Σ. It is written as "ε" or "λ". The length of this empty string is 0. 
In simple words, given some characters of an alphabet, the empty string is the "word" that can be made if no letters are used. There is of course only one such word.
Under concatenation, the empty string is the identity element of the free monoid on Σ. That is, for any string "s", "s"ε = ε"s" = s.
In many programming languages, the empty string is written with two double quotes: """". The empty string is also sometimes noted by the Greek letter λ.
In C, the empty string is represented by a character array with a null character in the zeroeth position. Note that all strings in C are terminated by a null character.

</doc>
<doc id="51858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51858" title="Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats">
Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats

Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats is a book of poems about cats. The cats in these poems act like humans. It is by T. S. Eliot. It was first sold in 1939. Andrew Lloyd Webber used most of the poems in his musical "Cats".
Contents of "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats" by T. S. Eliot:

</doc>
<doc id="51859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51859" title="Concatenation">
Concatenation

Concatenation is a simple concept from computer science. It is a way of making a new word (or String), by putting together two other Strings. Given the words "foo" and "bar", the two new words "foobar" and "barfoo" can be made that way. 

</doc>
<doc id="51861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51861" title="Identity element">
Identity element

In mathematics, the identity element (or neutral element) of a set is a special element of that set. It is special because if it is combined with another element of that set, it does not change the other element.
With addition, the identity element is 0, because adding 0 to some number does not change the number. With multiplication, it is 1.

</doc>
<doc id="51865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51865" title="Inverse function">
Inverse function

An inverse function is a concept of mathematics. A function will calculate some output formula_1, given some input formula_2. This is usually written formula_3. The inverse function does the reverse. Let's say formula_4 is the inverse function of formula_5, then formula_6. Or otherwise put, formula_7. An inverse function to formula_8 is usually called formula_9 Do not confuse formula_10 with formula_11: the first is a value of an inverse function, the second is reciprocal of a value of a "normal" function.
Let's take a function formula_12 over real formula_2. Then, formula_14
Not all functions have inverse functions: for example, function formula_15 has none (because formula_16, and formula_17 should give both 1 and -1 when given 1)), but every binary relation has its own inverse relation.
Finding the inverse of a function can be very difficult to do.

</doc>
<doc id="51867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51867" title="Countable set">
Countable set

If you can count the things in a set, it is called a countable set. A set with one thing in it is countable, and so is a set with one hundred things in it. A set with all the natural numbers (counting numbers) in it is countable too. It's infinite but if someone counted forever they wouldn't miss any of the numbers. Sometimes when people say 'countable set' they mean countable and infinite. Georg Cantor coined the term. 
Countable sets include all sets with a finite number of members, no matter how many.
Countable sets also include some infinite sets, such as the natural numbers. Since it is impossible to actually count infinite sets, we consider them countable if we can find a way to list them all without missing any. The natural numbers have been nicknamed "the counting numbers" since they are what we usually use to count things with. 
You can count the natural numbers with formula_1
You can count the whole numbers with formula_2
You can count the integers with formula_3
You can count the square integer numbers with formula_4
The rational numbers are also countable, but it becomes tricky. We can't just list the fractions as (0/1, 1/1, -1/1, 2/1, -2/1...) since we will never get to 1/2 this way. However, we can list all of the rational numbers in the form of a table. The horizontal rows are the numerators while the vertical columns are the denominators. We can then zigzag through the list, starting at 1/1, then 2/1, then 1/2, then 1/3, then 2/2, then 3/1, then 4/1, then 3/2, then 2/3 etc. If we keep this up, we will get to all of the numbers on the table in due time! Each time we hit a rational number that is new for us, we add it to the list of counted numbers. We don't want to count numbers twice, so when we hit 3/6 we can skip it, because we already counted the rational number 1/2. In this way, we produce an infinite list with all the rational numbers. Therefore, the rational numbers are countable. 

</doc>
<doc id="51868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51868" title="Computable function">
Computable function

A Computable function is a notion from computer science. A function is computable, if there is an algorithm that can calculate its result, in a finite number of steps.
Computability theory is all about such functions.

</doc>
<doc id="51880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51880" title="Pharmacist">
Pharmacist

A pharmacist is a person who works in a pharmacy. Pharmacists have to be trained to work there, and have knowledge about the drugs package. Pharmacists interact with customers, give the prescribed medication and telling them about the drugs. 

</doc>
<doc id="51885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51885" title="Thoosa">
Thoosa

In Greek mythology, Thoosa was the name of the mother of the cyclops Polyphemus.

</doc>
<doc id="51896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51896" title="Perch">
Perch

Perch is a type of fish. Perch are the fish in the genus "Perca".
Perch have "rough" scales. When looking through a microscope, the scales look like a plate with growth rings and spikes on the top edges. On the top side of the fish, there is a mouth, a pair of nostrils, and two lidless eyes. On the bottom sides are the "operculum", which are used to protect the gills. Also perch have a lateral line system, which a set of sense organs that are sensitive to vibrations in the water. They have a pair of pectoral and pelvic fins. On the front end of the fish, there are two dorsal fins. The first one is spiny and the second is soft. There is also an anal fin, which is also considered spiny, and a caudal fin.

</doc>
<doc id="51906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51906" title="Puce">
Puce

Puce is a medium grayish red-violet colour. 
"Puce" colours may be pale grayish red-violet, grayish rose or brownish-purple colours. 
Basically, puce colours are reddish purple colours mixed with gray or brown. A wide range of tones of puce are shown below. 
Chinese dried plums, a favorite snack among Chinese people worldwide, can be said to be puce coloured.
The name is from the French word "puce" which means "flea". Some people say that the colour name comes from the colour of a squashed flea or the colour of a flea full of blood. Other people say that colour name comes from the flea's droppings of digested blood, which spread out in deep red stain when water contacts them. Still others say that the colour name means the colour of the belly of a flea. 
On the other hand, the colour name may refer to blue-lavender of the Pennyroyal flower, also named "puce" in French. The name may come from the use of strong-smelling Pennyroyal to ward off fleas.
The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) dates the use of "puce" (in "couleur puce")in English from 1787. The first recorded use of "puce" as a color name was in the 14th century, in the French language.

</doc>
<doc id="51907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51907" title="Scarlet">
Scarlet

Scarlet is a slightly orangish red colour. It is a colour of the rainbow. It is redder than vermilion. The colour's name comes from the Persian "saqirlat". 
An early recorded use of "scarlet" as a color name in the English language dates to 1250.

</doc>
<doc id="51909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51909" title="League">
League

The word league can mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="51910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51910" title="Worship">
Worship

Worship is a word often used in religion. It means to have much respect. If someone prays or says thank you to God, people say that they are worshipping God. Worship can also be used as the name for a church service or similar event. This can be called an act of worship.
The Bible talks about many people worshipping God, for example Abraham builds an altar in Genesis chapter 12 verse 8.

</doc>
<doc id="51911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51911" title="Claudius">
Claudius

Claudius (Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, 11 August 10 – 13 October 54 ) was the fourth Roman Emperor. He ruled from 24 January 41 to his death in 54 . His uncle was the second Emperor Tiberius and Mark Antony was one of his grandfathers.
He had some kind of disability, in speech and walking, and his family kept him from public office until he was 38. Claudius' infirmity may have saved him from the purges of Tiberius' and Caligula's reigns; enemies did not see him as a serious threat. His survival led to his being declared emperor (at the insistence of the Praetorian Guard) after Caligula's assassination. He was then the last adult male of his family.
Despite his lack of experience, Claudius proved a good administrator and a great builder of public works. His reign saw an expansion of the Empire, and the conquest of Britain. He took a personal interest in the law, and he presided at public trials. Claudius suffered setbacks in his personal life, one of which may have led to his murder. He married four times, and the marriages did not turn out well. Claudius' relative and adopted son Nero succeeded him as Emperor, and undid much of his good work.
On 24 January 41 , Caligula was assassinated by a broad-based conspiracy. There is no evidence that Claudius had a direct hand in the assassination, although it has been argued that he knew about the plot. In the chaos following the murder, Claudius witnessed the German guard cut down several uninvolved noblemen, including some of his friends. He fled to the palace to hide. According to tradition, a Praetorian named Gratus found him hiding behind a curtain and suddenly declared him Emperor. A section of the guard may have planned to seek out Claudius, perhaps with his approval. They reassured him that they were not one of the groups looking for revenge. He was put under their protection.
The Senate quickly met and began debating a change of government. When they heard of the Praetorians' claim, they demanded that Claudius be delivered to them for approval. He refused, sensing danger. Eventually the Senate was forced to give in and, in return, Claudius pardoned nearly all the assassins.
Under Claudius, the empire expanded for the first time since the reign of Augustus. The provinces of Thrace, Judea and three other provinces were annexed during his term. The annexation of Mauretania, begun under Caligula, was completed after the defeat of rebel forces, and divided into two provinces. The most important new expansion was the conquest of Britannia".
In 43 , Claudius sent four legions to Britain ("Britannia"). Britain was an attractive target for Rome because of its wealth – particularly mines and slaves. It was also a haven for Gallic rebels and the like, and so could not be left alone much longer. Claudius himself traveled to the island after the completion of initial offensives, bringing with him reinforcements and elephants. 
The Senate granted him a Roman triumph for his efforts: in the Roman Empire only members of the imperial family were allowed such honors. Claudius later lifted this restriction for some of his generals. When the British general Caractacus was captured in 50, Claudius granted him his life. Caractacus lived out his days on land provided by the Roman state, an unusual end for an enemy commander.
Claudius conducted a census in 48 that found 5,984,072 Roman citizens, an increase of about a million since the census conducted at Augustus' death.
Claudius married four times. His first marriage, to Plautia Urgulanilla, occurred after two failed betrothals. During their marriage she gave birth to a son, Claudius Drusus. Unfortunately, Drusus died of asphyxiation in his early teens, shortly after becoming engaged to Junilla, the daughter of Sejanus. Claudius later divorced Urgulanilla for adultery and on suspicion of murdering her sister-in-law Apronia. When Urgulanilla gave birth after the divorce, Claudius repudiated the baby girl, Claudia, as the father was one of his own freedmen. 
Soon after (possibly in 28 ), Claudius married Aelia Paetina, a relative of Sejanus, if not Sejanus's adoptive sister. During their marriage, Claudius and Paetina had a daughter, Claudia Antonia. 
Some years after divorcing Aelia Paetina, in 38 or early 39 , Claudius married Valeria Messalina, who was his first cousin once removed and closely allied with Caligula's circle. Shortly thereafter, she gave birth to a daughter Claudia Octavia. A son, first named Tiberius Claudius Germanicus, and later known as Britannicus, was born just after Claudius' accession. This marriage ended in tragedy. Messalina was regularly unfaithful to Claudius and manipulated his policies in order to amass wealth. In 48 Messalina married her lover Gaius Silius in a public ceremony while Claudius was at Ostia. The result was the execution of Silius, Messalina, and most of her circle. Claudius made the Praetorians promise to kill him if he ever married again.
Despite this declaration, Claudius did marry once more, his niece Agrippina the Younger.
The attempted coup d'état by Silius and Messalina had probably made Claudius realize the weakness of his position since he did not have an obvious adult heir, Britannicus being just a boy. Agrippina's son Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus (the Emperor Nero) was one of the last males of the imperial family. Future coup attempts could rally around the pair, and Agrippina was already showing such ambition. In any case, Claudius accepted Agrippina, and later adopted the newly mature Nero as his son.
Nero was made joint heir with the underage Britannicus, married to Octavia and heavily promoted. Nero was popular with the public as the grandson of Germanicus and the direct descendant of Augustus.
The consensus of ancient historians was that Claudius was murdered by poison, and died in the early hours of 13 October, 54 . Accounts vary greatly, but nearly all implicate his last wife, Agrippina, as the instigator. Agrippina had motive in ensuring the succession of Nero before Britannicus could gain power.
Claudius was described as physically repulsive, weak, and easily manipulated by his wives and companions by Suetonius, but this historian cannot be entirely trusted. The surviving works of Claudius present a different view. They paint a picture of an intelligent, scholarly, well-read, and conscientious administrator with an eye to detail and justice. Thus, Claudius becomes an enigma. Since the discovery of his letter to the Alexandrians in the last century, much work has been done to rehabilitate Claudius and determine where the truth lies.
Claudius wrote copiously throughout his life. Besides the history of Augustus' reign, his major works included an Etruscan history and eight volumes on Carthaginian history, as well as an Etruscan dictionary and a book on dice playing. Claudius is the last person known to have been able to read Etruscan. His first wife was Etruscan. Finally, he wrote an eight-volume autobiography. 
Unfortunately, none of these major works survive. They do live on as sources for the surviving histories of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. Suetonius quotes Claudius' autobiography once, and must have used it as a source numerous times. Tacitus may have used him for some of the more antiquarian passages in his annals. Claudius is the source for numerous passages of Pliny's "Natural History". Pliny credits him by name in Book VII 35.
Many of the public works instituted in his reign were based on plans first suggested by Julius Caesar. Levick believes this emulation of Caesar may have spread to all aspects of his policies.
The best known fictional representation of the Emperor Claudius were the books "I, Claudius" and "Claudius the God" (published in 1934 and 1935) by the poet Robert Graves. They were both written in the first-person, as if they are Claudius' autobiography. Graves' plot suggested there were recently discovered, genuine translations of Claudius' writings. Claudius' genuine surviving letters, speeches, and sayings were incorporated into the text (mostly in the second book, "Claudius the God") in order to add authenticity.
Graves's two books were the basis for an "I, Claudius" TV series by the BBC. The series starred Derek Jacobi as Claudius and was broadcast in 1976 on BBC2. It was a substantial critical success, and won several BAFTA awards. The series was later broadcast in the United States on "Masterpiece Theatre" in 1977. The DVD release of the television series contains "The Epic that Never Was" documentary.
Claudius has been portrayed in movies on several occasions. "I, Claudius" (1937, Director Josef von Stromberg), unfinished; Charles Laughton as Claudius was a great performance. The surviving reels were featured in the BBCtv documentary "The Epic that never was" (1965), revealing some of Laughton's most accomplished acting. Also, minor portrayals in "Demetrius and the Gladiators" (1954) and "Caligula" (1979).

</doc>
<doc id="51912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51912" title="Nero">
Nero

Nero (Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, 15 December 37 AD – 9 June 68), was the fifth and last Roman Emperor of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. 
Nero was the adopted son of his grand-uncle Claudius. He became emperor on 13 October 54, after Claudius died. Claudius was probably assassinated by Nero's mother Agrippina the Younger. Agrippina had motive in ensuring the succession of Nero before Britannicus (Claudius' natural son) could gain power.
During his reign, Nero focused much of his attention on diplomacy, trade, and increasing the cultural capital of the empire. He ordered the building of theatres and promoted athletic games. 
His reign included a successful war and negotiated peace with the Parthian Empire, the suppression of a revolt in Britain, and the beginning of the First Roman–Jewish War.
In 64, most of Rome was destroyed in the Great Fire of Rome. In 68, the rebellion of Vindex in Gaul and later the acclamation of Galba in Hispania (Spain) drove Nero from the throne. Facing assassination, he committed suicide on 9 June 68.
Nero's rule is often associated with tyranny and extravagance. He is known for a number of executions, including those of his mother and stepbrother.
Nero is known as the emperor who played a fiddle while Rome burned, but actually he played the lyre and sang. He also persecuted Christians. However, some ancient sources show that Nero was popular with the common people during and after his reign.

</doc>
<doc id="51913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51913" title="Trades union">
Trades union

A trades union (U.S: "trade union") is an organisation or group of workers who join together to negotiate pay, hours, benefits, and working conditions. Union members and supporters of unions claim that they are necessary because the people that run companies want to pay as little as possible. In the United States, they are often called labor unions.
The term as used in Britain is trades union (plural: "trades unions") because they were a joining of men "working in different trades". For example: on the engine of a steam locomotive were two men: a driver and a stoker shovelling the coal into the oven. The driver was a skilled man, and paid much more than the stoker. They were two different trades. When they joined into the Associated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen (ASLEF), their negotiations with management was done together. A quite different union, the National Union of Railwaymen (NUR) looked after other employees of the railway compaies. That was a whole collection of different trades.
Unions do many things for their members. This includes:
Article 8 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ensure the right to form and join trade union and use strikes.
If collective bargaining does not work, unions often use strikes to get their demands. However, the threat of a strike is usually enough: over 98% of union contracts are renewed without a strike. 
Trades unions are the descendants of the trade guilds of mediaeval times. These guilds were made up of independent skilled workers (or artisans) who had been apprenticed and qualified by a guild.
A trades union is a collection of people from different trades who want to keep and improve their jobs and their working and living conditions. Member of a trades union will usually working in the same industry.
Trade unionism eventually became accepted as a fact of life by British governments and employers – but with much struggle. The acceptance of trades unions was no coincidence; it took place when British industry was at its most confident, steady economic growth had dampened revolutionary enthusiasm. At the same time providing the means whereby employers could buy off discontent with higher wages and improved conditions of work.
This did not mean that unions were will liked by the Establishment. In fact, trades unions had to take care to create a good image in mid-Victorian terms in order to win tolerance and acceptance. However, in the early part of the nineteenth century the future of Trade Unionism was not certain. 
Trades unions developed slowly in Britain but they can be traced right back to the Middle Ages. In medieval towns and villages, trade guilds started to develop. With both the master and the employees assigned to the guild of their particular craft.
In 1563 The Statute of Artificers was passed by Elizabeth 1’s government. The Statute had some negative effects such as not allowing apprentices to look for work outside of their parish but it had positive effects as well such as requiring justices of the peace to maintain living standards and to monitor apprentices in their district. This meant that craftsmen received some protection from the state.
By the 19th century attitudes had changed. People now hated government interference in their businesses. As the population increased so did the size of businesses and it was no longer possible for employers to have a personal relationship with each employee. Due to this in 1813 the Statute was repealed. Now workers began to form trade clubs and associations to protect industrial and personal interests.
Early trades unions were only for skilled “artisan” trades. These craft trade unions or “societies” were mainly formed amongst cobblers, printers and mechanics.
Craft trade unions were distinctive because they had:
Craft societies had only a few members and were restricted to a certain trade in a certain town. Members were usually literate and rationalist. The actual society was usually based on a public house, with meetings etc. convened there.
These were different from trades unions but had some functions in common. Friendly societies were “self help” organisations. In exchange for a subscription fee, they would provide financial support to workers in the event of, for example, death or illness.
They were usually locally based; Tyneside in the 1820s had 165 societies with a total of 10,000 members.
Gradually the societies or groups of workers were formed into larger bodies called “combinations”. Instead of just paying out benefits, they became more militant and begun to lobby for better conditions and better pay etc. 
Workers were also able to petition parliament when they had a particular grievance over working conditions or wages for instance. 
Over the 18th century, these trade clubs became more aggressive and powerful. Small groups joined together into “combinations” and campaigned to improve working conditions and demanded higher wages. Some combinations organised local strikes.
The government realised that something had to be done about combinations. The Aristocracy were worried about the number and power of combinations. The French Revolution only scared them more. As a result of the above mentioned situation, the Combination Acts of 1799 and 1800 were introduced. The acts forbade Labour Unions from combining to campaign for better working conditions and for an increase in wages. If workers broke this new law they could be sent to prison for up to 3 months. This act was strictly enforced.
The combination acts had little success, trades union simply carried on in secret. E.P. Thomson claimed that the number of trade unions had even increased. Some unions called themselves “friendly societies” and thus continued to work. In 1823 a London tailor called Francis Place led the movement for repeal. With the support of MP Joseph Hume the government was convinced to set up a parliamentary committee to look into the issue of repeal. The government no longer feared revolution, combinations and peaceful bargaining now seemed acceptable. The committee recommended the repeal of the Combination Acts and parliament acted accordingly. The combination acts were repealed in 1824. Trades unions were now legal :)
Strikes quickly occurred across the country. The government then decided to bring in the Amending Combination Act in 1825 which allowed the existence of trades union but refused them the right to stage protests.
Trades unionism faced quite a few problems in their creation and organisation:
1. Preventative legislation (laws etc.) most notably the Combination Acts 1799–1800
2. The prevalence of the domestic system of working.
3. an identity of interest between employer and the domestic employee (domestic employees only had contact with their employer and not with their fellow employees – employers adopted a “paternalistic” approach to their workers)
4. Factory works was undeveloped in the early 19th century. As soon as factories had taken off the ‘working classes emerged. The traditional bond of trust between employer and employees were later eroded and working people began to club together.
5. Government fears. The government believed that all working people could club together and react en mass to social change scared the government. The ruling classes associated ‘combinations’ with revolution. The many Combination acts of 1700–1800 aimed to prevent trade unions from being formed.
In the 1820s the idea of creating a national union was spreading.
A cotton spinner from Manchester named John Doherty summoned a conference on the Isle of Man in 1829 to discuss the idea of a national trade union. He then formed the Grand General Union of Operative Spinners of Great Britain and Ireland. The following July he formed National Association for the Protection of Labour which was to be made of most trades. In 1831 the association had disintegrated; mainly due to poor communication links which made it impossible to organise events.
In February 1834, the Grand National Consolidated Trade Union was formed, largely as a result of Robert Owen. Owen dreamed of a socialist society, he hoped that a national union would help this happen.
Robert Owen was an important figure in the formation of the GNCTU. Owen and Doherty were associates and the GNCTU was based on Doherty’s Grand General Union. The union was heavily influenced by Owenite socialism.
The objectives of the GNCTU were straightforward and traditionalist, thus strike action was to be used:
1. To improve wages and/or conditions;
2. To protect workers from any erosion of wages and/or conditions.
It is disputed whether of not his union succeeded. It lasted just six months (February to August 1834). Owen claimed that there was around half a million members, but other estimates put the figure at around 16,000 members.
The union failed for a number of reasons. Owen did not really understand or empathise the suffering of the workers, who had genuine and immense concerns. The general body or workers favoured militant action but Owen preferred a steady, more legalistic approach. The size of the GNTCU also made any strikes difficult to organise. A further problem was the fact that many employers forbade their employees from joining the GNTCU, and refused to let them work if they had not signed a document which renounced the organisation.
In February 1834 six workers for Tolpuddle in Dorset formed a union. 13 shillings was what the average family need to survive but the men were being paid just 9 shillings. Led by George Loveless the farm labourers fought for increased wages. James Frampton, the landowner, was determined to stop industrial action; he reported the group to the Home Secretary Lord Melbourne. The men were arrested, tried and sentenced to seven years transportation. The judge said that he made he did this to make an example of them for the sake of the stability of the nation. The men became known as the Tolpuddle Martyrs, and the judge's wishes were carried out. Support for the GNCTU fell dramatically and by August 1834 it had collapsed.
The orthodox view is that trade unionism virtually stopped for the next 15 years after the collapse of the GNCTU, with many workers becoming involved in the alternative reforms adopted by Chartism. However, in the skilled trades unions were flourishing, with trade unions having an estimated 100,000 memberships in the early 1840s.
Unions have been criticized for increasing the cost of workers. Because of this, it is said that fewer people will be hired.

</doc>
<doc id="51915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51915" title="Officer">
Officer

An officer is a person who holds a high rank in a uniformed organisation like the military or police. A military officer has a commission, a state document saying others must obey him. Some examples of officer ranks would include captains, majors, and lieutenants, but not sergeants, who are sometimes called non-commissioned officers, or NCOs. 
People who are in a position of importance in an organization or company can also be a type of officer, for example:

</doc>
<doc id="51916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51916" title="Consul">
Consul

A consul could mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="51917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51917" title="Tachi">
Tachi

The tachi is a Japanese sword, which has a strongly curved blade and is longer than a katana. It was used on the battlefield before katana was, so it is considered to be older. The word Tachi translates as "the soul of bushi" (soul of samurai). 
When the katana began to be widely used the tachi sword became a court sword for ceremonies. It looks very richly decorated with traditional cord wrappings and a specially designed handle. The length of a tachi blade was around 30.70 inches (about 75cm) Because of its length the tachi was a cavalry sword and was mainly worn by horsemen. The strongly curved blade also made it easy to make slicing blows. Even if the tachi is a very long sword it is light enough to be handled with one hand. The tachi had a long enough hilt to hold it with two hands. It was especially useful for warriors who were not riding.
The tachi was worn hung to the belt with the cutting-edge down, unlike the katana which was worn with the cutting-edge pointing upwards. Not all tachi were the standard size. Small ones were called ko-dachi. If the sword was longer than the standard one it was called o-dachi.
The tachi that can be seen in museums have one or more chips along the back of the sword, while the cutting edge looks almost untouched and mirror polished. The experts explain that Samurai made the smallest possible moves with their tachi to kill the enemy. Thus when both swords were about to collide, the samurai both turned their swords and let only the blunt back (mune) of the blades hit one another. The cutting edge was used for finish touches, namely for cutting the human body.

</doc>
<doc id="51918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51918" title="Western">
Western

Western can mean one of the following:
Apple bottom jeans, boots with the fur, everybody in the club be looking at her because she got low low low low.

</doc>
<doc id="51919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51919" title="Machaira">
Machaira

Machaira was a rare mythic sword used in the Basileus cult. Basileus cult is the cult of the king, because in ancient Rome the word basileus was translated as "king". To get a Basileus title a person should kill a lion with a special weapon. So this weapon was called - Machaira.
Machaira had a very curved blade, which reminded a sickle. The shape of a machaira is often compared to a lion claw. The cutting edge was on the inside part of the blade. The legends say that it has a length from about . The blade was secured in a wooden cage (sheath). This sword was kept by ancient priests called sacerdotes. They used to decorate the sheath with golden ornaments. The sword was kept in special places and used in important rituals. 
The meaning of machaira sword was ideological. A king who was at the same time a sacerdotus and owned a machaira, made rituals before the battle. Its power showed to the army the right path and saved from enemies' traps. It was supposed that the sword kept the troubles away. It was very important that the machaira to be used only by a sacerdotus, otherwise it was only a beautiful but powerless weapon. 
The well known king Macedonian Alexander Hephaistion was a sacerdotus. He belonged to the lion cult and used machaira for rituals. Later in 324 B.C. happened the official burial of the machaira sword and Alexander the Great left his sacerdotal powers. The cult of machaira sword and the cult of Basileus were restarted in 301 B.C. 

</doc>
<doc id="51920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51920" title="Policy">
Policy

Policy could mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="51923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51923" title="Field">
Field

Field can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="51924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51924" title="Lucerne">
Lucerne

Lucerne () is a city in Switzerland. It is the capital of the Canton of Lucerne and seat of the district with the same name. The city has a population of approximately 60,000. Lucerne is the most populous city in Central Switzerland and focal point of the region. The city's metropolitan area consists of 17 municipalities in three cantons. It has an overall population of nearly 200,000 people.
Due to its location on the shore of Lake Lucerne ("") within sight of the mountains Pilatus and Rigi, Lucerne is mainly a tourist destination. One of the city's famous landmarks is Chapel Bridge (Kapellbrücke), a wooden bridge from the 14th century. 

</doc>
<doc id="51925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51925" title="Eastern hemisphere">
Eastern hemisphere

The Eastern hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of the Earth that is east of the Prime Meridian and west of the 180th Meridian. It is the opposite of the Western hemisphere. It can be also used to describe Europe, Asia, Australia, Africa and Oceania.

</doc>
<doc id="51926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51926" title="Hertfordshire">
Hertfordshire

Hertfordshire is a county in England. It is one of the so called Home Counties, those counties that border or surround Greater London. The county is also surrounded by Essex, Cambridgeshire, Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire. The county town is Hertford; the oldest city is St Albans.
Hertfordshire has 26 independent schools and 73 state secondary schools.
The state secondary schools are entirely comprehensive, although seven schools in the south and southwest of the county are partially selective (see Education in Watford).
The University of Hertfordshire, formerly the Hatfield Polytechnic, is a modern university. It is mostly in Hatfield, and has more than 23,000 students.
Some of the most notable secondary schools are:
Hertfordshire has been home to many famous people, including George Michael and Geri Halliwell. Victoria Beckham, born in Essex, was raised near Broxbourne in Hertfordshire. The Beckhams bought a £2.5 million house in Sawbridgeworth when they married in 1999. They sold it last year to insurance entrepreneur Neil Uttley for £11.4 million.
The richest person in Hertfordshire is Mike Ashley, a retailing tycoon. His fortune is estimated as £3,650 million. He owns Newcastle United F.C. and has an 8.9% share in owning Glasgow Rangers F.C.

</doc>
<doc id="51927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51927" title="Lower Jurassic">
Lower Jurassic

The Lower Jurassic is the first geological epoch in the Jurassic that began 201.3 million years ago, and ended at 174.1 million years ago. 
The Jurassic period is divided into Lower, Middle and Upper. The Lower Jurassic started after the end-Triassic extinction event at 201.3 million years ago (mya). Its rocks form in Europe the "Lias" group of marine strata consisting mostly of limestone, with some clays and siltstone. It was in this formation on the Dorset Jurassic Coast that Mary Anning did much of her work. The mudstones of the earliest Jurassic (Blue Lias) give way to carbonate rocks as the water deepens in the Middle Jurassic.
The Jurassic period was one of the time periods when dinosaurs were on the Earth. By this time, many groups of the Triassic period had become extinct.
At the start of the Jurassic, Britain was warm temperate to subtropical, between 30° and 40° north of the equator. Temperature would have been in the range of 12–29°C. 
Shallow seas were over southern England; higher ground like the Mendip Hills were a string of islands stretching westwards South Wales. 
The Lower Jurassic in western North America is quite different. It is continental in origin, sandstones laid down in shifting streams and rivers. These sandstones were laid down over a long period from the later Permian to the Lower Jurassic.

</doc>
<doc id="51928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51928" title="Congress">
Congress

In politics, a congress is a political meeting of leaders or representatives of groups of people. Until the 19th century it was usually a meeting of kings or their representatives, for example the Congress of Vienna. Today it often means the main legislature that makes the laws for a state. The word congress can also mean a meeting of associations, as in the Trades Union Congress (TUC), of the United Kingdom, a meeting of trade unions.

</doc>
<doc id="51939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51939" title="Personal digital assistant">
Personal digital assistant

A personal digital assistant (PDA) is a handheld computer. Personal digital assistants were designed to replace non-electronic day planners. Many PDAs can work as an address book, a calculator, a clock, and a calendar. Some also have games on them. Newer PDAs are now called smartphones and have Wi-Fi, touch screens, can read e-mail, record video, play music and make phone calls.
PDA's processor is a chip which makes the device work. PDAs can have different processors depending on their speed. If access to the Internet, GPS, or video recording are needed, the PDA needs to have a fast processor.
PDA stores data and applications on RAM memory(Random Access Memory). It is a memory card inside the device. PDAs can also use SD (Secure Digital), SDIO and MMS cards. These are easy to remove and are called flash memory cards. USB flash drives can be used to add more memory.
Most PDAs have touch screens. This means that the device has less buttons or has no buttons at all. Usually PDAs come with removable 'pen' (stylus) with which the screen is touched. The pen acts like a mouse for desktop PCs or like a touch pad for laptops. For other PDAs a finger is used instead of the pen.
PDAs are powered by batteries. There are two types of batteries: removable and fixed. Older PDAs used alkaline batteries which the user would have to take out and replace when they ran out. Most new PDAs have Li-ion batteries. These batteries are rechargeable. PDAs use more battery power when playing video, accessing Internet or transferring data using Bluetooth. Large and bright screens also take more power. This makes the battery run out faster.
A PDA can communicate with other devices, PDAs, PCs, etc. This is made with the help of infrared (IrDA) port or with Bluetooth. With this ability the devices can transfer data, download music, images, video, games, etc.
Synchronization means having the same data on both the PDA and PC or other device. When changes are made on either the PDA or the PC, when they are synchronized, these changes made to data on one of them are also made the data on the other. The synchronization also prevents the loss of the stored information.
Customization is adding more memory, miniature keyboards, etc. to the PDA. Customization also can be putting other software (download Internet programs) on the PDA device.

</doc>
<doc id="51945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51945" title="Iberian Peninsula">
Iberian Peninsula

The Iberian Peninsula, or Iberia, is the southwest part of Europe. Like all peninsulas, it is mostly surrounded by sea. To the south and east of the peninsula is the Mediterranean Sea. To its north and west is the Atlantic Ocean. It is the third largest peninsula of Europe with an area of 582,860 km². The name Iberia is the Ancient Greek name for the area which the Romans called "Hispania". The word Hispania is now used for Spain, while the word Iberia is used for the whole area. 
The word Iberia was also used by the Ancient Greeks and Romans for another territory at the opposite side of Europe - Caucasian Iberia which is near the Black Sea.
The Iberian Peninsula is divided into:

</doc>
<doc id="51950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51950" title="Kim Kardashian">
Kim Kardashian

Kimberly Noel Kardasian (born October 21, 1980 in Los Angeles) is an American socialite. She used to be a model. She is one of the three daughters of Robert Kardashian. Their family have a reality television series called "Keeping up with the Kardashians". Kim and her sister Kourtney Kardashian have their own spin-off "Kourtney and Kim Take New York".
Kardashian was originally known for the media attention she got because of her close friendship with Paris Hilton. She later gained some fame after appearing in a sex tape. Kim received most of her fame from her popular tv series"Keeping Up With The Kardashians". Kim married Damon Thomas in 2000 and divorced Thomas in 2004. She then married Kris Humphries in August 2011. Humphries is a NBA player on the New Jersey Nets. After 72 days of marriage, she filed for a divorce on October 31, 2011 because of differences.
She became engaged to Kanye West in 2013. The couple live in Beverly Hills, California with their daughter North and son Saint. In 2013 Kardashian was in West's music video for "Bound 2".
Kardashian is a Democrat and attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election. She is also an avid suppoter of Armenian political issues such as, the proclamation of the Christian Genocide, of 1914.
 

</doc>
<doc id="51951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51951" title="Ilham Aliyev">
Ilham Aliyev

Ilham Heydar oglu Aliyev (born December 24, 1961) is the President of Azerbaijan and has been since 2003. Ilham Aliyev succeeded his father Heydar Aliyev who was president of Azerbaijan from 1993 to 2003. On August 4, 2003, two months before the presidential elections, he was made prime minister by his father who was very ill and dying. In October he easily won the presidential elections and became president on October 31, 2003. He also functions as the head of the New Azerbaijan Party. 

</doc>
<doc id="51954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51954" title="Flag of Armenia">
Flag of Armenia

The national flag of Armenia, the Armenian Tricolor, has three horizontal bands of equal width, red on the top, blue in the middle, and orange on the bottom. The Armenian Supreme Council adopted the current flag on August 24, 1990. On June 15, 2006, the Law on the National Flag of Armenia was passed by the Armenian Parliament.

</doc>
<doc id="51956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51956" title="Lake Sevan">
Lake Sevan

Lake Sevan is a lake in Armenia. The entire lake is inside the eastern Armenian province of Gegharkunik. It is fed by 28 rivers and streams.
Sevan was one of the three great lakes of the historical Armenian Kingdom, collectively referred to as the Seas of Armenia, and it is the only one within the boundaries of today's Republic of Armenia. Sevanavank is the historic area near the lake.

</doc>
<doc id="51957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51957" title="Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia">
Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia

The Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia was a state formed in the Middle Ages by Armenian refugees fleeing the Seljuk invasion of Armenia. It was near the Mediterranean Sea in what is today southern Turkey. The country was independent from around 1078 to 1375.
The Armenians were the most important of the Crusaders' allies, from the local troops recruited in the Crusader States. Many Armenian mercenaries became available in the early 12th century.
Thoros II was a powerful Armenian prince who offered the transfer of 30,000 Armenian warriors with their families to the Kingdom of Jerusalem. The king and barons were interested.

</doc>
<doc id="51959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51959" title="Jean Genet">
Jean Genet

Jean Genet ( in French) (December 19, 1910 – April 15, 1986), was a French writer and later political activist. Early in his life he was a vagabond (homeless person) and petty criminal. Later in life, Genet wrote novels, plays, poems, and essays, including "Querelle", "The Thief's Journal", "Our Lady of the Flowers", "The Balcony", "The Blacks" and "The Maids".
Genet's mother was a young prostitute who put him up for adoption. After committing small crimes as a child, he was sent to the youth prison of Mettray. In the 1940s, he was a vagabond, petty thief and prostitute across Europe.
In the mid-1940s, Genet met Jean Cocteau. Cocteau helped Genet to publish his novel. By 1949 Genet had completed five novels, three plays and numerous poems. His books were banned in the United States.
Between 1955 and 1961 Genet wrote three more plays. In 1964, Genet entered a period of depression and attempted suicide. In the late 1960s, Genet became politically active. Jean Genet was gay (homosexual).
Genet developed throat cancer and died on 15 April 1986 in Paris.
The first novel, "Our Lady of the Flowers" (1944), is a about the life in prison. His novels "The Miracle of the Rose" (1946) and "The Thief's Journal" (1949), describe his experiences in youth prison and as a prostitute. The novel "Querelle de Brest" (1947) is about murder and the novel "Funeral Rites" (1949) is about love and betrayal. His last novel, "A Prisoner of Love" published in (1986), is different from his other books.
Genet's plays were considered to be "Theater of the Absurd" plays. These plays had ideas which were similar to the ideas in existentialist ways of thinking. His plays include "The Maids" (1949); "The Balcony" (1956); "The Screens" (1963); "The Blacks", which was staged in New York in the Off-Broadway theater.
In 1950, Genet directed a film called Un Chant d'Amour, which showed fantasies about prison life.
Jean Genet, "Œuvres completes" (Paris: Gallimard, 1952-)

</doc>
<doc id="51964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51964" title="Lisa Loeb">
Lisa Loeb

Lisa Anne Loeb (born March 11, 1968 in Bethesda, Maryland) is an American singer. She sings the song "Stay (I Missed You)".

</doc>
<doc id="51970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51970" title="Mountain Time Zone">
Mountain Time Zone

The Mountain Time Zone subtracts seven hours from UTC during standard time (UTC-7) and six hours during daylight saving time (UTC-6).
This time zone is called Mountain Standard Time (MST) during standard time (Winter). It is called Mountain Daylight Time (MDT) during daylight saving time (Summer). In the United States and Canada, this time zone is often just called Mountain Time (MT).
The zone is one hour ahead of the Pacific Time Zone and one hour behind the Central Time Zone. 
In Canada, this time zone includes all of Alberta, the Northwest Territories (except for Tungsten), the Kitikmeot Region of Nunavut, part of southeastern and northeastern British Columbia, and the area of Saskatchewan around the city of Lloydminster.
In the United States, the time zone includes the entire area of the states of New Mexico, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, and Montana. It also includes parts of California, Idaho, Oregon, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Texas, Kansas, and Nevada.
These states are part of the Mountain Time Zone: Baja California Sur, Chihuahua, Nayarit, Sinaloa, Sonora.
Daylight saving time occurs from early April to late October. During daylight saving, Central Time Zone is only 6 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time (UTC-6). Most of the locations in Mountain Time Zone observe daylight saving time. A few places do not. These include Sonora and all of Arizona that is not in the Navajo Nation. These places stay on standard time all year.

</doc>
<doc id="51975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51975" title="Data structure">
Data structure

In computer science, a data structure is the organization of and implementing of values and information. Where data structures are different from abstract data types is in the way they are used. Data structures are the implementations of abstract data types in a concrete and physical setting using algorithms in the implementation process. This can be seen in the relationship between the List (abstract data type) and the linked list (data structure). The List is the containing of a sequence of values or bits of information. The linked list implementation of a List is having a “pointer” or “reference” between each node of information allowing one to traverse forwards or backwards in the list. Furthermore, data structures are often optimized for certain operations. Finding the best data structure when solving a problem is an important part of programming. 
The simplest type of data structure is a linear array. This is also called one-dimensional array. An array holds several values of the same kind. Accessing the elements is very fast. It may not be possible to add more values than defined at the start, without copying all values into a new array. In computer science, an array data structure or simply an array is a data structure consisting of a collection of "elements" (values or variables), each identified by at least one "array index" or "key". An array is stored so that the position of each element can be computed from its index tuple by a mathematical formula.
For example, an array of 10 integer variables, with indices 0 through 9, may be stored as 10 words at memory addresses 2000, 2004, 2008, 2036, so that the element with index "i" has the address 2000 + 4 × "i."
Because the mathematical concept of a matrix can be represented as a two-dimensional grid, two-dimensional arrays are also sometimes called matrices. In some cases the term "vector" is used in computing to refer to an array, although tuples rather than vectors are more correctly the mathematical equivalent. Arrays are often used to implement tables, especially look up tables; the word "table" is sometimes used as a synonym of "array".
Arrays are among the oldest and most important data structures, and are used by almost every program. They are also used to implement many other data structures, such as lists and strings. They effectively exploit the addressing logic of computers. In most modern computers and many external storage devices, the memory is a one-dimensional array of words, whose indices are their addresses. Processors, especially vector processors, are often optimized for array operations.
Arrays are useful mostly because the element indices can be computed at run time. Among other things, this feature allows a single iterative statement to process arbitrarily many elements of an array. For that reason, the elements of an array data structure are required to have the same size and should use the same data representation. The set of valid index tuples and the addresses of the elements (and hence the element addressing formula) are usually, but not always, fixed while the array is in use.
The term "array" is often used to mean array data type, a kind of data type provided by most high-level programming languages that consists of a collection of values or variables that can be selected by one or more indices computed at run-time. Array types are often implemented by array structures; however, in some languages they may be implemented by hash tables, linked lists, search trees, or other data structures.
A linked data structure is a set of records linked together by references.
The records are often called "nodes".
The references are often called "links" or "pointers".
From here on, the words "node" and "pointer" will be used for these concepts.
In linked data structures, pointers are only dereferenced or compared for equality. Thus, linked data structures are different than arrays, which require adding and subtracting pointers.
Linked lists, search trees, and expression trees are all linked data structures.
They are also important in algorithms such as topological sort and set union-find.
A stack is a basic data structure that can be logically thought as linear structure represented by a real physical stack or pile, a structure where insertion and deletion of items takes place at one end called top of the stack. The basic concept can be illustrated by thinking of your data set as a stack of plates or books where you can only take the top item off the stack in order to remove things from it. This structure is used all throughout programming.
The basic implementation of a stack is also called a “Last In First Out” structure; however there are different variations of stack implementations.
There are basically three operations that can be performed on stacks. They are:
A queue is an abstract data type or a linear data structure, in which the first element is inserted from one end (the “tail”), and the deletion of existing element takes place from the other end (the “head”). A queue is a “First In First Out” structure. The process of adding an element to a queue is called “enqueuing” and the process of removing an element from a queue is called “dequeuing”.
A graph is an abstract data type that is meant to implement the graph and hypergraph concepts from mathematics.
A graph data structure consists of a finite (and possibly mutable) set of ordered pairs, called edges or arcs, of certain entities called nodes or vertices. As in mathematics, an edge ("x","y") is said to point or go from "x" to "y". The nodes may be part of the graph structure, or may be external entities represented by integer indices or references. A graph data structure may also associate to each edge some edge value, such as a symbolic label or a numeric attribute.
The tree is one of the most powerful of the advanced data structures and it often appears in advanced subjects such as AI and design. Surprisingly though the tree is important in a much more basic application - namely the keeping of an efficient index.
Whenever a tree is used there is a high chance that an index is involved somewhere. The simplest type of index is a sorted listing of the key field. This provides a fast lookup because you can use a binary search to locate any item without having to look at each one in turn.
The trouble with a simple ordered list only becomes apparent once you start adding new items and have to keep the list sorted - it can be done reasonably efficiently but it takes some juggling. Additionally, a linear index is not easy to share because the whole index needs to be “locked” when one user edits it, whereas one “branch” of a tree can be locked, leaving the other branches editable by other users (as they cannot be affected).

</doc>
<doc id="51984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51984" title="Alex Lifeson">
Alex Lifeson

Alex Lifeson, OC (born Aleksandar Živojinović; August 27, 1953) is a Canadian musician. He is best known as the guitarist and co-founder for the Canadian rock band Rush. Lifeson has been a member of the band since 1968.
In Rush, Lifeson plays electric and acoustic guitars. He also plays other instruments including: mandola, mandolin and bouzouki.
Along with his music career, Lifeson is part owner of a Toronto restaurant called "The Orbit Room." He is also a licensed airplane pilot.

</doc>
<doc id="51985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51985" title="Hepatitis C">
Hepatitis C

Hepatitis C is an infection that mostly affects the liver. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) causes this disease. Often, a person with Hepatitis C does not have any symptoms (health problems or signs that he has the disease). However, chronic infection can scar the liver. Many years of infection may cause cirrhosis. Sometimes, people with cirrhosis also have liver failure or liver cancer. They can also have very swollen veins of the esophagus and stomach. The blood loss from this problem can kill.
Hepatitis C is usually spread by blood-to-blood contact (when blood from a person with Hepatitis C contacts (touches or gets into) another person's bloodstream). The most common ways that this happens are through intravenous drug use (when a person shoots drugs into one of their veins, with a needle that was already used by a person infected with Hepatitis C); nonsterile medical equipment (medical tools that were not cleaned well enough after being used on an infected person); and blood transfusions (when a person is given blood that came from an infected person). 
Around the world, about 130–170 million people have Hepatitis C. Scientists began studying the Hepatitis C virus in the 1970s, and in 1989 they proved that the virus exists. As far as scientists know, this virus does not cause disease in any animals other than humans.
The medications that are normally used to treat Hepatitis C are called peginterferon and ribavirin. Between 50-80% of people who are treated (or 5 to 8 out of every 10) are cured. However, if a person's Hepatitis C has progressed (or gotten worse) so much that the person has cirrhosis or liver cancer, the person might need a liver transplant (they might need to have surgery where they are given another person's liver, or part of another person's liver). This makes it possible for the person to survive, but the Hepatitis C virus usually comes back after the transplant. There is no vaccine that works to prevent people from getting Hepatitis C.
Hepatitis C causes acute symptoms (symptoms that begin quickly or last only a short time) in just 15% of people with the disease. More often, infected people have symptoms that are mild (not serious) and vague (not very specific), like a decreased appetite (not feeling like eating), fatigue (feeling tired), nausea (feeling like throwing up), pain in the muscles or joints, and losing weight. Every once in a while, an infected person may get jaundice (where a person's skin turns yellow, a sign that their liver is not working quite right). If it is not treated, Hepatitis C goes away by itself in 10-50% of infected people (1 to 5 out of every 10). This happens more often in young women than in other infected people.
Eighty percent (or 8 out of every 10) of people exposed to the Hepatitis C virus get a chronic infection (one that does not get better and lasts for a long time). Most experience very few or no symptoms during the first decades of the infection, although chronic Hepatitis C can cause fatigue (feeling tired). But in people who have been infected for many years, Hepatitis C can cause serious problems, like cirrhosis and liver cancer. Hepatitis C leads to cirrhosis in 10–30% (between 10 and 30 out of every 100) of people who have been infected over 30 years. People with Hepatitis C are more likely to get cirrhosis if they are men; if they are alcoholics; or if they also have Hepatitis B or HIV. Cirrhosis can cause serious problems on its own, but it also makes people more likely to get other serious illnesses. For example, people who get cirrhosis are twenty times more likely to get liver cancer (with about 1-3% getting liver cancer every year). People with Hepatitis C who are alcoholics are even more likely - 100 times more likely - to get liver cancer. Among people in general, 27% of all cases of cirrhosis, and 25% of all cases of liver cancer, are caused by Hepatitis C.
Cirrhosis of the liver can cause many different symptoms. Some of these symptoms are high blood pressure in the veins that travel to the liver; a buildup of fluid in the abdomen, called ascites; easy bruising or bleeding; veins becoming larger than normal, especially in the stomach and esophagus; jaundice (a yellowing of the skin); and brain damage.
Hepatitis C can also cause some rare problems (problems which do not happen very often), which affect parts of the body outside of the liver. One rare problem that Hepatitis C can cause is Sjögren's syndrome, an autoimmune disorder (or a disorder where the body's system of defenses attacks itself). Hepatitis C can also cause a lower-than-normal number of blood platelets (the part of the blood which causes blood to clot; without enough platelets, a person can have bleeding problems, or can start bleeding and be unable to stop. Other rare problems that Hepatitis C can cause are chronic (long-lasting) skin disease; non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (a type of cancer); and diabetes (where a person's body does not make or use enough insulin, an important hormone that controls the level of sugar in the blood).
Hepatitis C is caused by the Hepatitis C virus (HCV). In the scientific system that names and organizes viruses, the Hepatitis C virus is part of the "hepacivirus" genus in the family "Flaviviridae". There are seven major types of HCV, called "genotypes". In the United States, the first genotype of HCV causes 70% of all cases of Hepatitis C (or 7 out of every 10); the second genotype causes 20% (or 2 out of every 10); and each of the other genotypes causes 1% (or 1 out of every 100 cases). Thr first genotype is also the most common in South America and Europe.
In the developed world, the most common way that people get Hepatitis C is through intravenous drug use (by shooting drugs into a vein, using a needle that was already used by a person who has Hepatitis C). In the developing world, most people get Hepatitis C through blood transfusions (being given blood that was taken from a person with Hepatitis C) or by getting medical care with tools that were not cleaned enough after being used on a person with Hepatitis C. In 20% of all cases of Hepatitis C (or 1 in every 5 cases), it is not known what caused the infection, but many of these cases are thought to have been caused by intravenous drug use.
In many parts of the world, intravenous (IV) drug use (shooting drugs into a vein using a needle) is a major risk factor for Hepatitis C (meaning that it makes people more likely to get the disease). One study that looked at 77 countries showed that in 25 of these countries (including the United States), between 60% and 80% (or 6 to 8 out of every 10) of all IV drug users had Hepatitis C. and China. In twelve of the countries in the study, more than 80% of all IV drug users had Hepatitis C. Across the world, as many as ten million IV drug users are thought to have Hepatitis C; the highest totals are in China (1.6 million), the United States (1.5 million), and Russia (1.3 million). Studies have also shown that in places where there are high numbers of IV drug users, people are more likely to have Hepatitis C. For example, prisoners in the United States are ten to twenty times more likely than the general population (people in general) to have Hepatitis C. This is thought to be because prisoners are more likely to things that put them at high risk for getting Hepatitis C, like using IV drugs and getting tattoos with tools that have not been cleaned properly.
Peoples are at risk for getting Hepatitis C if they get blood transfusions (where a person is given blood from another person), blood products (which have blood or parts of blood in them), or organ transplants (where a person who needs a new organ is given an organ from another person), if these things have not been screened (or tested) for the Hepatitis C virus. In the United States, there has been universal screening - meaning that all blood and organs are tested before being given to another person - since 1992. Before then, about one out of every 200 units of blood carried the Hepatitis C virus; since 1992, only one in 10,000 to 10,000,000 units of blood carry the virus. The reason that there is still a low risk, instead of no risk at all, is that a person's blood does not test positive for the Hepatitis C virus until about 11–70 days after they get the disease. So every once in a while, the screening tests may not pick up on a person's infection if the person got Hepatitis C less than 11–70 days before giving blood. While Hepatitis C screening works very well, some countries still do not screen blood and organ donations for the disease because of the cost.
Sometimes, a healthcare worker will accidentally get stuck with a needle that was used on a person with Hepatitis C. If this happens, the healthcare worker has a small chance - about a 1.8% chance - of becoming infected. The worker is more likely to get infected if the needle they were stuck with was hollow, or if the needle stuck deeply into their skin It is also possible for the Hepatitis C virus to spread if an infected person's mucus touches another person's blood; however, the risk of this happening is low. The virus cannot be spread if an infected person's mucus touches another person's intact skin (skin that is whole and not damaged, with no wounds).
Hepatitis C can also be transmitted (or spread) through hospital equipment that has not been cleaned enough after being used on an infected person. Hepatitis C can be spread through needles, syringes, and medication vials (or containers) that are re-used; through infusion bags (which are used to pump medications into a person's body; and through surgical equipment that is not sterile (or clean and free of germs). In Egypt, which has the highest rate of infection in the world, medical and dental facilities with poor standards of care and cleanliness are the most common reason that Hepatitis C spreads.
Scientists do not know whether Hepatitis C can be transmitted (or spread) through sex. Hepatitis C is more likely in people who have high-risk sexual activity (sexual actions which make them much more likely to get Hepatitis C). However, it is not known whether this is because of these people's sexual behavior, or because these people were also using IV drugs. There does not seem to be any risk that Hepatitis C can be spread through sexual contact between a heterosexual couple (a man and a woman; commonly called a "straight" couple) if neither person has sex with anyone else. There does seem to be a risk of Hepatitis C spreading if one person already has a sexually transmitted infection, like HIV or genital ulceration; or if two people have sex in a way that causes wounds to the lining of the anal canal (like anal penetration - one person putting his penis into another person's anus). The United States government says that most people need to use condoms to protect themselves from getting Hepatitis C only if they have more than one sexual partner.
People who get tattoos are about two to three times more likely to get Hepatitis C. This can be because of tools that are not sterile (not clean or free of germs), or because the dyes used for tattooing are contaminated (the Hepatitis C virus has gotten inside of them). 
Tattoos or body piercings that were done before the mid-1980s or by people who are not professionals (not experts) are especially likely to spread Hepatitis C, since they are more likely to have used tools that were not sterile. Bigger tattoos also seem to put a person at more risk of getting Hepatitis C. The risk of getting Hepatitis C is very high in prisons; in the United States, almost half of all prison inmates share tattooing tools that are not sterile. However, if a tattoo is done in a licensed place of business (which has to follow rules about cleaning tools and preventing diseases from spreading), there is almost no risk of getting Hepatitis C from the tattoo.
Because Hepatitis C is spread by blood-to-blood contact, personal-care tools which come into contact with blood - like razors, toothbrushes, and manicure or pedicure equipment or any other kind of blood to blood contact - can spread the disease if they are shared. To prevent the spread of Hepatitis C, people should be careful with cuts, sores, or anything else that causes bleeding. Hepatitis C does not spread through casual contact, such as hugging, kissing, or sharing eating or cooking utensils.
Although this does not happen very often, a pregnant woman who has Hepatitis C can give the disease to her baby when it is born, or to her fetus while she is pregnant. This happens in less than 10% of all pregnancies (less than 1 out of every 10 pregnancies). If a pregnant woman has Hepatitis C, nothing can be done to make her less likely to give her baby the disease. If the woman is in labor (the process of delivering her baby) for a long time, there is more of a chance that the baby will become infected during the birth. Breastfeeding does not seem to spread the disease. However, doctors say that an infected mother should not breastfeed if her nipples are cracked and bleeding, or her viral loads (the amount of the Hepatitis C virus in her blood) are high.
There are a few different tests that can diagnose Hepatitis C (or say for sure that a person has the disease). These tests are called HCV antibody, ELISA, Western blot, and quantitative HCV RNA tests. A technique called polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can show that a person has Hepatitis C virus RNA (part of the virus's genetic blueprint) one to two weeks after the person becomes infected. Tests that look for Hepatitis C antibodies (which the body makes to fight the disease) cannot be done this quickly after infection, because the antibodies can take much longer to form and show up.
A person has chronic Hepatitis C if he has been infected with the Hepatitis C virus for more than six months. Because people with chronic Hepatitis C often have no symptoms for decades, doctors often diagnose it through liver function tests (which test how well the liver is working) or by doing routine (regular) screening of high-risk people. Tests cannot tell whether an infection is acute or chronic.
Hepatitis C testing usually begins with blood tests that look for antibodies to the Hepatitis C virus, using a technique called an enzyme immunoassay. If this test is positive (showing that the body is making antibodies to fight the Hepatitis C virus), the person will be tested a second time to make sure that the results are correct and to see how serious the infection is. The results are confirmed using a technique called a recombinant immunoblot assay, and an HCV RNA polymerase chain reaction shows how serious the infection is. If the immunoblot is positive, but there are no Hepatitis C virus RNA, this shows that the person had an infection, but it cleared up either with treatment or on its own. If the immunoblot is negative, this shows that the immunoassay (the first test) was wrong, and the person does not have Hepatitis C. It takes six to eight weeks after a person gets infected before the immunoassay will test positive.
During the first part of a Hepatitis C infection, a person's liver enzymes may change; on average, they begin to rise seven weeks after infection. A person's liver enzymes usually do not affect how severe their infection is.
A test called a liver biopsy can show whether a person's liver has been damaged, or how badly it has been damaged, by Hepatitis C. However, there are some risks from the procedure. In a biopsy, a doctor takes a small piece out of the patient's liver so that he can test it. There are three major changes to the liver that a biopsy usually shows. One is that lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell) show up in the liver tissue. Another is that lymphoid follicles (small masses or swellings) show up in the portal triad, a part of the liver. The third is changes to the bile ducts (these carry bile, which is made in the liver and is needed to help a person digest their food, to other parts of the body). Many blood tests are available which try to measure how much damage there is to a patient's liver, in order to avoid the need for a biopsy and its risks.
As few as 5–50% of infected people in the United States and Canada (or 5 to 50 out of every 100) know that they have Hepatitis C. Doctors suggest that people who are at high risk for the disease, including people with tattoos, should get tested. Screening is also suggested for people with elevated (high) liver enzymes, since this is often the only sign that a person has chronic hepatitis. Routine screening (testing everyone) is not recommended in the United States.
As of 2012, there is no vaccine that works to prevent Hepatitis C. Researchers are working on vaccines, are some are making progress. The spread of Hepatitis C can be prevented by using a combination of strategies, like needle exchange programs (where IV drug users can get clean needles which will not spread the virus) and treatment for drug abuse. If these strategies are used together, the risk of IV drug users getting Hepatitis C drops by about 75%. At a national level - within each country - screening blood donors is important for preventing the spread of Hepatitis C. So is using universal precautions in healthcare facilities. (This means that healthcare workers treat every patient as if he has Hepatitis C, and they always wear gloves, clean their equipment properly, and keep things sterile so that diseases cannot be spread.) In countries that do not have enough sterile syringes to use a new needle for every patient, healthcare providers should give medications orally (by mouth) rather than via injection (using a needle) so that needles do not have to be re-used.
The Hepatitis C virus causes chronic infection in 50–80% of infected persons (or 5 to 8 out of every 10). About 40-80% of these cases (or 4 to 8 out of 10) clear up with treatment. Although this almost never happens, chronic Hepatitis C can sometimes clear up on its own, without treatment. Doctors suggest that people with chronic Hepatitis C should avoid drinking alcohol and taking medications that can be toxic (or poisonous) to the liver. They also suggest that people with chronic infections should be given vaccines for Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B. People with cirrhosis should also have ultrasound tests for liver cancer.
If a person has liver abnormalities (changes in the liver that are not normal) due to Hepatitis C virus infection, the person should get treatment. The first treatment that is used is a drug called pegylated interferon given together with the antiviral (virus-killing) drug ribavirin. These medications are given for 24 or 48 weeks, depending on what type of Hepatitis C virus the person has. About 50–60% of people who are treated improve. For people with Hepatitis C virus genotype 1, treatment may work even better if another medication - either boceprevir or telaprevir - is given along with ribavirin and peginterferon alfa. Side effects with treatment are common; half of people treated get flu-like symptoms, and a third have emotional problems. Treatment works better if it is given during the first six months than after Hepatitis C becomes chronic. If a person gets a new infection and it has not cleared up after eight to twelve weeks, doctors usually suggest giving pegylated interferon for another 24 weeks. For people with thalassemia (a blood disorder), ribavirin appears to be a helpful treatment, but it makes it more likely for patients to need blood transfusions (where they need to be given blood from another person).
Some supporters of alternative medicine say that alternative therapies like milk thistle, ginseng, and colloidal silver can be helpful for Hepatitis C. However, there is no proof that any alternative therapy has any effect on the Hepatitis C virus.
People respond differently to treatment, depending on which of the Hepatitis C virus genotypes they have. About 40-50% in people with genotype 1 have a good, stable response with 48 weeks of treatment. In people with genotypes 2 and 3, about 70-80% have a good, stable response with 24 weeks of treatment. About 65% of people with genotype 4 have a good, stable response with 48 weeks of treatment. There is not much evidence about how well treatment works for people with genotype 6 disease is currently sparse. The evidence that does exist looks at results after 48 weeks of treatment at the same medication doses as people with genotype 1.
Between 130 and 170 million people, or about 3% of all of the people in the world, are living with chronic Hepatitis C. Between 3–4 million people get infected per year. More than 350,000 people die every year from diseases caused by Hepatitis C. The numbers of people getting Hepatitis C have increased a lot in the 20th century for a few different reasons. More people are using IV drugs. Also, more people are getting medical care with medical equipment that is not sterile, and it is more common for medications to be given intravenously.
In the United States, about 2% of people have hepatitis C, with 35,000 to 185,000 new cases a year. Rates have decreased in the West since the 1990s due to improved blood screening before transfusion. Annual deaths from HCV in the United States range from 8,000 to 10,000. Expectations are that this mortality rate will increase as people infected by transfusion before HCV testing become ill and die.
Infection rates are higher in some countries in Africa and Asia. Countries with very high rates of infection include Egypt (22%), Pakistan (4.8%) and China (3.2%). The high rate in Egypt is linked to a now-discontinued mass-treatment campaign for schistosomiasis, using improperly sterilized glass syringes.
In the mid-1970s, Harvey J. Alter, Chief of the Infectious Disease Section in the Department of Transfusion Medicine at the National Institutes of Health, and his research team demonstrated that most post-blood transfusion hepatitis cases were not due to hepatitis A or B viruses. Despite this discovery, international research efforts to identify the virus failed for the next decade. In 1987, Michael Houghton, Qui-Lim Choo, and George Kuo at Chiron Corporation, collaborating with Dr. D.W. Bradley from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, used a new molecular cloning approach to identify the unknown organism and develop a diagnostic test. In 1988, Alter confirmed the virus by verifying its presence in a panel of non A non B hepatitis specimens. In April 1989, the discovery of HCV was published in two articles in the journal "Science". The discovery led to significant improvements in diagnosis and improved antiviral treatment. In 2000, Drs. Alter and Houghton were honored with the Lasker Award for Clinical Medical Research for
"pioneering work leading to the discovery of the virus that causes hepatitis C and the development of screening methods that reduced the risk of blood transfusion-associated hepatitis in the U.S. from 30% in 1970 to virtually zero in 2000." 
Chiron filed for several patents on the virus and its diagnosis. A competing patent application by the CDC was dropped in 1990 after Chiron paid $1.9 million to the CDC and $337,500 to Bradley. In 1994, Bradley sued Chiron, seeking to invalidate the patent, have himself included as a coinventor, and receive damages and royalty income. He dropped the suit in 1998 after losing before an appeals court.
The World Hepatitis Alliance coordinates World Hepatitis Day, held every year on July 28. The economic costs of hepatitis C are significant both to the individual and to society. In the United States the average lifetime cost of the disease was estimated at 33,407 USD in 2003, with the cost of a liver transplant approximately 200,000 USD as of 2011. In Canada the cost of a course of antiviral treatment was as high as 30,000 CAD in 2003, while the United States costs are between 9,200 and 17,600 in 1998 USD. In many areas of the world people are unable to afford treatment with antivirals because they lack insurance coverage or the insurance they have will not pay for antivirals.
As of 2011, about one hundred medications are in development for hepatitis C. These medicines include vaccines to treat hepatitis, immunomodulators, and cyclophilin inhibitors. These potentially new treatments have come about due to a better understanding of the hepatitis C virus.

</doc>
<doc id="51987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51987" title="Michel Foucault">
Michel Foucault

Michel Foucault (October 15, 1926 – June 25, 1984) was a French philosopher and historian. He wrote about many topics, and influenced many other thinkers.
Foucault studied institutions such as psychiatric wards, hospitals, schools, and prisons, to figure out how they affected the people living in them. He was gay. He also studied the history of sexuality and, later in his life, wrote about homosexuality.
He is often called a postmodernist or post-structuralist philosopher. Some philosophers claim that some of his ideas were influenced by existentialism. However, Foucault rejected all of these labels.
Foucault was born in 1926 in Poitiers, France. His father, Paul Foucault, was a surgeon. He attended the Jesuit Collège Saint-Stanislas. After World War II Foucault studied at the École Normale Supérieure. While attending university, he became depressed, and tried to kill himself.
Foucault became very interested in psychology. He got a degree in philosophy and a degree in psychology. Foucault joined the French Communist Party from 1950 to 1953. He left the Communist Party because he was sad about all of the people that Stalin was killing in the Soviet Union.
In the early 1950s, he taught at the École Normale. Then he began teaching psychology at the University of Lille. In 1954 Foucault published his first book, "Maladie mentale et personnalité". In the mid-1950s, he worked at Warsaw University and at the University of Hamburg.
He returned to France in 1960 to become a philosophy professor at the University of Clermont-Ferrand. In the mid-1960s, Foucault moved with his male lover to Tunis (in North Africa), and got a job teaching at the University of Tunis. In 1966 he published "Les Mots et les choses" (The Order of Things), which was very popular. In 1968 he returned to France, where he published "L'archéologie du savoir" (The Archaeology of Knowledge).
In the late 1960s, after France had huge student protests and riots, the French government created a new experimental university at Vincennes. Foucault became the first head of its philosophy department. Foucault joined students in occupying administration buildings and fighting with police.
In 1970, Foucault became a Professor of the History of Systems of Thought at the Collège de France. His political involvement now increased. His male lover Defert joined the ultra-Maoist Gauche Proletarienne (GP). Foucault then wrote "Surveiller et Punir" (Discipline and Punish), about prisons and schools.
In the late 1970s, Foucault wrote books about the history of sexuality. Foucault began to spend more time in the United States, at the University at Buffalo. In 1978 Foucault toured Iran to support the new revolutionary Islamic government. Foucault died of an AIDS-related illness in Paris on 26 June 1984.
The major collections of Foucault's writing translated into English are:

</doc>
<doc id="52019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52019" title="XHTML">
XHTML

XHTML stands for eXtensible HyperText Markup Language. It is markup used to design websites and webpages.
XHTML is much more strict than ordinary HTML, and is based on both XML and HTML. Due to the lax nature of HTML, different web browsers can sometimes display websites incorrectly since there is more than one way to interpret poorly written HTML. The strict and formal nature of XHTML, once fully adopted will allow for web browsers to display the same page correctly between them. Proper XHTML is also easier to read for humans.
For example, the below code shows one of the differences between HTML and XHTML:
Incorrect, HTML version:
<br>
Correct, XHTML version:
<br />
The line break tag in HTML does not have a closing tag, you just type it once and it creates a line break. In XHTML the rule is that tags that do not have an closing tag must close themselves within the initial tag. These tags are called "empty tags." Another empty tag is <hr /> which inserts a "horizontal rule" or dividing line.
In XHTML, using codice_1 is not "allowed". 
XHTML also should not be used together with the JavaScript codice_2 command.

</doc>
<doc id="52022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52022" title="Suspension bridge">
Suspension bridge

A suspension bridge is a type of bridge that has been made since ancient times as early as 100 AD. Simple suspension bridges, for use by pedestrians and livestock, are still constructed, based upon the ancient Inca rope bridge. 
Suspended from two high locations over a river or canyon, simple suspension bridges follow a shallow downward arc and are not suited for modern roads and railroads. 
The design of the modern suspended-deck suspension bridge was developed in the early 19th century. It can cross a longer span than other kinds of bridges. 
The Akashi Kaikyō Bridge is the world's longest suspension bridge. 

</doc>
<doc id="52023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52023" title="Sangria (colour)">
Sangria (colour)

Sangria is a dark slightly purplish red. It is the colour of Sangría wine. It is named after this wine. Sangria can also be called a burnt red.

</doc>
<doc id="52028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52028" title="Coulomb">
Coulomb

The coulomb (sometimes written C) the SI unit of electric charge. It is named after Charles-Augustin de Coulomb.
A coulomb is a quantity of electric charge. The movement of electric charge is called current in an electric circuit. For example a flashlight bulb that has a current of one ampere will pass one coulomb of charge every second. So in ten seconds, ten coulombs have passed through the light bulb.
In an electric wire the charge that moves is in a particle called the electron. Each electron has a very small electric charge of negative one elementary charge. The elementary charge is the smallest electric charge found in a stable particle. A coulomb is equal to 6,241,509,629,152,650,000 elementary charges. The coulomb was named in honor of Charles-Augustin de Coulomb who worked on understanding electric charge in the late 1700’s.
Technical Definition:
1 coulomb is the amount of electric charge carried by a current of 1 ampere flowing for 1 second. 

</doc>
<doc id="52029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52029" title="Leonhard Euler">
Leonhard Euler

Leonhard Euler (pronounced "Oiler") (April 15, 1707 – September 7, 1783) was a Swiss mathematician and physicist. He spent most of his life in Russia and Germany.
Euler made important discoveries in fields like calculus and topology. He also made many of the words used in math today. He came up with the idea of a mathematical function. He is also known for his works in mechanics, optics, and astronomy. 
Euler is considered to be the most important mathematician of the 18th century, one of the greatest mathematicians of all time, and also one of the mathematicians who wrote the most. His collected works fill 60–80 volumes. Another mathematician, Pierre-Simon Laplace said, "Read Euler, read Euler, he is a master for us all".
Euler was featured on the sixth series of the Swiss 10-franc bill and on numerous Swiss, German, and Russian postage stamps. The asteroid 2002 Euler was named in his honor. He is also celebrated by the Lutheran Church on their Calendar of Saints on May 24.
Euler was born in Basel to Paul Euler. He was a pastor of the Reformed Church. His mother was Marguerite Brucker, a pastor's daughter. He had two younger sisters named Anna-Maria and Maria Magdalena. Soon after the birth of Leonhard, the Eulers moved from Basel to the town of Riehen, where Euler spent most of his childhood. Euler's started school in Basel, where he was sent to live with his grandmother. At the age of thirteen he went to the University of Basel. In 1723, he received his Master of Philosophy. At this time, he was receiving Saturday afternoon lessons from Johann Bernoulli, who quickly discovered his new pupil's incredible talent for mathematics.

</doc>
<doc id="52032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52032" title="Burgundy (colour)">
Burgundy (colour)

Burgundy is a deep shade of red. It is named after Burgundy wine. This wine is named after the Burgundy region of France.
Because of this people give them the nickname "Red Wine".

</doc>
<doc id="52033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52033" title="Pigment">
Pigment

A pigment is something that is added to something else to give it color. Natural pigments can come from just about anything. Pigments can be made from animals, plants, rocks and minerals or even the ground itself, for example clay plus salts. Pigments can also be created by people. 
An example of a pigment is ultramarine. It is a powder found in nature. It adds a blue color to paints and dyes.
The first synthetic dye was aniline. Aniline is an organic chemical compound produced in two stages from benzene. It gives a mauve color which was much used for dyeing clothes in the 19th century. It was invented in 1856 by William Henry Perkin. Apparently, it gave a brilliant fuchsia color when first applied, but fades rapidly to mauve.

</doc>
<doc id="52034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52034" title="Sierra Nevada">
Sierra Nevada

Sierra Nevada, meaning "snowy range" in Spanish, is the name of at least three mountain ranges:
There are also two single mountains named Sierra Nevada in the Andes which are volcanoes:
Other mountains:
Sierra Nevada may also refer to beer produced by Sierra Nevada Brewing Company, a California brewery.

</doc>
<doc id="52057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52057" title="Anarchy in the U.K.">
Anarchy in the U.K.

"Anarchy in the U.K." is a punk rock song by the Sex Pistols. It was first released as a single in 1975. In 1976, it was released as part of the album "Never Mind the Bollocks Here's the Sex Pistols". The song's lyrics espouse a nihilistic and violent concept of anarchy. It has been covered by various other bands, including Megadeth.
This song was in the video game "". 

</doc>
<doc id="52059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52059" title="My Chemical Romance">
My Chemical Romance

My Chemical Romance was a rock band from New Jersey that began in 2001. They released their first album in 2002. The band has released four albums to date. The band consisted of Gerard Way (lead vocals), Ray Toro (lead guitar / vocals), Mikey Way (bass guitar), Frank Iero (rhythm guitar / vocals) and James Dewees (keyboardist / vocals). The band announced that they were breaking up on March 22, 2013.
The band was started by Gerard Way on the day of the September 11, 2001 attacks after he was on his way to work in New York and saw the bodies falling from the building. He thought to himself "what am I doing with my life? I'm slaving away doing drawings for Cartoon Network and not actually helping anybody", he then called up his friend Matt Pelissier who went on to recruit Ray Toro - the band's lead guitarist. Gerard said "there's nobody in New Jersey who can beat him, he is the best". Gerard's brother Mikey Way, bass guitarist, joined his brother's new band soon after.
In May 2002, Frank Iero joined as the rhythm guitarist for the band. He was more than happy to leave college against his parents wishes to join his favourite band, and whilst MCR were on tour, he got a tattoo of a scorpion as high up on his neck as he could get it, so he could not get a job.
In 2004, Pelissier was kicked out of the band for stealing from the band, and was replaced by Bob Bryar - a sound technician for The Used and Thursday at the time.
The name of the band comes from an Irvine Welsh book titled ""Ecstasy: Three Tales of Chemical Romance"" which caught Mikey Way's eye when he was working in Barnes & Noble.
My Chemical Romance's sound usually has elements of punk rock, pop and alternative rock.
They have been categorised as alternative rock, post-hardcore, punk rock, pop punk, and, most controversially, emo.
The band's official website describes their music as simply "rock" or "violent, dangerous pop".
Band frontman Gerard Way has publicly rejected the term "emo", describing the genre as "fucking garbage". However, Way has reportedly also described the band's style as "What-else-ya-got-emo".
Way said to "Rolling Stone", "We love bands like Queen, where it's huge and majestic, but also bands like Black Flag and the Misfits, who would go absolutely crazy." Lead singer Gerard Way has stated that the band is very influenced by The Cure, Joy Division, Bauhaus, Siouxsie and the Banshees, and The Smiths/Morrisey. Way has also said that his band patterns their career after that of The Smashing Pumpkins, another band they like. The band's overall influences are:Black Flag, Iron Maiden, The Misfits, Morrisey/The Smiths, At the Gates, The Cure, The Descendents, Pantera, The Smashing Pumpkins, Pink Floyd, Bon Jovi, The Damned, Fugazi, Ministry, New York Dolls, Nirvana, Queen, Sunny Day Real Estate, Green Day, Joy Division, Kill Creek, AFI, Cursive, and Alkaline Trio. 
Growing up, they were also very influenced by horror films and comic books, and therefore their music, lyrics, and image all have overt elements of fantasy, horror, and theatricality.
The band released their first album on July 23 2002. It was titled "I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love". The album featured the first song written by the band, Skylines And Turnstiles, which Gerard began to write after the 9/11 attacks, in 2001.
The second album by My Chemical Romance,"Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge", was the album that shot them to fame with songs like "I'm Not Okay (I Promise)" and "Helena" (A song written about the Way brothers' grandmother, Elena. Her friends called her Helen, and Gerard thought of her as Helena). It was released in June 2004. Over two million copies of the album have been sold in the United States. The album contained a lot about death, dying and killing, but also showed the better sides of the matter.
During 2004, drummer Matt Pelissier left the band.
Their third album titled "The Black Parade" was released on October 23rd 2006. The album sold more than 240,000 copies in the first week after it was released. It has sold over 1 million copies in total. The first single taken from The Black Parade called "Welcome to the Black Parade" reached the top 10 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and No.1 in the UK charts for two weeks.
The band has commented in the past about the album, saying that The Black Parade is like a different band performing in a different 'world', and once that's over, My Chemical Romance will never be The Black Parade again. The album largely focuses on one character, The Patient, but also consists of songs and lyrics about different subjects and aspects of life and death. At the end of the CD, there is an extra track called Blood which plays over a minute and a half later.
MCR's newest album was released on November 22, 2010. The original album was scrapped by the band due to their dislike and disappointment in it, and their second effort became what is now Danger Days. The band was halfway through making it when Bob Bryar suddenly left the band, which resulted in restarting the record. The record has spawned a tour called the World Contamination Tour, which is set to play through at least May 2011. MCR also went out on the Honda Civic tour 2011 with Blink 182. The band was using Michael Pedicone as a touring drummer to replace Bob Bryar. Pedicone was caught red handed stealing from My Chemical Romance. This resulted in him being kicked out, and replaced with Jarrod Alexander for the remainder of the Honda Civic Tour (2011). In the show after they kicked Pedicone out, Frank Iero replaced his signature 'trust me' in I'm Not Okay to 'trust no one.' It is rumored that Iero and Pedicone were good friends. This album is radically different from Black Parade as the band has departed a bit from the dark themes of before and is infused with more pop influenced sounds and color. Set in California in the year 2019, a group of rebels called the Killjoys are rebelling against a dictator-like corporation called Better Living Industries.

</doc>
<doc id="52063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52063" title="Cobalt blue">
Cobalt blue

Cobalt blue is a cool blue colour. People used to make it using cobalt salts. Cobalt blue is used widely by artists. Many pieces of glassware have this colour--glassware that does have this colour is called "cobalt glass". 
The first written use of "cobalt blue" as a colour name in English was in 1777. 

</doc>
<doc id="52065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52065" title="1180">
1180


</doc>
<doc id="52066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52066" title="Azure">
Azure

Azure is a color that looks like the color of the sky on a bright, clear day. It is a pure chroma on the RGB color wheel halfway between blue and cyan. The complementary color of azure is orange.
The word "azure" comes from the Persian لاژورد "lazhward". Lazhward was the name of a place. This place was famous for a kind of deep blue stone. Now we call this stone "lapis lazuli". This means "stone of Lazhward".
The word came to Old French by the twelfth century. The French used this word to talk about the colors of coats of arms. From the French the word came to the English. The first recorded use of "azure" as a color name in English was in 1374.
In heraldry, the word "azure" simply means "blue". Azure is said to represent Jupiter and sapphires.
It belongs to the class of tinctures called "colors". In engraving, it is sometimes depicted as a region of horizontal lines or else marked with either az. or b. as an abbreviation.
In addition to the standard blue tincture called azure, there is a lighter blue sometimes found that is called bleu celeste or "sky blue". Neither azure nor bleu celeste is precisely defined as a particular shade of blue, but azure is consistently depicted in a much darker shade.

</doc>
<doc id="52068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52068" title="Viridian">
Viridian

Viridian is a deep blue-green color with a hue toward green. The name comes from the Latin word "viridis" which means "green". 

</doc>
<doc id="52070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52070" title="Tarsier">
Tarsier

The tarsiers are prosimian (non-monkey) primates. They got their name from the long bones in their feet. They are now placed in the suborder Haplorhini, together with the simians (monkeys).
Tarsiers have huge eyes and long feet, and catch the insects by jumping at them. During the night they wait quietly, listening for the sound of an insect moving nearby. 
They live in trees, and are entirely nocturnal. They are the only primates which are wholly carnivorous. They mainly eat insects, but some are also known to eat birds and snakes. Tarsiers can catch prey like birds even if they are in motion as the tarsiers jump from tree to tree to catch their prey.
Tarsiers have an incredibly good hearing. 
They have large eyes. Each is about 16 mm wide. and weighs as much as their entire brain. Unlike many nocturnal animals, tarsiers lack a light-reflecting area (tapetum lucidum) of the eye. They also have a fovea, which is also not usual in nocturnal animals. 
The tarsier's brain is different from other primates in one respect. The sequence of cell layers in the lateral geniculate nucleus getting information from both eyes is different from the set-up in lemurs, lorises, and monkeys. "This apparent difference distinguishes tarsiers from all other primates, and reinforces the view that they arose in an early, independent line of primate evolution".
Pregnancy takes about six months, which is a long time for such a small animal. Tarsiers give birth to single offspring. 
They were once widespread, but now tarsiers live only on islands in south-east Asia. Fossils are found in Asia, Europe, and North America, and some disputed fossils from Africa. Living tarsiers are on several southeast Asian islands, including the Philippines, Sulawesi, Borneo, and Sumatra. 
They also have the longest continuous fossil record of any primate. The fossil record shows that their teeth have not changed much, except in size, in the past 45 million years. That means what they eat, and probably their lifestyle, has not changed much, either.
Tarsiers are said to be the inspiration for the famous movie character Yoda of Star Wars due to their small size but excellent hunting skills. 
One tarsier species, Dian's tarsier ("Tarsius dentatus"), is listed by on the IUCN Red List as being "lower risk – conservation dependent". Horsfield's tarsier ("Cephalopachus bancanus") is listed as "lower risk – least concern". The spectral tarsier ("Tarsius spectrum") is categorized as "lower risk, not threatened". The pygmy tarsier ("Tarsius pumilus") was thought to be extinct until a family were found in 2008. The two males and single female (a fourth escaped) were captured using nets, and were radio collared to track their movements. Other tarsier species are listed as "data deficient".

</doc>
<doc id="52081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52081" title="Theoretical computer science">
Theoretical computer science

Theoretical Computer Science is domain of Computer Science that looks at the notion of information and about how information can be processed. It also looks at the way models are built in computer science. Common divisions of theoretical computer sciences include:
Other domains, such as Logic and Statistics used as well, but in most cases, they are not the primary focus of theoretical computer science.

</doc>
<doc id="52097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52097" title="Pedestrian">
Pedestrian

A pedestrian is a person travelling on foot, whether walking or running. In modern times, the term mostly refers to someone walking on a road or footpath, but this was not the case historically.
The main way humans get around is by walking. The first humans walked out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. We walked across India to reach Australia. We walked across Asia to reach the Americas. We walked from the fertile crescent area to reach Europe.
Nowadays, roads often have a designated footpath attached especially for pedestrian traffic, called the "sidewalk" in American English and the "pavement" in British English. There are also footpaths not associated with a road which are used only by pedestrians, especially ramblers, hikers or hill-walkers and there are roads not associated with a footpath. These footpaths, in mountains or forests, are called trails. 
Efforts are underway by pedestrian advocacy groups to make it easy to be a pedestrian in new developments, especially to counteract newer developments where 20 to 30 percent do not include sidewalks. Some activists advocate large auto-free zones where pedestrians only or pedestrians and some non-motorised vehicles are allowed. 

</doc>
<doc id="52098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52098" title="Patti Deutsch">
Patti Deutsch

Patti Deutsch (born December 16, 1945, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American actress who is best known for appearing the television game show "Match Game" in the 1970s. She is also known for doing voices in animated movies.

</doc>
<doc id="52102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52102" title="Body double">
Body double

A body double is a person who works in the movie or television production industry. Body doubles are models that act in scenes that actors or actresses do not want to do. For example, body doubles sometimes act in love scenes or scenes of nudity, where a person's body is shown. 
Body doubles are usually models that have developed very good bodies by exercising and by eating well. Often, movies or television shows that use body doubles do not admit that a body double model was used. 
In the popular American movie "Pretty Woman", a fashion and parts model named Donna Scoggins posed for the infamous movie poster in thigh-high boots, while another body double, Shelley Michelle, filmed nude scenes that actress Julia Roberts did not want to do. 
Another job in the movie and television production industry where people do actions that the actors or actresses do not want to do is the job of stuntman. A stuntman is a person who does dangerous actions in movies, for example, jumping, falling, getting in a car accident, or pretending to fight with knives.
What distinguishes a "stunt person" from a "stunt double" is the particular character they portray. If the character in question is a main character and/or central to the plot and uniquely identifiable, the stuntman is then typically referred to as a "stunt double" in the credits.

</doc>
<doc id="52126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52126" title="Intergenerational conflict">
Intergenerational conflict

An intergenerational conflict is either a conflict situation between teenagers and adults or a more abstract conflict between two generations, which often involves prejudices against another generation.
Furthermore intergenerational conflict describes cultural, social or economic discrepancies between generations. These can be caused by value shift or conflict of interest between younger and older generations. An example are changes to an intergenerational contract that may be necessary to reflect a change in demographics.
For examples of intergenerational conflict," Dreaming in Cuban, "by Cristina Garcia is a good novel to take a look at. 

</doc>
<doc id="52135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52135" title="Intergenerational contract">
Intergenerational contract

An intergenerational contract is an agreement between different generations. It assumes that future generations will honor the contract and provide a service to a generation that has done the same service for an older generation.
The most common use of the term is in social security and refers to the consensus to provide pensions for the retired generations through payments made by the working generations.
The use of the word "contract" is not entirely accurate as the next generation enters the agreement without consent.

</doc>
<doc id="52136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52136" title="Inca rope bridge">
Inca rope bridge

Inca rope bridges were simple suspension bridges over canyons and gorges to provide access for the Inca Empire. Bridges of this type were suitable for use since the Inca people did not use wheeled transport - traffic was limited to pedestrians and livestock. These bridges were an important part on the Inca road system and are an excellent example of Inca innovation in engineering. They were frequently used by runners delivering messages throughout the Incan empire.

</doc>
<doc id="52137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52137" title="Ewok">
Ewok

Ewoks are a fictional race of small, bear-like creatures from George Lucas' "Star Wars" universe. They first appeared in the film "". 
They live on the forests on the moon of the Planet Endor. They often wear the skins or skulls of animals they have hunted. The most famous Ewok is Wicket W. Warwik, a brave Ewok who destroyed an entire Imperial shield projector. The Ewoks were also well known for their victory against the Empire in the "Battle of Endor".

</doc>
<doc id="52139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52139" title="Inca road system">
Inca road system

The Inca road system ("El Camino Inca") of Peru was the most extensive among the many roads and trails that were constructed in pre-Columbian South America. 
It went across the Andes mountains and reached heights of over 5,000 m (16,500 feet) above sea level. The Inca road system covered approximately 22,500 kilometres (14,000 mi) and provided access to over three million km² of territory.
Because the Incas did not make use of the wheel for transportation, and did not have horses until the arrival of the Spanish in Peru in the 16th century, the trails were used almost exclusively by people walking, sometimes accompanied by pack animals, usually the llama.
The trails were used by the Inca people as a means of relaying messages, carried via knotted-cord quipu and by memory; and for transporting goods. Messages could be carried by runners covering as much as 240 km (150 mi) per day, working in relay fashion much like the Pony Express of the 1860s in North America.
There were approximately 2,000 inns, or "tambos", placed at even intervals along the trails. The inns provided food, shelter and military supplies to the tens of thousands who traveled the roads. 
The most important Inca road was the "Camino Real", as it is known in Spanish, with a length of 5,200 km (3,230 mi). It began in Quito, Ecuador, passed through Cusco, and ended in what is now Tucumán, Argentina. The Camino Real went across the mountain ranges of the Andes, with peak altitudes of more than 5,000 m. "El Camino de la Costa", the coastal trail, with a length of 4,000 km (2,420 mi), ran parallel to the sea and was linked with the Camino Real by many smaller routes.
By far the most popular of the Inca trails for trekking is the "Capaq Nan trail", which leads from the village of Ollantaytambo to Machu Picchu, the so-called "Lost City of the Incas". There are many well-preserved ruins along the way, and hundreds of thousands of tourists from around the world make the three- or four-day trek each year, accompanied by guides.
The Inca Trail to Machu Picchu is actually three routes, which all meet up near Inti-Pata, the 'Sun Gate' and entrance to Machu Picchu. The three trails are known as the "Mollepata", "Classic" and "One Day" trails, with "Mollepata" being the longest of the three. Passing through the Andes mountain range and sections of the Amazon rainforest, the Trail passes several well-preserved Inca ruins and settlements before ending at the Sun Gate on Machu Picchu mountain. The two longer routes require an ascent to beyond 12,000 ft (3,660 m) above sea level, which can result in altitude sickness. 

</doc>
<doc id="52150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52150" title="Columbia Pictures">
Columbia Pictures

Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. is an American company that produces movies and television shows. It is part of the Columbia TriStar Motion Picture Group, which is owned by the Japanese company Sony.

</doc>
<doc id="52180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52180" title="Jason">
Jason

Jason was a hero in Greek mythology. He was born in Thessaly, northern Greece. Jason was the captain of the ship called the "Argos". The men who helped to sail the boat were called the Argonauts. The word Argonaut comes from the name of the boat: Argo and the word ending -naut. The ending -naut is used in other words about the ocean such as nautical. Jason and the Argonauts went to find the Golden Fleece. His father was Aeson, the rightful king of Iolcus. Jason fell in love with the daughter of the Golden Fleece's owner. Her name was Medea. Medea helped Jason get the Golden Fleece from her father. Jason and Medea killed the owner of the Golden Fleece and returned to Jason's city, Iolcus. Medea then killed Jason's half-brother Pelias so Jason could be in charge. When she was found out, Jason and Medea went to live in the Greek city of Corinth. Jason then married the princess of Corinth so they could stay. The story of Jason, the Argonauts, and the Golden Fleece is told in two modern movies: "Hercules" starring Steve Reeves, and "Jason and the Argonauts" starring Todd Armstrong.

</doc>
<doc id="52197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52197" title="Color code">
Color code

A color code is a system for displaying information by using different colors. Color codes are often difficult or impossible for blind and color blind people to understand.
Examples of color codes:
"The Color Code" is also the title of a book (References, Joseph et al., 2002) combined with a nutritional practice by the same name in another book publication (Heber, 2001). "The Color Code" combines food science, medical knowledge and nutritional practices to encourage consumer intake of colourful plant foods for achieving optimal health.

</doc>
<doc id="52200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52200" title="Complementary color">
Complementary color

Complementary colours are pairs of opposite colours. What is meant by "opposite" can be different between colour science, and art and the printing process.
In color science "complementary colors" are colors opposite to each other on the color wheel. Primary colors and secondary colors are typically paired in this way:
If a person stares at a single color for about a minute then looks at a white surface, an afterimage of the complementary color will appear. This is because of "eye fatigue". For example, if the person stares at a red color, the photoreceptors (cells in the eye which catch colored light) for red light in the retina (the back part of the eye) become fatigued. When photoreceptors are fatigued they are less able to send information to the brain. If the person then looks at white light, all photoreceptors will send information. Because the photoreceptors for red light are fatigued, the information they send will not be as strong as the information about the colors other than red and the illusion of seeing the complementary color is created.
Because of the limited range of colors that was available throughout most of the history of art, many artists still use a traditional set of complementary pairs, including:
The complement of each primary color (red, blue, or yellow) is roughly the color made by mixing the other two in a subtractive system (red + blue = purple; blue + yellow = green; red + yellow = orange). When two complements are mixed they produce a gray or brown.
The use of complementary colors is an important aspect of art and graphic design. This also extends to other fields such as contrasting colors in logos and retail display. When placed next to each other, complements make each other appear brighter. On an artistic color wheel, complementary colors are placed opposite one another. Although these artistic complements may not be precise complements under the scientific definition, most artistic color wheels are laid out roughly like the HSV color wheel discussed above.

</doc>
<doc id="52204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52204" title="Decriminalization">
Decriminalization

Decriminalization is making something legal that was illegal.
For example, alcohol was illegal in USA during the 1920's. However, people felt strongly against it, and made it legal again.

</doc>
<doc id="52209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52209" title="Battledress">
Battledress

Battledress is a general term for the military uniform worn into combat, as opposed to 'display' dress and formal uniforms worn at parades and functions. It may be either monochrome (often a shade of green or brown) or in military camouflage colours.

</doc>
<doc id="52214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52214" title="SketchUp">
SketchUp

SketchUp is a 3D modelling program made for architects, engineers, and moviemakers. It is easier to use than most programs used for three dimensional drawings. SketchUp was created by the company @Last Software and released in August 2000. In 2006, @Last Software was bought by Google. They released SketchUp6 in January 2007. SketchUp6 can use add-ons that let things build with the program be made into files that can be used with Google Earth. In 2012, SketchUp was bought by Trimble Navigation. 

</doc>
<doc id="52216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52216" title="Islamism">
Islamism

Islamism is group of ideologies that say that Islamic nations should be run by sharia (Islamic laws). Generally, it is the idea that Islam should guide both society and politics, as well as people's personal lives. Important people who have inspired Islamist movements include Yusuf al-Qaradawi, Rashid Rida, and Muhammad Iqbal.

</doc>
<doc id="52218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52218" title="Poitiers">
Poitiers

Poitiers is a city in France, the prefecture of the Poitou-Charentes region and the Vienne department. The town is picturesque; and its streets are interesting for their remains of ancient architecture, especially of the Romanesque period, and the memories of great historical events.
The city itself is very old. It already existed as a Gaulish fort in the time when Julius Caesar came to Gaul. It was the capital of the Pictones tribe.
This is a list of people of interest who were born or resided in Poitiers:

</doc>
<doc id="52219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52219" title="Valence, Drôme">
Valence, Drôme

Valence is a city in the south of France, along the Rhône river. It is in the Rhône-Alpes region in the Drôme department in France.
Valence is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="52220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52220" title="Valence">
Valence

Valence can stand for different things:

</doc>
<doc id="52225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52225" title="Anvil">
Anvil

An anvil is a hard piece of metal which is used as a workbench when making things out of iron or steel. An anvil is used by a blacksmith when he needs to hammer hot iron to bend it into the shape he wants. A blacksmith can make new shoes for horses.
Anvils were known in the Bronze Age and possibly earlier. They were used in Ancient Greece and Ancient Egypt. They are still in use today, although not nearly as much as 100 years ago when there were many more horses. 
Anvils are extremely heavy. They are made in different sizes. The 17th century writer John Bunyan was a tinker (someone who mends pots and pans). He walked around the villages of Bedfordshire with a small anvil and a few tools on his back. His anvil was wedge-shaped, so that he could knock it into the ground when he needed to do a repair. His anvil is now in the John Bunyan museum in Bedford.
The anvil has sometimes been used as a percussion instrument because it makes a very loud sound when hit by the hammer. Usually musicians use a metal bar mounted on a sound-box. This sounds just as good as a real anvil (which would be very heavy to carry around).
Verdi wrote some famous music called the "Anvil Chorus" in his opera "Il Trovatore". Wagner asked for 18 anvils in "Das Rheingold" in the scene which takes place below the earth where the Nibelungs are working at their forges. Johann Strauss II wrote an "Anvil Polka", Varèse used an anvil in "Ionisation", Walton uses an anvil in "Belshazzar’s Feast" and there is an anvil in the orchestra in Howard Shore's music for "The Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy.

</doc>
<doc id="52227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52227" title="Inca Empire">
Inca Empire

The Inca were a pre-Columbian civilization. Their empire was in the Andes of South America. The word Inca can also mean the emperor or king of the Inca people. It was the largest empire in America, and was large even by world standards. It existed shortly before Christopher Columbus arrived in America. 
The Inca ruled along the western coast of South America for a little over 100 years, until the Spanish invasion in the 16th century. The empire was centred around the city of Cusco, or Qosqo, in what is now southern Peru. This was the administrative, political and military center of the empire. In later years, it was also centred around Quito. The Inca were ruled by an Emperor known as the "Sapa Inca". Throughout their empire, they built many roads and bridges to make travel between their communities easy.
The Inca Empire was called in Quechua, which means "four regions". The empire only lasted for about 100 years as the arrival of the conquering Spaniards in 1532 AD marked the end of their reign. Their main language was Quechua, but as the Empire was made up of many different groups there were probably many different languages as well.
The Inca Empire began around Lake Titicaca in about 1197. From 1438 to 1533, the Incas used conquest and non-violent assimilation to gain a large portion of western South America. Their empire centered on the Andean mountain ranges. It included large parts of what is now Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Argentina and Chile.
In 1533, Atahualpa, the last sovereign emperor, was executed by the conquistador Francisco Pizarro. That meant the beginning of Spanish rule in South America. The Inca Empire was supported by an economy based on the ownership of the land.

</doc>
<doc id="52234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52234" title="Pre-Columbian">
Pre-Columbian

The pre-Columbian era means the history and prehistory of the Americas before there were important European influences on the American continent. 
The word pre-Columbian refers to the era before Christopher Columbus, but sometimes it can include the history of American indigenous cultures as they continued to develop after the Christopher Columbus' first landing in 1492, until they were conquered or influenced by Europeans, even if this happened decades or even centuries after the arrival of Columbus.
Pre-Columbian can also mean cultures of any one of the great native civilizations of the Americas, such as those of Mesoamerica (the Aztec and Maya) and of the Andes (Inca, Moche and Chibcha).

</doc>
<doc id="52236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52236" title="Duct tape">
Duct tape

Duct tape, sometimes called duck tape, is a very strong adhesive tape with a cloth backing . Usually duct tape is grey or black, but it is made in other colors including transparent, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, flames, zebra stripe, leopard spot, tye dye, and others. People use duct tape to repair many things, for example a broken handbag or a broken chair.
Duct tape was designed during World War I. It was first used to keep water out of ammunition cases. It was found to work so well that people started using it to fix many other things. Duct tape was also called "100 mph tape" by the military because it is said the tape will still stick in winds at speeds of 100 miles per hour. Duct tape got its name from its use on heating and air conditioning ducts but oddly enough, that is the one use that the tape is not very good for. It is illegal in California to use duct tape on ducts and most professional builders in the United States are not allowed to use it either.
In the United States, people use duct tape in many action movies and television shows. Strips of duct tape can be used to tie a person up because it is very hard to get them off.
Duct tape is also great for making things like wallets, purses, clothes, and sometimes even sculptures. The use of it as an art medium is fairly new, though.

</doc>
<doc id="52239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52239" title="Text editor">
Text editor

A text editor is a program that is run on a computer that can create and change text. The text can be saved into a file that is called a "text file". Text editors can be used for a lot of things. Many people use them to write documents. Some people write code (like HTML or C++) using a text editor. 
Some text editors can edit "rich text". Rich text allows the person that is editing text to have bold text, "italic text", and other things. This is why rich text is different form "text file" which do not have bold text or "italic text" properties.
Most text editors today support "search and replace". A computer will quickly find some text the user wants. The user can tell the computer to replace the found text with something else. This can be in part or all of the document.
Copy, cut and paste are other common options in text editors. Copy allows users to instantly add a copy of text in one place to another place. Cut and paste are similar, except that the text is moved from one place to another instead of being copied. This is very useful when a writer wishes to put his paragraphs in a different order, for example.
Sometimes users make mistakes, or need to do the same thing over and over without getting bored. This is what the undo and redo features do. Users can reverse their mistakes, or quickly repeat their actions. Some text editors allow many mistakes in a row to be reversed; others allow only one or two.

</doc>
<doc id="52252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52252" title="Valence (chemistry)">
Valence (chemistry)

In Chemistry, valence (which is sometimes called valency) is the number of chemical bonds the atoms of a certain element can form.
For a long time, people thought that this number was a fixed property of the element in question. They thought that carbon always has four bonds, oxygen always has two, and hydrogen always has one. The problem was seen only later. For example, phosphorous sometimes behaves as if it had three bonds, a valence of three. At other times though, it seems to have five bonds. 
IUPAC saw this problem, and proposed oxidation numbers. This means there is one number per chemical element. The problem of this approach is that it leaves aside most chemical properties of the elements in question.

</doc>
<doc id="52269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52269" title="Valence (Charente)">
Valence (Charente)

Valence is a village in France, in Poitou-Charentes. It is near Angoulême. In 1999, 240 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="52274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52274" title="Valence (Tarn-et-Garonne)">
Valence (Tarn-et-Garonne)

Valence is a village in the Midi-Pyrénées region of France. It is in the department Tarn-et-Garonne. In 1999, about 4800 people lived there. Together with 23 other, similar villages, it formed the "Communauté de communes des Deux Rives". In that structure (that is, in all the villages together) there are about 15.500 people. 
Valence is located 25 km from Agen, 45 km from Montauban, 60 km from Cahors, 90 km from Toulouse and 160 km from Bordeaux

</doc>
<doc id="52275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52275" title="Valence-d'Albigeois">
Valence-d'Albigeois

Valence-d'Albigeois is a village in the department off Tarn, in French region Midi-Pyrénées. It is near Albi. In 1999, 1142 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="52282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52282" title="Valence-en-Brie">
Valence-en-Brie

Valence-en-Brie is a village in the Île-de-France region in France. It is located near Melun in the department Seine-et-Marne. In 1999, 583 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="52283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52283" title="Valence-sur-Baïse">
Valence-sur-Baïse

Valence-sur-Baïse is a city in the Gers department of the Midi-Pyrénees region in France. It is near Condom-en-Armagnac. It was founded in 1274 by Gerald V, Count of Armagnac, and the Cistercian Abbey of Flaran as a Bastide (a fortified city). In 1999, 1151 people lived there. There is an old cisercian abbey at the place. Today the abbey serves as a cultural center. There is also a public washing basin, and a port, where ships can land.

</doc>
<doc id="52286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52286" title="Bastide">
Bastide

A bastide is a fortified town. They were built mainly in the south of France in the Middle Ages. Most bastides were built between 1229 and 1373, between the Albigensian Crusade and the Hundred Years' War. Today, there are about 400 bastides. They all have a central square, and a rectangular street layout. On the market square, the houses have arcades. They were usually built in places that were easy to defend, such as the top of a hill or on a plain.
Well-known bastides today are Carcassonne and Andorra la Vella.
Bastides are medieval cities. There is an act of foundation (a law made to start them). There are often historic documents written about them.
Some times they are planned cities and are usually only one architect (or one lord) designs it. They were often built where there was already a village, or at a place of historical importance. They were sometimes also built where people bought and sold things a lot (for example where trading routes crossed).
The Treaty of Paris (1229) is sometimes seen as the foundation act which made the construction of modern cities and bastides possible. The treaty itself ended the Albigensian Crusade. One of the first bastides built was Montauban. Montauban became a city in 1144. However some consider Mont-de-Marsan which was founded in 1133 to be a bastide.
Most bastides were built in the countryside. They were basically to serve the needs of local trade (usually, agriculture). A few of them were built in places which were very easy to defend. Others were built where it was possible to defend them, but most bastides were simply built where they were needed. The time when they were built was a peaceful one in the region.
Bastides were built by people who had a high social status, such as:
The main feature of all bastides is a central, open place, or square. It was used for markets, but also used for political and social gatherings. A typical square, (which was probably a model for other bastides), can be found in Montauban.
Generally, there is just one square. Saint-Lys and Albias are different because they have two squares, one for the market, and one square for the church.
The square is also used to divide the city into quarters. Generally it lies outside the main street (the axis) which carried the traffic. There are three possible layouts:
Generally the flattest place in the bastide was used for the square.
Except in very rare cases, the church was not on the central square. Usually it was at an angle, and faced the square diagonally. One of the rare exceptions is Villefranche-de-Rouergue.
There were clear rules how houses could be built in the bastide. The front of the houses - the façades - had to line up. Also there had to be a small space between the houses. The different housing lots were all alike, by was a common size. There were only a limited number of lots. This varied between 10, and several thousand (3,000 in Grenade-sur-Garonne)
The streets were usually – wide, so a chariot could pass through. They ran alongside the façades of the houses. Alleys run between streets, these are usually only – wide. Sometimes they are only – wide. In a bastide there were usually between one and eight streets.
When bastides were founded most had no city walls or fortifications. This was because it was a peaceful time in history. Such things were added later. This was done either through a special tax, or through a law that required that the people of the city helped build the walls. A good example is Libourne. Ten years after the city was founded, the people asked for money to build city walls. Once they had received the money, they spent it on making their city prettier, rather than building walls.
At the beginning of the Hundred Years' War, many bastides that had no city walls were destroyed. Some of the others quickly built stone walls, to protect the city.
There are different base layouts for bastides. Often for each type of layout, there was a bastide that was an example for other bastides. The most common layout started from two perpendicular streets. New streets were made parallel to the two original streets. This led to a (usually rectangular grid layout.
There seems to have been no plan when these bastides were built. This may have been for the following reasons:
An example of such a bastide is La Bastide-de-Bousignac.
The circle layout for a bastide was very rare. The only surviving example is in Fourcès.
Enclosing bastides were built around an existing small village or hamlet. There already was a church or a small group of houses. When new houses were built, they were added around the original buildings.
There is one main street that links the two gates. This makes the axis around which the bastide was built. These are quite common, with about 30—40% of all bastides using this design. Very often they are found on flat land. The square is often made by making the main street bigger. Very often there are alleys which run perpendicular to the main street. This layout is very easy to change to fit in with the local landscape.
An example of a one axis bastide is Gimont. Gimont is long, and only wide. Sometimes, there is another street which runs parallel to the main axis. The city square is made between the two streets.
There are two main streets, axes, which are perpendicular (make a right angle). All other streets are at a right angle, or parallel to one of the two main streets. The city square is very often in the centre, or very near the centre. The whole city is either rectangular, square, hexagonal or oval shaped. This layout was the plan used at the height of the bastide movement.
A few steps are necessary to make a new bastide, these are:
Once all this steps are done, the bastide is not yet founded. The next step is to attract people to come live in the new city. This is done by making a "Charta of customs". This Charta does not tell so much about customs, but rather about the privileges those that live there (the citizens) get. These privileges can be of different kinds:
Bastides wanted to attract people who should come to live there. They therefore offered equality to those who came to live there. They made it look like citizens had equal rights, and were free.
The social system was very fixed and unchanging during the Middle Ages. The system of laws of the Middle Ages was built on the fact that society did not change. Everyone had their place in the system and they stayed there. The lords who built the bastide did not want to change the social system. All they wanted was small local improvements. Usually, the land where the bastide was built was not developed. The lords that owned the land were not making much money from it. They built the bastide because they hoped they would get more profits from the land.
For these reasons, people who already had a social status, (serfs, noblemen and priests) could not settle in the bastide. A few poor noblemen gave their land to the city and started a career as a trader, because that way they could earn more money than before.
The people who lived in the city looked free, but this freedom had limits:
Men and women did not have equal rights. Women are often mentioned in the Charter, and have some rights:
Lepers were usually not welcome in the city. Certain bastides had special places which would treat them, but they were generally excluded from social life. They had to wear special badges to show they were ill, and they could not come close to normal people.
Another group of people that was generally not welcome were the Jews. In the beginning there was no problem, but later Jews were persecuted. Philip IV of France did not allow any Jews to live in France, in 1306. He confiscated their belongings and sold them.
A number of bastides were successful and still exist today. Many others have failed, and most of their population left them.
The bastides had three stages of development or change:

</doc>
<doc id="52289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52289" title="Arcade">
Arcade

In architecture, an Arcade is a passage or a walkway that is covered by arches or vaults. It can also be a covered walkway with arches (towards a place or a street).

</doc>
<doc id="52291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52291" title="Camouflage (disambiguation)">
Camouflage (disambiguation)

Camouflage can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="52292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52292" title="Military camouflage">
Military camouflage

Camouflage is a type of clothing, fabric covering, or painted pattern used by militaries and armies to make it harder to see soldiers and weapons such as artillery guns and military vehicles. Camouflage clothes, fabric coverings, and paint use a colored pattern of several colors that is designed to blend in with the surroundings. Camouflage patterns are also used for hunting clothes.
Camouflage patterns used in desert areas, are beige and light brown. Camouflage patterns used in forested areas, mix different green and brown colors. Camouflage patterns used in urban areas mix grey, white, and black colors. Camouflage for snowy areas use white colors to blend in with the snow.
Camouflage became an important part of modern military tactics when the accuracy of rifles and cannons improved at the end of the 1800s. But armies continued to use bright colours and designs until the 20th century. During World War II camouflage became a common feature in military uniforms. As well, many military vehicles such as planes and trucks were painted with camouflage patterns.
Different countries use different types of military camouflage patterns.

</doc>
<doc id="52295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52295" title="Assyrian genocide">
Assyrian genocide

The Assyrian Genocide was a genocide by the Ottoman Empire, in which over 300,000 Assyrians were killed during raids and massacres.
The name goven to this is the "Sayfo" which is the Aramaic word for sword. Many Assyrians were considered unpure by the Turks and were massacred for not submitting their Christian identity. Assyrians lost their homes and possessions to the Sultan-Adulhamed the Red and even before the genocide—they were persecuted and forced to pay high taxes.
Since ancient times and conquest by the Babylonian, the Assyrians have not have had their own nation. It was called a diaspora and they have spread over to many different countries. Under the Arabs and Turks, they were oppressed and assimilated to society and many lost their independence. Those that survive continue to have a common unity especially in their deep Christian faith.
The Assyrian Genocide (also known as Sayfo or Seyfo) was committed against the Assyrian population of the Ottoman Empire during the First World War by the Young Turks. The Assyrian population of northern Mesopotamia (the Tur Abdin, Hakkari, Van, Siirt regions of present-day southeastern Turkey and the Urmia region of northwestern Iran) was forcibly relocated and massacred by Ottoman (Turkish) and Kurdish forces between 1914 and 1920 under the regime of the Young Turks.
Scholars have placed the number of Assyrian victims from 300,000-750,000.
The Assyrian Genocide took place in the same context and time-period as the Armenian and Greek genocides. But unlike these, no official national or international recognition of the Assyrian genocide has been made, and many accounts discuss the Assyrian genocide as a part of the larger events subsumed under the Armenian genocide.

</doc>
<doc id="52299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52299" title="Democratic Republic of Georgia">
Democratic Republic of Georgia

The Democratic Republic of Georgia (DRG; Georgian: საქართველოს დემოკრატიული რესპუბლიკა, "Sakartvelos Demokratiuli Respublika"), 1918–1921, was the first modern establishment of a Republic of Georgia. 
Georgia's capital was Tbilisi, and its state language was Georgian. Created on May 26, 1918, on the break-up of the Transcaucasian Federation, it was led by the Social Democratic Menshevik party. Facing permanent internal and external problems, the young state was not able to withstand the invasion by the Russian SFSR Red Armies. It collapsed between February and March of 1921 to become a Soviet republic.

</doc>
<doc id="52302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52302" title="Alternative rock">
Alternative rock

Alternative rock is a type of rock music that became popular in the 1980s and became widely popular in the 1990s. Alternative rock is made up of various subgenres that have come out of the indie music scene since the 1980s, such as grunge, indie rock, Britpop, gothic rock, and indie pop. 
These genres are sorted by their collective types of punk, which laid the groundwork for alternative music in the 1970s. 
Examples of alternative rock bands include R.E.M., U2, Radiohead and Oasis.

</doc>
<doc id="52303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52303" title="Anne Sullivan">
Anne Sullivan

Anne Sullivan (April 14, 1866 – October 20, 1936) was a teacher best known as the tutor of Helen Keller.
Anne Sullivan was born in Feeding Hills, Massachusetts. Her parents, Thomas Sullivan and Alice Clohessy, were poor Irish farmers who left Ireland in 1847 because of the Irish Potato Famine.Sullivan taught Helen Keller sign language. Anne died in Forest Hills, New York on October 20, 1936
Anne was hellens favourite teacher . The death of anne downed upon Hellen . The book 'teacher' was wrote by hellen about anne . 

</doc>
<doc id="52305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52305" title="Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra">
Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra

The Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra is an orchestra based in Belgrade, Serbia. It was founded in 1923. Its founder was Stevan Hristić, one of the most important Serbian composers and conductors. The first concert of the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra took place on April 28, 1923 with Hristić conducting.
The orchestra was the best orchestra in Yugoslavia. By the 1960s it had become one of the best orchestras in Europe. Then, during the 1990s there were wars in the areas which made up Yugoslavia. For a time the orchestra were not allowed to play abroad. It was a difficult time for them, and many players left.
In 2000, with Belgrade now the capital city of Serbia, the orchestra was built up again. Many new players from other countries joined the orchestra, most of them were young. Their concert hall was rebuilt. They have worked with famous people such as Zubin Mehta, Sarah Chang and Nigel Kennedy.
However, the orchestra are facing difficult times again. They need more money. In 2009 they advertised in the city's newspapers that they were available to play at weddings, funerals, baptisms, divorces and saints' days. Some people thought the advertisement was not the right thing for the orchestra to do, but it has attracted support from many young people.

</doc>
<doc id="52308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52308" title="Futrono">
Futrono

Futrono is one of the 12 municipalities in the province of Valdivia, in the region of Los Lagos of Chile. It is located on the north side of the Ranco lake, but the town of Futrono is not on the shore.
This place was a territory of mapuches indigenous. They called this town, "Futronohue". Then, it becomes a port used to transport things to Puerto Nuevo, and after that to La Unión. In 1941, the municipality was created and that made it grow in population.
Now, Futrono has much more activity, for example; agriculture, tourism and high quality furniture companies.

</doc>
<doc id="52309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52309" title="Tigranes the Great">
Tigranes the Great

Tigranes the Great (Armenian: Տիգրան Մեծ, Greek: Τιγράνης ο Μέγας) (ruled 95 BCE–55 BCE) (also called Tigranes II and sometimes Tigranes I) was the king of Armenia his country became for a short time the strongest state in the Roman East.
Tigranes was born around 140 BCE and was the son or nephew of Artavasdes I or Tigranes I. 
Tigranes the Great represented the Artaxiad Royal House. 
He was involved in many battles during his reign. He had battles against the Parthian, Seleucid, and Roman empires.

</doc>
<doc id="52317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52317" title="George Canning">
George Canning

George Canning PC, FRS (11 April 1770 – 8 August 1827) was a British statesman and politician who served as Foreign Secretary and, briefly, Prime Minister.
Stratford Canning was a Whig and would introduce his nephew in the 1780s to prominent Whigs such as Charles James Fox, Edmund Burke, and Richard Brinsley Sheridan. George Canning's friendship with Sheridan would last for the remainder of Sheridan's life.

</doc>
<doc id="52318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52318" title="Chester city walls">
Chester city walls

The Chester city walls are big intact defensive walls around an important English city of Chester. The city has been defended with walls since the foundation of the Deva Victrix fort on the site in 79. 
The first walls were built to help the Roman fort in 79, although these were replaced by stronger stone walls between the 1st and 3rd century. The walls enclosed a far smaller area than the modern walls, with the south-western corner much farther from the River Dee.

</doc>
<doc id="52319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52319" title="Physicalism">
Physicalism

Physicalism is the view that everything in the universe is made out of physical matter. Physicalism does not believe in gods, spirits, or other things that are not made of physical material. A person who believes in physicalism is a materialist.

</doc>
<doc id="52326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52326" title="Herd">
Herd

A herd is a large group of animals. The term is used for mammals, particularly hoofed animals. Herding is a good example of collective animal behavior. Other terms are used for similar types of behavior in other types of animal. For example, a large group of birds is usually called a "flock" (this may also refer to certain mammals as well) and a large group of carnivores is usually called a "pack". 
In addition, special collective nouns may be used for particular cases: for example a flock of geese, if not in flight, is sometimes called a gaggle. However, in theoretical discussions in behavioural ecology, the term "herd" is used for all these kinds of assemblage. A herd may also refer to one that tends and cares for such groups (e.i. shepherds tend to sheep, and goatherds tend to goats, etc.).
When an association of animals (or, by extension, people) is described as a "herd", that means that the group tends to act together (for example, all moving in the same direction at a given time), but that this does not occur as a result of planning or co-ordination. Rather, each individual is choosing behaviour that corresponds to that of the majority of other members, possibly through imitation or possibly because all are responding to the same external circumstances. A herd can be contrasted with a co-ordinated group where individuals have distinct roles. Many human groupings, such as an army detachments or sports teams, show such co-ordination and differentiation of roles, but so do some animal groupings such as those of eusocial insects, which are co-ordinated through pheromones and other forms of animal communication. Conversely, some human groupings may behave more like herds.

</doc>
<doc id="52327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52327" title="Ungulate">
Ungulate

Ungulates (meaning roughly "hoofed" or "hoofed animal") are several groups of mammals most of which use the tips of their toes, usually hoofed, to sustain their whole bodyweight whilst moving. 

</doc>
<doc id="52328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52328" title="Herd (disambiguation)">
Herd (disambiguation)

A herd is a large group of animals. Herd may also refer to:
In zoology:
In sports:
In psychology:
In music:
In other fields:

</doc>
<doc id="52335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52335" title="Aylesbury">
Aylesbury

Aylesbury is the county town of Buckinghamshire in south central England. It had a population in 2001 of 65,173. Aylesbury is near London. Aylesbury was a major market town in Anglo-Saxon times. Aylesbury replaced Buckingham as the county town of Buckinghamshire in 1529 by order of King Henry VIII.

</doc>
<doc id="52339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52339" title="Augusta, Georgia">
Augusta, Georgia

Augusta is a city in the state of Georgia. As of 2000, the population was 195,182. In 1996, the governments of the City of Augusta and Richmond County combined to form the "Augusta-Richmond County". The consolidated city-county is today simply known as "Augusta, Georgia". The area that makes up the city of Augusta includes almost all of Richmond County, except for the towns of Hephzibah and Blythe. These towns have their own governments separate from that of Augusta. 
Augusta is on the Georgia/South Carolina border. It is about 150 miles east of Atlanta. It is the second largest city and second largest metropolitan area in the state. Augusta is the birthplace of the Southern Baptist denomination. It is also the location of Springfield Baptist Church, the oldest African-American Baptist church in the United States. The city is famous for its golf course, the Augusta National Golf Club which is home to the first major golf tournament of each year, The Masters.
The city was named for Augusta, Princess of Wales, daughter-in-law of King George II of Great Britain and mother of King George III of Great Britain. It was the second state capital of Georgia from 1785 until 1795 
Augusta's official nickname is "The Garden City". It is also known as "Masters City", because of the Masters golf tournament.

</doc>
<doc id="52344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52344" title="Landsberg Prison">
Landsberg Prison

The Landsberg Prison was built around 1910 on the town's western edge. Its most noted prisoner was Adolf Hitler. Hitler was there in 1924 after being found guilty of treason for his part in the Beer Hall Putsch. It was during his time at Landsberg that Hitler wrote his book "Mein Kampf" ("My Struggle") with help from Rudolf Hess. During the occupation of Germany by the Allies after World War II, the US Army named the prison as "War Criminal Prison No. 1". They held many Nazi war criminals there. Executions of war criminals were also done at Landsberg. The last of these executions happened on June 8, 1951. These were the last executions in the Federal Republic of Germany, then commonly known as West Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="52346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52346" title="Melun">
Melun

Melun is a city in France. It is the capital of the Seine-et-Marne department, in the Île-de-France region of France. The city is about 40 kilometres southeast of Paris, in a bend of the river Seine. Between Brie and Gâtinais. It is between 37 metres and 102 metres of above the sea. At the last count in 1999, 37.500 people lived there.
The city is home to the production of the Brie de Melun, a saltier variant of the Brie de Meaux. A school for police officers has been in the city since 1945. Other than that there are pharmaceuitical and aviation industries and a prison complex in the city. 
The first historical mention of the city is in 52BC, as "Melodunum". The modern name of the city comes from the name it had in the 6th century, "Meluneum". Clovis I makes a duchy out of the city. He also has fortifications built. The city gains new importance. The city is also prone to raids of the vikings, most notably those in 852 and 866. 
When the département Seine-et-Marne was formed on the 4th March 1790, Melun became its capital. 
A campus of the École nationale de l'aviation civile (French civil aviation academy) is in Melun.

</doc>
<doc id="52355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355" title="Midi-Pyrénées">
Midi-Pyrénées

Midi-Pyrénées ( or "Mieidia-Pirenèus") is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Languedoc-Roussillon-Midi-Pyrénées. It is part of the historical region of Occitania.
The name of the region is not based on any old name, like in most other regions, but on the geography of the region, Midi (meaning "southern France") - Pyrénées (Pyrenees mountains that are the highest mountains in the region). The French adjective and name of the people living in the region is "Midi-Pyrénéen".
The departments in the region were Ariège, Aveyron, Haute-Garonne, Gers, Lot, Hautes-Pyrénées, Tarn, and Tarn-et-Garonne. Its capital was Toulouse.
The Midi-Pyrénées region is the largest region of Metropolitan France with an area of . It borders to the south with Spain and Andorra; it also borders four French regions: Aquitaine to the west, Limousin to the north, Auvergne to the northeast and Languedoc-Roussillon to the east.
The region can be divided into three landscape zones:
The Pic Vignemale (), at , is the highest point of the Midi-Pyrénées region; it is on the border with Spain. The Vignemale is in the Pyrénées National Park.
The main rivers of the region are the Garonne river, that flows through the Haute-Garonne, Hautes-Pyrénées and Tarn-et-Garonne departments; and the Adour river, that flows through the Hautes-Pyrénées and Gers departments.
The Midi-Pyrénées region is formed by eight departments:
The Midi-Pyrénées region had a population, in 2012, of 2,926,592, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The 10 most important cities in the department are:

</doc>
<doc id="52356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356" title="Alsace">
Alsace

Alsace (Alsatian and , pre-1996 ) was an administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine. Alsace was on the eastern border of France. It was on the west bank of the Upper Rhine, next to Germany and Switzerland. 
The departments in Alsace were Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin.
Before the region merged with Champagne-Ardenne and Lorraine in 2014, data from INSEE stated that about 1.8 million people lived there as of 2013. Its capital was Strasbourg, the largest city. It changed hands between France and Germany many times. The people living there had an attitude and set of social values that was closer to the German ones, than the French. Language, cuisine, music, dress and customs were very close to the Swabian ones across the Rhine.
The overall culture was generally more German than French, being somewhere between German and French. The language, cuisine, music, dress and customs were Germanic, and nearly similar with Swabian ones. Alsace was part of the Holy Roman Empire and was still inhabited by people speaking a dialect of Upper German. In the 17th century, all of Alsace was annexed (in steps) under King Louis XIV of France. He made it one of the provinces of France. Alsace is frequently mentioned in conjunction with Lorraine, because the possession of these two "régions" (as "Alsace-Lorraine") was often contested in the 19th and 20th centuries. This was after a division among the successors of Charlemagne in the 9th century.

</doc>
<doc id="52359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52359" title="Lorraine">
Lorraine

Lorraine () is a former administrative region in the northeast of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine. In 2012, the population was 2,356,600.
Lorraine's capital was Metz.
The most important population centres were Nancy and Metz, with about 300,000 people each, followed by Thionville, with about 130,000. Other important cities were Epinal and Bar-le-Duc.
The departments in the region were Meurthe-et-Moselle, Meuse, Moselle, and Vosges.

</doc>
<doc id="52360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52360" title="Regions of France">
Regions of France

France is split into 18 administrative regions ("régions"). These regions are a kind of local government.
Thirteen regions are in Metropolitan France (the part of the country that is in Europe). Corsica has a different status than the other 12 metropolian regions. It is called "collectivité territoriale". Five regions are overseas.
There used to be 27 regions. In 2016, some regions were combined and there are now 18.
As of March 2016, six regions have a temporary name: Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine, Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Languedoc-Roussillon-Midi-Pyrénées, Nord-Pas-de-Calais-Picardy. Regions must make a decision about their name before 1 July 2016. The final decision about the names will be made on 1 October 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="52361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52361" title="Auvergne">
Auvergne

Auvergne () is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is in the Massif Central in south-central France. The inhabitants of the region are known as "Auvergnats".
The four departments in Auvergne were Allier, Cantal, Haute-Loire, and Puy-de-Dôme. Its capital ("Préfecture") was Clermont-Ferrand.
The region of Auvergne was named after the Arverni, one of the most powerful gallic tribes.
The administrative region of Auvergne was formed with the territory of the old province of Auvergne, most of the territory of the Bourbonnais and small parts of Languedoc and Lyonnais.
During World War II, Vichy (a city in the department of Allier) was the headquarters of the government of the French State.
The Auvergne region has an area of , 4.8% of France's total surface area. It bordered with six other regions: Burgundy to the northeast, Rhône-Alpes to the east and to the southeast, Languedoc-Roussillon to the south, Midi-Pyrénées to the southwest, Limousin to the west and Centre-Val de Loire to the northwest.
The landscape of the region varies greatly, with valleys, mountain, meadows and forests. Much of the regions is in the Massif Central, a high region in south-central France with mountains and plateaus.
There are many dormant volcanoes (volcanoes that are not active) in Auvergne, mainly in the "Monts Dore" and in the "Chaîne des Puys". The highest point in Auvergne is the Puy de Sancy (), at high.
The northern part of the region (the Allier department) is a land of small hills cut in two parts by a plain, the valley of the Allier river.
Auvergne has about 50 freshwater ponds and lakes. Some are high in the mountains and have volcanic origins. The "Guéry Lake" is, at high in the Puy-de-Dôme department, the highest lake in Auvergne.
The main rivers of the region are the:
The Auvergne region is formed by four departments:
The Auvergne region has a population, in 2012, of 1,354,104, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The ten main cities in the department are:
The region is predominantly agricultural. Cattle are common and are used both for meat (beef) and for milk, which is made into a number of well-known cheeses such as Bleu d'Auvergne, Cantal, Fourme d'Ambert and Saint-Nectaire.
The main industry in Auvergne is the tyre industry, represented by "Michelin", with headquarters and history in Clermont-Ferrand, and "Dunlop" in Montluçon.

</doc>
<doc id="52366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52366" title="Lower Normandy">
Lower Normandy

Lower Normandy (called "Basse-Normandie" in French) is a former administrative Regions of France. It is now part of the region of Normandy. The capital city was Caen. In 2007 about 1.4 million people lived in the region.
Lower Normandy was formed as a region in 1956. The old region of Normandy was split into the current Lower Normandy and Upper Normandy. The departments in the region were Calvados, Manche, and Orne.
The economy is centered on agriculture. Cider is made there and livestock is farmed. There is a bit of textile industry as well. It was the first region of France when it comes to producing butter, cheese and horses. The west part of the region is used mainly for farming, because of the prairies. Camembert, Pont-l'évêque and Livarot cheeses come from this region.

</doc>
<doc id="52368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52368" title="Centre-Val de Loire">
Centre-Val de Loire

Centre-Val de Loire is a region of France. Its capital is Orléans. 2.5 million people live there. 225,000 of them live in the urban area of Orléans.
The departments in Centre are:

</doc>
<doc id="52372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52372" title="Champagne-Ardenne">
Champagne-Ardenne

Champagne-Ardenne is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine. Its capital was Chalons-en-Champagne. Another very important city in the region is Reims.
The departments in Champagne-Ardenne were Ardennes, Aube, Marne, and Haute-Marne.
The region is heavily centered on farming. It was the first region of France in the production of barley and alfalfa. Many cereals are also grown here. It is also very important for vegetables and wine. It is nearest to the east border. Champagne is officially allowed to be called champagne if it is from here.

</doc>
<doc id="52374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52374" title="Upper Normandy">
Upper Normandy

Upper Normandy (called "Haute-Normandie" in French) is a former region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Normandy. The capital was Rouen, which is now the capital of Normandy. In 2007 about 1.9 million people lived in the region.
Upper Normandy was formed as a region in 1956. The old region of Normandy was split into the current Upper Normandy and Lower Normandy. The departments in the region were Seine-Maritime and Eure.
The region was the first producer of flax in France. It is also quite industrialized, specialising in petrochemical and pharmaceutical, as well as manufacturing industries.

</doc>
<doc id="52375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52375" title="Limousin">
Limousin

Limousin is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes. Its capital was Limoges. With 42 people per square kilometer, this was one of the least populated regions. About 710,000 people lived on roughly .
The departments in the region were Corrèze, Creuse, and Haute-Vienne.
The local economy had been recentered around services. 

</doc>
<doc id="52376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52376" title="Languedoc-Roussillon">
Languedoc-Roussillon

Languedoc-Roussillon (; ) is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Languedoc-Roussillon-Midi-Pyrénées. It is the southernmost region of mainland France and borders to the south with Spain and Andorra.
The five departments in the region were Aude, Gard, Hérault, Lozère, and Pyrénées-Orientales.
Its capital was Montpellier, the largest city. In French, the name of the inhabitants of the region is "Languedocien-Roussillonnais".
The name of the province of Languedoc originates from the language spoken in southern France, "langue d'oc," also known as "Occitan", and Roussillon, an area in the South of present-day Languedoc-Roussillon.
The Languedoc-Roussillon region has an area of . It borders to the south with Spain and Andorra; to the east is the Mediterranean Sea (the "Gulf of Lion"). It also borders four French regions: Midi-Pyrénées to the west, Auvergne and Rhône-Alpes to the north, and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur (PACA) to the northeast.
The highest point in Languedoc-Roussillon is Pic Carlit () in the Pyrénées-Orientales department; it is high.
The Languedoc-Roussillon region is formed by five departments:
The Languedoc-Roussillon region has a population, in 2012, of 2,700,266, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The 10 most important cities in the region are:

</doc>
<doc id="52377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52377" title="Poitou-Charentes">
Poitou-Charentes

Poitou-Charentes is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes. It was in the west, bordering the Atlantic. Its capital was Poitiers. In 2007 about 1.7 million people lived in the region.
The departments in the region were Charente, Charente-Maritime, Deux-Sèvres and Vienne.
The region is well known for making wines. It is better known for its spirits, such as Cognac and Pineau. There is also some tourism and a little agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="52379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52379" title="Nord-Pas-de-Calais">
Nord-Pas-de-Calais

Nord-Pas-de-Calais (sometimes also Nord-Pas de Calais) is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais-Picardy. Its prefecture was Lille. Four million people lived there (365,000 in the urban area of Lille).
The two departments in the region were Nord and Pas-de-Calais.
The local economy was based on carbon, steel and textiles. The secondary sector (industry) employed 33.8% (of an 28.9% national average). Unemployment was at 12.9 per cent (9.8% national average). Structural investment in the TGV and the Channel Tunnel has shown some improvement though. The tourism industry does well thanks to the border with Belgium and closeness to England.

</doc>
<doc id="52380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52380" title="Picardy">
Picardy

Picardy () is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais-Picardy. It is in the north of the country. Amiens was its capital. In 2007 almost 1.9 million people lived in the region, 186,000 of them in the capital.
The departments in the region were Aisne, Oise, and Somme.
Agriculture is very important for Picardy. There are many products, including potatoes, cereals and vegetables. Picardy was also called "Jardin de France", meaning 'Garden of France'.

</doc>
<doc id="52383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52383" title="Pays de la Loire">
Pays de la Loire

Pays de la Loire (or Pays-de-la-Loire) is an administrative region of France. Its capital is Nantes. In 2005 about 3.2 million people lived in the region. 
The departments in the region are:
The economy is centered around the production of food, and agriculture in general. It is the third in France in that sector. 51% of meat products, 19% of milk, and 67% of the natural produce of grain (cereals) are produced there. 

</doc>
<doc id="52384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52384" title="Rhône-Alpes">
Rhône-Alpes

Rhône-Alpes is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. In 2010, about six million people lived in the region.
The capital was Lyon. Grenoble and Saint-Étienne are also important cities in the region.
The departments in the region were:
The Rhône-Alpes region hosted the Winter Olympics three times; in 1924 at Chamonix, 1968 at Grenoble, and 1992 at Albertville.

</doc>
<doc id="52385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52385" title="Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur">
Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur is a region of France. It is in the south, next to Italy. Its capital is Marseille. Very often the name is shortened to "PACA" or "Paca". 
In 2010 almost 5 million people lived in the region.
The departments in the region are:

</doc>
<doc id="52386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52386" title="Île-de-France">
Île-de-France

Île-de-France is a region of France. Its capital is Paris. In 2013 about 12 million people lived in the region. About 2.1 million live in the city of Paris.
There are 8 departments in the region. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="52388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52388" title="Pont-l'évêque cheese">
Pont-l'évêque cheese

Pont-l'évêque is a soft cheese from Normandy. It is produced in the village with the same name. It has an AOC since 1976. it is made from the milk of cows. 

</doc>
<doc id="52389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52389" title="Livarot cheese">
Livarot cheese

Livarot is a cheese from Normandy. It is produced in the village with the same name. It is a soft cheese made from the milk of cows.

</doc>
<doc id="52397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52397" title="Ajaccio">
Ajaccio

Ajaccio (Latin: "Ajax"; French: "Ajaccio"; Corsican: "Aiacciu"), pronounced "ah-YAH-cho", is a town in France. It is the capital of the "territorial collectivity" of Corsica and the prefecture of the department of Corse-du-Sud.
Ajaccio is on the west coast of the island of Corsica in a sheltered position at the foot of wooded hills on the northern shore of the Gulf of Ajaccio. The harbour is to the east of the town and is protected on the south by a peninsula. Ajaccio has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification).
Ajaccio was the birthplace of:

</doc>
<doc id="52398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52398" title="Prefectures in France">
Prefectures in France

A prefecture in France can refer to :

</doc>
<doc id="52402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52402" title="Spectrum">
Spectrum

"This article is about the visible spectrum. For all other uses see: Spectrum (disambiguation)"
A spectrum, plural: spectra, is a band of several colours: violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange and red. A spectrum can be seen if the Sun's light is passed through a prism and allowed to gather on a white screen. This visible spectrum is part of the larger Electromagnetic spectrum.
A natural example of a spectrum is a rainbow. The word "spectrum" was first used by scientists studying optics. They used the word to describe the rainbow of colors in visible light when separated using a prism. The spectrum seen when light passes through a prism is an example of the dispersion of light. The material from which the prism is made has a different refractive index "n" than air. Usually, "n" is greater than "n", and "n" is taken to be approximately one. This implies that light travels a little slower in the material of the prism than in the space surrounding it. The angle of refraction can be determined from the angle of incidence and the refractive indexes using Snell's law. 
The reason why the white light separates into in its component colors instead of remaining white is because the shorter wavelengths are refracted, or bent, more than the longer wavelengths. Thus, red, having the longest visible wavelength, will appear closest to the line perpendicular to the surface of the material (the normal), that is, it will be bent the least. Violet light, with the smallest wavelength in the visible spectrum, will be bent the most. The rainbow produced will always be in the same order: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet.

</doc>
<doc id="52405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52405" title="Arshak II">
Arshak II

Arshak II (or Arsaces II) (350-367) was the son of Diran. During his reign, Shapur II of Persia tried to take over Armenia once and for all. Arshak II was taken prisoner during talks about peace with Shapur and later killed himself in prison.
Despite having many troubles during his reign, Arshak II was able to change many parts of his kingdom for the better. They included:

</doc>
<doc id="52407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52407" title="Tiridates III of Armenia">
Tiridates III of Armenia

Tiridates III (or Trdat III) was the king of Armenia (286-330), and was also known as Tiridates the Great. (Some scholars may be wrong because they call him as Trdat IV as a result of the fact that Tiridates I of Armenia reigned twice.) In 301, Tiridates made Christianity as the sole religion in Armenia, making Armenia the first Christian state in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="52408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52408" title="Tiridates">
Tiridates

Tiridates was the name of three members of the Arsacid Dynasty of Parthia:
Tiridates (Trdat in Armenian) was the name of three kings of the Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia:
Other

</doc>
<doc id="52410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52410" title="Hagia Sophia">
Hagia Sophia

Hagia Sophia, was an early Christian church and later an Eastern Orthodox church. It was rebuilt in its present form after an earthquake partly destroyed it in the 5th century. After another earthquake Trdat the Architect finished rebuilding it again in 994. Ottoman rulers made into a mosque in 1453. It became a museum in 1935. It is in Istanbul, Turkey. Hagia Sophia is often said to be one of the greatest, and most beautiful buildings in history.

</doc>
<doc id="52412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52412" title="Incense">
Incense

Incense is a fuel that is burned to make a smell. It can be used for many purposes, for example, during rituals in some religions. Incense can be used to make a place smell better or to help improve mood.
In Judaism, instructions for the use of incense were given in Exodus. (Eg Exodus 30:1). In Christianity, Christ is given myrrh and frankincense by the wise men. (Gospel of Matthew 2:11)
Incense is also used in Hindu rituals. 

</doc>
<doc id="52415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52415" title="Derbyshire">
Derbyshire

Derbyshire is a county in the East Midlands of England. A large part of the Peak District National Park lies within Derbyshire. The northern part of Derbyshire overlaps with the Pennines, a famous chain of hills and mountains. The county contains part of the National Forest, and borders on Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire, South Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, Staffordshire and Cheshire.

</doc>
<doc id="52419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52419" title="West Yorkshire">
West Yorkshire

West Yorkshire is a metropolitan county in the Yorkshire and the Humber region of England. It was created in 1974 by the Local Government Act 1972 and in 2005 covered an area of 2,029 km² and a population of 2.1 million. It is the most built up and biggest urban area in Yorkshire.
West Yorkshire is divided into five local government districts; they are the City of Bradford, Calderdale, Kirklees, the City of Leeds and the City of Wakefield. The county borders Lancashire, Greater Manchester, Derbyshire, North Yorkshire and South Yorkshire.
This is a chart of trend of regional gross value added of West Yorkshire at current basic prices published (pp.240-253) by "Office for National Statistics" with figures in millions of British Pounds Sterling.

</doc>
<doc id="52422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52422" title="South Yorkshire">
South Yorkshire

South Yorkshire is a metropolitan county in the Yorkshire and the Humber region of England, in the north. The county was created in 1974 by the Local Government Act 1972 and in 2001 covered an area of 155,205 hectares.
South Yorkshire is divided into four local government districts; they are the City of Sheffield, the Metropolitan Borough of Doncaster, the Metropolitan Borough of Barnsley and the Metropolitan Borough of Rotherham. The county borders Derbyshire, West Yorkshire, North Yorkshire, East Riding of Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire.
The main settlements of South Yorkshire developed around the industries of mining and steel manufacturing. The main mining industry was coal which was concentrated to the north and east of the county. There were also iron mines in the area. The rivers running off the Pennines to the west of the county supported the steel industry that is concentrated in the city of Sheffield.
South Yorkshire was created as a metropolitan county in 1974, by the Local Government Act 1972, from the southern part of the West Riding of Yorkshire and the former county boroughs of Barnsley, Doncaster, Rotherham and Sheffield.
South Yorkshire is one of the least prosperous areas in Western Europe.
The principal settlements of South Yorkshire are:
South Yorkshire is made up of three main urban areas. Dearne Valley is made up of Barnsley and a number of villages and towns. The Sheffield urban area is made up of Sheffield and Rotherham and the Doncaster urban area is Doncaster and surrounding areas.

</doc>
<doc id="52423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52423" title="Salad">
Salad

A salad is a serving in a meal that includes leaf vegetables such as lettuce, spinach, or arugula. Uncooked or cold cooked vegetables that are sliced into small pieces (for example tomato or onion) are then mixed with the leaf vegetables. 
A salad dressing or vinaigrette is then poured on top of the vegetables. Salad dressings and vinaigrettes are a mixture of oil, herbs, spices, and flavorings. 
Some people also add other foods to the salad, such as croutons, bacon, chicken, grated cheese, tuna, pasta, olives, cooked potatoes, rice, or beans.
A green salad or garden salad has leafy vegetables such as lettuce, spinach, or rocket (arugula). The salad leaves may be cut or torn into bite-sized fragments and tossed together (a "tossed salad"). They may also have nuts or croutons.
A wedge salad is made from a head of lettuce (such as iceberg) halved or quartered, with other ingredients on top.
Vegetables other than greens may be used in a salad. Common raw vegetables used in a salad include cucumbers, peppers, tomatoes, onions, carrots, celery, and radishes. Other ingredients, such as mushrooms, avocado, olives, hard boiled egg, artichoke hearts, heart of palm, green beans, cheeses.
Fruit salads are made of fruit, and include the fruit cocktail that can be made fresh or from canned fruit.
Dessert salads rarely include leafy greens and are often sweet. Common variants are made with gelatin or whipped cream; e.g. jello salad, pistachio salad, and ambrosia. Other forms of dessert salads include snickers salad, glorified rice, and cookie salad popular in parts of the Midwestern United States.
A composed salad is a salad arranged on a plate rather than put into a bowl. It can be used as a meal in itself rather than as a part of a meal.
A green salad is often served with a salad dressing. Some examples include:
The purpose of salad dressing depends across cultures. There are many often used salad dressings in North America. Traditional dressings in southern Europe are vinaigrettes, while mayonnaise is predominant in eastern European countries and Russia. In Denmark dressings are often based on crème fraîche. In China, where Western salad is a recent adoption from Western cuisine, the term salad dressing (沙拉酱, "shalajiang") means to mayonnaise or mayonnaise-based dressings.
There are many vegetables and other fare that are often added to salads. Some of them include: 
Again, individual taste usually governs the choice of salad garnishes.

</doc>
<doc id="52424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52424" title="Nottinghamshire">
Nottinghamshire

Nottinghamshire (abbreviated Notts) is a county in the East Midlands, which borders South Yorkshire, North Lincolnshire, Lincolnshire, Leicestershire and Derbyshire. The county town is traditionally Nottingham, at , though the council is now based in West Bridgford (at a site facing Nottingham over the River Trent).
The districts of Nottinghamshire are Ashfield, Bassetlaw, Broxtowe, Gedling, Mansfield, Newark and Sherwood, and Rushcliffe. The City of Nottingham was administratively part of Nottinghamshire between 1974 and 1998 but is now a unitary authority, although it remains part of the county.
Nottinghamshire contains the ancestral home of the poet Lord Byron, Newstead Abbey, which he sold in 1818. It is now owned by Nottingham City Council and open to the public.
The traditional county town, and the largest settlement in the historic and ceremonial county boundaries, is Nottingham. The City is now administratively independent, but suburbs including Arnold, Carlton, West Bridgford, Beeston and Stapleford are still within the administrative county and West Bridgford is now home of the county council.

</doc>
<doc id="52426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52426" title="Pennines">
Pennines

The Pennines are a mountain range in England. Often said to be the "backbone of England", they form an unbroken range stretching from the Peak District in the Midlands, through the Yorkshire Dales, parts of Greater Manchester, the West Pennine Moors of Lancashire and Cumbrian Fells to the Cheviot Hills on the Scottish border. Their total length is about .
The name "Pennines" is believed to come from the Celtic "pennioroches", meaning "hill", although the earliest written reference to the name dates only from the 18th century. 
The mountains are not very tall and are often called hills. The highest is Cross Fell in eastern Cumbria, at . Other main mountain peaks include Mickle Fell , Whernside , Ingleborough , Pen-y-ghent , and Kinder Scout .
The landscape of the Pennines are mostly upland areas of high moorland. 
The Pennines make up the main watershed in northern England, dividing the eastern and western parts of the country. The rivers Eden, Ribble, and Mersey flow west towards the Irish Sea. On the other side of the watershed, the rivers Tyne, Tees, Swale, Calder, Aire, Don, and Trent flow east to the North Sea. 

</doc>
<doc id="52427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52427" title="International Phonetic Alphabet">
International Phonetic Alphabet

The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is a system for writing down sounds. It was created by the International Phonetic Association in 1886, so that people could write down sounds of languages in a standard way. Linguists, language teachers, and translators use this system to show the pronunciation for words.
Wikipedia also uses the IPA to show how certain words are meant to be spoken. Most symbols are letters in the Latin alphabet, or variations of it. For example, the "palatal approximant" (the "y" in yesterday) is written with []. In IPA symbols can be written between slashes (broad transcription, e.g."little" can be written as /lɪtl/ ) or in square brackets ( narrow transcription, e.g. "little" can be written [lɪɾɫ] ). Narrow translation is more precise than broad. 
The IPA has symbols only for sounds that are used normally in spoken languages. The Extended IPA is used to write down other sounds.
The IPA is sometimes changed, and symbols are added or taken away. Right now there are 107 different letters in the IPA. There are also 52 marks which are added to letters to change their sound. These marks are called "diacritics."
In 1886, a group of French and British language teachers formed the International Phonetic Association. These teachers used the Romic alphabet at first. They later changed the alphabet so that different languages would all write the same sounds with the same letters.
The IPA is made to have one symbol for each sound. This means that every letter always makes the same one sound. This is different from English. In English, some letters make multiple sounds. For example, the letter <x> in English normally is spoken as two sounds ([ks]), but could also mean [gz] or [z].
The International Phonetic Alphabet has letters for three types of sounds: pulmonic consonants, non-pulmonic consonants, and vowels.
Pulmonic consonants are made by obstructing air coming from the lungs. Most consonants (and all English consonants) are pulmonic. The symbols for these sounds are arranged in a table. The rows show how the sound is made, and the columns show where it is made.
Non-pulmonic consonants are made without air coming from the lungs. There are three types of non-pulmonic consonants. Implosive consonants are made by taking air into the mouth. Ejective consonants are made by forcing the air out of the voicebox instead of the lungs. Click consonants are made by creating an airtight pocket in the mouth and quickly releasing it.

</doc>
<doc id="52428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52428" title="Lake District">
Lake District

The Lake District, also known as The Lakes or Lakeland, is a rural area in north west England. It is a popular vacation area, famous for its lakes and its mountains and its associations with the early 19th century poetry and writings of William Wordsworth and the Lake Poets.
It is on a tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
Lake District National Park (created in 1951) is one of the fifteen National parks in the United Kingdom.
The Lake District is about 34 miles (55 km) across (north-to-south or west-to-east). It is entirely within Cumbria, and is one of England's few mountainous regions. All the land in England higher than three thousand feet above sea level is in the Park. 
The 25 highest fells (of those given an individual chapter in the "Pictorial Guides" by Alfred Wainwright) are:
Only one lake in the National Park has the word 'Lake' in its name, namely Bassenthwaite Lake. All the others such as Windermere, Coniston Water, Ullswater and Buttermere use other forms, such as 'mere' and 'water'. The major lakes and reservoirs in the park are given below.
The word 'tarn' is a local word used to describe any small lake that may otherwise be called a pond.
A number of words/phrases are local to the Lake District and are part of the Cumbrian dialect. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="52429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52429" title="Khosrov III the Small">
Khosrov III the Small

Chosroes III The Small (or Khosrov III Godag), was the son of Tiridates III, was a member of the Arshakuni Dynasty and the king of Armenia from 330 – 339 AD. He was a man of short stature, thus his name. He founded the city of Dvin which later became the Armenian capital. 
During his reign, two generals, Vatche Mamikonian and Vahan Amatuni, started a battle, often coming to help the king. During these years, pro-Sassanid and anti-Mamikonian sentiment grew in Armenia and so did anti-Roman sentiment. Pro-Sassanid groups gained popularity so much so that they were successful in assassinating Catholicos St. Aristaces I, son of Gregory the Illuminator. 
Shapur II, Sassanid king of the Persians, invaded Armenia twice and did gain some territory. Vatche Mamikonian was killed in those battles and was later named a saint by the Armenian Apostolic Church for his sacrifice. Chosroes II died in 339 AD. 
Translated from the Armenian: Mihran Kurdoghlian, Badmoutioun Hayots, A. hador [Armenian History, volume I], Athens, Greece, 1994, pg. 107

</doc>
<doc id="52430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52430" title="Queen Isabella of Armenia">
Queen Isabella of Armenia

Queen Isabella of Armenia (died c. 1252) ruled the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia 1219–1252. She was the daughter of Leo II of Armenia and Sybilla of Lusignan (daughter of Amalric I of Cyprus). Leo named Isabella as his heir.
She was married twice. Her first husband was Philip, son of Bohemund IV of Antioch, whom she married in 1223. Philip was murdered in 1225.
Her second husband was Hethum (or Hetoum) I, to whom she was married against her will on June 14, 1226. Hethum was co-ruler (or ruler) of Armenia from 1226 to 1270. The couple had six children:

</doc>
<doc id="52432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52432" title="Argishti II of Urartu">
Argishti II of Urartu

Argishti II of Urartu was king of the Urartun empire from 714 to 680 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="52433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52433" title="Xerxes of Armenia">
Xerxes of Armenia

Xerxes (died c. 212 BC) was the King of Sophene and son of Arsames II. During his domination, Antiochus III the Great invaded his capital Arsamosata. Xerxes recognized Antiochus as his sovereign and received his sister Antiochia as his bride, who later killed him.

</doc>
<doc id="52434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52434" title="Yorkshire and the Humber">
Yorkshire and the Humber

Yorkshire and the Humber is one of the regions of England. It covers most of the historic county of Yorkshire, along with the part of northern Lincolnshire that was previously in the administrative area of Humberside (which existed 1974-1996).
The highest point of the region is Whernside, in the Yorkshire Dales, at 737 metres. The largest freshwater lake is Hornsea Mere in the East Riding of Yorkshire.
The population in 2005 was 5,854,357.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:
Key: shire county = † | metropolitan county = *
It was originally called Yorkshire and Humberside, and defined as North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire, South Yorkshire and Humberside. 

</doc>
<doc id="52435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52435" title="Sophene">
Sophene

Sophene (Armenian: "") was a province of the Armenian Kingdom and of the Roman Empire, in the southwest of the kingdom. It is currently in modern-day southeastern Turkey.
According to Anania Shirakatsi's "Ashkharatsuyts" ("World Atlas," 7th century), Tsopk was the 2nd among the 15 provinces of Greater Armenia. It consisted of 8 cantons ("gavars"): Khordzyan, Hashtyank, Paghnatun, Balahovit, Tsopk (Shahunyats), Andzit, Degiq, and Gavreq (Goreq).
Tsopk was part of the kingdom of Urartu in the 8th-7th cc BC. After unifying the region with his kingdom in the early 700s BC, king Argishtis I of Urartu resettled many of its inhabitants to his newly built city of Erebuni (modern day Armenian capital Yerevan). Around 600 BC, Tsopk became part of the newly emerged ancient Armenian Kingdom of Orontids.
After Alexander the Great's campaigns in 330s BC and the subsequent collapse of the Achaemenid Empire, Tsopk remained part of the newly independent kingdom of Greater Armenia. In the early 200s BC, at the instigation of the Seleucid Empire, which was trying to weaken the Armenian kingdom, Tsopk, along with Commagene, split from Greater Armenia, forming the Hellenistic kingdom of Tsopk-Commagene. The kingdom was ruled by a branch of the Armenian royal dynasty of Orontids. Tsopk later split from the Tsopk-Commagene kingdom as well, forming an independent kingdom.
Around 200 BC, in his attempt to finally subjugate Armenia, Seleucian king Antiochus III conquered both Greater Armenia and Tsopk, installing Armenian generals Artaxias I and Zariadres as governors-strategoses respectively in each kingdom. Following Antiochus' defeat by Romans at the battle of Magnesia in 190 BC, both Zareh and Artashes declared themselves independent kings. Zareh and his descendants ruled the kingdom of Tsopk until it was reunified with Greater Armenia by Tigranes the Great in the 80s BC.
Pompey gave Sophene to Tigranes, after defeating his father Tigranes the Great.
Sophene later become part of the Roman Empire, and was made into a province of the Roman Empire. The capital was Amida (modern Diyarbakır). Around 54, the province was ruled by Gaius Julius Sohaemus.
In 530, Sophene was included into the province of Armenia IV.

</doc>
<doc id="52439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52439" title="Seleucid Empire">
Seleucid Empire

The Seleucid Empire was a Hellenistic (or Ancient Greek) successor state of Alexander the Great's empire. At its greatest extent, the Empire covered central Anatolia, the Levant, Mesopotamia, Persia, Turkmenistan, Pamir and the Indus Valley.
Primarily, it was the successor to the Achaemenid Empire of Persia, and was followed there by the Islamic Caliphate (Rashidun Empire) conquest and rule, from 650s to 660s AD. Later on, much of this area became part of the Umayyad Empire and then the Abbasid Empire.
There were over 30 kings of the Seleucid dynasty from 323 to 63 BC.
Alexander the Great had conquered the Persian Empire later he died young, leaving his huge empire of partly Hellenized culture without an adult heir. 
The empire was put under the management of a regent in the person of Perdiccas in 323 BC, and the territories were divided between Alexander's generals, who thereby became satraps, at the Partition of Babylon in 323 BC.
Seleucus I Soter was one of Alexander's generals who received a portion of the huge empire Alexander had carved out. He received huge expanses of land in Syria, Babylon, Anatolia, even as far out as India. When Perdiccas was killed in a political assassination by Ptolemy of Egypt, the empire that was barely held together then splintered apart. The Seleucid Empire quickly expanded, eventually taking parts of Thrace in the west and advancing past the Indus in the East. 
Seleucus I clashed several times with his southern rival for power, the Ptolemaic Dynasty. The Ptolemaic Dynasty controlled most of Egypt and the lands around it, and would fight the Seleucid Empire on many occasions for control of Syria. Seleucus I conquered much of Anatolia, and was preparing to invade Macedonia, when he was assassinated. This momentarily put an end to the Seleucid Empire's ambitions in Greece. After Seleucus I died, his heirs spent much of their time and money trying to maintain the enormous empire they had inherited. In this, they were rather successful, but the vastness of the empire defied attempts by the successors of Seleucus to control it effectively.

</doc>
<doc id="52440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52440" title="Westmorland">
Westmorland

Westmorland (an older spelling is "Westmoreland", an even older spelling is "Westmerland") is an area of north west England and one of the 39 historic counties of England. It was an administrative county from 1889 to 1974 and now is part of Cumbria. 
At the time of the Domesday Book in 1086 the county was said to form part of Yorkshire. 
The historic county borders are with Cumberland to the north, County Durham and Yorkshire to the east, and Lancashire to the south and west. 
The highest point of the county is Helvellyn at 950m (3,117 ft). According to the 1831 census its area was 485,990 acres. 
Appleby, the historic county town, was also a historic borough until it was reformed in 1885.
According to the 1971 census, Westmorland was the second smallest administrative county with people in England, after Rutland. The spead of population was as follows: 
In 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972, the county was abolished and its former area was combined with Cumberland and parts of Lancashire and Yorkshire to form the new county of Cumbria. The former county now forms part of the districts of South Lakeland and Eden.

</doc>
<doc id="52441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52441" title="Historic counties of England">
Historic counties of England

The historic counties of England are ancient subdivisions of England. They were used for various functions for several hundred years and continue to form the basis of modern local government. They are alternatively known as "ancient counties" and "traditional counties".
The historic counties are as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="52442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52442" title="Ceremonial counties of England">
Ceremonial counties of England

The Ceremonial counties of England are areas of England are defined by the government with reference to the metropolitan and non-metropolitan counties of England. They are also often called geographic counties.
† ceremonial county covers larger area than the non-metropolitan county
The Lieutenancies Act 1997 defines the "ceremonial counties" in terms of local government areas created by the Local Government Act 1972 as amended. Schedule 1, paragraphs 2–5 defines them as:

</doc>
<doc id="52443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52443" title="Counties of England">
Counties of England

The counties of England are territorial divisions of England for administrative, political and geographical purposes. Most current counties have foundations in older divisions such as the Anglo-Saxon shires, and duchies.
The names, boundaries and functions of these divisions have changed considerably over their history. A series of local government reforms from the 19th century onwards has left the exact definition of the term 'county' ambiguous. 
The term "counties of England" does not, therefore, refer to a unique set of names or boundaries; in formal use, the type of county relevant to the specific task is explicitly stated e.g. ceremonial county, registration county, historic county or former postal county.
The 39 historic, ancient or traditional counties, developed from the 12th to the 16th centuries, though many of the specific areas are much older. They were not used for census reporting since 1841. Most of the historic counties continue to form part of the local government structure, often with reformed boundaries. 
Registration counties existed from 1851 to 1930 and were used for census reporting from 1851 to 1911. 
Elected county councils were set up in England in 1889, taking over many of the administrative functions of the Quarter Sessions courts, as well as being given other powers over the years. A County of London was created from parts of Kent, Middlesex and Surrey. The counties were divided into administrative counties (the area controlled by a county council) and independent county boroughs. Some counties were covered by several administrative counties; they were Suffolk, Sussex, Northamptonshire, Hampshire, Cambridgeshire, Yorkshire and Lincolnshire.
1965 saw a minor change as the original County of London became instead the 'administrative area' of Greater London.
On 1 April 1974 the Local Government Act 1972 came into force. This the existing local government structure in England and Wales (except in Greater London) and replaced it with a new entirely two-tier system. It abolished the previously existing administrative counties and county boroughs (but not the previous non-administrative 'counties') and created a new set of 46 'counties' in England, 6 of which were metropolitan and 40 of which were non-metropolitan.
Some of the counties established by the Act were entirely new, such as Avon, Cleveland, Cumbria, Hereford and Worcester, and Humberside, along with the new metropolitan counties of Greater Manchester, Merseyside, South Yorkshire, Tyne and Wear, West Midlands, and West Yorkshire. The counties of Cumberland, Herefordshire, Rutland, Westmorland and Worcestershire were abolished and the county boroughs as well.
A further local government reform in the 1990s grouped the counties into regions, created many small unitary authorities with county level status (re-establishing in effect if not in name the old county boroughs), and restored Herefordshire, Rutland and Worcestershire as administrative entities.
There are now 81 county level entities outside Greater London. Of these, 34 are so-called 'shire counties' with both county councils and district councils, and 40 are unitary authorities. Six are metropolitan counties. The remaining one is Berkshire, whose county council has been abolished and its districts have become unitary authorities.
Because of the local government reforms in the 1990s, the distinction between the counties used for local government and those used for Lieutenancy, abolished in 1974, was revived, and a new term, 'ceremonial county', coined. Most unitary authorities remained associated with the same county for Lieutenancy, and in a few areas the old ceremonial counties were restored (Bristol, East Riding of Yorkshire, Herefordshire, Rutland, Worcestershire).
These are also known as the geographic counties and are generally used to describe a place's location in England. They are also taken into consideration by the boundary commission when they draw up boundaries for constituencies, for example.
The former postal counties as used by the Post Office are no longer required on addresses. They included most of the 1974 changes, but did not acknowledge Greater Manchester or Greater London as postal counties. They went out of official use in 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="52444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52444" title="Lord Lieutenant">
Lord Lieutenant

The title Lord Lieutenant is given to the British monarch's personal representatives around the United Kingdom, usually in a county, with varying tasks throughout history. Usually a retired local notable, senior military officer, peer or business person is given the post honourarily. Both men and women are eligible for the post.
In England and Wales and Ireland, the lord lieutenant was the principal officer of his county. His creation dates from the Tudors.
Lieutenants were first appointed to a number of English historic counties by Henry VIII in the 1540s, when the military functions of the sheriff were handed over to him. He raised was responsible for the efficiency of the local militia units of the county, and afterwards of the yeomanry, and volunteers. He was Commander of these forces and appointed their officers.
Lieutenancies became more organised soon, probably in the reign of his successor Edward VI, their establishment being approved by the English parliament in 1550. It was not until the threat of invasion by the forces of Spain in 1585 that lieutenants were appointed to all counties. After the defeat of the Spanish Armada, the need for lieutenants was reduced — and the lieutenancies of some counties were left vacant in the 1590s.
The three ridings (sub-divisions) of Yorkshire each got their own.
The official title of the office at this time was His or Her Majesty's lieutenant for the county, but as almost all office-holders were peers they were referred to as "lord-lieutenant".
The Territorial and Reserve Forces Act 1907 established County Territorial Force Associations, of which the lord-lieutenant was to be head. So the combination of counties and county corporates as lieutenancy counties was restored.
Local Government reform in England in 1965 led to the appointment of lord-lieutenants to Greater London and Huntingdon and Peterborough, and the abolition of those of the County of London, Middlesex and Huntingdonshire.
A more fundamental reform of local government throughout England and Wales (outside Greater London) created a new structure of metropolitan, non-metropolitan and Welsh counties in 1974. Section 218 of the Local Government Act 1972 that established the new system stated: "Her Majesty shall appoint a lord-lieutenant for each county in England and Wales and for Greater London..." The Act appears to be the first use of the term "lord-lieutenant" for lieutenants to counties.
In 1975 counties ceased to be used for local government purposes in Scotland. The Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973 replaced the counties with regions, and each region was to have one or more lord-lieutenants appointed. The areas to which they were appointed approximated to the counties and were based and were defined in terms of the new local government districts.
In 1996 Scottish regions and districts were abolished on further local government reorganisation, and since that date lord-lieutenants have been appointed to lieutenancy areas.
Partial reform of local government in England since 1995 has led to the creation of so-called ceremonial counties to which lord-lieutenants are now appointed. The Lieutenancies Act 1997 is the most recent piece of primary legislation dealing with Lieutenancies in England and includes the definitive list of the current areas used. Ceremonial counties may be comprised of combinations of county council areas and unitary authorities.
Since the local government re-organisation of 1996 in Wales, lord-lieutenants are now appointed to preserved counties.
The City of London was unaffected by changes introduced since 1882. It has a Commission of Lieutenancy rather than a single Lord-Lieutenant. The Head of the Commission is the Lord Mayor of London.
The modern responsibilities of lord-lieutenants include:
As the sovereign's representative in his or her county, the Lord-Lieutenant remains non-political and holds no office in any political party. The usual age of retirement is 75. They are appointed for life, although the sovereign may remove them.
The Lord-Lieutenant is supported by a Vice Lord-Lieutenant and Deputy Lieutenants which he or she appoints. 
They are unpaid, but receive minimal allowances for secretarial help, mileage allowance and a driver. Male Lord-Lieutenants receive an allowance for the ceremonial uniform, worn when receiving members of the royal family and on other formal occasions.
There is no uniform for a female Lord-Lieutenant, but there is a badge which can be worn on ceremonial occasions. Male Lord-Lieutenants wear a dark blue uniform in the style of an Army No. 1 dress along with a cap and sword with a steel scabbard. The uniform for a male Vice Lord-Lieutenant and Deputy Lieutenants is of a similar style, but with features to distinguish it from a Lord-Lieutenant.
The Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was the head of the British administration in Ireland until the foundation of the Irish Free State in 1922.

</doc>
<doc id="52449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52449" title="Samus Aran">
Samus Aran

The makers said that the Metroid series is supposed to be like the 1979 film, "Alien", and Samus was like one of the film's characters, Ellen Ripley. Players thought Samus was a boy until the end of the original "Metroid" game. One of the makers said that it would be "kind of cool if it turned out that this person inside the suit was a woman". The rest of the makers liked it so it happened
Samus' suit is orange and red, and runs on Energy Tanks. It was made by creatures called Chozos, and can gain new powers and abilities. She has lots of other suits as well.
The "Metroid Prime" series takes place in between "Metroid" and "".
In "Metroid Prime", Samus has to go to the Frigate Orpheon, and meets Meta Ridley, the revived form of an enemy from "Metroid". She loses her powers on the frigate through an accident, and escapes to the planet Tallon IV. She eventually has to do battle with the final boss, Metroid Prime.
In "", Samus meets a creature called Dark Samus, which is Metroid Prime fused with a suit Samus got on Tallon IV.
In "", Samus and three other bounty hunters
Samus was the first female character to appear in the "Super Smash Bros." series, and has been in "Super Smash Bros.", "Super Smash Bros. Melee", "Super Smash Bros. Brawl", and "Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U". She's only in her suit in the first two, but in the third and fourth, she can be in Zero Suit Samus form, which comes from "". In the fourth game, Samus in her power suit and her zero suit are listed as two separate characters. She takes many moves from the "Metroid" series, including the Charge Beam, Bombs, Screw Attack, and Missiles.

</doc>
<doc id="52450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52450" title="Metroid (series)">
Metroid (series)

Metroid is a series of video games made by Nintendo. The series started in Japan in 1986. Its main character in the game is Samus Aran. Almost all of the games in the series have a certain kind of fictional creature called a "Metroid". This is where the name of the series comes from. Metroids look a lot like jellyfish except they can fly. They also have teeth instead of tentacles. They attack creatures and people by charging quickly towards them and sucking out all their life force.
The main character in the series is Samus Aran. She always wears a very powerful space suit. This suit lets her do things that normal humans cannot do, such as jump very high and fall long ways without being hurt. The right arm on Samus' suit has a large gun built into it. She is seen in this space suit almost all of the time. In many of the games, if the player finishes the game fast enough or collects enough items, they can see her without the suit on. When this happens, she is either wearing a tight jumpsuit, or something resembling a bikini.
The main enemies of the "Metroid" games are the Space Pirates. They are tall creatures who look like lizards that walk on two legs. The Space Pirate commander is a dragon named Ridley, who is Samus' worst enemy.
In most "Metroid" games, the player explores far away planets or space stations. The player, as Samus, starts the game with very few powers, and not many places to go. The player must explore to find items and powers that let him or her get to new areas. In the first "Metroid"; Samus had to defeat Ridley; a giant monster named Kraid; and then destroy the Space Pirate's computer, Mother Brain. In all "Metroid" games, there are different goals to achieve, but nearly all of them involve looking for items and exploring.

</doc>
<doc id="52452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52452" title="Michelson–Morley experiment">
Michelson–Morley experiment

The Michelson-Morley experiment was a scientific experiment to find the presence and properties of a substance called Aether. Aether was believed to fill empty space. The experiment was done by Albert Michelson and Edward Morley in 1887. 
Since waves in water need something to move in (water) and sound waves do as well (air), it was believed that light also needed something to move in. Scientists in the 18th century named this substance "aether," after the Greek god of light. They believed that aether was all around us and that it also filled the vacuum of space. Michelson and Morley created this experiment to try and prove the theory that aether existed. They did this with a device called an interferometer.
The Earth travels very quickly (100,000 km per hour) around the Sun. If aether exists, the Earth moving through it would cause a "wind" in the same way that there seems to be a wind outside a moving car. To a person in the car, the air outside the car would seem like a moving substance. In the same way, aether should seem like a moving substance to things on Earth. 
The interferometer was designed to measure the speed and direction of the "aether wind" by measuring the difference between the speed of light traveling in different directions. It measured this difference by shining a beam of light into a mirror that was only partially coated in silver. Part of the beam would be reflected one way, and the rest would go the other. Those two parts would then be reflected back to where they were split apart, and recombined. By looking at interference patterns in the recombined beam of light, any changes in speed because of aether wind could be seen.
They found that there was in fact no substantial difference in the measurements. This was puzzling to the scientific community at the time, and led to the creation of various new theories to explain the result. The most important was Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity.

</doc>
<doc id="52457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52457" title="Hydrogen sulfide">
Hydrogen sulfide

Hydrogen sulfide (British English: "hydrogen sulphide") is the chemical compound with the formula , is a colorless, toxic, flammable gas that is responsible for the foul smell of rotten eggs and flatulence. It often results when bacteria break down organic matter in the absence of oxygen. This happens in swamps, and sewers (alongside the process of anaerobic digestion). It also occurs in volcanic gases, natural gas and some well waters. This is the smell that people often think to be that of sulfur. But sulfur itself does not smell.
Hydrogen sulfide is also known as sulfane, sulfur hydride, sour gas, sulfurated hydrogen, hydrosulfuric acid, sewer gas and stink damp. IUPAC accepts the names "hydrogen sulfide" and "sulfane". When people speak of more complicated compounds they always use the term "sulfane".
Small amounts of hydrogen sulfide can be found in crude petroleum. Sour natural gas can contain up to 28%. But, sour natural gas must be cleaned before it can enter a long distance pipeline. Pipelines limit hydrogen sulfide to 3 grains per thousand cubic feet of natural gas. Volcanoes and hot springs give off some HS, where it probably is made by the hydrolysis of sulfide minerals, i.e. MS + HO to give MO + HS.
Normal average concentration in clean air is about 0.0001-0.0002 ppm.
Hydrogen sulfide is a highly toxic and flammable gas. Because it is heavier than air it tends to accumulate at the bottom of poorly ventilated spaces. 
Hydrogen sulfide is considered a broad-spectrum poison, meaning that it can poison several different systems in the body, although the nervous system is most affected. The toxicity of HS is comparable with that of hydrogen cyanide. 

</doc>
<doc id="52459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52459" title="William Petty, 2nd Earl of Shelburne">
William Petty, 2nd Earl of Shelburne

William Petty, 1st Marquess of Lansdowne, KG, PC (2 May 1737–7 May 1805) was a British Whig statesman and Prime Minister of Great Britain. He was born William FitzMaurice in Dublin in Ireland. Petty was known historically as The Earl of Shelburne.

</doc>
<doc id="52463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52463" title="William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland">
William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland

William Henry Cavendish Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland, (14 April 1738 – 30 October 1809) was a British Whig and Tory statesman and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Great Britain. After Ireland joined Great Britain to form the United Kingdom, he was again made Prime Minister. This time, he was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. 

</doc>
<doc id="52465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52465" title="Newbie">
Newbie

Newbie is a slang term for a new person in a community, group, or video game, and especially on the internet (see internet slang). "Noob" is short for "newbie", another slang term that comes from the word "new". A noob usually means a bad player in a game, or someone who does not know the rules of a community. Being a noob is usually not a good thing.
Many times in Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (MMORPG)s or other internet based games, the word newbie is used. It can also mean someone who has a high level in a game, but is not a skilled player. A person new to a game or a younger player can be referred to as a newbie. 
Many places, such as internet forums or online communities, use the word "noob" differently than the word "newbie". A newbie is simply someone who is new to the forum or game. But a noob or n00b is someone who is thought of as having no respect for the rules and does not seem to want to do anything for himself. So noob has become an offensive term on the internet. To behave like a noob can mean getting disrespect and a lack of interest from other players.
Noobs are usually referred to by the 1337 (pronounced "leet") or skilled players, who have marginally higher experience in the game. When a leet soundly defeats a noob, he is said to be "pwning noobs". 
The use of the word "newbie" originated in World War II. It was a word veterans used to describe new recruits. 
Recently "noob" is used mainly just as a name to refer to other players in various online games. It's usually a derogatory term, but can be exchanged as a friendly greeting.
A noob is sometimes confused with a "choob" (a low skilled person in a game, but having acquired nice things as a result of playing).

</doc>
<doc id="52467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52467" title="Bodhisattva">
Bodhisattva

A bodhisattva according to Buddhism is a Buddhist who has attained enlightenment, but who as a selfless act, delays his or her entry to Nirvana (non-existence) for the sake of others.
The word Bodhisattva can also refer to certain specific bodhisattvas such as Chenrezig, Manjushri and Vajrapani.

</doc>
<doc id="52471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52471" title="Tackey and Tsubasa">
Tackey and Tsubasa

Tackey & Tsubasa (タッキー&翼) is a Japanese pop duo from Johnny & Associates. Its two members are Hideaki Takizawa (Japanese: 滝沢秀明, "Takizawa Hideaki") and Tsubasa Imai (今井翼, "Imai Tsubasa"). They are known for their Japanese television dramas and they have been successful with numerous hit singles, especially "Kamen" and "Venus". Their records are produced by Avex Trax.

</doc>
<doc id="52472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52472" title="Fruits Basket">
Fruits Basket

Fruits Basket(フルーツバスケット) is a Japanese manga and anime series. It is about a 16-year-old girl called Tohru Honda. The manga series ran from 1999 until 2006. The anime was first shown from 5 July 2001 until 27 December 2001. There are 26 episodes in the anime.
Tohru comes to live with the mysterious Sohma family. She discovers a terrible secret about them - 13 members of the family turn into the 12 animals of the Chinese Zodiac, and the cat who was left out of the Chinese Zodiac. Whenever they are hugged by members of the opposite sex or become weak, they turn into these animals.

</doc>
<doc id="52473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52473" title="Middle-earth characters">
Middle-earth characters

This article is about the fictional characters from J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-earth universe.
Manwë Súlimo is the leader of the Valar. He is the lord of air and sky. His wife is Varda. He lives on the mountain of Taniquetil in Valinor, which is far west of Middle-earth.
Melkor was originally the most powerful of the Valar, but he became evil. He was then named Morgoth (Sindarin: "Black Enemy"), and "Morgoth Bauglir" (Sindarin: "Oppressor"). Morgoth was the greatest enemy of all the peoples of Middle-earth during the First Age. He is the main villain of "The Silmarillion".
Sauron is a Maia who became evil. He became the Dark Lord Morgoth's chief lieutenant. In the Second Age he disguised himself as Annatar and told the elves how to make the Rings of Power. He created the One Ring in the volcano Mount Doom, in his land Mordor. Since then he is the Lord of the Rings. 
He was killed in the Downfall of Númenor, but again took form in Mordor. He was again defeated by the "Last Alliance of Men and Elves". Later in the Third Age, Sauron again came to life, searching for the Ring, and starting the "War of the Ring". Sauron is mentioned as the Necromancer in "The Hobbit".
The Istari (Quenya: "Wise Ones"; singular: Istar) are a group of five Maiar. They came to Middle-earth in the Third Age, in the form of old human men. The peoples of Middle-earth gave them many names, and called them "wizards".
Gandalf the Wizard is a main character in the books "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". In the Third Age Gandalf came to Middle-earth as one of the Istari (or wizards). He worked much to help in the destruction of the One Ring, and in the War of the Ring. Gandalf is also known by other names: Olórin, Mithrandir, Tharkûn, Incánus. Círdan gave Gandalf the Elven Ring Narya, the Ring of Fire, which he had been given by Gil-galad. At the end of the Third Age, Gandalf left Middle-earth for Valinor, together with the bearers of the other two Elven Rings and the Ring-bearers of the One Ring.
Saruman the White is a character in the book "The Lord of the Rings". In the Third Age Saruman came to Middle-earth as one of the Istari. Saruman is also known as Curumo and Curunír.
Radagast the Brown is a character in the book "The Lord of the Rings". In the Third Age Radagast came to Middle-earth as one of the Istari. Radagast is also known as Aiwendil.
Alatar and Pallando are the Blue Wizards. They went into the east of Middle-earth. Almost nothing is known about them.
Celeborn was the husband of Galadriel and father of Celebrían. Together with his wife he ruled as Lord over the elven realm Lothlórien.
Celebrían was the daughter of Galadriel and Celeborn. At the beginning of the Third Age she married Elrond Half-elven, and they had the twin sons Elladan and Elrohir, and their daughter Arwen. In 2509 T.A. Celebrían was captured by orcs, but she was rescued by her sons. The year after she left Middle-earth for Valinor.
Galadriel was the youngest child of Finarfin and Eärwen. She married Celeborn, and they had a daughter named Celebrían. In the Second and Third Age she ruled as Lady over the elven realm Lothlórien. Gil-galad gave Galadriel the Elven Ring Nenya, the Ring of Water. At the end of the Third Age, Galadriel left Middle-earth for Valinor, together with the bearers of the other two Elven Rings and the Ring-bearers of the One Ring.
Ereinion Gil-galad was the last High King of the Noldor in Middle-earth. He was the leader of the elves in the Last Alliance against Sauron, but was killed in the war at the end of the Second Age.
Haldir was an Elf of Lothlórien; he was guarding its northern borders. When the Fellowship of the Ring arrived in Lothlórien they met Haldir and his companions. Haldir then led the Fellowship to the city Caras Galadhon.
Legolas, son of Thranduil, is a main character in "The Lord of the Rings". He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring". He is sometimes also called "Legolas Greenleaf". During the Fellowship's journey, he made friends with the dwarf Gimli, despite the fact that dwarves and elves do not usually get along.
Thranduil, son of Oropher, was king of the elves of Mirkwood during the Third Age. He fought under the command of his father in the Last Alliance, but when Oropher was killed, Thranduil became king. Thranduil is the father of Legolas.
Elrond Peredhel ("Elrond Half-elven"), is the son of Eärendil and Elwing. In the Third Age, Elrond is the Lord of Rivendell, and an important and wise leader among the elves. Elrond appears in the books "The Hobbit", "The Lord of the Rings" and "The Silmarillion". 
Elrond was a Half-elf born at the end of the First Age, as the son of Eärendil and Elwing. His brother was Elros Tar-Minyatur, who chose to become a mortal human. 
In the Second Age Elrond founded Rivendell. Under the command of Gil-galad he fought in the "Last Alliance" against Sauron. 
At the beginning of the Third Age he married Celebrían, daughter of Galadriel, and they had the twin sons Elladan and Elrohir, and their daughter Arwen. Gil-galad gave Elrond the Elven Ring Vilya, the Ring of Air. At the end of the Third Age, Elrond left Middle-earth for Valinor, together with the bearers of the other two Elven Rings and the Ring-bearers of the One Ring.
Elros was the son of Eärendil and Elwing, and brother of Elrond. Elros and his brother were born at the end of the First Age. They were half-elves, and Elrond chose to be an elf, while Elros chose to become a mortal human. Elros became the first King of Númenor, and took the ruling name Tar-Minyatur. He died in 442 in the Second Age, at age 500. His son Vardamir Nólimon and his grandson Tar-Amandil became Kings after him.
Elladan and Elrohir are the twin sons of Elrond Half-elven and Celebrían. They are of the Half-elven who lived during the Third Age.
Arwen Undómiel ("Arwen Evenstar"), is the daughter of Elrond and Celebrían, and is one of the Half-elven who lived during the Third Age. She is a character in "The Lord of the Rings". At the end of the Third Age she falls in love with the human Aragorn. They marry after the War of the Ring. Arwen becomes Queen of Arnor and Gondor, and gives birth to her son Eldarion, and several daughters.
Elendil, son of Amandil, was the last Lord of Andúnië, and founder of Arnor. He was also known as Elendil the Tall and Elendil the Faithful. 
Elendil was born in Númenor, and became Lord of Andúnië after his father. He had two sons, Isildur and Anárion. After the destruction of Númenor, Elendil fled to Middle-earth. He and his ships landed in the northern part of Middle-earth, where he founded the realm of Arnor. Elendil led the humans in the "Last Alliance of Elves and Men" to fight Sauron. Elendil was killed by Sauron. His son Isildur and grandson Valandil became Kings of Arnor after him.
Isildur, son of Elendil, was the co-founder of Gondor. 
After the destruction of Númenor, Isildur and his brother Anárion fled to Middle-earth. They and their ships landed in the southern part of Middle-earth, where they founded the realm of Gondor. Isildur fought in the "Last Alliance of Elves and Men" under the command of his father Elendil. Isildur cut off the One Ring from Sauron's hand. Elrond and Círdan told Isildur to destroy the One Ring, but Isildur did not want to and kept it. It was decided that Isildur would rule the northern kingdom Arnor afer his father. When Isildur journeyed north, he and his company were attacked by Orcs. Isildur was killed and the One Ring was lost. His oldest sons Elendur, Aratan, and Ciryon were also killed. Isildur's youngest son Valandil became King of Arnor after him.
Anárion, son of Elendil, was the co-founder of Gondor. 
After the destruction of Númenor, the brothers Isildur and Anárion fled to Middle-earth. They and their ships landed in the southern part of Middle-earth, where they founded the realm of Gondor. Anárion fought in the "Last Alliance of Elves and Men" under the command of his father Elendil, and was killed. His son Meneldil became king of Gondor after him, while Isildur went to rule the northern kingdom Arnor.
Aragorn II, son of Arathorn, is a main character in "The Lord of the Rings". He is the son of Arathorn II and Gilraen. After his father's death he becomes "Chieftain of the Dúnedain". 
He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring". After the War of the Ring, at the end of the book, Aragorn becomes King Elessar Telcontar of the Reunited Kingdom of Arnor and Gondor. Aragorn marries Arwen, and becomes the father of a son named Eldarion, and several daughters. His son Eldarion becomes king after him.
Boromir is a main character in "The Lord of the Rings". Boromir is the son of Denethor II, the Steward of Gondor. Boromir led Gondor's soldiers in the fight against Sauron, before he went to Rivendell. He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring". He dies after protecting Merry and Pippin from Saruman's Orcs.
Denethor II is the Steward of Gondor, and rules Gondor at the time of the "War of the Ring". He married Finduilas of Dol Amroth, and is the father of Boromir and Faramir. During the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields" he goes insane and burns himself, thinking they would lose the war and get killed anyway.
Eldarion is the son of Aragorn II and Arwen Undómiel. After his father's death he becomes King of Arnor and Gondor.
Faramir son of Denethor II, brother of Boromir. Faramir also led Gondor's soldiers in the fight against Sauron's Orcs and Men, and did so often in Ithilien. He became Steward of Gondor after his father's death. After the War of the Ring, Aragorn made him Prince of Ithilien. He married Éowyn.
Théoden was King of Rohan at the time of the "War of the Ring". He died at the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields". His nephew Éomer became king after him.
Éomer, son of Éomund, brother of Éowyn, was the nephew of King Théoden. In the War of the Ring, Éomer fought in the Battle of the Hornburg, the Battle of the Pelennor Fields, and the Battle of the Morannon. Éomer became the next King of the Rohirrim after Théoden.
Éowyn, daughter of Éomund, sister of Éomer, was the niece of King Théoden. With the help of the hobbit Meriadoc Brandybuck, she killed the Witch-king of Angmar in the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields". After the War of the Ring she married Faramir, and became the Lady of Ithilien.
Gríma, son of Galmod, called Wormtongue, was at first servant of King Théoden. But then he secretly worked for Saruman. Gríma became Théoden's advisor, and worked to weaken him. He had the King exile his nephew, Eomer, and the loyal Rohirrim. When Gandalf made the King better, Gríma fled to Isengard. Soon after, Grima stabbed Saruman in the back, which Saruman ultimately died from. Wormtongue was shot and killed by Legolas.
Balin son of Fundin is one of the dwarves in Thorin Oakenshield's company during the Quest of Erebor. He is the elder brother of Dwalin.
Dáin II Ironfoot was King under the Mountain in the dwarven realm Erebor after Thorin Oakenshield. Dáin was killed during the War of the Ring. His son, Thorin III Stonehelm, became king after him.
Gimli son of Glóin, is a main character in "The Lord of the Rings". He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring".
Glóin son of Gróin is one of the dwarves in Thorin Oakenshield's company during the Quest of Erebor. He is the younger brother of Óin. Glóin's son is Gimli.
Fíli and Kíli were the nephews of Thorin Oakenshield. They were the sons of Dís, Thorin's sister. They went with their uncle on the Quest of the Lonely Mountain, told in "The Hobbit". They were killed in the "Battle of Five Armies", while they were defending Thorin.
Thorin Oakenshield, son of Thráin II, was leader of Durin's folk and "King under the Mountain". He is the leader of the group that tries to take back the Lonely Mountain from the dragon Smaug in "The Hobbit". He is wounded in the "Battle of Five Armies" and dies. Dáin II Ironfoot becomes "King under the Mountain" after him. Thorin has a sister, Dís, who has two sons Fíli and Kíli.
"See also": Hobbit
Bilbo Baggins is a main character in the books "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". Bilbo goes on an adventure with the dwarves, the Quest of Erebor. During this journey he finds the One Ring. He also gets a small sword which he names "Sting", and a small Mithril-shirt. Bilbo later adopts Frodo Baggins. On his 111th birthday, Bilbo leaves the Shire and goes to Rivendell, giving the Ring to Frodo. 
At the end of the Third Age, Bilbo left Middle-earth for Valinor, together with Frodo and the bearers of the Elven Rings.
Frodo Baggins is a main character in the book "The Lord of the Rings". Frodo is adopted by his uncle Bilbo Baggins. He inherits Bilbo's home "Bag End" and the One Ring from Bilbo. Frodo is the Ring-Bearer and a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring". With the Fellowship, Frodo goes on the quest to destroy the One Ring. 
At the end of the Third Age, Frodo left Middle-earth for Valinor, together with Bilbo and the bearers of the Elven Rings.
Meriadoc Brandybuck, called Merry, is a main character in the book "The Lord of the Rings". He is Frodo's cousin. He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring". At the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields" he helps Éowyn kill the Witch-king of Angmar. He becomes a Knight of Rohan. After the war he marries Estella Bolger, and becomes Master of Buckland.
Samwise Gamgee, called Sam, is a main character in the book "The Lord of the Rings". He is Frodo's gardener and servant who has a taste for fine ale. He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring". When Uruk-hai's attack the Fellowship at Amon-hen on their journey to Mordor and the Fellowship breaks, Sam is the only one who goes on with Frodo. If not for Samwise Gamgee, Frodo would not have made it into Mordor or destroyed the Ring. After the War of the Ring, Sam marries Rose Cotton and lives in Bag End. 
Peregrin Took, called Pippin, is a main character in the book "The Lord of the Rings". He is Frodo's cousin. He is a member of the "Fellowship of the Ring".
Gollum is an important character in "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". Originally he was a hobbit named Sméagol, who found the One Ring after Isildur lost it. Gollum went to live under the Misty Mountains; there he kept the Ring for over 500 years, and in that time the Ring changed him to look less like a hobbit. He often called the Ring his "precious". Gollum lost the One Ring, which was then found by Bilbo Baggins in "The Hobbit". 
In "The Lord of the Rings", it is told that after this Gollum left the Misty Mountains to search for the "thief Baggins" who had stolen his Ring. Sauron learned from Gollum that the One Ring was in the Shire and owned by a Baggins. Gollum was released by Sauron. Gollum then again went to search for his Ring. Gollum found the Fellowship in Moria and followed them. Frodo and Sam captured Gollum, and Gollum promised to lead them into Mordor. He later tried to trick them, leaving them with the spider Shelob. Gollum attacked Frodo on Mount Doom, and took back the Ring. But Gollum was careless and fell into the volcano, which killed him and destroyed the One Ring.
Ancalagon the Black is a dragon. He appears in the "Silmarillion". Ancalagon was made by Morgoth, and was the biggest and most powerful of all dragons. He was killed by Eärendil, in the War of Wrath in the First Age.When he fell, he crushed the Towers of Thangodrim, heralding the end of Morgoth's tyranny.
Glaurung is a dragon. He appears in the "Silmarillion". Glaurung was a dragon made by Morgoth. He was the first dragon ever created, and he was extremely powerful. He was killed in the First Age by Túrin Turambar.
Smaug is a dragon. He appears in "The Hobbit". Smaug attacked the Lonely Mountain, killed the dwarves living there, and took their treasure and home. Later in the book Smaug was killed by Bard.
Beorn is a shape-shifter. He usually is like a big man, but he can change to become a bear. He lives between the Misty Mountains and Mirkwood. He helped at the "Battle of the Five Armies".
The Nazgûl, Ringwraiths or Úlairi are servants of Sauron. They were human kings and leaders in the Second Age. Sauron gave to them nine of the Rings of Power. With time they became like undead ghosts. They are invisible, but their eyes can sometimes be seen as a red light. They wear black cloaks, and usually ride black horses. Later in the "Lord of the Rings" they ride winged creatures called "fell beasts". When riding a fell beast they are also called "Winged Nazgûl".
The Witch-king of Angmar, also known as Lord of the Nazgûl or the Black Captain is the leader of the Nazgûl. He was the commander of Minas Morgul. He was killed in the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields" by Éowyn and Meriadoc Brandybuck.
Khamûl is one of the Ringwraiths, and the only Ringwraith whose name is given by Tolkien. He was called the Black Easterling, and was the commander of the fortress Dol Guldur.
Shelob is a giant spider. She appears in "The Lord of the Rings: The return of the king". Shelob stings Frodo Baggins, but is wounded by Samwise Gamgee.

</doc>
<doc id="52474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52474" title="Feudalism">
Feudalism

Feudalism is a system of land ownership and duties. It was used in the Middle Ages. With feudalism, all the land in a kingdom was the king's. However, the king would give some of the land to the lords or nobles who fought for him. These presents of land were called "manors". Then the nobles gave some of their land to "vassals". The "vassals" then had to do duties for the nobles. The lands of vassals were called "fiefs".
When talking about places other than Europe, the idea of feudalism is normally only used by analogy (called semi-feudal), most often in discussions of Japan under the shoguns, and, sometimes, medieval and Gondarine Ethiopia. Some people have seen situations like feudalism in places as far away as Ancient Egypt, Parthian empire, India, to the American South of the nineteenth century.
Under feudalism, taxes were not paid with money. They were paid in products and services. Presents and taxes had to be given to the lords by their vassals. At harvest time, the vassals gave shares of their crops to the lords. The vassals would grind their grain at the noble's grainaries. They would give part of the grain to their lord. When animals were killed for food, part of the meat was given to the lords. The lords promised to give protection, peace, and safety to their vassals.
Manors were completely owned by the nobles. They were given from one generation to another. The noble's firstborn son took it all when his father died. Each manor had its own pasture lands, mill, wine press, church, and village. A manor had to let many people live there. Lords gave their servants food and a place to sleep, but they did not pay their servants money.
The villein was in a poorer class. He had to serve the lords, but free in other things. He had work to do for the lord or the town. Then he went back to his little house with floors made of earth and a roof. On the walls of his house, the villein hung meats, tools, and dried vegetables.
A villein was more free than slaves or serfs, but he still wasn't completely free. He could not move or marry if the lord didn't say yes. He also could not leave the manor lands if the lord said no. If he escaped, he could run away to a town where he could try to live quietly without being known, until he is discovered. If he did this, he becomes a free man. If he wanted to help the Catholic Church, he needed special permission. As a member of the church, his position could get higher. However, if this did not work, he could join a band of outlaws.
The serf was in the lowest class. He was only a little better than slaves. He could not be sold away from the land, but was always sold "with" the land.
But villeins and serfs had rights as well. They could cultivate grain and vegetables for sale, and the lord had duty to protect them and provide them land to cultivate. If they got wealthy enough, they could buy themselves free. They also did not need to serve in levy (that is: army mustered up by conscription) and they did not need to pay state taxes. They usually paid 10% of their income to the Church and 10% to the feudal lord.

</doc>
<doc id="52476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52476" title="Leo III of Armenia">
Leo III of Armenia

Leo (or Leon) III of Armenia (c.1236-1289) was king of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia, ruling from 1270 to 1289. He was the son of Hethum I of Armenia and Queen Isabella of Armenia. 
In 1262 Leo married Keran (Kir Anna), the daughter of Prince Hethum of Lampron.
In 1266 Leo was captured and his younger brother Thoros killed while fighting the Mamluk invaders. Leo was ransomed by his father, who gave up the throne for him shortly after. He was known as a pious king, devoted to Christianity. 
In 21 years of marriage Leo had 15 children by his wife Keran, eight sons and seven daughters. Two sons and two daughters died at an early age:
5 of his 15 children, Hethum, Thoros, Sembat, Constantine, and Oshin, later became the Armenian kings, who often fought each other to gain the throne.
He was succeeded by his son Hethum II.

</doc>
<doc id="52478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52478" title="Armens">
Armens

Armens (Armenian: Արմեններ, Առամեններ), were Armenian tribes, the people are called Arman, Armenic or Armanen. They correspond with the Hayasa-Azzi Tribes. The Armans united with the tribes of Hayasi. Recent linguistic studies present strong evidence that the Indo-European language group originates in Anatolia. According to most accounts, the Armens were generally tall, blond-haired, and blue-eyed in appearance, in contrast to their Urartian cousins who tended to be slighter with black hair and black eyes. The Urartian state, which existed there prior to the coming of the
Indo-European-speaking "Armen" tribes from the west, was a federation of many peoples.
At the end of the second millennium BC, another Indo-European ethnic group, closely related to Thracians and Phrygians and referred to by the Greeks as Armens, migrated to the Armenian Highland from Northern Balkans.
One theory suggests that the Armens were of Thracian origin, and related to the Phrygians. The Armens were near the head waters of the Halys, to the west of the Euphrates. The Armens seemed to have mixed blood with another Asiatic element whose patronymic Hai, became in time their national designation. The country where the Armens settled were a mountainous region, traversed by deep valleys and smiling plains.
The word Armani, (mentioned in Akkadian inscriptions as early as 2400 BC) an early form of Armen-Armin or Arman denotes the national affiliation, as with many cultures standing for the particular nation thus, the God AR being the primary deity in the Indo-European (aka Aryan) pantheon - thus AR MAN denotes—Men of Ar or Children of Ar, again initially AR standing for ARAREL-ARARICH [hence Ar-Ar-At the Place of ARAR] -- Create-Creator, also Sun, Light, Life and Love.

</doc>
<doc id="52479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52479" title="History of Armenia">
History of Armenia

The history of Armenia and Armenians is very ancient and can go back at least 2000 BC. Archaeologists say the Shulaveri-Shomu culture of the central Transcaucasus region, and Armenia today, as the earliest known prehistoric culture in the area, carbon-dated to around 6000 - 4000 BC. But, a newer discovered tomb has been dated to 9000 BC. Another early culture in the Armenian Highlands and surrounding areas—the Kura-Araxes culture is in the period of ca. 4000 - 2200 BC, and is believed to have to go into the Trialeti culture (ca. 2200 - 1500 BC), and meaning Armenians are one of the oldest Indo-European subgroups.
Urartu was an ancient kingdom in the Armenian Highlands.
Some experts say that the Armenians started as a mixture of the different peoples to move through the area in history: The Hurrians, Urarteans, Luvians and Mushki. This last group, also knowns as Phrygians may have brought their Indo-European language to Armenia. The Armenian language today is Indo-European, but shows a lot of influence from the earlier languages, especially Urartean. 
The Armenians had friendly relations with the Parthian empire. The fighting between the Roman Empire and Parthia was centered in Armenia. Armenia was in between Parthian and the Roman Empire. The Armenians had already played a role in the early history of the Roman-Parthian relations. Tigranes put military and political relations with Rome and Parthia on an international legal foundation. The Parthians were allies to Armenians in many times. Many Parthian noble families had moved out and they went to Armenia. 

</doc>
<doc id="52480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52480" title="Democratic Republic of Armenia">
Democratic Republic of Armenia

The Democratic Republic of Armenia (DRA; Armenian: Դեմոկրատական Հայաստանի Հանրապետություն, "Demokratakan Hayastani Hanrapetutyun;" also known as the First Republic of Armenia), 1918–1920, was the first modern establishment of an Armenian republic. The country was created after the Russian Tsarist empire that began with the Russian Revolution of 1917 that lost power. Its creation with borders were the Democratic Republic of Georgia in the north, the Ottoman Empire to the west, the Persian Empire to the south, and Azerbaijan Democratic Republic to the east.
Armenia gave way to communist power in late 1920. In September 1920, the Turkish revolutionaries moved in on the capital. First an armistice was concluded, on November 18, and then a full peace treaty - Treaty of Alexandropol on 2nd and/or 3rd of December 1920.
During that time, the Soviet 11th Red Army invasion started on the 29th of November 1920. The actual transfer of power took place on December 2 in Yerevan. Armenian leadership approved a ultimatum, presented to it by the Soviet plenipotentiary Boris Legran - who was at work as one of major Russian diplomats on Caucasus at that time. Armenia decided to join the Soviet sphere, while the Soviet Russia agreed to protect its remaining territory from the advancing Turkish army. Soviets also pledged to take steps to rebuild the army, protect the Armenians, not to pursue non-communist Armenians. None of these promises were kept.
On December 4, 1920, the Red Army entered Yerevan, the government of Armenian Republic effectively stopped working. On December 5, the Armenian Revolutionary Committee (Revkom; made up of mostly Armenians from Azerbaijan) also entered the city. Finally, on the following day, December 6, Felix Dzerzhinsky's dreaded secret police, the Cheka, entered Yerevan, thus effectively ending the existence of the Democratic Republic of Armenia.
The rest of Armenia was under control of the communist government. The part by Turkey remained for the most part theirs - by the subsequent Treaty of Kars. Soon, the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic was proclaimed, under the leadership of Aleksandr Miasnikyan. It was to be included into the newly created Transcaucasian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic.

</doc>
<doc id="52487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52487" title="Georgian language">
Georgian language

Georgian (, "kartuli ena") is the official language of Georgia, a country in the Caucasus.
Georgian is the primary language of about 3.9 million people in Georgia itself (83 percent of the population), and of another 500,000 abroad (chiefly in Turkey, Iran, Russia, USA and Europe). It is the literary language for all ethnographic groups of Georgian people, especially those who speak other South Caucasian languages (or "Kartvelian languages"): Svans, Megrelians, and the Laz. Gruzinic, or "Kivruli", sometimes considered a separate Jewish language, is spoken by an additional 20,000 in Georgia and 65,000 elsewhere (primarily 60,000 in Israel). 

</doc>
<doc id="52497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52497" title="Mount Ararat">
Mount Ararat

Mount Ararat (Armenian: Արարատ) is the tallest peak in the Armenian Highlands and modern-day Turkey. The mountain is always capped with snow, and it is a dormant volcano. It is in Iğdır Province, near the northeast corner of Turkey, 16 km west of Iran and 32 km south of the Armenian border.
The people and area who lived in this area was the Armenian kingdom of Ararat (in Assyrian: Urartu). The former lived here for nearly 3000 years and it was since 1923 with the Traité de Lausanne that the Ararat was placed in the administration of Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="52501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52501" title="South Caucasus">
South Caucasus

South Caucasus, also referred to as Transcaucasia or Transcaucasus, is the southern area of the Caucasus region between Europe and Asia, going from the Greater Caucasus to the Turkish and Iranian borders, between the Black and Caspian Seas. 
All of Armenia is in Transcaucasia; the majority of Georgia and Azerbaijan, including the exclave of Naxçivan, fall within this area. The countries in the region produce oil, manganese ore, tea, citrus fruits, and wine.
The region is one the most complicated in the post-Soviet area, and has three heavily disputed areas – Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia, and Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan.
The region was combined togerther twice – during the Russian Civil War (Transcaucasian Democratic Federative Republic) from 9 April 1918 to 26 May 1918, and under the Soviet rule (Transcaucasian SFSR) from 12 March 1922 to 5 December 1936. 
The area of Transcaucasia, which is where modern day Azerbaijan,Georgia and Armenia are located, is one of areas where the wine producing vines "vitis vinifera" grow. Some experts think that this may be where wine was produced for the first time. Archeological excavation and carbon dating of grape pips from the area have dated back to 7000-5000BC. 

</doc>
<doc id="52506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52506" title="Mongols">
Mongols

The name Mongols (Mongolian: "Mongol") explains one or more ethnic groups. A hard definition includes the Mongols proper (self-designation "Monggol"), which can be split into eastern and western Mongols. In a bigger sense, the Mongol peoples also people who speak a Mongolic language but use other self-designations, such as the Kalmyks of eastern Europe.
The name "Monggol" has its meaning in the Tungusic languages and usually means "the invincible ones". At first it was applied to a small and still insignificant tribe in the area of the Onon river. In the 13th century it grew into an umbrella term for a large group of tribes united under the rule of Genghis Khan.
The polytheistic (believing in many gods) Mongols thought that good and evil spirits controlled the world. They also believed in a most important god, who ruled all the spirits. They called him "Tengri" (TENG gree), which means, "the great god of heaven". The Mongols lived in fear of the spirits and hoped for blessings from them.
Every yurt had small idols made of felt. The wives and daughters of the nobles made these idols at sewing parties. The Mongols believed that these idols protected their families and animals. Before every meal they put food and drink on the idols' lips. They also prayed to them.
The Mongols believed that some men, called "shamans" (SHAH muns), had power over the spirits. The shamans were the priests of the traditional Mongol religion, called "shamanism" (SHAH muh NIZ um). The shamans were medicine men and witch doctors who used a special language when doing their magical . The Mongols talked to their shamans before making big choices and followed their advice.
The later empire of the Mongols had many people with many religions, including Christians. The most important Christian group in the Mongol Empire was the Nestorian Church, sometimes called the Church of the East. These Christians were named for Nestorius, bishop of Constantinople.

</doc>
<doc id="52538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52538" title="La Liga">
La Liga

La Liga is a football league which is the top division in Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="52540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52540" title="Stanley Marcus">
Stanley Marcus

Stanley Marcus (born April 20, 1905 – died January 22, 2002) was the president of the Neiman-Marcus company, a store in the United States that sells expensive clothing and . He became famous for inventing many new ways to sell products and new ways to tell people about his store. 
Mr. Marcus created an award for people who designed clothing. He also began art shows in his store, to make people want to visit the store to see the art. In 1939, the company started a catalog, which is a book that shows all the products that people can buy from the store. In 1951, the catalog listed unusual gifts for people to buy. Many people started to read the catalog every year to see the unusual gifts.
In the 1940s, at the time of the Second World War, the government of the United States asked Mr. Marcus for help. The government wanted to make sure there would be enough fabric to make clothes for the military, so they asked Mr. Marcus to make rules about clothes for ordinary people. He made rules for companies that made clothes so that popular styles for women and men would not change every year. With these rules, people would not need new clothes so often. Also, he said that men's socks should not use rubber to make elastic to hold the socks in place. This rule made sure the government could use rubber for military products that were needed for the war.
Mr. Marcus married Mary "Billie" Cantrell in 1932. When he met her, Billie was working in the Neiman-Marcus store. She continued to work for four years. She retired in 1936 after she gave birth to a baby; they named the baby Jerrie. In 1938, she gave birth to twins, Richard and Wendy.
Mr. Marcus collected art and books. His favorite artists from Mexico were Rufino Tamayo, David Alfaro Siqueiros, Diego Rivera, and Antonio Ruíz. He became friends with Rivera and Tamayo. Mr. Marcus also liked American artists, such as Alexander Calder, who made sculptures, and Georgia O'Keeffe, who was a painter. He gave large amounts of money to a museum that showed O'Keeffe paintings.
The Degolyer Library at Southern Methodist University has a collection of things related to Mr. Marcus. The collection includes photographs, letters, and newspaper articles. Mr. Marcus also gave the library a collection of more than 5,000 miniature books. (Miniature books are very small books, small enough for a doll.)

</doc>
<doc id="52570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52570" title="Saint Martin (France)">
Saint Martin (France)

Saint Martin (French: "Saint-Martin"), officially the Collectivity of Saint Martin (French: "Collectivité de Saint-Martin"), is a new overseas collectivity of France. It was created on 22 February 2007. It consists of the northern parts of the island of Saint Martin and neighboring small islands. The southern half of the island is a country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The French part of the island has a land area of 53.20 km² (20.5 sq mi). At the October 2004 supplementary French census, the population in the French part of the island was 33,102 (up from only 8,072 inhabitants at the 1982 census), which means a population density of 622 inhabitants per km² in 2004.
Saint Martin was for many years a French commune. It was part of Guadeloupe, which is an overseas "région" and overseas "département" of France. Because of this, it is in the European Union. In 2003 the population of the French part voted for a split from Guadeloupe. They wanted to make a separate overseas collectivity (COM) of France. On February 9, 2007, the French Parliament passed a bill granting COM status to both the French part of Saint Martin and neighbouring Saint-Barthélemy. The new took effect when the law was published in the Official Journal.
Saint Martin remains part of the European Union. The official currency in Saint Martin is the euro (though the United States dollar is also widely accepted).
As a transitional measure, Saint Martin remains governed as it was when a "commune" within Guadeloupe—by a mayor and a municipal council elected by the European citizens living on the French side of the island. As is the case in metropolitan France since the promulgation of the Maastricht Treaty, nationals of any member state of the European Union are allowed to vote at the municipal elections. Nationals from countries not part of the European Union, which represent a large part of the population on the French side of the island, are not allowed to vote in the elections. A new governance structure befitting an overseas collectivity will take effect later in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="52574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52574" title="Saint Martin (Netherlands)">
Saint Martin (Netherlands)

Sint Maarten (or Saint Martin) is the name of the territory of the southern half of the island of St. Martin. It belongs to the Netherlands. 
The "Island area of St. Martin" () was part of the Netherlands Antilles, until the Antilles was dissolved in October 2010, when Sint Maarten became a "country" ("land") within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The Government of the Netherlands is responsible for defence, foreign affairs and nationality law. Although part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands the territory of Sint Maarten is not part of the European Union; however, its people are citizens of the European Union.

</doc>
<doc id="52575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52575" title="French overseas collectivities">
French overseas collectivities

The Overseas collectivities (French: "collectivité d'outre-mer" or "COM"), are an administrative division of France. These territories include some former overseas territories and other French overseas holdings with a particular status. all of these were given the name "collectivités d'outre-mer" because of a constitutional reform on March 28, 2003.
As of March 31, 2011, there are five of these communities:

</doc>
<doc id="52576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52576" title="Saint Barthélemy">
Saint Barthélemy

Saint-Barthélemy, officially the Collectivity of Saint-Barthélemy (French: "Collectivité de Saint-Barthélemy"), is a new overseas collectivity of France. It was created on 22 February 2007. It consists of the island of Saint-Barthélemy and neighboring small islands.
The island of Saint-Barthélemy, also known as Saint Barts, Saint Barths, or Saint Barth, is in the Caribbean among the Leeward Islands. Its land area is 21.0 km² (8.1 sq. miles). Administratively, the whole island of Saint-Barthélemy was a French copmmune ("commune de Saint-Barthélemy"). It was part of Guadeloupe, which is an overseas "région" and overseas "département" of France. For this reason, it is part of the European Union. In 2003, the people voted in favour of becoming independent from Guadeloupe. They wanted to form a separate overseas collectivity (COM) of France. On February 7, 2007 the French Parliament passed a bill granting COM status to both Saint-Barthélemy and neighbouring Saint-Martin. The new status took effect on 22 February 2007, when the law was published in the Official Journal. 
St. Barts has long been considered a playground of the rich and famous and is known for its beautiful pristine beaches, gourmet dining in chic bistros and high-end designer shopping.
Saint-Barthélemy is about 150 miles east of Puerto RicoIt is near the islands of Saint Martin, Saba and Anguilla.
Gustavia, which is the main town of the island, was named after King Gustav III of Sweden, and remains as a reflection of the Swedish period.
The oldest settlement still remaining is the village of Lorient (or L'Orient), although scattered in every cemetery on the island are Swedish grave markers. Lorient's sister village on the French mainland is the city of Lorient on the northern coast of Brittany.
Of the 20 beaches on the small island, several are seen as especially inviting. On the southern side of the island, Saline and Governor beaches are pristine beaches with no development on them. On the western edge of the island is Colombier beach. This beach is only reachable by boat or a hike. St. Jean, Flammands and Grand-Cul-de-Sac beaches are also popular and attractive beaches which have hotels and other establishments on them. Shell Beach is popular for families with kids as it has little surf, and lots of tide pools. 
St. Barths has a tidal difference of only 3 - 5 inches. The beaches vary according to ocean currents—the weather travels onto the island following the sun from the East. One of the main surfing beaches (Toiny) is known for its riptide, while Grand Fond is one of the island's only non-swimming beaches. Although tourism does not allude to it, there are a small variety of warm water sharks in the Caribbean. So, swimming at dusk and dawn or in murky waters is not recommended. Otherwise, scuba and snorkeling are a great way to see the nurse sharks, lobsters, conch and green sea turtles that abound in the waters surrounding St. Barths.
The beach of Grand Cul-de-Sac is the easiest beach in the Caribbean to learn to sail, windsurf or kitesurf on, as it has a reef which closes off the entire bay. The current that passes outside the reef here also carries the migrating whales and dolphins.
Saint-Barthélemy was first claimed by France in 1648. It was sold to Sweden in 1785. Sweden sold it back to France in 1878. The Swedish period left its mark in the names of many of the streets and the town (in honor of King Gustav III). It also left its national arms, the three crowns along with the grey heron, in the island's coat of arms.
At the 1999 census, Saint-Barthélemy had 6,852 people. There were 326 people per square kilometer. Unlike most Caribbean islands, most of the people are white.
Many of the people who live there all the time are French citizens who work at the various establishments on the island. French is the primary language spoken, but many locals also speak English, particularly at the hotels and restaurants.
Saint Barts has a small airport (IATA identifier SBH) is served by small regional commercial aircraft and charters. Most visiting aircraft carry fewer than twenty passengers, such as the Twin Otter, a common sight around Saint Barths and throughout the northern West Indies. The short airstrip is at the base of a steep hill ending directly on the beach. The arrival descent is extremely steep over the hilltop traffic circle and departing planes fly right over the heads of sunbathers (although small signs advise sunbathers not to lie directly at the end of the runway). The nearest commercial jet airport is on the neighboring island of Saint Martin. 
There are also charters to St. Barths from San Juan, Puerto Rico available through Tradewind Aviation. The current mayor's airline, called St. Barths Commuter, offers non-prohibitive cost one-way/roundtrip travel between both of St. Maarten's airports and St. Barths. It is also an excellent service for charters. A favorite island business for an extra fee is via St. Barths Services, as they offer full-service attention.
Ferries to and from Saint Martin are the only other real option (although the passage from St. Maarten to St. Barths is often rough), unless one is arriving by private charter boats/yachts.
St. Barts has about 25 hotels, most of then with 15 rooms or fewer, and the largest, the Guanahani has just 70 rooms. Hotels are classified in the traditional French manner 3 Star, 4 Star and 4 Star Luxe. 
Villa vacations are extremely popular and there are hundreds of villas terraced into the hillsides throughout the island as well has many beachfront locations. Villas here by definition can range from one-bedroom bunglalows to large luxurious homes. St. Barth Properties and Wimco are the two main villa rental agencies on the island. 
Singer Jimmy Buffett is a frequent visitor on the island, and owns a house there. He also owned a hotel, the Author de Rocher, before it burned down.
Saint-Barthélemy has its own bobsled team. To date the team has not achieved competitive success. The island also competes in carotchie.
The junior national French surf champion was named recently in the winter of 2006, and he is from Lorient.

</doc>
<doc id="52590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52590" title="Hispaniola">
Hispaniola

Hispaniola is an island in the Caribbean Sea. It is the second largest island (after Cuba) of the West Indies, east of Cuba and west of Puerto Rico.
The Republic of Haiti occupies the western three-eighths, the Dominican Republic the rest. Hispaniola is one of two Caribbean islands in which there are two countries; the other is Saint Martin.
When Columbus arrived to America, some groups of native people, coming from northern South America, had lived in the Caribbean Islands since a very long time. That movement from South America to the Caribbean islands was not continuous but it happened in several waves during almost twelve centuries.
Archeological studies suggests that those people from South America came to the Caribbean islands during four periods.
The first period began around 5000 B.C. For most Caribbean islands, this period ended around 2000 years ago except in Cuba and Hispaniola where there were some small populations in western Cuba and southwestern Hispaniola when the Europeans arrived to these islands. They were called Ciboney or Siboney by the Taínos, meaning "man that lives among rocks" ("Ciba" means stone and "eyeri" man).
The second group was the Igneri, the first Arawak Indians to come to the Caribbean Islands. They displaced the Ciboney people and, later, they were displaced by another group of Arawak Indians, the Taínos. Taínos occupied all the Greater Antilles (Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico) and they developed a culture different from the culture of the Arawaks of South America. They were the first people that the Spanish met in the Americas.
The fourth and last group was the Carib. The Carib were also Arawaks but with a different language. Even if they used to go to Puerto Rico and the Hispaniola to fight against the Taínos, they lived only in the Lesser Antilles when Columbus got to America.
At the moment when the Spanish came to the Hispaniola, most of the island was occupied by Taínos; only in the western tip of the Southern Peninsula (in modern Haiti), there were some small groups of Ciboney In the northeastern part of the island (Samaná Peninsula and north of the Northern mountain range), there was a group called Ciguayos, and sometimes Macorix, with the same culture of the Taínos but a different language. It seems that they were Carib that took the Taíno culture. They were the first Indians that fought against the Europeans.
Christopher Columbus arrived to the island on December 5, 1492, naming it as La Española, meaning "The Spanish Island". When Peter Martyr d'Anghiera wrote in latin about this island, he wrote "Hispaniola", meaning "Small Spain"; that was not correct. Because the book of Anghiera was translated into English very soon, the name Hispaniola is the most used in English-speaking countries and in scientific works.
For centuries, other names were used for the island. The most common were "Santo Domingo Island" (the Dominican constitution still uses that name) and "Haiti".
Hispaniola was the only island that Columbus visited in all his four travels to the Americas. He saw the island for the first time on December 5, 1492 but he stayed on his ship during the night; the next day, he went to land. The Spaniards spent the rest of December traveling along the north coast of Haiti; on December 12, Columbus took possession of the island in the name of the King and Queen of Spain and named the island as "La Española".
On Christmas Eve, December 24, the main ship ("Santa María") was badly damaged. The next day, Christmas Day, Columbus gave orders to use the wood of the ship to build a small fort on what is now Môle Saint-Nicolas, Haiti. That fort was named "La Navidad" ("Navidad" means Christmas) and was the first European building on American soil. Columbus left 39 men there because there was not space in the other two ships for all the people.
From "La Navidad", they traveled east along the north coast of the island and in Samaná they had a small fight with some natives ("Ciguayos", not Taíno Indians) and named the bay as "Golfo de las Flechas" (Gulf of the Arrows), but now is called "Samaná Bay". From there, they went back to Spain.
In 1493, Columbus found, when he returned in his second trip, that "La Navidad" was destroyed by the Indians and all Spaniards killed. Then he went to the east, founding the first European city in the American continent, near the present city of Puerto Plata; he named the city "La Isabela" in honor of Queen Isabella of Castile. The first Catholic mass in America was celebrated at La Isabela on January 6, 1494. From La Isabela, Columbus sent groups of persons to explore and take control of the island.
Because La Isabela was an unhealthy site, Bartholomew Columbus, brother of Christopher, established a new city, "La Nueva Isabela" (The New Isabela) on the south coast of the island, on the left side of the Ozama river. Because a hurricane destroyed the city, it was built again but on the right side of the river and with the new name of Santo Domingo. It is the oldest permanent European city in the Americas.
The Taíno population of the island decreased very fast because a combination of new diseases, like smallpox, and abuses by the Spaniards. Even if some black slaves were brought from Spain since 1501, the colony began to import African slaves when the colony began to grow sugar cane, around 1516, to produce sugar.
Spain kept conquering new regions of the Americas and, for the Spanish people, those new regions were more interesting because there was more gold; the population of the island grew very slowly. By the early 17th century, the island and its smaller neighbors (above all, the Tortuga island) became places often visited by Caribbean pirates. In 1606, the king of Spain gave the order that all inhabitants of Hispaniola had to move close to the city of Santo Domingo, to avoid interaction with pirates and Protestant people. This resulted in French, British and Dutch pirates establishing bases on the abandoned north and west coasts of the island.
In 1665, the presence of French people on the island had the official approval of the French king Louis XIV and he named Bertrand d'Ogeron as the governor of the western part of Hispaniola (in French, Saint-Domingue). By the Treaty of Ryswick, Spain gave the western third of the island to France and kept the eastern part. The development of the French "Saint-Domingue" was very fast, both in wealth and population, and it became the richest colony in the Caribbean. The eastern, Spanish colony of "Santo Domingo" remained poor and with a very low population.
The island of Hispaniola has an area of 76,480 km². There are two countries: the Republic of Haiti is in the western part of the island and the Dominican Republic in the eastern part. These two countries are separated by an artificial border, except in the northern and southern extremes where they are separated by the rivers Dajabón and Pedernales, respectively.
The island is separated from Cuba by the Windward Passage (81 km from Punta Maisí in Cuba to Cape Saint-Nicolas in Haiti), from Jamaica by the Jamaica Channel (186 km from Point Morante in Jamaica to Cape Irois in Haiti) and from Puerto Rico by the Mona Channel (112 km from Punta Higüero in Puerto Rico to Punta de Agua in the Dominican Republic).
The maximun length, east to west, is 650 km from Cape Engaño to Cape Irois. The maximum width, north to south, is 265 km from Cape Isabela to Cape Beata. The highest point of the island, and of the Caribbean is Duarte Peak ("Pico Duarte") in the Dominican Republic with 3,087 m; the lowest point is in the Enriquillo Lake, which is about 46 meters under sea level.
There are many smaller islands around the Hispaniola. The largest are:
The Hispaniola is an island with many mountains, and the highest peaks of the West Indies are here. The chains of mountains show a direction northwest-southeast, except in the Southern peninsula (in Haiti) where they have a direction west-east. The mountains are separated by valleys with the same general direction.
From north to south, the mountain ranges and valleys are:
The sources of the longest rivers of Hispaniola are in the mountains of the "Cordillera Central" (Dominican Republic) - "Massif du Nord" (Haiti).
The 10 longest rivers of the island are:
The largest lake of the Hispaniola, and of the West Indies, is the "Lake Enriquillo". It is in the "Hoya de Enriquillo" with an area of 265 km². There are three small islands within the lake. It is around 40 meters below sea level and is a saline lake with a higher concentration of salt than the sea water.
The second largest lake, "Étang Saumâtre" (also known as "Lake Azuei"), is close to Lake Enriquillo but in Haiti, in the "Cul-de-Sac". It is also a saline lake with an area of around 170 km².
Others lakes are "Rincón" (fresh water, area of 28.2 km²), "Oviedo" (brackish water, area of 28 km²), "Redonda" "Limón", "Étang de Miragoâne".
Hispaniola has a tropical climate but modified by elevation and the "trade winds" (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean). At sea level, the average temperature is 25 °C, with small changes from one season to another. In the highest mountains, the temperature in winter can be as low as 0 °C.
There are two wet seasons: April-June and September-November. The most dry period is from December to March.
Rainfall varies greatly; eastern regions, like the Samaná Peninsula, get an average of over 2,000 mm in a year, but less than 500 mm fall in the southwest (Hoya de Enriquillo - Cul-de-Sac).
From June to November, hurricanes are frequent and can do much damage in the island.
Hispaniola has a total population, estimated for July 2013, of 20,113,564 inhabitants, for a density of 263 inhabitants per km².
In Haiti, 95% of the population belongs to the black ethnic group, in the Dominican Republic, 11% belongs to the black ethnic group as well.
In the Dominican Republic, only Spanish is spoken (except for groups of immigrants) even if Haitian Creole is gaining importance because the massive immigration from Haiti. Both French and (Haitian) Creole are spoken in Haiti, and both are official languages.
In both countries, the main religion is Roman Catholicism. Protestant groups are important, more in Haiti (15% of the population) than in the Dominican Republic (5%).
The most important cities in the island are Santo Domingo (capital of Dominican Republic), Port-au-Prince (capital of Haiti), Santiago (Dominican Republic), Carrefour (Haiti).

</doc>
<doc id="52593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52593" title="Juventus F.C.">
Juventus F.C.

Juventus F.C. is an Italian football club.
The club plays in Serie A. It was started in 1897 and its home stadium is the Juventus Stadium in Turin.
The club is the most successful team in the history of Italian football. Overall, the club have won 51 official trophies, more than any other team in the country; 40 in Italy, which is also a record, and 11 in European and world competitions. The Old Lady is the third most successful club in Europe and the sixth in the world with the most international titles officially recognised by one of the six continental football confederations and FIFA.
The club was the first Italian to win the UEFA Cup. In 1985, Juventus, the only team in the world to have won all official international cups and championships became the first club in the history of European football to have won all three major UEFA club competitions.
In Italy, Juventus is the club which has the biggest fan base, having also one of the largest numbers of supporters in the world, with a total of 170 million Juventus supporters (Italian "tifosi") worldwide. The club is a founding member of the European Club Association, which was formed after the dissolution of the G-14, a collection of Europe's most elite clubs. The Torinese side is also recognized for its huge contribution to the Italian national team.
Based on the findings of a survey of companies Demos & Pi (September 2010), Juventus appears to be the team with the highest number of supporters in Italy, having received the preference of 29% of the sample . It is also among the teams with the highest number of supporters worldwide are approximately 180 million supporters, according to a report from the German market research company Sport + Markt AG Sports in August 2005
In more than 110 years of corporate history, at the helm of Juventus 23 presidents have come and gone and two management committees . The first president was Eugenio Canfari Juventus, one of the founding members .
The longest period in office was dominated by Giampiero Boniperti, at the helm of Juventus for 19 years from 1971 to 1990 [117]; Boniperti, like its successor Caissotti di Vittorio Chiusano, president from 1990 to 2003, boasts the largest trophy the history of the club .
The businessman Umberto Agnelli, who became chairman less than 21 years of age, in 1955, was the youngest to hold this office . Also noteworthy is the presidencies of the Swiss Alfred Dick and Giuseppe Hess and Frenchman Jean-Claude Blanc, the only non-Italian to become presidents of the club . In particular, Dick was the President of the Bianconeri's first championship (1905).
Currently the contractor is in charge of Turin Andrea Agnelli, who was elected president April 28, 2010 by the shareholders at the club.

</doc>
<doc id="52597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52597" title="Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle-upon-Tyne">
Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle-upon-Tyne

Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle-upon-Tyne and 1st Duke of Newcastle-under-Lyne, KG, PC (21 July 1693-17 November 1768) was a British Whig statesman and the Prime Minister of Great Britain two times. 

</doc>
<doc id="52601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52601" title="William Cavendish, 4th Duke of Devonshire">
William Cavendish, 4th Duke of Devonshire

William Cavendish, 4th Duke of Devonshire, KG, PC (8 May 1720-2 October 1764) was a British Whig statesman who was Prime Minister of Great Britain for a short period of time. 

</doc>
<doc id="52602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52602" title="John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute">
John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute

John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute, KG, PC (25 May 1713 - 10 March 1792) was a Scottish nobleman. He was Prime Minister of Great Britain (1762–1763) under King George III. 

</doc>
<doc id="52604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52604" title="Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington">
Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington

Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, KG, KB, PC (1674–2 July 1743) was a British Whig statesman and Prime Minister of Great Britain. He served in government from 1715 until his death. Wilmington served as the head of government from 1742 until his death in 1743, but was a leader in name only. Wilmington did not actually run the country. The true leader of 234434the government was Lord Carteret, the Secretary of State for the Northern Department.

</doc>
<doc id="52607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52607" title="Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham">
Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham

Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham, KG, PC (13 May 1730-1 July 1782) was a British Whig statesman. He is most notable for his two terms as Prime Minister of Great Britain. He served in two high offices during his lifetime (Prime Minister and Leader of the House of Lords).

</doc>
<doc id="52613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52613" title="Frederick North, Lord North">
Frederick North, Lord North

Frederick North, 2nd Earl of Guilford, KG, PC (13 April 1732–5 August 1792), more often known by his courtesy title, Lord North, was Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1770 to 1782. North also had a major part in the American Revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="52635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52635" title="Flyweight">
Flyweight

In boxing, the term flyweight is used for a specific group of people based on weight. A flyweight is a boxer weighing above 49 kg (108 lb) and up to 52 kg (112 lb). Boxing organizations created many divisions so that fighters could fight people of the same size. Most divisions only separate each other by few lbs.
The flyweight division was the last of boxing's eight traditional weight classes. Before 1909, anyone below featherweight was considered a bantamweight. In 1911, the organization that eventually became the British Boxing Board of Control held a match that crowned Sid Smith as the first flyweight champion of the world. Jimmy Wilde, who reigned from 1914 to 1923, was the first boxer recognized both in Britain and the United States as a flyweight champion.
Other notable flyweights include Pancho Villa, Walter McGowan, Pascual Pérez, Pone Kingpetch, Fighting Harada, Masao Ohba, Chartchai Chionoi, Efren Torres, Erbito Salavarria, Miguel Canto, Dave McAuley, Charlie Magri, Gabriel Bernal, Santos Laciar, Sot Chitalada, Yong-Kang Kim, Yuri Arbachakov, Danny Romero, Mark "Too Sharp" Johnson, Manny Pacquiao, Jorge Arce, Vic Darchinyan, Nonito Donaire and Pongsaklek Wonjongkam.

</doc>
<doc id="52637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52637" title="Newtonian telescope">
Newtonian telescope

A Newtonian telescope is a type of telescope that was invented by the English scientist Sir Isaac Newton. The telescope sends an image to the back of the tube and then reflects it off a mirror back up the tube. The image then goes into an angled eyepiece and into the person's eye. The tube usually has many lenses that are used to make the image larger.

</doc>
<doc id="52640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52640" title="Project management">
Project management

Project management is the way a person organizes and manages resources that are necessary to complete a project. People that manage projects are known as Project Managers. 
A project is a piece of work which is not a process or an operation. It has a start, an end, and goals. Projects can be very simple, like organising a party, or very complex, like building a space rocket. 
Projects are common in the construction industry, the telecommunications industry and the IT industry. 
The management of a project requires special skills. 
Project managers must ensure that the project is delivered within the existing limitations. These limitations can be time, cost, people, risk, and many more. Project managers must also ensure the best possible distribution of resources. 
A project manager works mainly with people. They need to have people management skills, a good understanding of the tasks and skills needed on a project, an understanding of how long tasks will take, good organising skills, good communication skills, and good efficiency skills.
Project managers do not need to know how to do all of the work that may be needed in a project. For instance, a building project manager does not need to know how to pour concrete. However, they need to know how to manage people that pour concrete, and they need to know how long concrete takes to pour, how much it costs, what needs to happen before concrete is poured, and what needs to happen after concrete is poured. 

</doc>
<doc id="52641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52641" title="Vitré">
Vitré

Vitré is a city in the east of Brittany, France. Its name in the Breton language is "" and Gallo is "Vitræ". It has about 18,000 people. There are medieval streets, castles, churches, chapels and parks. It is a good example for a city of the Middle Ages.

</doc>
<doc id="52699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52699" title="Shiver me timbers">
Shiver me timbers

Shiver me timbers is an expression of disbelief that was mostly used by pirates. Originally, the phrase was Shiver my timbers.

</doc>
<doc id="52704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52704" title="Carcharodontosaurus">
Carcharodontosaurus

Carcharodontosaurus was a giant carnivorous dinosaur of the Cretaceous period, 100–93 million years ago. It was about 13 meters long and had a weight of about six tons. Fossils of "Carcharodontosaurus" were found in Africa.
"Carcharodontosaurus" was closely related to the slightly larger "Giganotosaurus", its cousin from Argentina; they are both carcharodontosaurid carnosaurs. Recent discoveries of "Carcharodontosaurus" put its adult length at 39 – 44 feet, making it the largest carnivorous dinosaur in Africa, after "Spinosaurus".
Only two "Carcharodontosaurus" fossils have been found. Two teeth were found in the 1920s. Other parts were found in Egypt in the 1930s. They were destroyed in bombing raids on Munich in World War II while they were on display.
A skull was uncovered in 1996: its length estimates were larger than the older ones and so was its skull, which measured 5.2 feet or 1.6 metres. Its jaws are narrow like those of "Giganotosaurus". Its teeth were up to 7 inches long.

</doc>
<doc id="52708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52708" title="Nastika">
Nastika

Astika (Sanskrit: : "orthodox") and Nastika: ("heterodox") are technical terms in Hinduism used to classify philosophical schools and persons, according to whether they accept the authority of the Vedas as supreme revealed scriptures, or not. By this definition, Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Purva Mimamsa and Vedanta are classified as "astika" schools; while Charvaka, Jainism and Buddhism are considered "nastika" schools.
In non-technical usage, the term "astika" is sometimes loosely translated as "theist" while "nastika" is translated as "atheist". However this interpretation is distinct from the use of the term in Hindu philosophy. Notably even among the "astika" schools, "samkhya" and the early "mimamsa" school do not accept a God (see Atheism in Hinduism) while accepting the authority of the Vedas; they thus are "atheistic "astika" schools". 
The three main heterodox schools of Indian philosophy do not base their beliefs on Vedic authority:
The use of the term "nastika" to describe Buddhism and Jainism in India is explained by Gavin Flood as follows:
At an early period, during the formation of the Upanişads and the rise of Buddhism and Jainism, we must envisage a common heritage of meditation and mental discipline practiced by renouncers with varying affiliations to non-orthodox (Veda-rejecting) and orthodox (Veda-accepting) traditions... These schools [such as Buddhism and Jainism] are understandably regarded as heterodox ("nāstika") by orthodox ("āstika") Brahmanism.
The Tantric traditions in Hinduism, have both "astika" and "nastika" lines; as Banerji writes in ""Tantra in Bengal"":
Tantras are ... also divided as "āstika" or Vedic and "nāstika" or non-Vedic. In accordance with the predominance of the deity the "āstika" works are again divided as Śākta, Śaiva, Saura, Gāṇapatya and Vaiṣṇava.

</doc>
<doc id="52723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52723" title="Capsicum">
Capsicum

Capsicum is a genus of plants from the nightshade family (Solanaceae). Some of these plants are used as spices, vegetables, or drugs. The fruit of "Capsicum" plants have a variety of names. The names vary depending on place and type. They are commonly called Chili pepper, red or green pepper, or just pepper in Britain and the US; the large mild form is called bell pepper in the US, capsicum in Australian English and Indian English, and paprika in some other countries (although paprika can also refer to the powdered spice made from various capsicum fruit).
Capsicums originated in the Americas, but are now grown worldwide.
The fruit of "most" species of "Capsicum" contains capsaicin. Capsaicin is a chemical that can produce a strong burning sensation in the mouth (and, if not properly digested, anus) of the unaccustomed eater. Most mammals find this unpleasant; however, birds are unaffected. The plants developed the secretion of capsaicin to protect the fruit from being eaten by mammals. At the same time, the bright colors attract birds. These birds will spread the seeds. The amount of capsaicin in peppers is highly variable and dependent on genetics. This means that almost all types of peppers have varied amounts of heat felt by those consuming them. The only pepper without capsaicin is the bell pepper. Chili peppers are of great importance in Native American medicine. Capsaicin is also used in modern Western medicine to stimulate blood circulation or to relieve pain.
Black pepper and Sichuan pepper cause similar burning sensations. These are caused they by different substances though —piperine and hydroxy-alpha-sanshool, respectively.
"Capsicum" fruits and peppers can be eaten raw or cooked. Those used in cooking are generally varieties of the "C. annul" and "C. pubescens" species, though a few others are used as well. They are suitable for stuffing with fillings such as cheese, meat or rice.
They are also frequently used both chopped and raw in salads, or cooked in stir-fries or other mixed dishes. They can be sliced into strips and fried, roasted whole or in pieces, or chopped and incorporated into salsas or other sauces.
They can be preserved by drying or pickling. Dried peppers may be reconstituted whole, or processed into flakes or powders. Pickled or marinated peppers are frequently added to sandwiches or salads. Extracts can be made and incorporated into hot sauces.
In 2005, a poll of 2,000 people revealed peppers to be Britain's 4th favorite culinary vegetable.
Many varieties of the same species can be used in many different ways; for example, "C. annual" includes the "bell pepper" variety, which is sold in both its immature green state and its red, yellow or orange ripe state.
This same species has other varieties as well, such as the Anaheim chilly often used for stuffing, the dried Ancho chilly used to make chili powder, the mild-to-hot Jalapeño, and the smoked ripe Jalapeño, known as a Chipolata.
Most of the capsaicin in a pepper is found in the interior ribs that divide the chambers of the fruit, and to which the seeds are attached. At the stem end of the pod, glands secrete the capsaicin, which then spreads throughout, but is concentrated on the ribs and seeds. The amount varies very significantly by variety, and is measured in Scoville heat units (SHU), ranging from the mild bell pepper to the scorching Habanero chile.
The name given to the fruits varies between English-speaking countries.
In Australia, New Zealand and India, heatless species are called "capsicums" while hot ones are called "chilli/chillies" (double L). The term "bell peppers" is rarely used, usually in reference to C. annuum and other varieties which look like a "capsicum" or bell but are fairly hot.
In the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Canada, the heatless varieties are called "peppers", "sweet peppers" or "capsicums" (or "green peppers," "red peppers," etc.) while the hot ones are "chilli/chillies" (double L) or "chilli peppers".
In the United States and Canada, the common heatless species is referred to as "bell peppers," "sweet peppers," "red/green/etc peppers," or simply "peppers", while the hot species are collectively called "chile/chiles," "chili/chilies," or "chili/chile peppers" (one L only), "hot peppers", or named as a specific variety (e.g., banana pepper). In many midwestern regions of the United States the Sweet Bell Pepper is commonly called a mango. With the modern advent of fresh tropical fruit importers exposing a wider latitude of individuals to the tropical fruit variety of the Mango, this definition is becoming archaic. However many menus still call a stuffed Bell Pepper a "Mango".
The name "pepper" came into use because the plants were hot in the same sense as the condiment black pepper, "Piper nigrum". But there is no botanical relationship with this plant, nor with Sichuan Pepper.
In Spanish-speaking countries there are many different names for each variety and preparation. In Mexico the term "chile" is used. Several other countries, such as Chile, whose name is unrelated, Perú, and Argentina, use "ají". In Spain, heatless varieties are called "pimiento" and hot varieties "guindilla".
In Indian English, the word "capsicum" is used exclusively for bell pepper. All other varieties of chili peppers are called chili. In northern India and Pakistan, bell pepper is also commonly called "Shimla Mirch" in the native languages. Shimla incidentally is a popular hill-station in India (and "Mirch" means chili in native languages).
In Polish, the word "papryka" is used for capsiscum fruit and dry spice (the word "pieprz" is used for black, red, and green pepper, but not for capsisum fruit or spice).
In Hungarian, the word "paprika" is used for capsicum fruit and dry spice.
In Israel capsicum is commonly called "pilpel", meaning pepper in Hebrew.
You can test how hot a hot pepper can be by using the Scoville scale.
Capsicum is excellent source of laxative (purgative) and pain relief. Capsaicin has also been studied for possible prostate cancer fighting effects.

</doc>
<doc id="52731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52731" title="Cinnamomum">
Cinnamomum

Cinnamomum is a genus of evergreen trees and shrubs. All of them belong to the same family as the laurel, Laurelaceae. The species in the genus have aromatic oils in their leaves and bark. There are over 300 species in the genus. They can be found in the tropical and subtropical regions of the Americas, Oceania, Asia and Australasia. 
Well-known "Cinnamomum" species include Cinnamon ("Cinnamomum verum", also known as "true cinnamon" or Ceylon Cinnamon); Cassia ("C. aromaticum" or "C. cassia"), Camphor laurel ("C. camphora"), Saigon cinnamon ("C. loureiroi", also known as Vietnamese cinnamon, Vietnamese cassia, or Saigon cassia), Malabathrum ("C. tamala", also known as "C. tejpata"; "tejpat" or "tej pat" in Hindi; or, inaccurately, "Indian bay leaf").

</doc>
<doc id="52737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52737" title="London Stock Exchange">
London Stock Exchange

The London Stock Exchange (LSE) is a stock exchange in London, England. It is the biggest stock exchange in the Europe and third largest in the world.
It is the home of the FTSE 100 Index, as well as others.
The Exchange was opened in 1801 by Queen Elizabeth I.
There are currently 2,938 companies from over 60 countries listed on the London Stock Exchange. The total value of these companies is £3.9 trillion.

</doc>
<doc id="52745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52745" title="The 4400">
The 4400

The 4400 was a science fiction television series. The series ran from 2004 to 2007.
"The 4400" is a reference to 4400 people who disappeared mysteriously over the last century. These people all returned near Seattle, Washington at the same time from a large ball of light. They had not gotten older. After a short time, each person that came back started showing some special abilities, for example: healing, precognition (seeing the future), and persuasion.

</doc>
<doc id="52750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52750" title="Foyle's War">
Foyle's War

Foyle's War is a British detective drama television show. It started on 27 October 2002 and ended on 18 January 2015. The show is set during and after World War II.
On 12 January 2015, it was announced by ITV that they would not commission any more episodes because of how much production costs and their intention to air original drama commissions. The last episode of the series aired on 18 January 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="52761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52761" title="Giant Anteater">
Giant Anteater

The Giant Anteater, "Myrmecophaga", is an animal that lives in Central and South America. 
It is known as ant bear It is famous because it is the only mammal without teeth. It eats a lot of ants, hence the name. It is the largest anteater: its length is between 182cm and 217cm. Males weigh between 33 and 41 kg, female are 27 and 39 kg. This species is mostly terrestrial, in contrast to other living anteaters and sloths which are arboreal or semi-arboreal. It forages in open areas and rests in more forested habitats. It feeds primarily on ants and termites, using its foreclaws to dig them up and its long, sticky tongue to collect them. 

</doc>
<doc id="52762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52762" title="Sanctuary (TV series)">
Sanctuary (TV series)

Sanctuary is a Canadian science-fiction-fantasy television series.
The show originally started out as a no-cost eight-webisode series and later expanded into a television-based 13-episode season after Syfy decided to buy the rights to it. The show ran for 4 seasons before Syfy said that the show had been cancelled.

</doc>
<doc id="52763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52763" title="William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne">
William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne

William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne (15 March 1779-24 November 1848) was a Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
Lamb was elected to Parliament in 1806 as a member of the Whig party.
Lamb served as Irish Secretary in the government. 
Lamb became Lord Melbourne when his father died. His family home was in Melbourne in Derbyshire. Melbourne in Australia is named after William Lamb. 
Melbourne became Home Secretary during Lord Grey's government. Grey resigned in 1834 and Melbourne became Prime Minister.
Melbourne was dismissed by King William IV who wanted the Robert Peel's party. Melbourne came back when the Whigs won the next election. 
Melbourne was Prime Minister when Queen Victoria became queen. He helped her learn about how the government worked. 
Melbourne helped to reduce the number of people killed for doing crimes. Melbourne also made changes to local government.
Melbourne resigned in 1841, and died on 24 November 1848.

</doc>
<doc id="52765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52765" title="Silicon Valley">
Silicon Valley

Silicon Valley is the southern part of the San Francisco Bay Area in California in the United States. The term originally meant the innovators and manufacturers of silicon chip who worked here, but now means all the high tech businesses in the area. Even though it's not truly a valley, it is a term for the high-tech sector generally.
Silicon Valley includes the northern part of Santa Clara Valley and adjacent communities in the southern parts of the San Francisco Peninsula and East Bay. It reaches from Menlo Park (on the Peninsula) and the Fremont/Newark area in the East Bay down to San Jose.
The term "Silicon Valley" was coined by journalist Don Hoefler in 1971. He used it as the title of a series of articles "Silicon Valley USA" in a weekly trade newspaper Electronic News which started with the January 11, 1971 issue. "Valley" refers to the Santa Clara Valley, located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay, while "Silicon" refers to the high concentration of semiconductor and computer-related industries in the area. These and similar technology firms slowly replaced the orchards which gave the area its initial nickname, the Valley of Heart's Delight.
The San Francisco Bay Area had long been a major site of U.S. Navy work, as well as the site of the Navy's large research airfield at Moffett Field. A number of technology firms had set up shop in the area around Moffett to serve the Navy. When the Navy moved most of its West Coast operations to San Diego, NASA took over portions of Moffett for aeronautics research. Many of the original companies stayed, while new ones moved in. The immediate area was soon filled with aerospace firms.
However, there was almost no civilian "high-tech" industry in the area. Although there were a number of excellent schools in the area, graduating students almost always moved east or south (that is, to Los Angeles County) to find work. This was particularly annoying to Frederick Terman, a professor at Stanford University. He decided that a vast area of unused Stanford land was perfect for real estate development, and set up a program to encourage students to stay in the area by enabling them to easily find venture capital. One of the major success stories of the program was that it convinced two students to stay in the area, William Hewlett and David Packard. In 1939, they founded Hewlett-Packard in Packard's garage, which would go on to be one of the first "high tech" firms in the area that was not directly related to NASA or the U.S. Navy.
Thousands of high technology companies are headquartered in Silicon Valley; among those, the following are in the Fortune 1000:
Additional notable companies headquartered (or with a significant presence) in Silicon Valley include (some defunct or subsumed):
Befitting its heritage, Silicon Valley is home to the high-tech superstore chain Fry's Electronics.
"For a larger list of companies, see "
Technically the following universities are not located in Silicon Valley, but have been instrumental as sources of research and new graduates:
A number of cities are located in Silicon Valley (in alphabetical order):
Cities sometimes associated with the region:
In the James Bond film "A View to a Kill", villain Max Zorin plans to destroy Silicon Valley by detonating explosives between the "Hayward Fault" and "San Andreas Fault", causing them to flood. He dubs the operation 'Main Strike' in order to gain complete control of the microchip market by selling his own and destroying the competition.

</doc>
<doc id="52766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766" title="Signal (biology)">
Signal (biology)

A signal in biology is any kind of coded message sent from one organism to another, or from one place in an organism to another place.
In biology, especially in electrophysiology, a signal or biopotential is an electric quantity (voltage or current or field strength), that is caused by chemical reactions of charged ions. Biological signals can also be seen as an example of signal (electrical engineering).
Another use of the term lies in the transfer of information between and within cells, as in signal transduction. 

</doc>
<doc id="52767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52767" title="Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury">
Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury

Robert Arthur Talbot Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury (3 February 1830 - 22 August 1903) was a Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He was known as Lord Robert Cecil before 1865 and as Viscount Cranborne from 1865 until 1868.
Lord Cecil was elected to Parliament in 1853 as a member of the Conservative Party. In 1866 (now called Viscount Cranborne), he served as Secretary of State for India under Prime Minister Lord Derby. Cranborne resigned, but he would return to government in 1874, now as the Marquess of Salisbury. Salisbury was again Secretary of State for India under Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli. In 1878, Salisbury became Foreign Secretary in the Disraeli government.
Salisbury became the Conservative Party leader. Salisbury first served as Prime Minister from June 23, 1885, to January 28, 1886. His first government did not last long as the Conservatives did not have full control.
Salisbury became Prime Minister again on July 25, 1886, with a majority. He would be in office until August 11, 1892 and a third time from June 25, 1895, until July 11, 1902.
Salisbury helped establish the London County Council. Salisbury built up the Royal Navy. Africa was divided up into colonies. The United Kingdom fought the Second Boer War while Salisbury was Prime Minister.
Salisbury resigned on 11 July 1902. He died on 22 August 1903.

</doc>
<doc id="52770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52770" title="Electrophysiology">
Electrophysiology

Electrophysiology is the study of the electrical properties of biological cells and tissues. It involves measurements of voltage change or electrical current flow on a wide variety of scales from single ion channel proteins, to whole tissues like the heart. In neuroscience, it includes measurements of the electrical activity of neurons, and particularly action potential activity.
Classical electrophysiology involves placing electrodes into various preparations of biologic tissue. The principle types of electrodes are: 1) simple solid conductors, such as discs and needles (singles or arrays), 2) tracings on a printed circuit boards, and 3) hollow tubes filled with an electrolyte, such as glass pippettes. The principal preparations include 1) living organisms, 2) excised tissue (acute or cultured), 3) dissociated cells from excised tissue (acute or cultured), 4) artificially grown cells or tissues, or 5) hybrids of the above.
If an electrode is small enough in diameter (on the order of microns), then the electrophysiologist may choose to insert the tip into a single cell. 
Many particular electrophysiological readings have specific names:

</doc>
<doc id="52771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52771" title="Ion channel">
Ion channel

Ion channels are pore-forming proteins that help to establish and control the small voltage gradient across the plasma membrane of all living cells (see resting potential) by allowing the flow of ions down their electrochemical gradient. They are present in the membranes that surround all biological cells.
An ion channel is an integral membrane protein or more typically an assembly of several proteins.
The 2003 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Peter Agre and Roderick MacKinnon for their discovery of ion channels.

</doc>
<doc id="52778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52778" title="Henry Addington, 1st Viscount Sidmouth">
Henry Addington, 1st Viscount Sidmouth

Henry Addington, 1st Viscount Sidmouth, PC (30 May 1757–15 February 1844) was a British statesman. He was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1804.
His father was a physician specialising in the treatment of mental illness. His father was one of George III's doctors and this resulted in Addington being known (in no friendly spirit) as "The Doctor". Before becoming Prime Minister he had been Speaker of the House of Commons.
He tried but failed to negotiate a lasting peace with Napoleon's France.
He was not well regarded as Prime Minister and his capabilities were summed up in the rhyme: "Pitt is to Addington as London is to Paddington". As Viscount Sidmouth, he was a very reactionary Home Secretary in the Government of the Earl of Liverpool but he was eventually persuaded to retire in favour of Sir Robert Peel.

</doc>
<doc id="52781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52781" title="Augustus FitzRoy, 3rd Duke of Grafton">
Augustus FitzRoy, 3rd Duke of Grafton

Augustus Henry FitzRoy, 3rd Duke of Grafton, KG, PC (28 September 1735–14 March 1811) was a British Whig statesman. He was one of a handful of dukes who served as Prime Minister of Great Britain.
He studied at Westminster School and then got a degree from Peterhouse College in Cambridge.

</doc>
<doc id="52783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52783" title="William Wyndham Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville">
William Wyndham Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville

William Wyndham Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville PC (25 October 1759–12 January 1834), was a British Whig statesman and Prime Minister. Grenville was the son of Prime Minister George Grenville. 
He was educated at Eton College, Christ Church, Oxford and Lincoln's Inn.

</doc>
<doc id="52785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52785" title="Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool">
Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool

Robert Banks Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool (7 June 1770–4 December 1828) was an English politician and the longest serving Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Robert Walpole held office for longer, but only as Prime Minister of Great Breat Britain) During his time as Prime Minister from 1812 to 1827, Liverpool became known for the harsh rules he put in place to restore order, but he also led the country through the bad period that followed the Napoleonic Wars. Important events during his time as Prime Minister included the Congress of Vienna, the Corn Laws, Catholic emancipation and the Peterloo Massacre.

</doc>
<doc id="52790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52790" title="Frederick John Robinson, 1st Viscount Goderich">
Frederick John Robinson, 1st Viscount Goderich

Frederick John Robinson, 1st Earl of Ripon PC (1 November 1782–28 January 1859) was a British statesman and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (when he was known as Lord Goderich). 

</doc>
<doc id="52793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52793" title="Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington">
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington

Field Marshal Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, KG, GCB, GCH, PC, FRS (1 May 1769–14 September 1852) was a soldier and statesman. He was one of the leading military and political figures of 19th-century Britain. His defeat of Napoleon at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815 put him in the top rank of Britain's military heroes. In 2002 he was number 15 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.
Wellesley was born in Dublin into a wealthy Anglo-Irish aristocratic protestant family. Wellington was twice Tory Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He was one of the leading figures in the House of Lords until his retirement in 1846. 
Starting as an ensign in the British Army, he served well in the Napoleonic Wars, eventually reaching the rank of Field Marshal. Wellington is often compared to the 1st Duke of Marlborough. They had many things in common, including being in politics after a highly successful military career. He remained Commander-in-Chief of the British Army until his death.

</doc>
<doc id="52794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52794" title="Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey">
Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey

Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey, KG, PC (13 March 1764–17 July 1845]) was a British Whig statesman and Prime Minister. Earl Grey tea, a type of tea with a bergamot orange flavour is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="52797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52797" title="John Russell, 1st Earl Russell">
John Russell, 1st Earl Russell

John Russell, 1st Earl Russell, KG, GCMG, PC (18 August 1792 – 28 May 1878) was an English Whig and Liberal politician. He served twice as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the mid-19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="52799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52799" title="Henry Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston">
Henry Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston

Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston, KG, GCB, PC (20 October 1784 – 18 October 1865) was a British statesman who served twice as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the mid-19th century. He began his parliamentary career as a Tory and ended it as a Liberal.
He is best remembered for his leading of British foreign policy in a period of time when the United Kingdom was at its strongest. He served as both Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister. Some of his actions, now sometimes termed liberal interventionist, were not liked by a lot of people at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="52803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52803" title="George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen">
George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen

George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen, KG, KT, PC (28 January 1784–14 December 1860) was a Scottish Tory/Peelite politician. He served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1852 until 1855.

</doc>
<doc id="52804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52804" title="Edward Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby">
Edward Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby

Edward George Geoffrey Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby, KG, PC (29 March 1799–23 October 1869) was an English statesman. He served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom three times. To date, Derby was the longest serving leader of the Conservative Party. Derby is one of only four British Prime Ministers to have been in office three or more times. However each time he was only in office for less than two years. Derby was Prime Minister for a total of just over four years, less than many other Prime Ministers.

</doc>
<doc id="52805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52805" title="Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery">
Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery

Archibald Philip Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery, KG, PC (7 May 1847–21 May 1929) was a British Liberal statesman and Prime Minister.
As a Scottish peer he did not automatically have a seat in the House of Lords, so he was made Baron Roseberry in 1868, and the Earl of Midlothian in 1911.

</doc>
<doc id="52806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52806" title="Henry Campbell-Bannerman">
Henry Campbell-Bannerman

The Rt.Hon. Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman (7 September 1836-22 April 1908) was a Scottish- born British Liberal statesman. He served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 5 December 1905 until resigning because of bad health on 3 April 1908. 
Campbell-Bannerman was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1836 as Henry Campbell. The surname "Bannerman" was added to his surname in 1871 as required by his uncle's will. It was a requirement of his inheritance of his uncle's Kent estate, Hunton Court.

</doc>
<doc id="52811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52811" title="Pitch">
Pitch

Pitch can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="52813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52813" title="United States Census Bureau">
United States Census Bureau

The United States Census Bureau (officially Bureau of the Census) is a part of the United States government that is responsible for the United States Census.
The Census Bureau is a part of the United States Department of Commerce.
The Constitution of the United States says that the population must be counted at least once every ten years (through the U.S. Census). This is done to calculate how many Federal Representatives in Congress each state should have. The Census Bureau is in charge of doing this. It collects statistics about the nation, its people, and its economy. The Census Bureau's legal authority is listed in Title 13 of the United States Code. The first census bureau was in 1790.
Since 1903, The Bureau of the Census has been the census-taking organization of the United States government. The Bureau is led by a Director, who is helped by a Deputy Director and associate directors.
The Census Bureau headquarters is located at 4600 Silver Hill Road, Suitland, Maryland. There are regional offices in 12 cities: Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Detroit, Chicago, Kansas City, Seattle, Charlotte, Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, and Los Angeles. More offices are set up and used when it comes time to do the census every 10 years.
The Census Bureau also use real-time extrapolation of information on population, birth, and death to give their estimates of the number of people in the United States and the world.

</doc>
<doc id="52820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52820" title="Signal processing">
Signal processing

Signal processing is the analysis, interpretation and manipulation of signals. Signals of interest include sound, images, biological signals such as ECG, radar signals, and many others.
Processing of such signals includes storage and reconstruction, separation of information from noise (e.g., aircraft identification by radar), compression (e.g., image compression), and feature extraction (e.g., speech-to-text conversion).
For analog signals, signal processing may involve the amplification and filtering of audio signals for audio equipment or the modulation and demodulation of signals for telecommunication. For digital signals, signal processing may involve the compression, error checking and error detection of digital signals.
Signal processing is the analysis, interpretation and manipulation of acquired signals. Acquired signals must to be processed depending on the purpose of measurement, a method of measurement, and a property of acquired signals.
When signals are processed, statistics is used because it's essential to know a distribution of data and represent data by numerical formulas. In other words, to study signal processing, it's demanded to study statistics (like the theory of error, the arithmetical mean, probability, a stochastic variable, accuracy, and detailed drawing, etc.).
In most cases, signals are regular, as it is acquired from electric instruments like telemeter, or communications equipment, etc. But there are also many accidentally occurred irregular signals which make it difficult to find formulas that fit exactly. Here, the irregular means it's hard to predict the result which is not yet occurred. When irregular signals are acquired, photon is necessary, so it is measured, and calculated.

</doc>
<doc id="52822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52822" title="Henri Troyat">
Henri Troyat

Henri Troyat, born Levon Aslan Torossian or Lev Aslanovich Tarasov, (November 1, 1911 – March 2, 2007) was a French author, biographer, historian and novelist. Originally, his family was from Armenia.
He was born in Moscow. His family fled Russia, because they feared the coming revolution. After a long exile, the family settled in Paris in 1920, where young Troyat was schooled and later earned a law degree.
He won his first literary award at the age of 24, "le prix du Roman populaire". At the age of 27 he was awarded the prestigious Prix Goncourt.
He published more than 100 books, novels and biographies, among them those of Anton Chekhov, Catherine the Great, Rasputin, Ivan the Terrible and Leo Tolstoy. He was at his death the dean of the Académie française.
His best-known work is "La neige en deuil", which was adapted as an English-language movie in 1956 under the title "The Mountain".

</doc>
<doc id="52835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52835" title="Rondônia">
Rondônia

Rondônia is a state in Brazil. It is in the northwest of the country. To the west is the state of Acre. To the north is the state of Amazonas. In the east is Mato Grosso. In the south is Bolivia. Its capital is Porto Velho. The state was named after Candido Rondon.
Other cities include:
The state is covered mostly by jungle of the Amazon Rainforest. About three-fifths of the state has had the jungle removed since the 1970s. Most of the people living in the state now live in urban areas. It is a big exporter of wood. The state also makes both coffee and cocoa. The breeding of cattle is also important here.
The flag was made by Silvio Carvalho Feitosa. It was made the flag of the state on December 22, 1981. The flag uses the same colors of the flag of Brazil. The big star in the middle of the flag is a symbol for the new state. The star is shown rising into the blue sky that is stretching over Brazil (the yellow and green areas in the lower half of the flag).
The Akuntsu tribe is one of the tribes of Rondônia. They are one of the indigenous peoples of Brazil. They were first contacted in only 1995. At that time, there were only seven people in the tribe. As of 2006, there were six people. They live in the Igarape Omere region to the southwest of Rondônia. The tribe consists of chief Kunibu Baba (male, age: ~ 70), Pupak (male, age: ~ 40), Ururu (female, age:~80) and three women with ages from 23-35. The seventh member of the tribe died in 1995. The only child born after that died in 2000 in a storm. With his death the only hope of the tribe not becoming extinct lessened.

</doc>
<doc id="52840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52840" title="Singular">
Singular

Singular is a form of the noun that shows that there is only one. The opposite of the singular is the plural, which means there is more than one. For example, in English the word "cat" in "one cat" is singular, but in "two cats" it is plural.
Concepts are nouns which usually take the singular. Thus "rhythm" as a concept is singular. But when we talk of different types of rhythm, those are particular rhythms</u/l>.

</doc>
<doc id="52851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52851" title="Cantons of Switzerland">
Cantons of Switzerland

The 26 cantons of Switzerland are the states of the country of Switzerland.
Switzerland is divided into 26 different areas. Each area is called a "canton". A canton is like a state in the United States.
In the past, each canton had its own army and money. This changed in 1848 when Switzerland changed to the structure it has now.
The cantons "Uri", "Schwyz", "Unterwalden" ("Nidwalden" and "Obwalden" together are called "Unterwalden") are called "Urkantone". An Urkanton is a canton that existed since the foundation of Switzerland in 1291. With time, other cantons joined Switzerland. "Jura" is the newest canton in Switzerland since 1978. In that year, it split from the canton of Berne, after some rioting.
The cantons of Basel-Stadt, Basel-Landschaft, Appenzell-Innerrhoden, Appenzell-Ausserrhoden, Obwalden and Nidwalden are different from the others in one way. For historical reasons, their voting is counted differently in national elections. Other than that, they are the same as the others.
In Switzerland, the individual municipalities and cantons are very free. Usually, there is a Swiss law (at the level of the whole confederation). Very often this states general things and says that the cantons must follow this rule. The cantons then make detailed rules, each in the way it sees fit. Sometimes this leads to strange situations. There are 26 different schooling systems.
Drug abuse is an offense, at the federal level. Punishment is usually 1 to 3 years, but can also be only a fine. The problem is: Consumption itself (not trading, or giving away for free) is not punishable. Also in light cases, the police can say that there will be no fine. This has led to the fact, that in each canton, this law is applied differently. In one canton, smoking a joint will mean a fine, in another, it can mean a prison term.
The word for that is called federalism. That means, that each canton has its own government. So all cantons have their own constitution. The constitution is the highest law in a state.
The cantons are listed in the order given in the federal constitution.
Notes: As of 31 December 2001, National Statistics, km², per km², based on 2000 population seat of government and parliament, the seat of the judicial authorities is Trogen.
The two-letter abbreviations for Swiss cantons are widely used, e.g. on car license plates and in the ISO 3166-2 codes (with the prefix "CH-", i.e. CH-SZ for the canton of Schwyz).

</doc>
<doc id="52871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52871" title="Nervous system">
Nervous system

The nervous system is a system in the body which sends signals around the body. It lets people and animals respond to what is around them. The "central nervous system" is the brain, the spinal cord, and nerves. It is present in most animals. It is there to coordinate movement, to process the input of the senses, and to make the animals act a certain way. It is made up of neurons and cells called glia, among other things. Glial cells keep the neurons safe and healthy.
The structure of the system includes the brain and spinal cord, which together are called the "central nervous system." The brain has billions of nerve cells to help think, walk, and breathe. The nervous system can react in 1/100 of a second to a stimulus, like a pain signal.
The anatomy of nervous systems can be sub-divided as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="52906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52906" title="Alexandre Dumas, fils">
Alexandre Dumas, fils

Alexandre Dumas, fils (fils is French for "son"), (27 July 1824 – 27 November 1895) was the son of Alexandre Dumas, père (père is French for "father"). Like his father, Alexandre Dumas, fils was a celebrated author and playwright.
Alexandre Dumas "fils" was born in Paris, France, the illegitimate child of Marie-Catherine Labay, a dressmaker, and novelist Alexandre Dumas. In 1831 his father legally recognized him (he adopted him) and ensured the young Dumas received the best education possible at the Institution Goubaux and the College Bourbon. At that time, the law allowed the elder Dumas to take the child away from his mother. Her agony inspired Dumas "fils" to write about tragic female characters. In almost all of his writings, he emphasized the moral purpose of literature and in his 1858 play, "Le fils naturel" ("The Illegitimate Son"), he wrote about the belief that if a man fathers an illegitimate child, then he has an obligation to legitimize the child and marry the woman.
Dumas' paternal great-grandparents were a white French nobleman and a young black Haitian woman. In the boarding schools, Dumas "fils" was constantly taunted by his classmates. These issues all profoundly influenced his thoughts, behaviour, and writing.
In 1844, Dumas "fils" moved to Saint-Germain-en-Laye to live with his father. There, he met Marie Duplessis, a young courtesan who would be the inspiration for his romantic novel, "La dame aux camélias" ("The Lady of the Camellias"). Adapted into a play, it was titled in English (especially in the United States) as "Camille" and is the basis for Verdi's 1853 opera, "La Traviata". Although he admitted that he had done the adaptation because he needed the money, he had a huge success with the play. With this work began the playwriting career of Dumas "fils" which not only eclipsed that of his father during his lifetime but also dominated the serious French stage for most of the second half of the nineteenth century. After this, he virtually abandoned the novel (though his semi-autobiographical "L'Affaire Clemenceau" (1867) achieved some success).
In 1864, Dumas married Nadeja Naryschkine, with whom he had a daughter. After Naryschkine's death, he married Henriette Regnier.
In 1874, he was admitted to the Académie française and in 1894 he was awarded the "Légion d'Honneur".
Alexandre Dumas the son died at Marly-le-Roi, Yvelines, on 27 November 1895 and was interred in the Cimetière de Montmartre in Paris. It was, perhaps coincidentally, only some 100 metres away from Marie Duplessis.

</doc>
<doc id="52922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52922" title="Conjunctivitis">
Conjunctivitis

Conjunctivitis (also known as pinkeye) is a medical condition when the "Conjunctiva" (a transparent membrane that lines the outer eye, and inner part of the eyelid) becomes inflamed. The cause of conjunctivitis can be either bacterial or viral infection.

</doc>
<doc id="52923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52923" title="Cerulean">
Cerulean

Cerulean is a range of colours from deep blue, sky-blue, bright blue, or azure to deep cyan. The word cerulean comes from the Latin word "caeruleum", which means "sky" or "heavens". This was in turn from Latin "caeruleus" deep blue: resembling the blue of the sky.
In classical times, this term was used to describe blue pigments, particularly mixtures of copper and cobaltous oxides, called genuine cerulean. These early attempts to create sky blue colours were often less than satisfactory due to greenish hues and lack of permanence. When the artificial pigment cerulean blue was invented people started using this instead.
The first recorded use of "cerulean" as a color name in English was in 1590.

</doc>
<doc id="52938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52938" title="John Barrowman">
John Barrowman

John Barrowman (born March 11, 1967) is a Scottish-American actor. He was born in Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom but moved to Joliet, Illinois in the United States when he was 8 years old and grew up there. He is citizen of both the United Kingdom and the United States because of this. Barrowman was a contestant on the first series of "Dancing on Ice" in 2006.
Barrowman is most known for playing the character Captain Jack Harkness in the television series "Doctor Who" and "Torchwood". He is also a famous musical actor and singer. He has appeared in many musicals, as well as television shows about musicals. He also has been a presenter for series such as "Live & Kicking". He is currently staring in CW's Arrow as Malcolm Merlyn.
Barrowman is openly gay. He has been in a relationship with Scott Gill since 1993. They have been civil partners since 2006. They married in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="52943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52943" title="Swamp">
Swamp

A swamp is part of a wetland ecosystem. Swamps are forested, low, spongy land generally saturated with water and covered with trees and aquatic plants. Big parts of swamps are often flooded with water. Swamps are nesting and breeding grounds for birds and other animals.
About 6 percent of Earth's surface is covered by swamps. Swamps are also filters for groundwater, and protect against flooding. Swamps are one of the key wetland areas which are protected by the international agency Ramsar.
Some well-known swamps are: 

</doc>
<doc id="52949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52949" title="Diego Rivera">
Diego Rivera

Diego Rivera (December 8, 1886 – November 24, 1957) was a famous Mexican painter and muralist. He was born in Guanajuato City, Guanajuato.
Rivera is most famous for his 1933 mural, "Man at the Crossroads," for the lobby of the RCA Building at Rockefeller Center. Before he finished the mural, people saw that there was an image of Vladimir Lenin and other communist images in it. Rivera was fired because of this and the mural was destroyed.
Rivera's wife, Frida Kahlo, was also a famous Mexican painter.

</doc>
<doc id="52950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52950" title="David Alfaro Siqueiros">
David Alfaro Siqueiros

David Alfaro Siqueiros (December 29, 1896 in Camargo, Chihuahua, Mexico – January 6, 1974 in Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico) was a famous painter and muralist.

</doc>
<doc id="52970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52970" title="Avenged Sevenfold">
Avenged Sevenfold

Avenged Sevenfold (or A7X) is an American hard rock band. The band started in Huntington Beach, California in 1999. The band is sometimes called "A7X", which is a title started by the band's guitarist, Zacky Vengeance. They have a song called "Beast and the Harlot" which is used in the video game "Guitar Hero II" and "". Their song "Almost Easy" is used in "Rock Band 2".

</doc>
<doc id="52983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52983" title="Siege">
Siege

A siege is what happens when a group of people surround another group of people and stop them from escaping, or getting food and water. Without supplies, those inside will have to surrender at some point. There were many sieges in Medieval times, normally at a castle or town. Sieges took a long time, perhaps months, but were almost always successful, unless another group of people came to rescue those inside, by fighting the besiegers.
Well known sieges were:

</doc>
<doc id="52992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52992" title="Hull">
Hull

A hull can be:
In mathematics:
Other places:
There are several people named Hull:
There is also:

</doc>
<doc id="52993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52993" title="River Hull">
River Hull

The River Hull is a river in Yorkshire in the north of England.
It has its source in the Yorkshire Wolds. It joins the River Humber estuary in the centre of Kingston upon Hull.
The river separates the industrial area of the city, and several opening bridges have been constructed. These continue to cause traffic delays during high tides, though river traffic is not so heavy any more in recent years.
These are the bridges in the Hull area:-

</doc>
<doc id="52996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52996" title="Hull (watercraft)">
Hull (watercraft)

A hull is the body of a ship or boat. It is a central concept in floating vessels as it provides the buoyancy that keeps the vessel from sinking.
Almost all watercraft, from small boats to the largest ships, have a general form that is necessary for stability and efficient propulsion, which includes:
Archimedes, a Greek doctor, inventor, and mathematician, made the science of "hydrostatics", the study of liquids and pressure. The Archimedes principle says that the force holding up an object that is inside a liquid in part or totally. So, a ship actually does sink, until it moves an amount of water that is the same weight of the weight of the ship. The weight must be over a wide area to work. This explains why ships and boats (including submarines) float. An object's weight pulls down in the direction of gravity, but the water's buoyant (floating) force pushes it up. Because these forces counteract each other, the object seems to lose weight. NASA uses this principle to prepare their astronauts for the weightlessness of space, so they had the astronauts work on parts of the space ship inside water tanks 25 feet (7.6 m) deep.
Bow is the frontmost part of the hull
Stern is the rear-most part of the hull
Portside is the left side of the boat when facing the Bow
Starboard is the right side of the boat when facing the Bow
Waterline is an imaginary line circumscribing the hull that matches the surface of the water when the hull is not moving.
Midships is the midpoint of the LWL (see below). 
It is half-way from the forwardmost point on the waterline to the rear-most point on the waterline.
Baseline an imaginary reference line used to measure vertical distances from. It is usually located at the bottom of the hull.
Hull forms are defined as follows: 

</doc>
<doc id="52999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52999" title="Buoyancy">
Buoyancy

In physics, buoyancy () is a force on an object making that object rise or move upward. It comes from the Spanish word for "float", "boyar". Buoyancy is made by the difference in pressure put on the object by the Fluid or air that the object is in.
The net upward buoyancy force is equal to the magnitude of the weight of fluid that is displaced by the body. This force enables the object to float or at least to seem lighter. Buoyancy is important for many vehicles such as boats, ships, balloons, and blimps. 
If the object has exactly the same density as the liquid, then its buoyancy is the same as its weight. It will not sink or float.
An object with a higher average density than the fluid has less buoyancy than weight and it will sink. That is why pebbles do not float. 
Although a ship is made of steel which is more dense than water,it floats because it encloses a volume of air and the resulting shape has an average density less than that of the water.

</doc>
<doc id="53002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53002" title="Asura">
Asura

The Asura are a group of supernatural creatures in Hinduism and Buddhism.
In today's Hinduism, the Asuras are demons. But this was not always that way. The idea of the Asuras is very, very old, from long before the time people learned how to read and write. The Asuras only became demons much time had passed. Buddhism also has Asuras. These are from Hinduism but have also changed a lot in their own way.
Some of the Asuras are very important, and have been worshiped for thousands of years. The most important of these are Varuna and Mitra. Varuna is the god of the ocean, which in olden times was thought to be flowing under the earth. So, Varuna came to be seen as god of the underworld. In ancient times, water was thought to be where wisdom came from. So Varuna is considered very wise, and he gives his wisdom to those who honor him. Varuna's closest companion is Mitra. Mitra mostly means "friend" in Hinduism, but it originally meant "promise". And so Mitra is the god of friendships and promises. He protects people who honor the truth and punishes those who tell lies. The "Mi-" in "Mitra" means "to tie tightly". Friendship and promises tie people to one another.
In Hinduism, the Asura (Sanskrit: असुर) are a group of creatures looking for more power, sometimes called demons. They went against the devas. The devas and asuras are the children of "Kashyapa". 
Hinduism has many stories of Asuras and Devas fighting each other. Mostly they fight about who will get the best prayers from the worshipers.
In Hinduism the Asuras are said to be beings of moral and social things. Like truth and marriage. The Daevas are said to be beings of natural things. Like the sun and the rain. In Hinduism, the Asuras are said to be "older". And the daevas are said to be "younger". There are very many Asuras and Daevas. Two hundred years ago someone counted them and said there were over 2,000 Daevas and Asuras. So naturally not all Asuras are very important. But some names have been forgotten since then, and others have been added. This is why Hinduism is called a "living religion." It is changing all the time. 
The Asuras are partly—but not completely -- demonic in Buddhism. Buddhism takes the basic idea from Hinduism.
Mostly the Asuras of Buddhism represent some mental state of humans that is not nice. For example, anger or pride or violence. There are many different kinds of Asuras. They are always angry with everyone and are always fighting. Their leaders are called the Asurendra, which means "Lord of Asuras".
The Asuras are almost human in their emotions. On the Buddhist scale of supernatural beings, the Asuras are almost at the bottom.
Buddhism is very popular in the far east. So, many of the Asuras also have Japanese, Chinese and Korean names.
The Vedas are the most holy books of the Indian religions, especially of Hinduism. There are four Vedas, and they are all very, very old. The oldest of the Vedas is called the RigVeda, and it is more than 3,000 years old. 
In the RigVeda the Asuras are not yet demons. At that time the Asuras and the Devas were both still groups of gods. In fact, many of the figures of the RigVeda are both "asura"s "and" "daeva"s. This is because, at that time, the two words were not yet names of groups. They were just names of characteristics. "Asura" means "life", and so the gods who were called "asura"s were thought to give life. And the "daeva"s were shining. This is the original meaning of the names. In later books they became different. 
In the RigVeda many of the devas are called asuras, and many of the asuras are called devas. Sometimes they are also called both at the same time: Like "daev"ic" asuras" or "asur"ic" devas". The "-"ic"" makes those words a part of the other word. There are some beings who are both ahuric daevas "and" daevic ahuras. This shows that there was no big difference between 'ahura' and 'daeva' in the RigVeda.
The forefathers of the people who wrote the Vedas spoke Sanskrit. Sanskrit is the source of many Indian languages. The stories in the Rig Veda are seen in the books of various North Indian peoples, and also in the books of some Iranian peoples like the Zoroastrians.
One of the books of the Iranian peoples is called the Avesta. It is not really one book, but a collection of many books, but together they are called the Avesta. The Avesta is the holy book of Zoroastrianism. The language of the Avesta is very similar to the language of the RigVeda. The Avesta also has asuras and devas. But in Iran they are written as "ahura" and "daeva".
The old part of the Avesta is almost as old as the RigVeda. In this old part of the Avesta the ahuras and the daevas are almost like they are in the RigVeda. In both books they are groups of supernatural beings. But they are very different in character.
Some time after the RigVeda was written, stories were told about the asuras and devas that made them not friends any more. A similar thing also happened in the Avesta. Only that the two groups had been switched: The Asuras became demons in regions where North Indian languages were spoken, and the Daevas became demons in regions where Iranian languages were spoken.
It is not known for sure why this happened. It was a very, very long time ago. 
One possible reason why the Asuras became demons in India is this: Some time after the RigVeda was written Indians started to think that "asura" means "a-sura", which means "not a hero". So, maybe that way the "asura"s got a bad name. 
One possible reason why the Daevas became demons in Iran is this: At about the same time as the Indians were writing the last part of the RigVeda, a very thoughtful man named Zoroaster appeared in Iran. He thought and thought a lot about why there was goodness and badness in the world. Finally, he told everyone what he had been thinking about. And one of those things was that Daevas were not to be trusted because they could not tell the difference between truth and lies. After some time Zoroaster became very popular for his ideas. And so, with time, the Daevas became demons in Iran. 
In both cases, the one side did not know what the other side was thinking. So in India only the Asuras became demons. And in Iran only the Daevas became demons.
Many, many centuries before the RigVeda and before Zoroaster, a name that sounds like "Asura" was the proper name of a very mighty god. Some scholars say his name was "Ansu" but this is not sure. So that is why they write the name as "*Ansu". That '*' means it is not sure. *Ansu was the god of life from which the name 'asura' and 'ahura' comes. We know that this god existed because far, far away in Northern Europe there was also a god named 'Aesir', who was also a giver of life. It sometimes can happen that a similar name appears in two or three places. But it is very rare that the same name with the same function appears. So, that is why 'Asura' and 'Ahura' and 'Aesir' must be all come from '*Ansu'. And we know that such a god must have been very powerful because he was very popular for so very long.
Although the Asuras and the Ahuras are related, they should not be mixed up. This is not only because their names are slightly different. It is also because they are very different. But the most important thing is that they are from different cultures. Even if they came from the same place, that was very long ago. After such a long much time, people have very different ideas about them.

</doc>
<doc id="53004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53004" title="Intercontinental ballistic missile">
Intercontinental ballistic missile

ICBM is an acronym. It stands for Intercontinental Ballistic Missile. It is a missile that can travel such distances so it can be used from one continent to another. The missile can then carry a bomb. This can be a conventional or nuclear warhead. Today, most of the time, it will be a nuclear warhead.

</doc>
<doc id="53011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53011" title="Elevation">
Elevation

When talking about geography the elevation of a certain point is how high it is compared to some reference point. Very often, the reference point is mean sea level, the level of the ocean midway between high and low tide on an average day. Most land has a positive elevation, which means it is above sea level. A few desert places are below sea level, thus have negative elevation.
Sometimes elevation is measured against the center of the earth. The problem there is that the earth does not really look like a ball, it is slightly squashed (an oblate spheroid). This means, that while still at mean sea level (at the equator), some points are father away from the center of the earth than others. That way the peak of Chimborazo, a volcano in Ecuador is farther away from the center of the earth than the peak of Mount Everest. Yet, Mount Everest is higher above sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="53021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53021" title="Bastila Shan">
Bastila Shan

Bastila Shan is a character from the "Star Wars" universe.
Bastila Shan was born in the year 3,979 BBY. She is the daughter of Helena Shan and an unknown treasure hunter who joined the Jedi Order despite her protests. She became a valuable member to the Jedi Order despite her young age due to her mastery of Battle Meditation. During the Jedi Civil War, she was responsible for the capture of Darth Revan, with whom she fell in love with. After the amnesic Darth Revan was given an entirely new identity, they worked together for a long time, searching for the Star Forge. After Revan learnt of his true identity she was captured and tortured by Darth Malak and turned to the dark side. During a confrontation, she tried to persuade the redeemed Revan to return to the dark side and reclaim his rightful place. After being rejected and forced to flee to the Star Forge, Bastila confronted Revan again and lost. She begged him to kill her, but he refused and used the power of their love to bring her back to the light and help the Republic in the Battle of Rakata Prime. She later married Revan and soon had a child called Vaner. When Revan left to stop a war he was sure was coming, she stayed behind to look after her child. She is also one of the surviving Jedi to survive the purge that followed it. She died of old age

</doc>
<doc id="53022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53022" title="Darth Revan">
Darth Revan

Darth Revan is a character from the "Star Wars" universe and .
Revan was a Jedi Knight and general who turned to the dark side in the Mandalorian Wars. After the death of Mandalore the Ultimate, Revan claimed the title of "Dark Lord of the Sith". He then founded a powerful new Sith Empire, and declared war on the Republic and the Jedi themselves. After defeating almost all of the Republic territories, Revan was captured by the Jedi due to the betrayal of his apprentice Darth Malak. He almost died (a small spark of the Force kept him alive) and was brought to the Council to have his mind replaced by a new identity that was loyal to the Republic. Even after discovering his former identity, he rejected the dark side. Revan ended the war he had begun by killing Malak. After the Jedi Civil War, Revan was given back his rank as Jedi Knight at age 26. 
He was the lover of Bastila Shan . A year later, all his memories returned. He later left to the Unknown Regions to face this new threat known as the "True Sith".

</doc>
<doc id="53038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53038" title="Kraft Foods">
Kraft Foods

Kraft Foods () is a business that makes packaged food. They own Oscar Meyer and Nabisco. 

</doc>
<doc id="53042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53042" title="Soft drink">
Soft drink

Soft drinks (also known as pop, soda, tonic, soda pop, fizzy drinks, or minerals ) are carbonated drinks made from concentrates and sugar. Some have flavors. Some popular types of soda are Sprite, Mountain Dew, 7 Up, Pepsi, Dr Pepper and Coca-Cola. Most soft drinks are sweetened with sugar, that is what makes them so unhealthy. 

</doc>
<doc id="53060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53060" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1920s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1920s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year between 1927 and 1929 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.
Outstanding Picture
Outstanding Production

</doc>
<doc id="53061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53061" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1930s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1930s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year between 1930 and 1939 is shown first, followed by the other nominees. The name of the award becomes Best Picture in 1930.

</doc>
<doc id="53063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53063" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1940s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1940s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 1940 to 1949 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

</doc>
<doc id="53064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53064" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1950s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1950s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 1950 to 1959 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

</doc>
<doc id="53065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53065" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1960s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1960s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 1960 to 1969 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

</doc>
<doc id="53066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53066" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1970s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1970s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 1970 to 1979 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

</doc>
<doc id="53067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53067" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1980s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1980s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 1980 to 1989 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

</doc>
<doc id="53068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53068" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (1990s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (1990s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 1990 to 1999 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.

</doc>
<doc id="53069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53069" title="Academy Award for Best Picture (2000s)">
Academy Award for Best Picture (2000s)

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS).
In the list below, the winner of the award for each year from 2000 to 2006 is shown first, followed by the other nominees.
"'2007 **"No Country for Old Men" – Miramax Films, Paramount Vantage – Scott Rudin, Ethan Coen, Joel Coen

</doc>
<doc id="53152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53152" title="Lexington, Kentucky">
Lexington, Kentucky

Lexington is the second largest city in Kentucky. In 2010, 295,803 people live there. It is called "the Horse Capital of the World".
Lexington was first named by a party of Virginians who camped here in June, 1775, after they heard the news about the Battle of Lexington, Massachusetts in April of that year starting the American Revolution against the British government. A fort was begun at the same spot in 1779, and by 1782 there was a town here known as "Lexington, Virginia". This is because Kentucky was still part of Virginia then, and was not made into a state of its own until 1792.

</doc>
<doc id="53167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53167" title="Toby Keith">
Toby Keith

Toby Keith Covel (born July 8, 1961) is an American country music singer-songwriter, record producer and actor.

</doc>
<doc id="53171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53171" title="Redhead">
Redhead

Redhead is a person with red or reddish-tinted hair. Approximately 1 to 2% of the world's population has red hair.
Red hair is made by genes. The gene for red hair is recessive, meaning to be weaker than other genes, like the brown hair gene, for example. Because of this, in order to have natural red hair a person needs to have red-haired ancestors present on both the maternal (mother's) and paternal (father's) side of the family.
Red hair is said to be most common close to the Northern European coasts and islands of the Atlantic Ocean, like British Isles, and in particular among Celtic people.
In Ireland, the percentage of population with red hair is very high relative to the rest of the world at around 10%, with 46% carrying the gene. Parts of the United Kingdom such as Scotland also have very high percentages with around 6%. There was a misconception that red hair occurrence in Scotland ran at around 13%, due to this figure appearing in reliable media sources, however this figure was only an estimate and has since been disproved by research. Dr. Jim Wilson of Britain's DNA has carried out the only large scale genetic study of Red Hair using a sample of over 2,343 people; and has found red hair occurrence of 6% in Scotland, this is concurrent with the largest ever study of hair colour in Scotland which analysed over half a million people and found red hair prevalence of 5.3%. A 1956 study of hair color among British army recruits also found high levels of red hair in Wales and the English Border counties.
Depite all this, the US has the largest number of redheads living there in the world (up to 18 million compared to 650,000 redheads living in Scotland).
In some countries, particularly the British Isles, despite the high proportion of redheads there, redheads are sometimes given rude names such as "carrot-top" and "ginga", and are in some cases heavily ridiculed (made fun of) by their peers. In some extreme cases, people have been harassed (others have behaved threateningly towards them) for having red hair.

</doc>
<doc id="53184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53184" title="Owen Spencer-Thomas">
Owen Spencer-Thomas

Owen Spencer-Thomas was born on 3 March 1940 in Braughing, Hertfordshire, England. He is perhaps best known as a television and radio news journalist over three decades. Spencer-Thomas combined this career with that of ordained Anglican clergyman and charity fundraiser. He is married to Maggie; they have three adult children, two sons and a daughter. 
He graduated in sociology at The Polytechnic, Regent Street, (now the University of Westminster) where he helped to establish its Students' Union and became its first elected President in 1966. He continued his studies at Westcott House and Fitzwilliam College in the University of Cambridge. His father, Ivor Spencer-Thomas, held the feudal barony of Buquhollie and Freswick in Caithness, Scotland.
He has wide experience in the field of communications - mainly in television and radio broadcasting as a news journalist. Joining Anglia Television in 1978 as senior reporter on the regional magazine programme "About Anglia", he became news bulletin editor of "Anglia News" in 1992. He also presented Anglia Television’s late night religious programme "Reflections". He has been a regular contributor to BBC Radio 4's "You and Yours" and "Sunday" programmes and has presented religious and ethics programmes on Thames Television and Southern Television. He has reported for Independent Television News. 
He devised and presented the popular "Sounding Brass" radio phone-in programme which was later fronted by Gloria Hunniford on BBC Radio 2. His radio biographies appealed to a wide audience and his portrayal in 1978 of the outspoken television personality, panellist and quizmaster, Gilbert Harding, was widely acclaimed. 
An innovative programme producer, Spencer-Thomas recorded two half-hour interview programmes with Kenneth Williams in which the comic actor, who rarely revealed his private life, spoke frankly about his early days and his feelings of loneliness, despondency and underachievement. Carry On Kenneth also featured skilfully chosen clips from the famous Carry On films, in which Williams starred, adding a gentle humour to the probing interview questions. 
His award-winning documentary "Underneath the Arches" broke tradition by enabling London’s homeless people to tell their own stories without any links from a programme presenter. Instead, short clips from catchy music hall songs were used to establish each location and, with careful editing, the interviewees related their own experiences and introduced each other. The unique presentation won the Unda award for the best religious radio programme in 1977. 
As well as giving practical support to families with disabled children, Owen Spencer-Thomas headed several successful major charity appeals and raised millions of pounds for adult accommodation. He was the Founder Chairman of the East Anglian Autistic Support Trust (EAST) which established the first and desperately needed specialised accommodation and daycare for adults with autism in Cambridgeshire. He served on the National Autistic Society (NAS) Council from 1996 until 2002 and continues to raise funds for a range of other charities.
He became Director of Communications for the Diocese of Ely in 2002. He was Chaplain of Christ's College from 1997 - 2001 and was made an Honorary Canon of Ely Cathedral in 2004. During the Lent Term 2005, he was Acting Dean of
Clare College, and in 2006 was Acting Dean of Trinity Hall, in the University of Cambridge.
Spencer-Thomas was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2008 New Year Honours. He was invested by HM Queen Elizabeth II on 4 March at Buckingham Palace for services to the Church of England and to the community in Cambridgeshire. 
The University of Westminster awarded him an honorary degree, Doctor of Letters (D.Litt) in January 2010 in recognition of his services to journalism and the voluntary sector.

</doc>
<doc id="53185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53185" title="John Inman">
John Inman

Frederick John Inman (28 June 1935 – 8 March 2007) was an English actor. He is best known for his role as Mr Humphries in the 1970s/early 1980s BBC comedy series, "Are You Being Served?".

</doc>
<doc id="53201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53201" title="Edward Abbey">
Edward Abbey

Edward Abbey was a writer. He was born in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States in 1927. He grew up in Pennsylvania, in a small town in the mountains near the city of Pittsburgh. He later moved to the American Southwest and wrote several books. He spent most of his adult life in the states of New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah. Most of his books are about the Southwest. He died in 1989.
During World War II, he was in high school. He took a trip hitchhiking to see the American West. During his trip through Arizona and New Mexico, he fell in love with the Southwest. He enlisted near the end of World War II and was stationed in Italy as a military policeman. When he came back to the United States, he moved to New Mexico and got a college degree. Then he started writing books.
His first book was called "Jonathan Troy". It did not sell well and Edward Abbey did not like it very much, and it was taken out of print. His second book was "The Brave Cowboy". This book sold better and made him known as a writer of western fiction. It was also made into a movie called "Lonely are the Brave". "Fire on the Mountain" was his third book. "The Brave Cowboy" and "Fire on the Mountain" are about cowboys who loved the old American West and did not like it becoming modernized.
He moved to New Jersey for a short time but did not like it, and moved back to the Southwest. He took a job as a park ranger in Utah. He wrote about his job as a park ranger in his fourth book, "Desert Solitaire". "Desert Solitaire" became a bestseller and made him a popular nature writer. He also took other jobs in the Southwest. He worked as a fire lookout at the Grand Canyon in Arizona, and as a park ranger in other National Parks.
After "Desert Solitaire" became a bestseller, he wrote several books of nature essays. Some of these include "The Journey Home", "Abbey's Road", "Down the River", "Beyond the Wall", and "One Life At a Time, Please". He also kept writing novels. His next novel was "Black Sun", which is about a fire lookout at the Grand Canyon falling in love but then seeing his girlfriend disappear. His next novel after that was "The Monkey Wrench Gang". This was his most controversial novel because it was about four people using sabotage to stop development in the Southwest. He also wrote a science fiction novel called "Good News".
His last two novels were "The Fool's Progress" and "Hayduke Lives". "The Fool's Progress" is a long novel that is based on Edward Abbey's own life. "Hayduke Lives" is a sequel to "The Monkey Wrench Gang".
He died in 1989 and was buried in the desert in Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="53221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53221" title="MPs elected in the UK general election, 2005">
MPs elected in the UK general election, 2005

This is a list of Members of Parliament (MPs) elected to the House of Commons for the Fifty-Fourth Parliament of the United Kingdom at the 2005 general election, held on 5 May 2005. The list is arranged by constituency.
The following table is a list of MPs elected on 5 May, 2005, ordered by constituency. The previous MP and previous party column shows the MP and party holding the seat at dissolution on April 11, 2005.
Note that most Scottish constituency boundaries were considerably changed from the previous general election, due to a decrease in the number of Scottish seats from 72 to 59. In this case, the previous MPs cannot be shown, and the previous party column shows the "notional" winner of the new seat, based on analysis of the 2001 general election result.

</doc>
<doc id="53222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53222" title="Rio de Janeiro (state)">
Rio de Janeiro (state)

Rio de Janeiro is one of the 26 states of Brazil. Its capital is the city of Rio de Janeiro.
Rio de Janeiro is in the Southeast Region of Brazil. It shares borders with Minas Gerais, Espírito Santo and São Paulo as well as the Atlantic Ocean. Rio de Janeiro has an area of . 
The state's largest cities are Rio de Janeiro, Nova Iguaçu, Niterói, Duque de Caxias, São Gonçalo, São João de Meriti, Campos dos Goytacazes, Petrópolis and Volta Redonda. Its main rivers are the Guandu River, the Piraí, the Paraíba do Sul, the Macaé and the Muriaé. Its climate is tropical.
The state is made up of both mountains and plains. It is between the Mantiqueira Mountains and the Atlantic Ocean. The bays of Guanabara, Sepetiba, and Ilha Grande are on the coastline of Rio de Janeiro.
Rio de Janeiro is the smallest state in the Southeast Region and one of the smallest in Brazil. Its coastline is , the third longest coastline in the country.

</doc>
<doc id="53223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53223" title="Sampling">
Sampling

Sampling could mean:
Specific types of sampling include:

</doc>
<doc id="53234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53234" title="Bretons">
Bretons

The Bretons are a distinct ethnic group in the region of Brittany in France. They trace much of their heritage to groups of Brythons who settled the area from south western Britain in the 4th-6th centuries. The region of Brittany is named after them and many speak "Brezhoneg", a Brythonic language closely related to Cornish and a bit more distantly to Welsh. The Breton language as such is part of the Insular Celtic language group. In eastern Brittany, a regional "langue d'oïl" named Gallo developed; it shares certain points of vocabulary, idiom, and pronunciation with Breton.

</doc>
<doc id="53235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53235" title="West Midlands (region)">
West Midlands (region)

The West Midlands is an official Region of England, covering the western half of the Midlands. 
The official region contains the large conurbation that includes Birmingham and Wolverhampton and includes also the mainly rural shire counties of Herefordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire.
(Unofficially the West Midlands region also spreads as far as Cheshire, Gloucestershire and Oxfordshire, but these are not part of the official region.) 
There is some confusion in the use of the term "West Midlands", as the name is also used for the much smaller West Midlands county, and is still used by various organisations within that area such as West Midlands Police and West Midlands Fire Service.
The highest point in the region is Black Mountain, at 703 metres.
Major towns and cities in the West Midlands region include:
The official representative body of the region is the West Midlands Regional Assembly which has limited administrative functions such as regional planning and economic development. The assembly is not an elected body, but is made up of members appointed from local councils across the region, and members from regional interest groups such as business and environmental groups and trade unions.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:
Key: shire county = † | metropolitan county = *
Coal mining used to be the main industry of the Black Country. Nationally famous companies in the West Midlands are Cadbury's in Bournville, Birmingham; the brewing companies such as Coors Brewers in Burton on Trent, as well as Marmite; JCB is based in Staffordshire.

</doc>
<doc id="53237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53237" title="Midlands">
Midlands

Midlands could be in general the central region of any territory. In Britain and Ireland, the term is reseved for the "middle" in the North-South ("vertical") direction (countries that are oriented more East-West use "Mid" with a "horizontal" meaning.)
In the United Kingdom, Scotland and England both have midland areas that are famous enough to be called the "Midlands" (as a name, not just as a description). In Wales the term for the central region is "Mid Wales" (not "The Welsh Midlands").
The rest of this article deals with the English Region known simply as The Midlands, which is more or less the territory of the early-medieval kingdom of Mercia.
The area lies between Southern England, Northern England, East Anglia and Wales, and includes the counties of Derbyshire, Herefordshire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire, Rutland, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire, the West Midlands and Worcestershire. The 2001 census also included Norfolk, Suffolk and Cambridgeshire in the Midlands but these are not generally considered to be part of the Midlands but East Anglia.
There are two administrative regions of England in the Midlands: West Midlands and East Midlands. Taken together, these regions do not fully cover the traditional Midlands:
The "midland" status of Cheshire is often debated. South Cheshire has strong links with North Staffordshire (definitely in the Midlands), and North Cheshire with Merseyside and Manchester (both definitely in Northern England). Officially Cheshire is now part of the North West region.
The largest Midlands conurbation, which includes the cities of Birmingham and Wolverhampton, is approximately covered by a metropolitan county (which also includes Coventry) also called the West Midlands. Thus, there are two West Midlands, a Region and a (smaller) County.
Parts of the East Midlands are also densely populated, particularly the triangle formed by the cities of Leicester, Nottingham and Derby.
The South Midlands have an own government for development. They include Northamptonshire and Bedfordshire with northern Buckinghamshire. In other context Buckinghamshire and Bedfordshire are not considered part of the Midlands. They are in the administrative regions of the South East and the East of England.

</doc>
<doc id="53238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53238" title="Midlands (disambiguation)">
Midlands (disambiguation)

There are several regions in the world known as the Midlands. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="53259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53259" title="Jaworzno">
Jaworzno

Jaworzno is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 96 600 inhabitants and 152,2 km².

</doc>
<doc id="53260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53260" title="Volt">
Volt

The volt (symbol: V) is the SI derived unit of electric potential difference or electromotive force. It is named in honor of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta (1745–1827), who invented the voltaic pile, the first chemical battery.
The volt is defined as the potential difference across a conductor when a current of one ampere dissipates one watt of power. Hence, it is the base SI representation m · kg · s · A, which can be equally represented as one joule of energy per coulomb of charge, J/C.
In the "hydraulic analogy" sometimes used to explain electric circuits by comparing them to water-filled pipes, voltage is likened to water pressure - it determines how fast the electrons will travel through the circuit. Current (in amperes), in the same analogy, is a measure of the volume of water that flows past a given point, the rate of which is determined by the voltage, and the total output measured in watts. The equation that brings all three components together is: volts × amperes = watts
Nominal voltages of familiar sources:
Note: Where 'RMS' (root mean square) is stated above, the peak voltage is formula_2 times greater than the RMS voltage for a sinusoidal signal.
In 1800, as the result of a professional disagreement over the galvanic response advocated by Luigi Galvani, Alessandro Volta developed the so-called Voltaic pile, a forerunner of the battery, which produced a steady electric current. Volta had determined that the most effective pair of dissimilar metals to produce electricity was zinc and silver. In the 1880s, the International Electrical Congress, now the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), approved the volt for electromotive force. The volt was defined as the potential difference across a conductor when a current of one ampere dissipates one watt of power.

</doc>
<doc id="53275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53275" title="Music competition">
Music competition

A music competition is an event in which people compete for prizes by performing music. Music competitions can be for solo performers or for small or large groups such as orchestras, bands or choirs. Some competitions are for young people who are starting to make a professional career in music. Other music competitions may be for amateurs, which means that professional musicians are not allowed to compete. 
The person who decides who is the winner is called the adjudicator. Some big festivals have a team of several adjudicators who decide together on the winner.
The British and International Federation of Music Festivals organizes music competitions for amateurs in many parts of the British Isles. Children and adults can take part, competing in classes for music, speech and drama and dance. Competitions like these are often called "festivals" because the main reason for taking part is to enjoy performing rather than just to win.
There are many big international competitions for some of the most talented musicians from all over the world. Winning a big competition can help a young musician to start a successful career. Some people think it can also be a bad thing to win a big competition, especially for musicians who are still very young. It may make them a star for a short time but they still have to get better and mature as a musician and a person.
Some of the most famous international music competitions are:
In popular music one of the great European events is the Eurovision Song Contest.

</doc>
<doc id="53285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53285" title="Adjudicator">
Adjudicator

An adjudicator is someone who decides on a winner at a competition for music or theatre. The adjudicator will always be somebody who has a lot of experience in what he is adjudicating. In big international festivals, a team of several adjudicators may decide together on the winners. In amateur competitions, the adjudicator may also talk to the competitors after they have performed and give them advice. Competitors are often given first, second and third prizes.
In Law, an adjudicator is someone who decides who is right when a group of people cannot agree on something.

</doc>
<doc id="53298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53298" title="Criticism">
Criticism

Criticism is a word used in two senses. Originally, it meant "a scholarly analysis and balanced judgement". Later (mid-20th century) it came to mean "a hostile attack" pointing out the bad features of the topic. 
In ancient Greek "kritos" meant judge, and "kritikos" meant the critic. Related Greek terms are krinein (separating out, deciding), krei- (to sieve, discriminate, or distinguish). The word moved from Greek to Latin ("Criticus", a judge) to French ("critique") to English. The words "critic" and "critical" existed in the English language from the mid-16th century, and the word "criticism" first made its appearance in English in the early 17th century.

</doc>
<doc id="53301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53301" title="Arthur">
Arthur

Arthur is a male name that can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="53304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53304" title="Eduard Hanslick">
Eduard Hanslick

Eduard Hanslick (born Prague September 11, 1825; died Baden, Austria, August 6, 1904) was a famous music critic. He wrote about music that was being composed in his time. He liked the music of composers like Brahms and Schumann but hated the music of Wagner and Liszt. Their music sounded too modern for his taste.
He was born into a German-speaking family. His father was a music teacher. When he was 18 Hanslick went to study music with Tomášek, one of Prague's most important musicians. He also studied law at Prague University. He did not study music at university but he knew a lot about music and played the piano very well. He started writing music reviews (writing about concerts that had taken place). For many years he wrote reviews in a paper called "Neue freie Presse". He became professor of history and music at the University of Vienna and was an adjudicator at lots of music festivals. His most famous book was called "Vom Musikalisch-Schönen" ("About Beauty in Music").
Hanslick's tastes were conservative (he did not like new ideas). We remember him today for writing good things about Brahms and bad things about Wagner. A lot of musicians took sides on this matter. It is sometimes called: "The War of the Romantics". Musicians had long arguments in the music journals about which kind of music was better.
Although in some ways he was narrow-minded he had a lot of influence on music. His books on music are very interesting showing great knowledge. He knew most of the great musicians of his day.
Wagner made a caricature of Hanslick in his opera "Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg" in which the town clerk Beckmesser criticizes the young singer Walther who sings songs which break the traditional rules of composition.

</doc>
<doc id="53306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53306" title="The Fairly OddParents">
The Fairly OddParents

Rhino

</doc>
<doc id="53325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53325" title="Invasion of Poland (1939)">
Invasion of Poland (1939)

The Invasion of Poland in 1939 was a military offensive in which Nazi Germany, and two weeks later the Soviet Union, invaded Poland. It was the start of World War II in Europe. The invasion took place from 1 September to 6 October 1939. The invasion of Poland caused Britain and France to declare war on Germany on 3 September; they did little to affect the September Campaign. In the end, Poland lost and Germany and the Soviet Union divided the country, following a treaty signed years before the war.
This was the first time blitzkrieg was tried on the battlefield. It was very effective against the old and ineffective Polish Army, which was outflanked, outmaneuvered, and outnumbered on September 1939. The Polish Army was taken by surprise, and easily destroyed by the blitzkrieg. One of the reasons the Polish were destroyed was the ineffective and unmobilized Polish Army, which if well prepared could have had two million soldiers.
The invasion came directly from the Gleiwitz incident, where German soldiers dressed as Polish troops occupied a radio station and transmitted Anti-German messages. The next morning German forces pushed the Polish defenders from the border back to inland Poland. After the Battle of the Bzura the Polish were forced to defend Warsaw, while the rest defended the Polish-Romanian border, waiting for the long awaited Allied support which was in the campaign very limited.
The Polish saw how their country was destroyed by war, as their newest enemy, the Soviet Union, attacked the Polish on the 17th of September, destroying all hopes of a Polish victory. The Polish government ordered that all forces retreat to Romania through the border. After the occupation of Poland the remaining Polish forces joined the Western Allies, while some joined the Russian on their fight against Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="53329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53329" title="Winter War">
Winter War

The Winter War (30 November 1939 - 13 March 1940) was a conflict fought between the Soviet Union and Finland. It began when the Soviet Union tried to invade Finland soon after the Invasion of Poland. The Soviet military forces expected a victory over Finland in a few weeks, because the Soviet army had many more tanks and planes than the Finnish army. 
However, the Finnish forces resisted both better and longer than expected. One reason the Finnish forces did better is because they had good winter clothes and they wore white coats which camouflaged them in the snow. As well, the Finnish soldiers moved around on skis, which made it easy for them to sneak up on the Soviet soldiers. The Soviet army did not have good winter clothes, and they wore dark green coats, which made them easy to see in the snow. 
The defeated Finns had to give up 10% of their country. They tried to get it back in the Continuation War.

</doc>
<doc id="53333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53333" title="Joiner">
Joiner

A Joiner is a person who makes woodwork that is used for buildings. That includes things that are called "Finish carpentry" and "millwork" in the United States. Joiners make and install parts of building, for example doors, windows, stairs, wooden panelling, mouldings, shop cabinets, kitchen cabinets, and other wooden items. The skills of a joiner are somewhat between a carpenter and a cabinetmaker.
The terms joinery and joiner are not used often in the United States any more, but the main carpenters' trade union still calls itself the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America.

</doc>
<doc id="53335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53335" title="Stairs">
Stairs

Stairs, staircase, stairway, stairwell, and flight of stairs are all names for a construction designed to bridge a large vertical distance by dividing it into smaller vertical distances, called steps. Stairways may be straight, round, or may consist of two or more straight pieces connected at angles.
Special stairways include escalators and ladders. Alternatives to stairways are elevators and inclined moving sidewalks.
The step is composed of the tread and riser.
The balustrade is the complete system of railings and pickets that prevents people from falling over the edge.
Handrails may be continuous (sometimes called over-the-post) or post-to-post (or more accurately ""newel-to-newel""). For continuous handrails on long balconies, there may be multiple newels and tandem caps to cover the newels. At corners, there are quarter-turn caps. For post-to-post systems, the newels project above the handrails.
Another, more classical, form of handrailing which is still in use is the Tangent method. A variant of the Cylindric method of layout, it allows for continuous climbing and twisting rails and easings. It was originally defined from principles set down by architect Peter Nicholson in the 18th century.
Stair measurements:

</doc>
<doc id="53344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53344" title="Minas Gerais">
Minas Gerais

Minas Gerais is one of the 26 states of Brazil. It has the second highest number of people. It has the fourth largest area. The capital is the city of Belo Horizonte, near the center of the state. The name means "General mines". Minas Gerais was formed mainly by colonists searching for gold, gemstones and diamonds. 
Minas Gerais is in the west of the southeastern part of Brazil. That area also has the states of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Espírito Santo. Minas Gerais shares borders with Bahia and Goiás (north), Mato Grosso do Sul (far west), the states of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro (south) and the state of Espírito Santo (east). It also shares a short border with the Brazilian Federal District.
Even though it is not the largest state in Brazil, Minas Gerais is the state with the most cities. Of the more than 5,500 municipalities in Brazil, Minas has more than 850 of them. The most important ones are the capital Belo Horizonte, Contagem, Betim, Juiz de Fora, Montes Claros, Uberlândia and Ouro Preto

</doc>
<doc id="53345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53345" title="Ceará">
Ceará

Ceará is one of the 26 states of Brazil. It is in the northeastern part of the country, on the Atlantic coast. Ceará has many beaches, which brings a lot of tourism.
Ceará has an area of 148,016 km². It shares borders on the east by the states of Rio Grande do Norte and Paraíba, on the south by Pernambuco state, and on the west by Piauí. Its northern border is the Atlantic Ocean. Its capital is Fortaleza.

</doc>
<doc id="53346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53346" title="Espírito Santo">
Espírito Santo

Espírito Santo is one of the states of southeastern Brazil. It is often referred to as "ES". The capital of ES is Vitória and its largest city is Vila Velha. Those who are born in the state are known as "Capixabas", but the more correct word is "Espiritossantenses". The name means "holy spirit" after the Holy Ghost of Christianity.
This Brazilian state is in the southeastern subdivision of Brazil, which also contains the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro. It is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean (east), the state of Bahia (north), the state of Minas Gerais (north and west), and the state of Rio de Janeiro (south). Espírito Santo's other main cities are Cachoeiro de Itapemirim, Colatina, Linhares, São Mateus and Aracruz.
At , it is about the size of Estonia. The state has many different types of habitats, for example coastal planes, lakes, mountain forest and mangroves.
The islands of Trindade and Martim Vaz, east of Vitória in the Southern Atlantic Ocean, are also a part of Espirito Santo state.

</doc>
<doc id="53348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53348" title="Goiás">
Goiás

Goiás is a state of Brazil. It is in the central part of the country. It shares borders with Tocantins, Bahia, Minas Gerais, the Federal District, Mato Grosso do Sul and Mato Grosso. The capital and largest city in the state is Goiânia. With an area of 341,289 km², Goiás is about the size of the Republic of the Congo; smaller than Germany and larger than Finland.
There are 246 municipalities in Goiás. The top 15 cities in order by number of people (est. 01/07/2005) are:

</doc>
<doc id="53349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53349" title="Maranhão">
Maranhão

Maranhão is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the northeastern region of the country. To the north is the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. Maranhão shares borders with Piauí, Tocantins and Pará.
Major cities in the state besides the state capital São Luís are Imperatriz, Timon, and Caxias. The Alcantara spaceport is in the north of the state, not far from São Luís.

</doc>
<doc id="53350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53350" title="Mato Grosso">
Mato Grosso

Mato Grosso is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the western part of the country. Mato Grosso shares borders with the states of Rondônia, Amazonas, Pará, Tocantins, Goiás and Mato Grosso do Sul. It also borders the country Bolivia to the southwest. The name, Mato Grosso, means "thick jungle". 
Mato Grosso is the state in Brazil in which the most deforestation of Brazil's part of the Amazon Rainforest has happened. In 1977, the state was split into two halves. This created the new state Mato Grosso do Sul. The Bororo Indians live in the Mato Grosso area.
There are few cities. The most important ones are:

</doc>
<doc id="53351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53351" title="Hassium">
Hassium

Hassium is a chemical element. It has been named unniloctium and eka-osmium. It has the symbol Hs. It has the atomic number 108. It is a transuranium element. 
Hassium is a radioactive element that does not exist in nature. It has to be made.
Hassium oxidises like osmium, the element above it in the periodic table. Hassium oxidises to hassium tetroxide. It is less volatile than osmium tetroxide.
Hassium was first made in 1984. It was made at the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung (GSI) in Darmstadt, Germany. The team that made darmstadtium was led by Peter Armbruster and Gottfried Münzenberg. 
The element was named from the Latin name for the German state of Hessen. Hessen is the state that the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung is in. 
Before it was named Hassium scientists could not decide what the name should be. There was an element naming controversy. The temporary IUPAC systematic element name was "unniloctium". The symbol with the name was "Uno". In 1994 a committee of IUPAC recommended that element 108 be named "hahnium". The name hassium was adopted internationally in 1997.
Isotope 270 of Hassium was found in December 2006. An international team of scientists led by the Technical University of Munich found it. It is a doubly magic isotope. It has an long half-life of 22 seconds. Scientists had thought that heavy and stable isotopes should exist. Some theories said Hassium-270 may be part of an island of stability.

</doc>
<doc id="53352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53352" title="Roraima">
Roraima

Roraima is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the northern part of the country. It shares borders with the states of Pará and Amazonas, as well as the countries Venezuela and Guyana. Roraima is both the northernmost and least populated state of Brazil.
The climate is tropical with an average temperature of 26 °C. Most of the state is in the Amazon rainforest. A small part of the state is a small strip of savanna to the east. The state has many mineral deposits - especially gold, diamonds, cassiterite, bauxite and copper. These create constant fights with the native people. The Yanomami are the most well-known of the native people, but they are greatly out-numbered by the Macuxi.
The Monte Roraima National Park is near one of the highest mountains of Brazil, the 2727 m high Tepui Monte Roraima.
In 1943 the Federal Government separated the area from the state Amazonas. The territory was first named Rio Branco after the main river. In 1962, it was renamed "Roraima." In 1988, it became a state. The name of the state was taken from Monte Roraima, whose name comes from the Pemon words "roroi" (cyan) and "ma" (large).

</doc>
<doc id="53356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53356" title="Santa Catarina (state)">
Santa Catarina (state)

Santa Catarina is a state in Southern Brazil. It has with one of the highest standards of living in the country. Its capital is Florianópolis, which partly lies on the Santa Catarina Island. 
Santa Catarina shares borders with the states of Rio Grande do Sul to the south and Paraná to the north. It is bordered on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, and to the west it borders the province of Misiones, Argentina.
Santa Catarina is the most "European" state of Brazil. Most of the people that live there are descendants of Portuguese, German and Italian immigrants.
Its largest city is Joinville. 
European colonies began with the Spanish settlement of Santa Catarina island in 1542. The Portuguese took control in 1675. The captaincy of Santa Catarina was created in 1738. Large numbers of European immigrants, especially from Germany, began arriving in the early 19th century. Immigrants from Italy, Poland, Russia, Ukraine, Japan and other parts of Europe later came. This led to many small, family held farms in the state. 
In late March 2004, the state was hit by the first ever hurricane recorded in the South Atlantic. Because there is no naming system for such an event in Brazil, Brazilian meteorologists called it Catarina, after the state.
Santa Catarina is one of the Brazilian states that shows the most signs of recent European colonization. Most of the population are descendants of European settlers.
The Portuguese started arriving in the 1750s. The came mainly from the Azores islands, and colonized the coast. In the late 18th century, half of Santa Catarina's population was Portuguese-born. These Portuguese created many important towns of the State, such as Florianópolis, the capital.
Germans started arriving in 1828. They were peasants that came to Brazil to get their own lands. They did this since Germany had many people and many people had no lands to work. German immigration was very low, until the 1850s, when many Germans started arriving in Southern Brazil. To create more German colonization in Southern Brazil, the Brazilian government created many "German colonies." Many of these German colonies became big towns, such as Blumenau and Joinville, the largest city in Santa Catarina. 
Germans had kept to themselves in these communities for decades. They did not have much contact with other people of Brazil. For generations they were able to speak German and keep their German traditions in Brazil. This changed in the 1930s, when Brazil declared war against Germany in 1942. The German immigrants learned Portuguese and followed a "Brazilian way of life."
Nowadays, the German influence in the State of Santa Catarina is still very strong. Many towns still have many parts of the German culture. For example, Pomerode is a small town where 90% of the people are German-Brazilian. Most of the people speak German fluently. Another example is the Oktoberfest of Blumenau and many other towns in the region. The architecture and food also show German influence.
Italian settlers started arriving in Santa Catarina in 1875. They came in large numbers until the 1910s. They were peasants from Northern Italy. They created Italian colonies close to the coast. In the beginning, the Italian settlement had failed. This was because many Italians died of tropical diseases or left the colonies to find better conditions. However, in southern Santa Catarina, they found cooler weather and better lands, and the colonies did very well. Many Italians worked in the coal industry. 

</doc>
<doc id="53358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53358" title="Trail">
Trail

A trail is a pedestrian path or road mainly used for walking, but often also for cycling, cross-country skiing or other activities. Some trails are off-limits to everyone other than hikers, and few trails allow motorized vehicles. 
In the United States, the word footpath is also used to mean a trail; however in Australian English, New Zealand English, Indian English, and Irish English this word means "sidewalk" (American English) or "pavement" (British English).
In Australia, the word track can be used interchangeably with trail, and can refer to anything from a dirt road to a pedestrian walkway (generally also unpaved). The term "trail" gained popularity during World War II, when many servicemen from the United States were stationed in Australia, which probably influenced its being adopted by elements of the Australian media at the time (see Kokoda Track). In New Zealand, the word track is used almost exclusively except in reference to cross-country skiing, where trail is used.
Trail use has become very popular for a wide variety of users. Some trails are meant as nature trails, and are used by people learning about the natural world. Many trails are day trails, what means that they are generally used by people out for a short hike, less than a day. Some trails are backpacking trails, or long-distance trails, and are used by both day hikers and by backpackers. Some of the trails are over a thousand miles (1,500 km) long and may be hiked in sections by backpackers, or completed in one trip by dedicated hikers. Some trails are specifically used by other outdoor enthusiasts to gain access to another feature, such as good climbing sites. Many runners also favor running on trails rather than pavement, as giving a more vigorous work-out and better developing agility skills, as well as providing a more pleasant exercise environment. See trail running.
Stairway is another way to ascend higher slopes. Stairway trails are usually for walking only. The stairs are constructed using cuts in dirt, rocks or concrete. Popular stairway trails include Stairway Trails in Bernal Heights East - San Francisco, Stairs at many hill top Hindu temple (Tirumala, Palani) used during Pilgrimage & Machu Picchu.
Recent decades have seen an explosion of interest in cycling, both street-type and off-road type. A common term for these facilities is simply "bike trail". These trails may be built to a different set of standards than foot trails, requiring more stable, harder surfaces, less strenuous grades, longer sight visibility, and less sharp changes in direction. On the other hand, the cross-slope of a bike trail may be significantly greater than a foot trail, and the actual treadway may be narrower in some cases.
Horseback riding has continued to be a popular activity for many trail users. Again, horse trails must be built to different standards than other trails. Sight distance is an important issue with horse trails, as is overhead and side clearance. While trail surface types are a relatively unimportant issue with hikers, they may be an important issue with horses. 
In cross-country skiing, a trail (also called a 'track' or 'piste') refers to the parallel grooves cut into the snow, one for each ski.
Motorized trail use also remains very popular with some people. Such terms as "ORV", "four-wheeling", "all-terrain vehicle", and others actually have highly specific meanings. 

</doc>
<doc id="53361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53361" title="The Pardoner's Prologue and Tale">
The Pardoner's Prologue and Tale

The Pardoner's Prologue and Tale is a story that is a part of "The Canterbury Tales" by English writer, Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Pardoner went on a journey to the town of Canterbury from Rouncivalle with his friend the Summoner.
The Pardoner had hair as yellow as wax which fell on his head smoothly wisp by wisp. He has piercing black eyes and his face was as smooth as he had just shaved. He had a thin and feeble voice yet he was hardly an old spiritual man.
Although the Pardoner was a priest he lived a life that was far from the word of Jesus Christ. He often broke many of the seven deadly sins including greed, gluttony, and pride. He earned a living through preaching and selling fake relics to his supporters. He lies to people and promises them salvation and prosperity for a price. He has even taken money from a poor widow with starving children in order buy himself more luxuries.
The tale describes him getting money from the crowd as he cared more about money than a holy life.
The host asks the Pardoner to tell a happy story after the sad tale that the Franklin told. The other people object to this and hope that he will tell a tale that is rich in morals. 
He starts his tale by talking about three young men who, like him, do sinful things like drink alcohol and sleep with young women. The Pardoner goes on to talk about the sins of the men in detail especially gambling, drunkenness, and gluttony. These three young men are rioters from the town of Flanders. 
One night the three drunken men were at a tavern when they saw a corpse being carried to a grave. They ask who had died and find out it is one of their friends who has been killed by a murderous thief named "Death". The three men plan to avenge their friend's death and kill Death themselves. 
On their way to find Death they see an old man that says Death will not take him even in his old age and suffering. The man says that he had left Death under an oak tree and that he was sure to still be there. They run to the tree and instead of seeing Death, they see lots of gold under the tree. They want to bring the gold back under the cover of night so that nobody will think they have stolen it. They sat down and sent the youngest to fetch 3 pies and 3 bottles of wine.
The remaining two come up with a plan to kill the third when he comes back so that the money could be split between only the two of them. At the same time the third man has the same thoughts as the other two and wants to have all of the money for himself. So he went and bought poison and poured it between the two bottles making sure he kept an un-poisoned bottle for himself. When he got back the other two men jumped out and killed the third man. But in celebration they decide to drink the wine unknowing that the poison was still in the wine, the choked to death due to the poison.
So in the end the moral to this story is that, the gold was the Death that the old man said was beneath the tree and due to their greed and gluttony they all died with nothing.
The love of money is the root of all evil, but also the divide between right and wrong.
The irony in this story has to do with the person telling it. The pardoner himself is a greedy man, but he goes on saying that greed is the root of all evil.

</doc>
<doc id="53376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53376" title="Final Fantasy XII">
Final Fantasy XII

Final Fantasy XII is a fantasy role-playing video game for the Playstation 2. It was released in 2006 by Square Enix. 
"Final Fantasy XII" has six characters you can play as: Vaan, an orphan who wants to be a sky pirate; Ashe, a princess; Basch, who is charged with killing the King; Balthier, a sky pirate who has an airship called the "Strahl"; Fran, Balthier's friend and Penelo, who has been Vaan's "friend" since they were little children.
"Final Fantasy XII" takes place in Dalmasca. Princess Ashe of Dalmasca and Prince Rasler of Nabradia had been married for a short time when the Archadian Empire invaded Dalmasca. A war started thereafter, and Archadia took over Dalmasca in no time, for the small country of Dalmasca stood no chance against the massive Archadian Empire. While the war was going on, Prince Rasler died, leaving Princess Ashe alone. The king of Dalmasca, Ashe's father, decided to surrender to Archadia, clinging to dreams of peace. However, Archadia's ruler wanted him dead as soon as the treaty was signed. Knights from Dalmasca tried to rescue him, but one of the captain of the knights, Basch, was replaced by his twin brother, who then killed king Raminas of Dalmasca, and the main character's older brother Reks. Basch's twin brother is a "Judge" who works for Archadia. The real Basch is accused of high treason and is supposedly killed. Princess Ashe went into hiding afterwards, and was deemed dead.
Two years later, Vaan, Reks' little brother, sneaks into the royal palace. When he was sneaking in, there was a banquet going on to celebrate the election of a new Consul, Vayne. Vaan meets the sky pirates Balthier and Fran in the palace as they were trying to steal the same thing he himself had taken. When Resistance forces broke into the palace, Vaan and his new friends had to hide in the waterways beneath the palace. While they were in the sewers, they met the leader of the Resistance, named Amalia. 
This led to Vaan, Balthier and Fran getting put into the Nalbina Dungeons. What became of Amalia is yet unknown.
In the dungeons, Vaan, Balthier and Fran, find Basch. The Captain deemed a traitor by the people. They free Basch from the cage he is being held in and they go away from the Nalbina Dungeons to the Barheim Passage far below. There in the Barheim Passage, they fight creatures that can imitate treasure chests called Mimics, and they battle a Mimic Queen. After, the wall collapses, and Balthier, Vaan, Fran and Basch go back into the city of Rabanastre, which is the capital of Dalmasca. There, they learn that Vaan's friend Penelo was kidnapped by a head-hunter who was looking for Balthier. The kidnapper is named Ba'Gamnan, and he has taken Penelo to Bhujerba, a city in the sky. Balthier lets Vaan use his airship, which is like an airplane except different in shape, and they fly to Bhujerba to rescue Penelo
When they get to Bhujerba, they go to the Lhusu Mines. The Lhusu Mines have a lot of magicite, but also have a lot of dangerous monsters. They go inside with a person who calls himself Lamont, and when they get to the end they see Ba'Gamnan. He chases them but does not reach them and they manage to get away safely.

</doc>
<doc id="53380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53380" title="Final Fantasy IX">
Final Fantasy IX

Final Fantasy IX is a fantasy role-playing video game for the Playstation. It was released in 2000 by Square Enix.

</doc>
<doc id="53383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53383" title="Final Fantasy (video game)">
Final Fantasy (video game)

Final Fantasy is a fantasy role-playing video game. It was made by Squaresoft, now called Square Enix. It was released in 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="53384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53384" title="Final Fantasy II">
Final Fantasy II

Final Fantasy II is a fantasy role-playing video game. It was made by Squaresoft, now called Square Enix. Instead of getting stronger by getting points by killing monsters and using these to gain levels, for each attack you make there is a chance a stat (strength, health, agility...) will be increased.

</doc>
<doc id="53385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53385" title="Final Fantasy III">
Final Fantasy III

Final Fantasy III is a fantasy role-playing video game. It was made by Squaresoft, now called Square Enix. Final Fantasy III is notably the first Final Fantasy game to make use of the job feature. For each battle you win you get points, you can spend these points on job classes, each job class has different commands in its menu during battle.

</doc>
<doc id="53386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53386" title="Final Fantasy IV">
Final Fantasy IV

Final Fantasy IV is a fantasy role-playing video game. It was made in 1991 by Squaresoft, now called Square Enix. It was first played on the Super Famicom in Japan, and Super Nintendo in the United States. It was called "Final Fantasy II" when it was on the Super Nintendo. You can also play it on the Sony PlayStation, Wonderswan Color, Game Boy Advance, and Nintendo DS (with 3D graphics). 
The most important person in the game is Cecil. He is a Dark Knight for the Kingdom of Baron. You help Cecil beat Golbez, an evil person who steals strong crystals from the world. Many different people help Cecil out during the game.
"Final Fantasy IV" helped make later "Final Fantasy games". This was the first game to use an Active Time Battle, where players and enemies take turns to fight instead of having all players fight at the same time. The player makes the character do actions in real time. This way of playing was also used in later "Final Fantasy" games. 
"Final Fantasy IV" did quite a lot to impact role-playing video games. It introduced battles fought using Square-Enix's ATB system and had great graphics for the time.

</doc>
<doc id="53387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53387" title="Final Fantasy V">
Final Fantasy V

Final Fantasy V is a medieval fantasy role-playing video game. It is developed and published by Square (now Square Enix). It was first made in 1992 as a part of the "Final Fantasy" series. The game first appeared only in Japan on Nintendo's Super Famicom. It has been remade with little differences to Sony's PlayStation and Nintendo's Game Boy Advance.
The original video animation produced in 1994 called "" is a sequel to the game. It was released on the PlayStation Network on April 6, 2011 in Japan. The game was released for iPhone and iPad on March 28th, 2013.
A version of the game was created for the Nintendo Game Boy Advance in 2006. It has many weapons, items, armors and 22 jobs. Some jobs are secret and can only be unlocked in the GBA version.
The game begins when a wanderer named Bartz investigates a fallen meteor. He meets several characters. One tells him about the danger the four Crystals that control the world's elements. These Crystals act like a seal on Exdeath. Exdeath is an evil magician. Bartz and his friends have to keep the Crystals from being used by Exdeath.
"Final Fantasy V" has been praised for its character customization. This is possible because of the large Job System. The first Super Famicom version sold more than two million copies. The PlayStation version has earned "Greatest Hits" status. It has sold more than 350,000 copies.

</doc>
<doc id="53388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53388" title="Final Fantasy VI">
Final Fantasy VI

Final Fantasy VI (also known as Final Fantasy III for the US-SNES version) is a fantasy role-playing video game. It was made by Squaresoft, now called Square Enix. In this game, the story is about a half human, half Esper named Terra who must stop a evil empire led by Emperor Gestahl.
The game allows you to control 14 playable characters, the most of any part of the Final Fantasy Main Series.
When "Final Fantasy VI" was released it was highly praised by critics. Meanwhile it is seen as one of the landmark games in the role - play genre; ING even ranked it as number on RPG of all time.
It was available for Super Nintendo and Playstation and sold 3.48 million times as stand-alone game worldwide, in addition to 750,000 copies of the Japanese "Final Fantasy Collection". 

</doc>
<doc id="53389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53389" title="Final Fantasy VIII">
Final Fantasy VIII

Final Fantasy VIII is a fantasy role-playing video game. It was released for the PlayStation in 1999 and Windows computers in 2000. It was made by Square (now Square Enix). It is the eight title of the "Final Fantasy" series. It removed magic point-based spell-casting. It was the first title to consistently use realistically proportioned characters. The game became available on PlayStation Network as a PSone Classics title in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="53390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53390" title="Final Fantasy X">
Final Fantasy X

Final Fantasy X is a fantasy role-playing video game made by Square Enix. It is the 10th game in the "Final Fantasy" video game series. The game was released in 2001, and is the first "Final Fantasy" game that was made for the Sony PlayStation 2 video game console.

</doc>
<doc id="53391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53391" title="Final Fantasy X-2">
Final Fantasy X-2

Final Fantasy X-2 is a fantasy role-playing video game released for the PlayStation 2 in 2003. It was made by Square Enix. It is a direct sequel to the game "Final Fantasy X", the first direct sequel in the "Final Fantasy" series. 

</doc>
<doc id="53392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53392" title="Final Fantasy XI">
Final Fantasy XI

Final Fantasy XI is an online fantasy role-playing video game. It was made by Square Enix.

</doc>
<doc id="53393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53393" title="Ditch">
Ditch

A ditch is created to channel water and can be described as a small or moderate depression. A ditch can be used for drainage, to drain water from low lying areas, alongside roadways or fields, or to channel water from a more distant source for plant irrigation. A trench can be defined as a long narrow ditch.
Ditches are commonly seen around farmland, especially in areas that have required drainage, such as The Fens in the UK and the pro-water management The Netherlands.
Roadside ditches can provide a hazard to motorists, especially in poor weather conditions.
In military engineering and fortification, a distinction is made between a ditch and a trench. A ditch is a barrier, designed to slow down or break up an attacking force, while a trench is a cover, intended to provide protection to the defenders. In Medieval fortification, a ditch was often constructed in front of a defensive wall. When filled with water, such a defensive ditch is called a moat. Today ditches are of no importance as an obstacle for persons, but are still often used as anti-vehicle obstacles.

</doc>
<doc id="53396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53396" title="Flags of Brazilian states">
Flags of Brazilian states

This gallery of flags of Brazilian states shows the flags of the 26 Brazilian States and the federal district.

</doc>
<doc id="53398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53398" title="Chobits">
Chobits

The story is mostly about the life of Hideki Motosuwa who did not make it into a university, and so is called a 'ronin', a repeat student. Hideki tries to get into a university by moving from his farm and studying at Seki, a cram school in Tokyo. He is not used to women, but likes to imagine that he is. He wants to have a girlfriend and a 'Persocom'. A Persocom is a kind of robot that looks like a person, but can be used like a computer, phone, and a "partner" in some cases. 
One evening when Hideki is walking home from the grocery store, he finds a unique Persocom on a curb. It is a beautiful young girl with long blonde hair, wrapped in white cloth, lying against a pile of trash bags. He takes the Persocom home. Hideki looks all over the Persocom's body for a switch to turn her on, and finds it between her legs. He turns her on and asks her questions, but all she can say is "chi", so Hideki names her Chi.
The anime has 26 episodes and was broadcast across East Asia and Southeast Asia by the anime television network, Animax. Episodes 9, 18, and an extra 27th OVA episode are used as "recap" episodes, looking back on the events that happened previously. The episodes were given different numbers for the DVD release because the original recap episodes were not included as part of the main anime, instead being published together on the final DVD and re-numbered as 8.5, 16.5 and 24.5 making the series only 24 episodes.
There is a 6-minute special episode: "Sumomo and Kotoko on a Quest", or "Chibits", which is about Sumomo and Kotoko.
The series was supervised by Morio Asaka, and Hisashi Abe was the character designer and the animation director. The ending to the anime series is different from the manga. One thing that is different is that there is no allusion to Hideki never having Chi because of where her switch is, and the new part of Freya taking over Chi's body and asking her mother Chitose to shut them down, saying the Chobits series is a failure, and the activation of the program after all, although the effect on Persocons is not the same as in the manga.

</doc>
<doc id="53420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53420" title="Brossard, Quebec">
Brossard, Quebec

Brossard is a city near Montreal in the Canadian province of Quebec. Brossard is also near the Saint Lawrence River. About 70,000 people live in the city of Brossard. Paul Leduc is the mayor of Brossard since 2009. Brossard was created on February 14, 1958.
Brossard has a lot of people from different places. For example, there are lots of Chinese people who live in Brossard, more so than in any other city in Quebec.

</doc>
<doc id="53425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53425" title="Master of Puppets">
Master of Puppets

Genre: Heavy Metal,Thrash metal
Master of Puppets is Metallica's third album. It was released by Elektra Records on February 21 1986. The album has 8 songs, which many feel made a permanent impact on heavy metal music. Several of its songs are still played on the radio. It is the last album to feature bassist Cliff Burton, who died in a bus accident on September 27, 1986 while touring in Sweden to promote the album. It is one of the best selling heavy metal albums.

</doc>
<doc id="53426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53426" title="Anton Bruckner">
Anton Bruckner

Anton Bruckner (born Ansfelden, Austria, 4 September 1824; died Vienna, 11 October 1896) was an Austrian composer. He is especially famous for his nine symphonies. They are all very long and are written in a late Romantic style for a large orchestra. He was also an organist and teacher.
Bruckner’s father was an organist and schoolmaster in a small village in Austria. By the age of four Bruckner was showing musical talent. He played hymn tunes on a tiny violin and then found the chords to go with them on the family spinet. When he was ten he sometimes played the village organ for services. After his father’s death in 1837 he became a choirboy at the monastery school of St Florian where, in 1848, he became the organist of the abbey church. He started composing at this time and wrote a "Requiem in d minor". He liked the music of Schubert and Mendelssohn and they influenced the way he composed.
Although he was happy at St Florian his friends told him he ought to look for a better job. They made him apply for the job of organist at the cathedral of Linz which he got easily. Meanwhile, he was trying to learn more about harmony and took a course with a famous teacher Simon Sechter. He then took a course in orchestration with the teacher Otto Kitzler. He became very interested in the music of Romantic composers like Liszt, Berlioz and especially Wagner. In 1864 he wrote a "Mass" in d minor for chorus and orchestra which clearly showed Wagner’s influence. In 1866 he finished the first of his nine symphonies. He also wrote some very beautiful motets which are among the best music of the 19th century written for the Roman Catholic church.
In 1866 he spent three months in a sanatorium after a nervous collapse. During his later years he often suffered from depression.
In 1868 he became professor at the Vienna Conservatoire where he taught harmony and counterpoint. This was an excellent job. The last 25 years of his life he spent his time teaching and composing his symphonies. He also travelled and gave organ recitals at Notre Dame in Paris and the Royal Albert Hall and Crystal Palace in London. 
His music was very modern for its time and some people, including the famous music critic Eduard Hanslick, did not like it. Hanslick said that Bruckner composed like Wagner, but although Bruckner had learned from Wagner he did not simply copy him. Bruckner’s music shows his own strong personality. Hanslick, who preferred the symphonies of Brahms, did Bruckner a lot of harm by writing bad reviews of his music. He was Dean of the Music Department at the university in Vienna and did not want Bruckner to be appointed lecturer at the University. However, Bruckner did get that job in 1875. He became more and more famous, especially after the great conductor Arthur Nikisch conducted the first performance of his "Symphony no 7" in the Leipzig Gewandhaus in 1884. He was given many honours. At the time of his death he had not yet finished his "Symphony no 9". He was buried in St Florian.
Bruckner always remained a simple person who dressed and behaved like someone from a small village. He never felt very self-confident and was always asking other people whether he was good enough for his job. He never married or had a proper relationship with anyone although he fell in love with several young women.
Bruckner’s symphonies show a wonderful ability to develop ideas slowly over a long period of time. Some of the slow movements last about 30 minutes. His music builds up in stages to big climaxes in a similar way to organ music. His scherzos (third movements) are tuneful dance movements which often sound like country dances. His music shows great harmonic and polyphonic skills. Bruckner often made revisions (changes) to his music. This often makes a problem for conductors today as they have to decide which version to use. Many musicians think that often Bruckner’s first versions were the best. The revisions were often cuts to make a symphony shorter so that orchestras would be more likely to play it, but the cuts spoil the flow of the music. Nowadays we recognize Bruckner as one of the greatest writers of symphonies as well as a great composer of choral music.

</doc>
<doc id="53427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53427" title="Rondo">
Rondo

In music a rondo is a piece of music which has one main theme, which is heard several times, and other musical ideas in between each time. If we give the main theme a label "A" and the other musical ideas "B", "C", "D" etc. then the form of a rondo can be described as ABACADA. The sections in between the main "A" section are called "episodes". Rondos can vary in length, e.g. a rondo might be ABACADAEAFA. Each episode is normally in a different key from the main key.
The word "rondo" is sometimes given the French spelling: rondeau.
Composers from the Baroque period onwards often write movements which are in rondo form. In the Classical music period the last movement of a symphony or sonata is very often a rondo. Rondos are normally fast and lively. They are a good way of finishing a long piece of music with something that is happy.
The word "rondo" is related to the word "ritornello" meaning: something that keeps returning.
Rondo form is sometimes combined with sonata form to make something which is called "sonata rondo form". In sonata rondo form the second tune is treated like the second subject in sonata form where it comes back in the main key the second time.

</doc>
<doc id="53441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53441" title="Military engineering">
Military engineering

A military engineer uses his skills in construction to build many different structures for warfare. These different structures can be made for either offense or defense. Other jobs include building and taking apart minefields and bridges. In some cases an engineer may have to destroy something that he has built before. This may be to stop the enemy soldiers following them across the river for example. In many armies the military engineers are also called pioneers or sappers.
Today a military engineer that operates during battle is called a combat engineer.
Perhaps the first people who had a special force of military engineering specialists were the Romans. Roman military engineering was very good in its time. So they were able to build a double-wall of fortifications that was thirty miles long in total (both walls together) in just six weeks, when they wanted to a besieged city in Gaul. 
The design, construction, and destroying of the works shown would be the task of a military engineer.

</doc>
<doc id="53461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53461" title="Melisma">
Melisma

In music, a melisma is the technique of singing one syllable to a lot of notes. They are often called vocal runs or simply runs. Music which uses melismas can be called melismatic.
In Western music melismas are often used in operas or any other music which is written for the singer to show off the voice. Melismatic music is the opposite of music where each syllable has its own note. In the "Alleluia Chorus" from Handel's "Messiah" each syllable of the word "Alleluya" has its own note. But in other parts of the "Messiah" there are often melismas, e.g. in "Thus saith the Lord" the word "shake" ("and I will shake the heavens and the earth") is set to a run of 25 fast notes. This example can also be described as "word painting". Handel uses the melisma to make it sound like someone shaking something.
Melismas are used a lot in music from many different cultures.

</doc>
<doc id="53463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53463" title="Spinet">
Spinet

A spinet is a small kind of harpsichord. In Renaissance and Baroque times, and even later, people often had a spinet in their homes. The advantage of a spinet was that it was cheaper than a harpsichord and it also took up less room.
Sometimes the word used to be spelt differently, e.g. "spinnet" or "spinnit".
The spinet is different from a harpsichord because of the angle of the strings which run at an angle to the right. The whole instrument is a bit like a triangle in shape. The strings are arranged in pairs and the jacks (the quills which pluck the strings) are also in pairs in the wider gaps, plucking the string next to them.
Harpsichords may have several sounds (in the same way that an organ has several stops making different sounds. This is not possible on a spinet, which has one sound only. It is always an 8 foot sound (the notes sound at the normal pitch, never an octave higher). Spinets were useful for accompanying.

</doc>
<doc id="53475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53475" title="United Artists">
United Artists

United Artists is a Hollywood movie company. The original company was founded in 1919 by a group of actors. They wanted to be in control of their interests rather than depend on commercial studios. In 1967, United Artists was bought by Transamerica Corporation, and in 1981, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and United Artists merged to form MGM/UA Entertainment Co.. In 1985, Turner Broadcasting System announced it would buy MGM/UA, and in 1986, MGM split from Turner and renamed to MGM/UA Communications Co.. In 1990, MGM/UA was bought out by Pathé and renamed to MGM-Pathé Communications, and in 1992, MGM-Pathé was bought by Crédit Lyonnais and reverted back to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. In 1997, MGM was sold to Tracinda Corporation, and in 2005, MGM/UA formed the new company MGM Holdings.
The current United Artists formed in November 2006. It was a partnership between producer/actor Tom Cruise and his production partner, Paula Wagner, and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. from 2012 to 2015 , it is a fully owned subsidiary of MGM. as of 2015, it is now owned by DHX Media with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer handling UA's movies from 1952 to 2016. DHX has ben merging with UA to form DHX/UA Media in 2017, with newer movies produced by UA.

</doc>
<doc id="53476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53476" title="Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer">
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc., or MGM, is an American media company. They mainly make movies and television programs. On April 8, 2005, the company was bought by a group led by Sony and Comcast along with Texas Instruments and Warner Bros.
The company is named after three companies which were combined in 1924 to start the MGM movie company. They were Metro Pictures, Samuel Goldwyn Productions, and Louis B. Mayer Productions.
From the 1920s through World War II, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was the largest movie studio in Hollywood. They made more money than any other studio. At its busiest, MGM made about one movie a week and also made many short movies and cartoons. By the mid-1930s MGM had 4,000 employees. It had 23 Sound stages on their 117 acre lot. In 1939 MGM's assets were worth $144 million USD. In the 1940s the studio had problems. Movie theatre attendance was declining and television was starting to draw people away from the movies. In 1948, the Supreme Court decision United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc. put an end to movie studios owning their own theatres. Lowes continued to be the parent company of MGM. But in 1954 Lowes Theatres was formed to control most of the movie theatres. In the late 1960s and 1970s, MGM sold off most of their back lot. They sold MGM's British studios and MGM Records.
In 1981 MGM's major stockholder, Kirk Kerkorian bought United Artists. In 1983 MGM and United Artists merged as MGM/UA Entertainment. On August 7, 1985, Turner Broadcasting System announced that they would buy MGM/UA. Turner saw the value of acquiring pre-May 1986 MGM's film library for his superstation WTBS. Under the terms of the deal, Turner would immediately sell MGM's United Artists back to Kerkorian. As a result of the MGM split from Turner, both MGM and UA became merely brands of MGM/UA Communications Co. in late 1986.
In late 1986 after Turner Broadcasting System split into two companies; Turner Broadcasting System and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Turner continued to release the pre-May 1986 MGM film and television library on video known as Turner Home Entertainment. Turner sold the MGM lot for $190 million to Lorimar-Telepictures.
In 1990, Giancarlo Parretti, the owner of The Cannon Group, bought MGM/UA for $1.2 billion. He then merged Cannon with MGM and named it MGM-Pathé Communications. In 1991 there were a number of lawsuits and he defaulted to Crédit Lyonnais, his financial backer. Parretti also faced securities fraud charges in the United States and Europe. The company name was changed back to Metro-Goldwin-Mayer Inc. US bankruptcy laws forced Crédit Lyonnais to sell MGM. It was acquired again by Kerkorian for $1.3 billion.
"The Wizard of Oz" is one of the most famous movies made by MGM. It was made in 1939. The star of the movie was Judy Garland.

</doc>
<doc id="53477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53477" title="Apostle">
Apostle

Apostle and The Apostles can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="53480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53480" title="Intercontinental Cup">
Intercontinental Cup

The European/South American Cup, commonly called the Intercontinental Cup or Toyota Cup, was a football competition by UEFA and CONMEBOL. The competition was between the winners of the European Champions League and the South American Copa Libertadores in a match played each year.
The Cup was called the World Club Championship until the first FIFA Club World Cup was held in 2000.
From 2005 the Intercontinental Cup was replaced by the FIFA Club World Cup. The FIFA Club World Cup also includes North American, Asian, African and Oceanian winners.
Since 2005: FIFA Club World Cup

</doc>
<doc id="53494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53494" title="Hafizullah Amin">
Hafizullah Amin

Hafizullah Amin (, August 1, 1929 – December 27, 1979) was the second President of Afghanistan. He was president during the time of the communist Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. The Soviets got information from their KGB spies that Amin's rule was a threat to the stability of Afghanistan. They also were not certain about Amin’s loyalty to the Soviet Union. The Soviets found some information about Amin's trying to become closer to Pakistan and China. The Soviets also believed that Amin was behind the death of president Nur Muhammad Taraki. Finally, the Soviets decided to remove Amin.

</doc>
<doc id="53510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53510" title="Paraíba">
Paraíba

Paraíba is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the northeastern part of the country, on the Atlantic coast. It is the easternmost point of the Americas. João Pessoa is the capital city.
In the mid-1500s, Portuguese settlers from Pernambuco founded Filipéia de Nossa Senhora das Neves (today João Pessoa) at the mouth of the Paraíba do Norte River.
The area was found to be perfect for making sugar. The French, the Dutch and the Portuguese all fought to have the Paraíba region to grow sugarcane in. The fortress of Santa Catarina, near João Pessoa, was built to protect the city from the Dutch.
In late 1989 a team looking for gemstone and led by Heitor Dimas Barbosa found what some people believe are the best Tourmaline crystals ever found. Copper in the crystals gives the tourmalines a bright turquoise color that had never been seen before in the gems. The mountains have been searched after this, but no more crystals have been found.
The word "nego" is Portuguese for "I deny". It refers to protests in the 1920s in Paraíba against Júlio Prestes becoming the President of Brazil. State president João Pessoa supported these protests. João Pessoa joined the alliance to the overthrow of the federal government. This group caused Getúlio Vargas to become president. The rebellion lead to João Pessoa eing killed.
The official government site of the state of Paraíba says that the red is for the blood of the assassination of João Pessoa. The black is for the mourning after the assassination.

</doc>
<doc id="53514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53514" title="Mato Grosso do Sul">
Mato Grosso do Sul

Mato Grosso do Sul is one of the states of Brazil. It shares borders with the states of Mato Grosso, Goiás, Minas Gerais, São Paulo and Paraná. It also borders the countries of Paraguay and Bolivia to the west. Campo Grande is the capital of the state
Mato Grosso do Sul means "Southern Thick Forest". The name comes from its northern neighbour state of Mato Grosso. Mato Grosso do Sul was a part of Mato Grosso until they were split in the 1970s. Many people wrongly refer to Mato Grosso do Sul as simply "Mato Grosso". This has caused the government to consider changing its name to "Pantanal", the world's largest wetlands which is in the state.
Mato Grosso do Sul's economy is based mainly on farm products. Cattle-raising is the most important product of the state. Other products include sugarcane, wheat, soybeans, manioc, rice and cotton.
The state is located in western Brazil, in an area of the country that is mostly marshes of the Pantanal.
Mato Grosso do Sul is divided into 11 regions. It has 78 municipalities. Larger cities include:
The highest elevation is the 1,065 m high Morro Grande.
In 1977 the state was created by dividing the state of Mato Grosso. It officially became a state two years later on January 1, 1979.
Mato Grosso do Sul's flag was made by Mauro Michael Munhoz. White is for hope, green is for the state's plantlife, blue is for the sky and the yellow star adds balance, force and serenity.

</doc>
<doc id="53535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53535" title="Swimming pool">
Swimming pool

A swimming pool is a tank or large basin that is filled with water and intended for recreational or competitive swimming or diving. Pools are also used for other bathing activities, such as playing, wading, water exercising, floating on inner tubes, or cooling off on hot days. The chemical chlorine is usually used to killing germs and algae. Sometimes sea water is also used to maintain pool algae free.
There are different types of swimming pools. The most common pool styles are play pool, freeform pool, geometric pool, lap pool, diving pool, infinity pool, spool, and the perimeter overflow pool.

</doc>
<doc id="53544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53544" title="Danny Elfman">
Danny Elfman

Daniel Robert "Danny" Elfman (May 29, 1953 in Los Angeles, California) is an American singer-songwriter and composer. He wrote music for many movies and television series. From 1978 until 1995 Elfman was a member of the rock band Oingo Boingo. In 2003, he married actress Bridget Fonda. They have one child.
Elfmans has written music for dozens of movies, for video games and for television. Some of his famous works include:
In 1985, Elfman met director Tim Burton. Burton had seen Elfman perform as a member of Oingo Boingo. Burton asked Elfman to work with him on his first full-length movie "Pee-Wee's Big Adventure". Elfman worked with Burton on all but two of Burton's movies. The movies he worked on include:
Elfman has been nominated for many awards in the music and movie business.

</doc>
<doc id="53569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53569" title="FIFA 07">
FIFA 07

FIFA 07 is a Sony PlayStation 2, Xbox 360, GameCube, Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, PlayStation Portable and Microsoft Windows game that features world beat music and fun football action. The object is to score more goals that the opponent. The game can be played in either English or Spanish, these modes have different announcers. There is an exhibition mode, a manager mode, a practice mode, and a tournament mode.

</doc>
<doc id="53583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53583" title="Ralph Waldo Emerson">
Ralph Waldo Emerson

Ralph Waldo Emerson (May 25, 1803 – April 27, 1882) was an American author, poet, and philosopher.
Emerson was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1803. His father was a Unitarian minister. He chose not to follow the beliefs of the Unitarians and instead, created his own world view, Transcendentalism. He first wrote about this view in an essay called "Nature" in 1836. Emerson's father died when he was only eight years old. He studied at school in Boston and went to Harvard University, one of the most well-rated universities in the country. Emerson was a Unitarian.
Many men were heads of a town church in Emerson’s family history. His father wanted him to be one, too. In 1817, at the age of 14, he began his education at Harvard College. He finished in 1821 and started to teach in a local school. In 1825, he continued studies at Harvard Divinity School to be a minister. By 1829, he was the head of a church in Boston. Then some events happened that made him change the direction of his life.
In 1831, his wife died. Soon after that, Emerson left America to go on a journey through Europe. He returned after almost a year, then married again in 1833. Emerson didn’t want to continue to be the head of a church. Instead, he began speaking in halls and schools. He began writing his thoughts in short writings and speeches. His first essay was “Nature.” It would become one of his most popular essays. Then, many scholars know about him after he gave a speech at Harvard Divinity School in 1837. Emerson became an author instead of a head of a town church by creating his own, instead of following someone else's, plan for his life.
Emerson’s days as a child, when he was the son of a head of a town church, shaped his religious views. He also formed his way of thinking about spiritual topics from his education at Harvard. These views are present in his philosophy of Transcendentalism, a way of thinking about the connections between man, nature, and the highest being. Church leaders of Emerson’s time focused on religious topics. Emerson instead focused on the everyday lives of people. Even though his father died when he was eight, and his first wife died a few years after marriage, Emerson wrote in a good way about his subjects. Samuel Taylor Coleridge, an author who lived during the same time as Emerson, also affected him.
Emerson had several effects on Americans during his time. The first effect he had was on the value of the individual. He once wrote, “Let us unfetter ourselves of our historical associations and find a pure standard in the idea of man.” Up to this time, Americans still looked to England and other European countries for ideas on fashion and ways of thinking. Emerson’s writings gave impulse to Americans to be free of European ideas on what is right or good. Along with individualism, Emerson is best known for starting the Transcendentalist movement. This philosophy made important the ideas of self-discovery and the connections between nature, all persons as a group, and the highest being.
In his later life, Emerson was a close friend of many other important authors and thinkers, including William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, John Stuart Mill, and Thomas Carlyle. He traveled the world, including France, England, Italy and the Middle East. Emerson was active in writing and speaking into the 1870s. However, he started to forget things. He would only read from detailed notes or scripts. By 1879, his memory was so bad that he stopped making public appearances and speeches. He still socialized at private events, but never with the amount of talking that he once did. Walt Whitman described him at a party in 1881 to be a careful listener but he didn’t join in any conversations. Within six months, in early 1882, Emerson died of pneumonia in Concord, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="53591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53591" title="Bushranger">
Bushranger

A bushranger was a thief who lived in the Australian bush. Bushrangers often stole expensive things from banks or coaches. There were more than 2000 bushrangers during Australia's past. Most were simply criminals and thieves. A few bushrangers became famous and were seen as heroes. They are part of a long history that has men such as Robin Hood and Dick Turpin in England, or Jesse James and Billy the Kid in the US.
The word "bushranger" was first used in Australia in 1805. It described three men who had stopped a cart near Sydney. Then, the word was used for criminals who attacked people on the roads or in the bush (the Australian countryside away from towns).
The first bushrangers were escaped convicts. One of the last bushrangers was Ned Kelly who was captured in 1880.
Criminals who escaped stole things from farms far away and people walking on the roads. Sometimes they sold the stolen things to other free settlers.
John "Black" Caesar was the first bushranger. He ran away from Sydney Cove many times before he was shot dead in 1796.
Bold Jack Donahue appeared in newspapers around 1827 for bushranging on the road between Sydney and Windsor. In the 1830s he was seen as the worst bushranger in the colony. Leading a gang of escaped criminals, Donahue became an important person in Australian folklore as the Wild Colonial Boy.
Bushranging happened all over Australia, but Van Diemen's Land (later known as Tasmania) produced the most violent and serious bushrangers. Hundreds of criminals were at large in the bush, farms were given up, and the army was brought in to try and capture the bushrangers. Indigenous Australian bushranger Musquito led attacks on settlers.
The bushrangers were busiest during the Gold Rush years of the 1850s and 1860s. Gold can be easily carried and also it can easily be turned into cash. The goldfields were in remote places and there were not very many police to guard the gold.
George Melville was killed by hanging in front of many people for stealing from the McIvor gold escort near Castlemaine in 1853.
Bushranging numbers grew in New South Wales with the rise of the colonial-born sons of poor, often ex-convict farmers, who wanted a more exciting life than mining or farming.
Much of the bushranging in these years was in the Lachlan Valley, around Forbes, Yass and Cowra.
Frank Gardiner, John Gilbert and Ben Hall led the most notorious gangs of the period. Other active bushrangers included Dan Morgan, based around the Murray River, and Captain Thunderbolt, killed outside Uralla, New South Wales.
The increasing push of settlement, increased police efficiency, better rail transport and communications, such as telegraphy, made it increasingly difficult for bushrangers to evade capture.
Among the last bushrangers was the Kelly Gang led by Ned Kelly, who were captured at Glenrowan, Victoria in 1880, two years after they were outlawed.
In 1900 the Governor Brothers scared many people in the north of New South Wales.
In Australia, bushrangers often attract public sympathy.
In the same way that outlaws feature in many movies of the American western genre, bushrangers regularly feature in Australian literature, movie, music and television. These include:
Some bushrangers became famous as a result of their activities. They include:

</doc>
<doc id="53592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53592" title="The bush">
The bush

The bush is a phrase used to describe land where people do not live, land a long way from cities, or forests. The word is mainly used in Australia, New Zealand, Africa, Canada, and Alaska. 
In Australia, the phrase, "the bush", has a special symbolic meaning in Australian life. When used to describe the land, "the bush" means a wooded area, but not dense forest. It is usually dry and nitrogen-poor soil, mostly grassless, with thin to thick woody shrubs and bushes, with some eucalypt trees.
When talking about people, "the bush" means any populated areas outside of the major metropolitan areas. This can include mining and farming areas. It is not unusual to have a mining town in the desert, such as Port Hedland, Western Australia (Pop. 14,000) called "the bush" in the media.
The word bush is also added to any number of other words, things or activities to describe their rural, country or folk nature, e.g. "Bush Cricket", "Bush Music", etc.

</doc>
<doc id="53594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53594" title="Moondyne Joe">
Moondyne Joe

Moondyne Joe (1826 – 1900), real name Joseph Bolitho Johns, is the most famous bushranger from Western Australia. He became famous, not for his crimes, but for his many escapes from gaol (jail).
Johns was born in Cornwall, England around 1826. His father Thomas Johns was a blacksmith. He might have had smallpox in his youth, as later his face is said to be "pockmarked". After his father died, Johns and his three brothers worked in the copper mines. In 1841 the family was living at Illogan, Penwith, Cornwall. By 1848 Johns had moved to Wales, working as an iron ore miner, at the Clydach Iron Works.
On 15 November 1848, Jones and a friend, John Williams, were arrested near Chepstow for stealing from the house of Richard Price, three loaves of bread, one piece of bacon, several cheeses, and "other goods".<ref name="The Welshman 30/03/1849"></ref> They were charged with burglary and stealing, but they said they did not steal anything. On 23 March they were tried in court with Sir William Erleas the judge. Newspaper reports say that the men were very determined to prove their innocence, but Johns was not polite and did not follow the normal court rules. The men were convicted and sent to gaol for ten years. Johns must have made the judge angry. In other cases before the same judge that day, people on the same type of charges were sent to gaol for times between three weeks to three months.
Johns and Williams spent the next seven months working on a government work party in the local area, before being sent to Millbank Prison. On 1 January 1850, they were sent to Pentonville Prison to serve six months of solitary confinement. On 21 October 1851, they were sent to Dartmoor Prison. Johns was sent to the Woolwich prison hulk "Justitia", probably for bad behavior. When the "Justitia" was destroyed by fire, he was moved to the "Defence". About a year later, he was put on convict transport ship, the "Pyrenees", and sent to the British penal colony of Western Australia.
The "Pyrenees" sailed for Western Australia on 2 February 1853, and arrived in Fremantle on 30 April. He was a well behaved prisoner, and as a reward Johns was given a ticket of leave. On 10 March 1855, he was given a conditional pardon. He moved to the Avon Valley, which was a remote valley, in the Darling Range. The Aboriginal name for the area was "Moondyne". Johns put a fence around a natural water spring in the area, and trapped lost sheep, cattle and horses when they came to drink. Farmers would pay a reward to get their animals back.
In August 1861, Johns trapped a horse without a brand (owner's mark). He put his own brand on it, which was really stealing. He was soon arrested by the police. The horse was taken as evidence, and Johns was placed in the Toodyay gaol. During the night, Johns escaped from his cell, took the horse and the magistrate's new saddle and bridle. He was caught the next day, but he had killed the horse and cut out the brand to destroy the evidence. Without the proof he was only sent to gaol for three years for escaping, not the ten years he would have been given for horse stealing.
Johns was a well behaved prisoner, so he was let out early with a ticket of leave in February 1864. He worked on a farm at Kelmscott. In January 1865 a bullock was killed and eaten, and the police said that Johns had done it. He said he had not killed the animal, but in court he was sent to gaol for ten years. At this time the only things he owned were one pair of trousers, one shirt, one pair of boots, one strap and one old hat. Johns decided he would not stay in gaol because he had not done anything wrong. In November he and another prisoner escaped from a work party. During the next month they robbed a few houses. Johns began calling himself "Moondyne Joe". They were captured east of York by the police with help from a black tracker, Tommy Windich. Black trackers were Indigenous Australian who had very good skills for finding things in the bush. For escaping, and for having a gun, Moondyne Joe was sent to prison for 12 months. He had to wear iron chains around his legs.
Moondyne Joe did not think he had been treated properly. In April 1865, he wrote a letter to the Chief Justice. The Chief Justice cut his gaol time by four years, but Joe was still not happy. A few weeks later he tried to cut the lock out of his door. He was given another six months in leg irons. In August, he escaped again, cutting off his leg irons. He met up with three other escaped convicts and together they robbed people in the bush around Perth. At the end of August, one of the gang was taken prisoner by the police. 
Moondyne Joe came up with a plan to get away from Western Australia by going overland to South Australia. This would be a long and difficult journey through the desert. On 5 September, Moondyne Joe stole boots, blankets, clothing, guns and ammunition, knives and food from a shop at Toodyay, owned by an old convict, James Everett. The gang went east, following the track made by the explorer Charles Hunt. Their tracks were discovered by police on 26 September, about east of York. The police set out after them, and they were captured on 29 September, about north east of Perth. This is near where the town of Westonia is now.
Moondyne Joe was sent back to gail, and given another five years with hard labour. To make sure that he could not escape again, he was sent to Fremantle Prison where a special cell was built. It was made with stone, and lined with very thick pieces of wood. He was set to work in the prison yard breaking up rocks into small stones. He was watched all the time by a prison guard. The Governor of Western Australia, John Hampton, said to Johns: "If you get out again, I'll forgive you". 
However, the rocks broken up by Joe were not taken away, and soon a large amount of stones blocked the guard's view of Joe's legs. Partly hidden behind the stones, he sometimes hit his hammer against the prison wall. On 7 March, 1867, Moondyne Joe escaped through a hole he had made in the prison wall. The police searched everywhere, but he could not be found. He did not rob any more people, and he did not go any place where someone might know who he was. Many prisoners heard about Moondyne Joe's escape, and tried to escape themselves. 
In March 1867, Moondyne Joe tried to steal some wine from the cellars at Houghton Winery. The owner had been helping the police on another search, and brought the policemen to the winery for a drink. Joe thought he had been seen, and ran out of the cellar, right into the policemen. He was sent back to prison and given four more years, as well as having to wear chains around his legs. He tried to escape, but was quickly captured. The new Governor, Weld, heard about Hampton's promise, and said the extra punishment was not fair. Moondyne Joe was given another ticket of leave in April 1871.
Moondyne Joe did not rob anyone else, though he did do some wrong things and was sent back to gaol a few more times. In January 1879, he married a widow named Louisa Hearn, and they spent some time looking for gold near Southern Cross. In 1881, while looking around Karridale, he discovered Moondyne Cave. In his later years, he began acting strangely, and became mentally ill. He died of senile dementia in the Fremantle Lunatic Asylum (now the Fremantle Arts Centre building) on 13 August, 1900. He was buried in Fremantle Cemetery.
Every year, on the first Sunday of May, the small town of Toodyay remembers the life of Moondyne Joe with the Moondyne Festival. This festival takes place in the main street with street theatre, markets and performances. The most recent Moondyne Festival was on Sunday May 1, 2016.
While Moondyne Joe was bushranging in 1869, an Irish prisoner named John Boyle O'Reilly was in Fremantle Prison. He must have heard many stories about Joe's escapes. In September 1869, O'Reilly escaped with help from an American ship. After he got to the United States, he wrote a novel about convict life called Moondyne: An Australian Tale, whose main character was called "Moondyne Joe". The book is not a true story, and the character and the story are different to the life of Joseph Johns. 
In 1913, O'Reilly's book was made into a movie called "Moondyne". Directed by W. J. Lincoln, it starred George Bryant, Godfrey Cass and Roy Redgrave.
Randolph Stow wrote a funny children's book, "Midnite: The Story of a Wild Colonial Boy", in 1967. This told the story of an Australian bushranger based on the lives of Moondyne Joe and a Queensland bushranger, Captain Starlight.
In 2002, Cygnet Books published "The Legend of Moondyne Joe", by Mark Greenwood and pictures by Frané Lessac. The book won the award in the Children's Books section at the 2002 Western Australian Premier's Book Awards.
The Ballad of Moondyne Joe, a song which started:
"In the Darling Ranges, many years ago,<br>
There lived a daring outlaw, by the name of ‘Moondyne Joe’...".
Anonymous 
sung at the time of his 1867 escape:
The Governor's son has got the pip,<br> 
The Governor's got the measles. <br> 
For Moondyne Joe has give 'em the slip, <br> 
Pop goes the weasel. "
Anonymous
"It were Moondyne of course<br>
That took Ferguson's horse...<br> "

</doc>
<doc id="53595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53595" title="Fremantle, Western Australia">
Fremantle, Western Australia

Fremantle is a port city in Western Australia. It is the main city on the ocean and is near Perth. The city has a population of 26,000 people. It is at the place where the Swan River runs into the Indian Ocean.
It was established by English people who arrived there in 1829 and established the Swan River Colony. The city is named after Charles Fremantle who was the captain of the first ship to arrive there.

</doc>
<doc id="53612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53612" title="Standard deviation">
Standard deviation

Standard deviation is a number used to tell how measurements for a group are spread out from the average (mean), or expected value. A low standard deviation means that most of the numbers are very close to the average. A high standard deviation means that the numbers are spread out.
Standard deviation is also used to measure how close a reported number is to being exactly right. For example, the standard deviation is used to find margin of error in opinion poll numbers. The reported margin of error is usually two times the standard deviation and gives the range for the true poll number. Scientists commonly report the standard deviation of numbers from the average number in experiments. They often decide that only differences bigger than two or three times the standard deviation are important. Standard deviation is also useful in money, where the standard deviation on interest earned shows how different one person’s interest earned might be from the average.
Many times, only a sample, or part of a group can be measured. Then a number close to the standard deviation for the whole group can be found by a slightly different equation called the sample standard deviation, explained below.
Consider a group having the following eight numbers:
These eight numbers have the average (mean) of 5:
To calculate the population standard deviation, first find the difference of each number in the list from the mean. Then square the result of each difference:
Next, find the average of these values (sum divided by the number of numbers). Last, take the square root:
The answer is the population standard deviation. The formula is only true if the eight numbers we started with are the whole group. If they are only a part of the group picked at random, then we should use instead of in the bottom (denominator) of the second-to-last step. Then the answer is the sample standard deviation.
A slightly harder, real life example: The average height for grown men in the United States is 70", with a standard deviation of 3". A standard deviation of 3” means that most men (about 68%, assuming a normal distribution) have a height 3" taller to 3” shorter than the average (67"–73") — one standard deviation. Almost all men (about 95%) have a height 6” taller to 6” shorter than the average (64"–76") — two standard deviations. Three standard deviations include all the numbers for 99.7% of the sample population being studied. This is true if the distribution is normal (bell-shaped).
If the standard deviation were zero, then all men would be exactly 70" tall. If the standard deviation were 20", then some men would be much taller or much shorter than the average, with a typical range of about 50"–90". 
For another example, each of the three groups {0, 0, 14, 14}, {0, 6, 8, 14} and {6, 6, 8, 8} has an average (mean) of 7. But their standard deviations are 7, 5, and 1. The third group has a much smaller standard deviation than the other two because its numbers are all close to 7. The basic idea is, the standard deviation tells us how far from the average the rest of the numbers tend to be. It will have the same units as the numbers themselves. If, for example, the group {0, 6, 8, 14} is the ages of a group of four brothers in years, the average is 7 years and the standard deviation is 5 years.
Standard deviation may serve as a measure of uncertainty. In science, for example, the standard deviation of a group of repeated measurements helps scientists know how sure they are of the average number. When deciding whether measurements from an experiment agree with a prediction, the standard deviation of those measurements is very important. If the average number from the experiments is too far away from the predicted number (with the distance measured in standard deviations), then the theory being tested may not be right. See prediction interval.
The use of understanding the standard deviation of a set of values is in knowing how large a difference from the "average" (mean) is expected.
As a simple example, consider the average daily high temperatures for two cities, one inland and one near the ocean. It is helpful to understand that the range of daily high temperatures for cities near the ocean is smaller than for cities inland. These two cities may each have the same average high temperature. However, the standard deviation of the daily high temperature for the coastal city will be less than that of the inland city .
Another way of seeing it is to consider sports teams. In any sport, there will be teams that are good at some things and not at others. The teams that are ranked highest will not show a lot of differences in abilities. They do well in most categories. The lower the standard deviation of their ability in each category, the more balanced and consistent they are. Teams with a higher standard deviation, however, will be less predictable. For example, a team that is usually bad in most categories will have a low standard deviation. A team that is usually good in most categories will also have a low standard deviation. However, a team with a high standard deviation might be the type of team that scores many points(strong offense) but also lets the other team score many points(weak defense). 
Trying to know ahead of time which teams will win may include looking at the standard deviations of the various team "statistics." Numbers that are different from expected can match strengths vs. weaknesses to show what reasons may be most important in knowing which team will win. 
In racing, the time a driver takes to finish each lap around the track is measured. A driver with a low standard deviation of lap times is more consistent than a driver with a higher standard deviation. This information can be used to help understand how a driver can reduce the time to finish a lap.
In money, standard deviation may mean the risk that a price will go up or down (stocks, bonds, property, etc.). It can also mean the risk that a group of prices will go up or down (actively managed mutual funds, index mutual funds, or ETFs). Risk is one reason to make decisions about what to buy. Risk is a number people can use to know how much money they may earn or lose. As risk gets larger, the return on an investment can be more than expected (the "plus" standard deviation). However, an investment can also lose more money than expected (the "minus" standard deviation). 
For example, a person had to choose between two stocks. Stock A over the past 20 years had an average return of 10 percent, with a standard deviation of 20 percentage points (pp). Stock B over the past 20 years had an average return of 12 percent but a higher standard deviation of 30 pp. Thinking about the risk, the person may decide that Stock A is the safer choice. Even though they may not make as much money, they probably will not lose much money either. The person may think that Stock B's 2 point higher average is not worth the additional 10 pp standard deviation (greater risk or uncertainty of the expected return).
Most math equations for standard deviation assume that the numbers are normally distributed. This means that the numbers are spread out in a certain way on both sides of the average value. 
The normal distribution is also called a Gaussian distribution because it was discovered by Carl Friedrich Gauss. It is often called the bell curve because the numbers spread out to make the shape of a bell on a graph. 
Numbers are not normally distributed if they are grouped on one side or the other side of the average value. Numbers can be spread out and still be normally distributed. The standard deviation tells how widely the numbers are spread out.
The average (mean) and the standard deviation of a set of data are usually written together. Then a person can understand what the average number is and how widely other numbers in the group are spread out. 
The way a group of numbers is spread out can also be given by the coefficient of variation, which is the standard deviation divided by the average. It is a dimensionless number. Coefficient of variation is often multiplied by 100% and written as a percentage.
The term "standard deviation" was first used in writing by Karl Pearson in 1894, after he used it in lectures. It was as a replacement for earlier names for the same idea: for example, Gauss used "mean error".

</doc>
<doc id="53635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53635" title="53 BC">
53 BC

Year 53 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Messalla and Calvinus (or sometimes year 701 "Ab urbe condita"). This year has been called 53 BC since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the most common way of naming years in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="53677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53677" title="Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows">
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is the seventh and last book in J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series. The book was released worldwide on July 21, 2007. It became the fastest-selling book ever, with 8.3 million copies sold in the United States during the first 24 hours.
This book is about Harry Potter, the main character of the book series, going on a journey to destroy horcruxes made by the villain of the series, Voldemort.
The movie was to be released in 2010, but on March 8, 2008, it was announced that the movie will be split into two parts; part one was released on November 19, 2010 and part two was released on July 15, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="53680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53680" title="Boiling">
Boiling

Boiling happens when a liquid becomes gas forming bubbles inside the liquid volume. If bubbles are not formed we are talking instead about "evaporation".
The temperature at which boiling happens is called the boiling point and depends on the particular nature of the substance.
For example, water boils at around 100 °C (Celsius degrees). When water is boiling, it transforms into a vapor called water vapor.

</doc>
<doc id="53681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53681" title="He">
He

He (, unstressed ) is a third-person singular pronoun used to talk about a male. "He" can be used in place of a male's name. When the name of a man has been the subject, then "he" can be used instead of that name. While "he" is the subject form, the word "him" is the object or possessive form ("see table below"). The word "he" is used for a man (or boy) where the word "she" would be used for a woman.
In the past, "he" and "him" were often used as gender-neutral pronouns. In other words, the word may have been used in a general way, to refer to any person, male or female.

</doc>
<doc id="53682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53682" title="Swan River">
Swan River

The Swan River is an important river in Western Australia. It runs past the city of Perth and into the Indian Ocean at Fremantle.

</doc>
<doc id="53694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53694" title="Scheinfeld">
Scheinfeld

Scheinfeld is a city in Franconia, Germany. The city has 13 districts:
The city was first mentioned in the 8th century. It lies about 40 km east of Würzburg. The settlement got town privileges in 1415.

</doc>
<doc id="53695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53695" title="Dirk Nowitzki">
Dirk Nowitzki

Dirk Nowitzki (born June 19, 1978 in Würzburg, Germany) is a German basketball player. He plays for the Dallas Mavericks in the United States' National Basketball Association's (NBA).
Nowitzki started playing in the NBA in 1998. He is only the second player who was born in Germany to play in the Finals. 
He is a 12-time NBA All Star. Nowitkzi won the 2006-07 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award. The Mavericks, led by Nowitzki, defeated the Miami Heat 4-2 in the 2011 NBA Finals. In addition to performing very well in general in the Finals, his 101-degree fever in Game 4 didn't stop him from scoring the winning basket to tie the series 2-2. This amazing feat is a lot like when Michael Jordan played well despite the flu in the 1997 Finals against the Utah Jazz.
Dirk's jersey number is 41.

</doc>
<doc id="53696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53696" title="Volkach">
Volkach

Volkach is a town in Lower Franconia, Bavaria, in Germany. It is in the district of Kitzingen. 9,451 people live in this town.
The mayor of Volkach is Peter Kornell.
The surface of Volkach amounts to 60,19 km2. 
Volkach has 12 local parts.

</doc>
<doc id="53697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53697" title="Ochsenfurt">
Ochsenfurt

Ochsenfurt is a town in the district of Würzburg, in Bavaria, Germany. It is on the left bank of the River Main. The town has 11,600 people.
Ochsenfurt is twinned with

</doc>
<doc id="53698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53698" title="Kitzingen Rural District">
Kitzingen Rural District

Kitzingen is a district in Bavaria, Germany.
The district was last changed in 1973. The old district of Gerolzhofen was split up, and half of its territory was joined with the old Kitzingen district. The city of Kitzingen lost its status as an independent city and was put into the district.
The Main River runs through the district from south to north.

</doc>
<doc id="53700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53700" title="Haflinger">
Haflinger

Haflinger are an all-round breed of horse. It is a mountain horse but today people use it for spare time. A Haflinger counts as a pony breed of horse. The clonig Horse Prometea are from this breed. A Haflinger has a gallant dry head with big eyes, dilate nostrils and small, attentive ears. People who grow this breed want them to have a good muscled body and a smart neck.

</doc>
<doc id="53701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53701" title="Kevin Kurányi">
Kevin Kurányi

Kevin Kuranyi (born 2 March 1982 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) is a German football player. He used to play for the German national team, but was excluded in October 2008 due to improper behaviour. His team is Dynamo Moscow. Before playing for Moscow, he played for Stuttgart and Schalke.
261||111||22||12||47||17||330||140
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
261||111||22||12||47||17||330||140
!Total||52||19

</doc>
<doc id="53702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53702" title="Würzburger Kickers">
Würzburger Kickers

Kickers Wurzburg is one of the most traditional football clubs in Franconia. It was founded in 1907.
Famous Footballers of FC Wurzburger Kickers:

</doc>
<doc id="53703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53703" title="Chico, California">
Chico, California

Chico is a big city in the Central Valley of the American state of California. It is in the northern part of the state. Chico is in the Sacramento Valley close to the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountain range. The city has a population of 79,091. People first started living in Chico in 1843. The city was founded in 1860 and started to govern itself in 1872.

</doc>
<doc id="53704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53704" title="Repperndorf">
Repperndorf

Repperndorf is a village in Regierungsbezirk, Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany. Since 1977 it is part of the town of Kitzingen. Repperndorf has a population of 260 people. The village has a graveyard and two churches, one for Catholics and one for Protestants. It also has one restaurant and one soccer club. There was the famous "Schnitzel factory" but now it moved to Kitzingen.

</doc>
<doc id="53705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53705" title="Großlangheim">
Großlangheim

Großlangheim is a small village in Bavaria, Germany. About 1,600 people live in Großlangheim. Big events in Großlangheim are the Weinfest (wineparty) and the Panik-Party in the Winehill. Panik-Party is the biggest open air party in Unterfranken. Over 5,000 people came to this event in 2006 which is organized by teenagers from Großlangheim.

</doc>
<doc id="53763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53763" title="Falun Gong">
Falun Gong

Falun Gong (also known as Falun Dafa) is a spiritual discipline from China with exercises similar to Tai chi chuan. It was founded by Li Hongzhi in 1992. People who follow Falun Gong do five exercises and read books written by Li Hongzhi. They believe in "Truthfulness, Compassion and Forbearance", and they also believe that the Falun Gong exercises can make them healthy, and better people. There were almost 70 million Falun Gong practitioners in China, according to the Chinese government.
In 1999, after a big Falun Gong gathering in front of a Chinese government building, the Communist Party of China said: people cannot practice Falun Gong, it is "illegal". The police started arresting Falun Gong followers, and according to human rights organizations, over 3000 people have been jailed and tortured to death. The Chinese government claimed that Falun Gong spread superstitions, while other suggest that Falun Gong's popularity challenges the rule of the Chinese Communist Party. Many people and organizations outside of China have called for the Chinese government to stop jailing and killing Falun Gong people.
It is not known how many people practice Falun Gong: The Chinese government suggests there were 70 million practitioners in China in 1998. In one article, Falun Gong's Clearwisdom.net says there are 100 million practitioners in more than 80 countries.
Reporter Ethan Gutmann said about 65,000 Falun Gong people were killed for their body parts from 2000 to 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="53766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53766" title="Deflation">
Deflation

Deflation means that generally the prices of products are going down. It is the opposite of inflation. It is said, that deflation happens when there is less money than there are goods. It is also said that deflation is a sign of a weak state of that country's economy, because deflation usually happens during an economic collapse. Deflation is thought to be even worse than inflation.
Deflation starts when people are waiting for prices to go down even more. They will then spend less money. Because of that, companies can not afford to keep up the amount of goods that are made, and have to lower that amount, as well as fire workers to make even a small profit.
Even if an economy is growing, there can be some amount of deflation - if the amount of money going around grows slower than the making of goods. There has not been much deflation in the world since the 1930s, except in Japan.
Deflation can be helped by the country's own government by lowering the companies' tax levels, so they can lower their prices while getting the same profit. This way normal people are more encouraged to buy the cheap goods they were waiting for, and slowly the companies can make more profit. Governments do not like deflation, because it means that they can collect less tax.

</doc>
<doc id="53789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53789" title="Chemical symbol">
Chemical symbol

A chemical symbol is the shortform of the name of an element. Usually, it is made up of one or two letters, but sometimes it is made up of three letters.
The chemical symbols of all elements are listed in the periodic table. They are also used while writing chemical equations.
For example: C + O → CO
Here C stands for carbon and O stands for oxygen.
Some chemical symbols are the short forms of their English names.
For example, H is the chemical symbol of hydrogen.
Some other chemical symbols are the short forms of their Latin names.
For example, Na is the chemical symbol of sodium which is called 'Natrium' in Latin.
Other examples: Iron - Fe - Ferrous

</doc>
<doc id="53846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53846" title="Secretary of State">
Secretary of State

Secretary of State is a title for a government official. The title has different meanings in different countries, and in some cases there are several Secretaries of State in the government.
In many countries, a secretary of state is a mid-level official. 
In the United States federal government, the Secretary of State is the head of the United States Department of State, and is responsible for foreign policy. In most other countries, this official is called the Foreign Secretary or foreign minister. The Secretary of State is the highest-ranking member of the Cabinet. The current U.S. Secretary of State is John Kerry.

</doc>
<doc id="53847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53847" title="Official">
Official

An official is someone who holds an office (i.e. function, mandate) in an organisation, of any kind. A public official is an official of central or local government. Officials may be appointed or elected to their office.
The term officer is close to being a synonym (but has more military connotations). A functionary is someone who carries out a particular role within an organisation; this is quite a close synonym for official, as a noun, but with connotations closer to bureaucrat. 

</doc>
<doc id="53849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53849" title="Function">
Function

Function may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="53851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53851" title="Heteroptera">
Heteroptera

The Heteroptera is a group of about 40,000 species of insects in the Hemiptera. They are typical bugs. 
"Heteroptera" is Greek for "different wings": most species have front wings with both membranous and hardened portions (called hemelytra.
The name "Heteroptera" is used in two different ways in modern classifications. In Linnean nomenclature it is a suborder of the order Hemiptera. In cladistics it is an unranked clade in the Hemiptera clade. 
A: head; B: thorax; C: abdomen.
1: claws; 2: tarsus; 3: tibia; 4: femur; 8: compound eye; 9: antenna; 10: clypeus; 23: laterotergites; 25: pronotum; 26: scutellum; 27: clavus; 28: corium; 29: embolium; 30: membrane.
"Waterbug" is a common name for various aquatic insects.

</doc>
<doc id="53865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53865" title="Snuff">
Snuff

Snuff is a kind of tobacco which is sniffed instead of smoked. People take a bit of snuff between their fingers and put it in their nostrils to smell it. Not many people use snuff now, but a century or more ago it was very common. In the novels of 19th century authors like Charles Dickens we often read about people taking snuff. They kept it in a "snuffbox".

</doc>
<doc id="53866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53866" title="The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind">
The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind

The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, or just Morrowind, is a video game released in 2002. In it, players take on the role of a character which they create, and use it to wander around in a big and diverse world. There is a storyline, but players do not have to follow it, instead doing the side-quests that are included with the game. Morrowind is released on the PC and the Xbox.You can also get game of the year edition and get Morrowind, Bloodmoon, and Tribunal expansion packs. You can go to the official website for help and guides.

</doc>
<doc id="53870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53870" title="The Nose (opera)">
The Nose (opera)

The Nose is an opera by Dmitri Shostakovich. It was written in 1927. At this time a lot of exciting new movies were being made in the Soviet Union. There were also some very interesting new plays in the theatres. The famous theatre director Vsevolod Meyerhold had many new ideas. However, operas that were being written then were mostly quite uninteresting.
Shostakovich, who was only just twenty years old, started to make Soviet operas interesting again. He took the story called "The Nose" which was written by Nikolai Gogol. It is about a man who wakes up one day to find his nose has gone.
The opera was first performed in 1930. Unfortunately by then the music critics had changed their ideas because of the political situation in the Soviet Union which was being ruled by the dictator Stalin. They wrote bad things about the opera and the performances soon had to stop. It was not until 1974 that it was performed again in the Soviet Union.
The opera is a satire. It pokes fun at bureaucrats: people in official jobs who think they are more important than they really are.
In the opera the barber Ivan Yakovlevich is seen shaving the Major. In the morning Ivan wakes up and his wife gives him some fresh bread and onion. When he cuts the bread open he finds a nose inside. His wife screams and yells at her husband. She chases him out of the house. He runs along the street with the nose, feeling very embarrassed. He throws the nose in the river, but a policeman catches him. He tries unsuccessfully to bribe him.
In the next scene the Major wakes up and finds he has no nose. He goes to tell the police. He goes to the cathedral and sees his nose who is dressed up as an important person (the nose is now a person, sung by a singer). The Major is not sure what to say to his nose because his nose is now more important than he is. He can’t speak properly and the nose does not understand him. The nose speaks very confidently, like a person of high rank. The Major cannot find the Chief of Police so he goes to the newspaper office. The people there laugh at him and say that they cannot put a notice in the newspaper about a lost nose because it would make their newspaper look silly. He is told to see a doctor. When the Major takes his handkerchief away from his face to show that he really has lost his nose the newspaper staff become interested because they think they have a good story for the newspaper. They offer him some snuff. Of course, he cannot sniff it, and gets very cross.
The police, who are looking for the lost nose, are watching people who are getting into a coach. They think the nose might be trying to leave the city. As the coach leaves the nose runs in, tries to stop the coach, frightens thehorses, the driver tries to shoot the nose, and everyone starts to fight the nose, beating and hitting it until it is back to its normal size. The policeman wraps it in a piece of paper. He returns it to the Major and asks for payment. The Major tries to stick his nose back on his face but he can’t. Even the doctor can’t do it. The nose escapes into the crowd. The Major thinks that Madame Podtochina, who tried to make him marry her daughter, has used witchcraft on him. He writes to her asking her to stop the spell but she writes back thinking that he wants to marry her daughter. Large crowds appear on the street to try to see the nose.
In the last part of the opera the Major has got his nose back where it belongs. He is shaved by the barber and then walks along the street proudly showing everyone his nose.
The music is just right for telling a story which is a satire. The policeman, for example, sings in a high, squeaky voice. The music at the beginning sounds rather like circus music. At the end of the scene when he is unable to bribe the police officer there is music just for percussion instruments. This bit is very famous and often played as a separate piece. One of the barber’s songs is accompanied by four balalaikas. Madame Podtochina’s daughter sings like a romantic opera singer. The waltz which is sung as the people get on the coach is a parody waltz.

</doc>
<doc id="53876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53876" title="Video game developer">
Video game developer

A video game developer is a person who makes games on computers and other game systems. Some developers make games for only one or two types of game systems, others might even make one kind of game. Some games are only for one system. Developers might try and make a copy of such game to another, different system. Some translate games from one language to another.
Video game developers work in "development companies". There are over 1,000 development companies today. A big part of that thousand is very small companies, that usually only have one or two workers - these kind of small companies make games for the Internet or mobile phones. Some development companies are big, too. They have buildings in many places and hundreds of workers.
There are three types of video game developers.
Third-party developers are video game developers that make deals with big publishers to make one game at a time. The developers are not part of the company: when the game is complete, the developers do not have to make another game for the publisher if they do not want to. Publishers will tell them exactly what they want third-party developers to do, and the developers do not have very much power to do something else.
In-house developers work directly to the publisher. They have more freedom on the making of the game than third-party developers have. Sometimes publishers buy third-party developers, and so they become in-house developers: workers for the publisher. This is an easy way for the publisher, because the developers are workers for the publisher and so the publisher has more control.
Independent developers are usually small groups of people that are not owned by any publisher or another company. Because of that, most independent developers publish their games themselves. If they do that, the games usually will not get much attention or money. Still, independent developers can make exactly the game they want, when there is no publisher to tell them what to do.

</doc>
<doc id="53877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53877" title="Video game publisher">
Video game publisher

A video game publisher is a company that publish games that they have made or that they have bought to be made by a video game developer. The publisher pays for the development of the game. Because of that, they can tell the developers exactly what kind of game they want. The publisher is responsible for the making and marketing of the game. Big publishers also distribute the games that they publish. Smaller ones pay for other companies to distribute the game for them. Publishers also usually design and make the copies of the games and write the manual.

</doc>
<doc id="53884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53884" title="Cork (city)">
Cork (city)

Cork is a city in County Cork in Ireland. It is the country's second largest city, only Dublin is larger. It is the third largest city on the island of Ireland, as Belfast is also larger. People from Cork are called Corkonians. It was founded by Saint Finbarr in the sixth century. 274,000 people live in Cork city and the surrounding urban areas. The River Lee runs through Cork city.
Famous things in Cork City include Saint Fin Barre's Cathedral, Shandon cathedral, Blackrock castle, Fota wildlife park, Fota house and gardens, and University College Cork. Many famous sports people come from Cork including Roy Keane, Dennis Irwin and Christy Ring. Olympic medal winner Sonia O'Sullivan comes from the town of Cobh just outside Cork city in County Cork.
 Capital of Culture in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="53887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53887" title="County Cork">
County Cork

County Cork is the largest county in Ireland in terms of size. Almost half a million people live there. The leader of the Irish War of Independence, Michael Collins, was born in the town of Clonakilty in County Cork. He was killed in Béal na mBláth in west Cork. West Cork is known for its beautiful scenery. 
The main towns in County Cork are Cork City, Youghal, Mallow, Bandon, Clonakilty, Kinsale, Blarney and Cobh. It is nicknamed "The Rebel County".
Parts of the Gaeltacht are in the county.

</doc>
<doc id="53906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53906" title="Genie">
Genie

Genies or jinns or djinns are supposed to be magical beings or creatures with free will. They are originally found in ancient myths and legends of the Middle East, especially Arabia. 
Nowadays, people in many Muslim countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Lebanon, Palestine, Egypt, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, Turkey, Iran, parts of Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan believe in these Jinns or Djinns. Jinns are also common in legends and stories from the Middle East, for example in the One Thousand and One Nights. 
The holy book of Muslims, the Quran also mentions Jinns, and says that they are made from fire or smoke. Together, the jinn, humans and angels make up the three wise creations of God. Like human beings, the jinn can be good or bad. 
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="53908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53908" title="Cork">
Cork

Cork could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="53910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53910" title="Suikoden">
Suikoden

Suikoden is a series of role playing video games made by Japanese company Konami. There have been five main "Suikoden" games made. "Suikoden" and "Suikoden 2" were released on the first PlayStation. "Suikoden 3", "Suikoden 4", and "Suikoden 5" were released on the PlayStation 2. In each game the player would play the role of a hero who must free his country from either from a foreign invader or an evil government within his own country. To do this he would recruit the 108 "stars of destiny" to help him and raise an army. Unlike "Final Fantasy" games, every "Suikoden" game is set in the same world but in different countries.

</doc>
<doc id="53913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53913" title="Elasticity">
Elasticity

Elasticity could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="53915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53915" title="Kendo">
Kendo

Kendo means the "way of the sword". The rules and gear of kendo were first created in the 18th century and its modern rules and styles date to 19th century.
An opponent may be struck at seven places: both sides and top of helmet ("men"), on either hand (gloves, "kote") or either side of the body breastplate ("do"). There is also one legal thrust ("tsuki") on throat. 
The "men" can only be struck from face, not from back. However only one of the two hands can be struck, it depends on which kind of posture("kamae") your opponent are using. A struck to the right side of body(one kind of "do") will often be ignored by referee because in the old days samurai will have a smaller sword in this position, which gives this position a good protection. Very important, because "tsuki" is somehow dangerous, junior practicer perform "tsuki" is forbidden both in match and daily training. 
In a match, the attacker must name the location of each strike. Often, name these locations by Japanese list before("men","kote","do","tsuki"), but some people will name it by Korean or Chinese or other language, or even a meaningless shout. All these kinds of shout name "kiai". An effective attack must contains "kiai" besides other essential factors.
The weapon used in kendo is a bamboo sword, called "shinai". The kendo armour, which the players must wear, is called "bogu" and is made of a helmet ("men"), breastplate ("do"), waist protector ("tare"), and special gloves ("kote").
Lesson is called "keiko" in kendo. keiko means that We think about past. kendo's keiko is distinguished between "shinai keiko" and "kata keiko". the building which we do kendo is called "dojyo". In particular "keiko" done in summer is "shochugeiko" and one done in winter is "kangeiko".
shinaikeiko
keiko which use "shinai" and "bogu"

</doc>
<doc id="53916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53916" title="Paleontology">
Paleontology

Palaeontology or Paleontology is the study of fossils of living things, and their phylogeny (evolutionary relationships). It depends on basic sciences such as zoology, botany and historical geology. The term palaeobiology implies that the study will investigate the palaeoecology of the groups in question.
In "palaeozoology", the evolution of those phyla with fossil records are studied: see List of animal phyla. In "palaeobotany", fossil plants are studied. In historical geology the formation, sequence and dating of rock strata give information about past environments.
A fossil is any kind of life that is more than ten thousand years old and preserved in any form that we can study today. The fossil record is always incomplete, and later discoveries may extend the known survival of a group. See Lazarus taxon.
Some palaeontologists study fossils of microorganisms, living things that are too small to see without a microscope, while other palaeontologists study fossils of giant dinosaurs.

</doc>
<doc id="53918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53918" title="Cotswolds">
Cotswolds

The Cotswolds is a range of hills in central England, sometimes called the "Heart of England", a hilly area reaching over 300 m. The area has been designated as Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The highest point in the Cotswolds is Cleeve Hill at 330 m (1083 ft).
The Cotswolds lie within the current ceremonial counties of Oxfordshire, Gloucestershire, Wiltshire, Somerset, Warwickshire, and Worcestershire. The county of Gloucestershire forms the largest area of the Cotswolds.
The spine of the Cotswolds runs southwest to northeast through six counties, particularly Gloucestershire, Oxfordshire, and southern Warwickshire. The northern and western edges of the Cotswolds are marked by steep slopes down to the Severn valley and the Avon. These are a result of the broken edge of the limestone layer. On the eastern boundary is the city of Oxford and on the west is Stroud. To the south towns as Cirencester, Lechlade, Tetbury, Beverston and Fairford mark the southern limit of this region. 
The area is characterised by attractive small towns and villages built of "Cotswold stone" (a yellow limestone). This limestone is rich in fossils. In the Middle Ages, the wool trade made the Cotswolds prosperous. Some of this money was put into the building of churches so the area has a number of large, handsome Cotswold stone "wool churches". The area remains rich and has attracted rich people who own second homes in the area or have chosen to retire to the Cotswolds.
Typical Cotswold towns are Bourton-on-the-Water, Broadway, Burford, Chipping Norton, Cirencester, Moreton-in-Marsh, Stow-on-the-Wold and Winchcombe. The town of Chipping Campden is famous as the home of the Arts and Crafts movement, that was founded by William Morris at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th centuries.
The Cotswold Way is a long-distance footpath (approx 103 miles (166 km)) running the length of the AONB, mainly on the edge of the Cotswold escarpement with good views over the Severn Valley and the Vale of Evesham. 

</doc>
<doc id="53920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53920" title="Piauí">
Piauí

Piauí is one of the 26 states of Brazil. It is in the northeastern part of the country. The capital of Piauí is Teresina.
Piauí shares borders with the states of Maranhão (west), Ceará (east), Pernambuco (east) and Bahia (east and south). It borders the Atlantic Ocean to the north.
Piauí has the shortest coastline of any of the Brazilian states that borders the Atlantic Ocean. Its coastline is only 66 km long. The capital, Teresina, is the only state capital in the northeast that is not on the coast. The reason for this is because, unlike the rest of the area, Piauí state was first colonised away from the coast and slowly expanded towards the ocean. The other states in the area started on the coast and grew inland.
The flag of Piaui was created on 24 July 1922. The blue canton and a star is for the state itself. The green and yellow stripes are for Brazil.
Cities in Piaui include:

</doc>
<doc id="53925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53925" title="Rio Grande do Norte">
Rio Grande do Norte

Rio Grande do Norte is one of the 26 states of Brazil. It is in the northeastern part of the country. It is on the edge of the South American continent.
Rio Grande do Norte has a large coastline. The state is well known for its beaches and sand dunes. The air is the cleanest in South America. 
Because of a large mountain chain called Serra da Borborema, Rio Grande do Norte has two main climates. The area along most of the coastline is very tropical. Inland, much of the state is very dry.
The dry climate is not only because by the low amount of rainfall but also because of the fact that it rarely rains at all. Often years go by with no or very little rain. Most of the interior of the state is part of the "Polygon of Droughts". This is an area which gets special attention from the federal government.
Rocas Atoll belongs to the state of Rio Grande do Norte. It is in the Atlantic Ocean, 260 km Northeast of Natal.
The first European to come to the region may have been the Spaniard Alonso de Ojeda in 1499. The northeastern tip of South America, cape São Roque, was first seen by European navigators in 1501. This was during a 1501-1502 Portuguese expedition led by Amerigo Vespucci. He named the spot after the saint of the day. The Vespucci expedition also named the Potengi river, "Rio Grande". The name is Portuguese for "Great River". The area and state were named after the river. For decades, no permanent European settlement was made in the area.
In the 16th century (between 1535 and 1598), the area was explored by French pirates. In 1598, the Portuguese built the "Forte dos Reis Magos". The next year, they created the city of Natal. 
In 1633, the area was fought over between the Portuguese and the Dutch. In 1654, the Dutch were finally cast out.
During World War II, Rio Grande do Norte was used as an Allied airbase. The base was used to German-occupied North Africa.
In 1964, Latin America's first space launch site was built in Rio Grande do Norte; "Barreira do Inferno" (Hell's Barrier). It is often called the "Brazilian NASA".
Historically, the economy of Rio Grande do Norte has been based on sugar and cattle. In the 1980s, the state government has realised that tourism is a very good industry. Since then, more money is being used to build placed for tourists and repairing colonial buildings in major cities.
Fruit is also grown in Rio Grande do Norte. The state grows 70% of Brazil's melons. The state is famous for its mango and cashew fields. The world's largest cashew tree is there. It has a circumference of 500 metres and an area of 7,300m². It is 70 times the size of average cashew trees.
Natal is the capital and largest city in the state. Other cities include:
The flag was adopted on December 3 1957. It is based on a design by Luis de Camara Cascudo. In the middle of the flag is the coat of arms of the state. The coat of arms was adopted on July 1 1909. It shows a sailing boat at the coast in the middle. This is for the fishing and salt industries. Above this is a bar which shows two flowers on the sides and two cotton bolls in the center. To the sides of the shield are a coconut palm to the right and a carnauba palm to the left. The two palms are connected by two branches of sugar cane. The star above represents the state as part of Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="53928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53928" title="Brazilian Federal District">
Brazilian Federal District

The Brazilian Federal District or Distrito Federal is a part of Brazil, which is used to shelter Brasília, the federal capital. It is in the centre of the country.
The government of Brazil was moved to Distrito Federal on April 21, 1960. Before this, the Brazilian Federal District used to be the municipality of Rio de Janeiro. Afterwards, the municipality of Rio de Janeiro became the Estado da Guanabara (State of Guanabara), from 1960 until 1975. In 1975, the State of Guanabara and the State of Rio de Janeiro merged, to be named the state of Rio de Janeiro.
Originally, most of the people were local workers (called "Candangos"), who built the capital, and federal government workers who were sent to the new capital, Brasília. The capital is a planned city. It had areas built for homes, business, schools and other uses. Originally built for up to one million people, the city now has many more than one million people. Because of how the city was built, it has been hard for the city to grow. This has caused many people to live in cities around Brasília. A large percentage of the people of the Distrito Federal live outside the city now.
The white color is for peace. The green and yellow colors in the middle refer to the national colors of Brazil. The four yellow arrows are for the native people of Brazil. The arrows pointing into the four cardinal directions of the compass stands for the power moving out from the center. The yellow arrows also form a cross. This is a symbol of the Southern Cross carried by the explorer Pedro Álvares Cabral.
The flag was created by the poet Guilherme de Almeida, and was adopted by decree no. 1090 on August 25, 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="53931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53931" title="Hiromu Shinozuka">
Hiromu Shinozuka

Hiromu Shinozuka (, born 27 March 1979 in Fukuoka) is a Japanese manga artist. She writes in "Ciao". She came out with "Takkyu shoujo" in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="53938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53938" title="Zvečan">
Zvečan

Zvečan is a town in north Kosovo, Serbia, near Kosovska Mitrovica. , about 16,600 people lived there. The town was first mentioned at the time of border disputes between Serbia and the Byzantine Empire between 1091 and 1094. 

</doc>
<doc id="53942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53942" title="Rosario">
Rosario

Rosario is a city in the center-east of Argentina, about NW from Buenos Aires. It is the main city of Santa Fe Province. As of 2008 Rosario metropolitan area has a population of around 1,300,000 inhabitants, making it Argentina's 3rd largest city. The city is on the well-known Argentine river of the Parana.
It's called Rosario because of 'Virgen del Rosario', which image remains at the cathedral, at the same place where the original chapel was. 
Rosario is famous because of his nightlife, there are many discos that are open to very late, and the people are very friendly and kind. you can always find new friends

</doc>
<doc id="53962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53962" title="Gymnastics">
Gymnastics

Gymnastics is a sport which involves doing exercises which need strength, flexibility, balance and control. This may include running, jumping, tumbling, somersaulting, flipping and balancing. 
In women's gymnastics, there are four activities: floor, uneven bars, balance beam, and vault. In men's gymnastics, there are six activities: floor exercise, parallel bars, high bar, pommel horse, vault, and rings.
Gymnastics is an Olympic sport.
Gymnastics began as a form of exercise in ancient Greece. It was one of the first sports in the Olympics. Originally, only men were allowed to compete in the Olympic Games, but there was another festival at which women competed, the Herean Games.
There are several forms of gymnastics, including rhythmic gymnastics, artistic gymnastics, acrobatics, trampolining, and wheel gymnastics. In "artistic gymnastics", gymnasts perform short routines using different pieces of equipment. "Acrobatics" involves showing balance and performing flips on the floor or in the air. In "trampolining", gymnasts do routines using only the trampoline. "Wheel gymnasts" exercise in a large wheel called a German wheel. 
In "rhythmic gymnastics", gymnasts perform with ribbons, rope, ball, hoop and clubs. Usually, only women do rhythmic gymnastics because they are more flexible then boys 
Federation Internationale de Gymnastique

</doc>
<doc id="53976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53976" title="Atahualpa">
Atahualpa

Atahuallpa or Atawallpa (c. 1502 – 1533) was the 13th and last sovereign emperor of the Tahuantinsuyo, or Inca empire. He became emperor after defeating his younger half-brother Huáscar in a civil war that followed the death of their father, Inca Huayna Capac, from an infectious disease (maybe malaria or smallpox). During the civil war, the Spaniard Francisco Pizarro arrived and captured Atahuallpa, and used him to control the Inca empire. Eventually, the Spanish executed Atahuallpa. So ended the Inca Empire (although several weak puppet successors followed him.) 
On the death of their father, the Emperor Huayna Capac, and their older brother, Ninan Cuyochi, who had been the heir, the empire was divided between the two surviving brothers, Huáscar and Atahualpa. Huascar got the major part of it with the capital Cusco, and Atahualpa the northern parts, including Quito (now the capital of Ecuador). For a couple of years, the two brothers reigned without problems. But Huascar demanded that Atahuallpa swear an oath to him. Atahuallpa refused, and the civil war began. 
The final battle took place at Quipaipan, where Huascar was captured. Atahuallpa was resting in the city of Cajamarca in the Andes with his army of 80,000 troops on his way to the south and Cusco to claim his throne. 
By this time the Spanish conquistador Francisco Pizarro had established the city of Piura, the first Spanish settlement in Peru on July of 1532. After two months on the march, Pizarro had arrived at Cajamarca with just 168 men under his command and sent Hernando de Soto, friar Vicente de Valverde and native interpreter Felipillo to speak with Atahuallpa about the Spanish presence. 
The Spanish envoys returned to Pizarro, who prepared a surprise attack against Atahuallpa's army in what became the Battle of Cajamarca on November 16, 1532.
According to Spanish law the Spanish officially declared war on the Inca people. When Atahuallpa coldly asked the priest Valverde by what authority he and his people could say such things, Valverde offered him a Bible, saying that the authority came from the words in it. He examined it and then asked why did it not speak to him. He then threw it to the ground. That gave the Spaniards the excuse they needed to wage war on the Incas. They opened fire, and over the course of 2 hours more than two thousand Inca soldiers were killed. The Spanish then imprisoned Atahuallpa in the Temple of the Sun. 
Atahuallpa still could not believe the Spanish intended to take control of his kingdom. He thought that if he gave them the gold and silver they sought they would leave. In exchange for his release, he agreed to fill a large room with gold and promised the Spanish twice that amount in silver. Although he was stunned by the offer, Pizarro had no intention of releasing the Inca because he needed the ruler's influence over the native people to maintain order in the surrounding country.
But then Pizarro decided to have him executed because he feared he could be freed by an Inca General. Pizarro staged a mock trial and found Atahuallpa guilty of revolting against the Spanish and murdering Huáscar, his own brother. Atahuallpa was sentenced to execution by burning. He was horrified, since the Inca believed that the soul would not be able to go on to the afterlife if the body were burned. Friar Vicente de Valverde, who had earlier offered the Bible to Atahuallpa, intervened again, telling Atahuallpa that if he agreed to convert to Christianity he would convince the rest to commute the sentence. Atahualpa agreed to be baptized into the Christian faith. He was given the name Juan Santos Atahualpa and then was strangled with a garrote instead of being burned. Atahuallpa died on August 29, 1533.
Atahuallpa was succeeded by his brother, the puppet Inca Tupac Huallpa, and later by another brother Manco Inca Yupanqui.

</doc>
<doc id="53977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53977" title="Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg">
Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg

Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg (The Mastersinger of Nuremberg) is an opera by Richard Wagner. It is the only comic opera that Wagner wrote. Wagner wrote the libretto (the words) in 1862 and composed the music in 1867. It was first performed in Munich in 1868.
The story is set in the town of Nürnberg (English: Nuremberg) in 16th century Germany. It is about a group of Mastersingers. The Mastersingers (German: Meistersinger) were a guild of singers in Germany many centuries ago. The most famous of them was a man called Hans Sachs, who lived in the 16th century. Although Hans Sachs was a real person, the story of the opera was made up by Wagner. It is a story about a song contest.
The prelude (orchestral introduction) to the opera is very famous and is often played by itself at concerts. It has several tunes which are sometimes cleverly played at the same time (counterpoint). These tunes are used during the opera and are associated with particular people or ideas (such tunes are called leitmotifs).
The young knight Walther is in church and sees a beautiful young girl, Eva. He wants to know whether she is married. She tells him that she will be married to the person who wins the singing contest the next day. Walther tries to learn the art of the Mastersingers from David, who works for Hans Sachs, the cobbler. David himself is in love with Magdalene. The apprentices start to prepare the stage for the contest.
If Walther is to win the contest he will have to compose his own mastersong and sing it. He will have to compose it according to a lot of strict rules (the number of lines, the rhyming patterns etc.). When he meets the other Mastersingers he introduces himself, saying that he learned the art of singing from the ancient poet Walther von der Vogelweide and from nature itself. He sings this in a song which is very beautiful, but it does not obey the rules of the Mastersingers. The Mastersingers are not able to understand the beauty of his song.
One of the Mastersingers is the town clerk. His name is Beckmesser. He is a comic figure and Wagner makes him look very silly. Beckmesser is the “marker”. This means something like: an “adjudicator”. When a singer makes a “mistake” (disobeys the rules) the marker puts a chalkmark on the board. When Walther sings his song Beckmesser makes lots of chalkmarks. Hans Sachs is the only person who realizes the beauty of his song. There is a lot of shouting and Walther has to stand on a chair to finish his song.
A street in Nuremberg at night. Eva’s grand house is opposite Hans Sachs’ simple house. Eva’s father realizes she is in love with Walther. Hans is thinking about the young knight and how well he sings. Eva asks Hans who he thinks will be likely to win the song contest. Then she is called back by her father. Beckmesser has come and would like to serenade her (sing her a love song). Walther meets up with Eva and they wonder whether they should elope (run away together). Eva changes clothes with her maid. Hans Sachs stops them as they are about to elope. Beckmesser is tuning his lute ready to sing. Walther would like to argue with him but Eva gets him to sit quietly while Beckmesser sings. Hans Sachs, who is mending Beckmesser’s shoe, has other ideas: he sings a song himself, and this annoys Beckmesser who is trying to sing to the girl he thinks is Eva (but it is Eva’s maid in disguise). He tells Hans to stop singing. Hans says that he will stop, but he will hammer on his shoe every time he hears Beckmesser make a mistake. Beckmesser starts singing again, and Hans hammers lots of times. All the neighbours wake up and come into the street and argue and fight. In the end the night watchman comes and everybody goes back into their houses.
David is preparing a song for the midsummer festival. Then Walther arrives and tells Hans that a song came to him in a dream. Hans helps him to prepare the song for the contest. When they have left the workshop Beckmesser comes in and sees the piece of paper with the song. He picks it up when Hans returns and says that it is obvious that he, Hans, wants to enter the contest. Hans tells Beckmesser that he can have the song. Beckmesser is delighted and thinks he can now win Eva in marriage.
At the song contest Beckmesser tries to sing the song, but he sings it to his own tune which does not fit the words, and he gets the words all muddled up. Everyone laughs and he leaves the stage angrily, saying that Sachs wrote the song. Walther now sings his prize song. This time people realize how beautiful it is although it does not obey the usual rules. Walther can marry Eva.
Wagner’s operas have continuous music which develops is very logical ways using leitmotifs. In the prelude we hear several tunes which are leitmotifs that are to be important during the opera: a theme that represents the dignity of the mastersingers, a theme for passion which later becomes Walther’s prize song, the chattering of the apprentices etc. The music at the beginning of Act Three is also often played separately in the concert hall.
There are many beautiful moments in the opera. Wagner cleverly changes the style to suit the action, for example when Eva’s father is talking about the Mastersingers’ reputation in Germany we hear an old-fashioned recitative. Beckmesser is made to look stupid through his music which contrasts with Walther’s romantic music.
People have explained the meanings behind this opera in several ways. The basic story is
about the wonderful German art of singing. It is also about the fact that composers should be able to write music which is beautiful without having to obey rules that were made up long ago and have become old-fashioned. Wagner was trying to bring lots of changes to opera, making the drama the most important thing. Some people found his new ideas quite difficult to follow, and this may be why he chose, for once, to write a comic opera instead of a serious one based on mythology. The character of Beckmesser is a caricature of Eduard Hanslick, a famous music critic who did not like the music of Wagner and Bruckner but preferred the more traditional music of Brahms and Antonín Dvořák.
The opera has been criticized because Wagner may have meant the story to have an anti-Semitic (anti-Jewish) meaning. This is certainly the way that Hitler understood it. It was his favourite opera, and the idea of praising German art and song fitted in nicely with his racist views. The character of Beckmesser is also a caricature of a stereotype Jew.

</doc>
<doc id="53983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53983" title="Takbir">
Takbir

Allahu Akbar is a Muslim saying. It is often used in situations ranging from a greeting to an expression of strong sentiments. It is most correctly translated as "God is greater", but in many instances "God is great" is an equally correct translation.
"Allahu Akbar" is the first part of the Adhan, which is heard 5 times daily in Muslim communities. The saying is a very strong expression that summarizes the entire core of Islam. 
This Arabic phrase was added to the Iraqi flag, in Saddam Hussein's handwriting, in 2001. Muslims say it before changing positions during their prayers.

</doc>
<doc id="53989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53989" title="Shire">
Shire

A shire is an administrative area of Great Britain (also county) and Australia. It is a kind of local government.
The first shires were created by the Anglo-Saxons in central and southern England. Shires were controlled by a royal official known as a "shire reeve" or sheriff. In modern English usage shires are sub-divided into districts.
Individually, or as a suffix in Scotland, the word is pronounced (to rhyme with "fire"). As a suffix in an English or Welsh place name it is pronounced (rhymes with "fir").
In England and Wales, the term "shire county" is used to refer to counties which are not metropolitan counties.
It can also be used in a narrower sense, referring only to traditional counties ending in "shire". These counties are typically (though not always) named after their county town.
Bedfordshire, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire, Cheshire, Derbyshire, Gloucestershire, Hampshire, Herefordshire, Hertfordshire, Huntingdonshire, Lancashire, Lincolnshire, Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire, Wiltshire, Worcestershire, Yorkshire.
Of these, all but Huntingdonshire and Yorkshire are also administrative counties (but with different boundaries). Huntingdonshire is now administered as a district of Cambridgeshire, and Yorkshire is split between East, North, South and West Yorkshire, Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Cumbria and County Durham.
Brecknockshire, Caernarvonshire, Cardiganshire, Carmarthenshire, Denbighshire, Flintshire, Monmouthshire, Montgomeryshire, Pembrokeshire, Radnorshire
In Wales, the counties of Merioneth and Glamorgan are occasionally referred to with the "shire" suffix. The only traditional Welsh county that never takes "shire" is Anglesey.
Aberdeenshire, Ayrshire, Banffshire, Berwickshire, Clackmannanshire, Cromartyshire, Dumfriesshire, Dunbartonshire, Fifeshire, Inverness-shire, Kincardineshire, Kinross-shire, Kirkcudbrightshire, Lanarkshire, Morayshire, Nairnshire, Peeblesshire, Perthshire, Renfrewshire, Ross-shire, Roxburghshire, Selkirkshire, Stirlingshire, Wigtownshire 
Shire is the most common word in Australia for the smallest local government areas by population. The states of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia use shire for this unit. South Australia and Tasmania use district. A shire has the same powers as the next largest units, the town and city. In NSW, the expression 'The Shire' commonly refers to the Sutherland shire.

</doc>
<doc id="53991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53991" title="Viol">
Viol

The viol (rhymes with "mile") is a string instrument that is played with a bow. The viol was a popular instrument from the 15th to the 18th century. Small viols are held on the lap, and the larger ones are held between the knees, which gave them the name of "viol da gamba", meaning a leg viol. The bow is held with the palm of the hand facing upwards: the other way round from today's bowhold for violins, violas or cellos. The viol is a gentle-sounding instrument. When the violin family became popular in the 17th century and people started to go to concerts in large concert halls, and to operas, the viols became less important. They were never used in orchestras.
Viols are made of wood, and are similar to the violin family. Most viols have six strings, although this number did vary during the centuries. The strings were made of gut, and are not as tight as on a violin. The fingerboard has frets like a guitar, except that they were also made of gut. They were tied around the fingerboard, and could be moved for tuning. These frets help the player to find the exact place to put their fingers. Sometimes the top of the scrolls on the fingerboard were beautifully decorated. The instruments have sloped shoulders and a flat back. The viol, like the vihuela, from which it developed, has a bridge that is flatter than the bridge of a modern violin. This makes it easier to play chords. The bow was convex in shape, where a violin bow is concave.
Viols were made in different sizes. A set of viols of different sizes - perhaps four or five instruments - were sometimes kept together in a chest (large box) which is why they were called a "chest of viols". When they were played together people talked of a "consort of viols". A consort would normally have at least one treble, tenor and bass instrument. A "broken consort" meant a mixture of different instruments: viols, recorders etc. Lute and bass viol were often played together. They were tuned in fourths, with a major third in the middle.
The strings of a bass viol (equivalent to the cello in the modern violin family) are tuned (from the lowest note, nearly two octaves below middle C, upwards) to D - G - C - E - A -D. The tenor viol was often called a viola da gamba (literally: "viol of the leg"). It was the most popular size for solo music and many composers wrote sonatas for the viola da gamba. The biggest viol is called the violone. It developed into the modern double bass. This is why the double bass is a little different in shape from the violin, viola and cello. Some double bass players today hold the bow with the palm (inside) of the hand facing upwards, like viol players.
The viol was popular in the houses of rich people, and in the royal court. During the reign of Elizabeth I and, later, King Charles I composers such as William Byrd, John Dowland, Orlando Gibbons, John Jenkins and William Lawes wrote viol music. Solo sonatas were written by many composers including Marin Marais, Johann Sebastian Bach, and Karl Friedrich Abel. Some of the last and greatest fantasies for viol consort were written by Henry Purcell.
After the mid-18th century people forgot about the viol until the 20th century when there was a new interest in early music and people like Arnold Dolmetsch started making them again so that Renaissance and Baroque viol music could be played. Today there are many societies for people who are interested in playing the viol.
There are now many societies for people with an interest in the viol. One of these, The Viola da Gamba Society has a worldwide membership. Some modern composers have also written for the viol e.g. John Tavener, Sally Beamish, Thea Musgrave, Tan Dun and Poul Ruders. There is a group called Fretwork which perform viol music.

</doc>
<doc id="54001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54001" title="Regnitz">
Regnitz

The Regnitz is a river in Bavaria, Germany. It is a left tributary of the Main and is 58 km in length.
The river is formed by the confluence of the rivers Rednitz and Pegnitz, which meet in the city of Fürth. From there the Regnitz runs northwards through the cities of Erlangen and Forchheim. It finally meets the Main in the city of Bamberg.

</doc>
<doc id="54008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54008" title="Geir Ivarsøy">
Geir Ivarsøy

Geir Ivarsøy (June 27, 1957 – March 9, 2006) was the main programmer at Opera Software. He and Jon Stephenson von Tetzchner were part of a research group at the Norwegian state telephone company (now known as Telenor). They made browsing software called "MultiTorg Opera". Telenor stopped them from working on the program, but in 1995 Ivarsøy and Stephenson von Tetzchner got the rights to the software. They created a company of their own, and continued working on it.
Now known as Opera, the Internet browser has become very popular. Opera Software has grown to more than 380 employees since it first moved to its present offices in Oslo.
In January of 2004, Geir Ivarsøy said he wanted to resign as a board member in Opera Software, though he kept working in the company after that. In June of 2005 he was elected as a member of the nomination committee of the company.
Geir died in March 2006 after a long battle with cancer. 

</doc>
<doc id="54019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54019" title="Color wheel">
Color wheel

A color wheel is a circular chart that shows primary and secondary colors. 
The color wheel most commonly used today is called the "HSV color wheel" which means "hue, saturation, value". The digital form of the HSV color wheel is called the RGB color wheel (shown below). The HSV/RGB color wheel is described below. There are two versions: one in which red, green and blue are regarded as the primary colors (called the "electronic" or "computer" color wheel); and one in which magenta, yellow, and cyan are regarded as the primary colors (called the "printer's color wheel"). 
"(* Primary means first)"
In the electronic color wheel used for electronic devices such as televisions and computers, red, green, and blue are regarded as the "primary colors" and magenta, yellow, and cyan are regarded as the "secondary colors". 
The primary colors always appear on the color wheel. There are the three primary colors of light. These are called the three "additive colors". They are red (made in pigment by mixing yellow and magenta), green (made in pigment by mixing cyan and yellow), and blue (made in pigment by mixing magenta and cyan). The three primary colors of light are the secondary colors on the "printer's color wheel". 
The primary colors of light can be mixed together to make secondary colors. A long time ago, people used to think that the primary colors were red, yellow and blue. Now we know they were wrong.
"(* Secondary means second)"
The secondary colors are on all color wheels. Secondary colors are made by mixing the primary colors of light together. The secondary colors of light are the primary colors of pigment on the printer's color wheel--the color wheel used for color printing). These three colors are called the "subtractive colors". They are magenta (a bright pink), yellow and cyan (a light greenish blue). The primary colors of light are the secondary colors on the "printer's color wheel". The three primary colors of pigment can be mixed to make red (magenta and yellow), green (yellow and cyan), and blue (cyan and magenta), but they do not appear as bright when they are made with pigment instead of light. The secondary colors can be mixed with the primary colors to make tertiary colors.
"(* Tertiary means third)" The tertiary colors are made by mixing a secondary and primary color together. The tertiary colors are orange, made by mixing red and yellow; chartreuse green ("yellow-green"), made by mixing green and yellow; spring green, made by mixing green and cyan; azure, made by mixing blue and cyan; violet, made by mixing blue and magenta; and rose, made by mixing red and magenta.
The tertiary colors are the same for both the "printer's color wheel" and the "electronic color wheel". 
The 12 major colors of the color wheel, at 30 degree intervals on the "HSV color wheel" (shown above), are the following: red (0 degrees or 360 degrees), orange (30 degrees), yellow (60 degrees), chartreuse green (90 degrees), green (120 degrees), spring green (150 degrees), cyan (180 degrees), azure (210 degrees), blue (240 degrees), violet (270 degrees), magenta (300 degrees), and rose (330 degrees). This constitutes the complete set of primary, secondary, and tertiary color names.
Note: Red is shown twice so it can be compared to both orange and rose. 
On the traditional red-yellow-blue pigment color wheel (in which red, yellow, and blue were regarded as the primary colors and orange, green, and violet were regarded as the secondary colors), the tertiary colors on a red-yellow-blue (RYB) color wheel were called red-violet, blue-violet, blue-green, yellow-green, yellow-orange, and red-orange. 

</doc>
<doc id="54021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54021" title="Rerun">
Rerun

A rerun is a repeat of the same broadcast media, when that program is played again. This is usually a television show, but can also be a radio show.

</doc>
<doc id="54023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54023" title="Cutaway">
Cutaway

A cutaway in movieing is a camera shot that interrupts the program. Its subjects are related. It is going on at the same time as the main action of the program.

</doc>
<doc id="54026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54026" title="Cherie Blair">
Cherie Blair

Cherie Blair, QC (born 23 September 1954) is a British barrister. She is the wife of former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair. She was born in Bury, Lancashire, and grew up in Waterloo, Lancashire. She is a daughter of actor Antony Booth.
She gained a first class degree from the London School of Economics.
She qualified as a barrister in 1976, and took silk in 1995. In 1999 she became a Recorder in the County Court and Crown Court. 
Blair specialises in Human Rights law. She is a Catholic.

</doc>
<doc id="54032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54032" title="Regions of Slovakia">
Regions of Slovakia

Since 1949 (except 1990-1996), Slovakia has been divided into a number of "kraje" (singular "kraj", usually translated as Regions, but mean rather county). Slovakia is currently divided into 8 regions. Each kraj is then divided into many "okresy" (singular "okres", usually translated as districts). Slovakia currently has 79 districts.
Each region is named after its capital.
The following list shows: name of the region, its capital, number of districts, population (as of 2001) and area.

</doc>
<doc id="54033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54033" title="Districts of Slovakia">
Districts of Slovakia

An okres (in English district) is an administrative unit of Slovakia.
Several districts form one region. On the other hand, one district is made of several municipalities, which are further divided into cadastral areas. The current districts exist since 1996, which at first had their own offices, but in 2004, they were abolished and replaced by the Circuit Offices, which are usually responsible for several districts (except for the Nové Zámky District, which has two Circuit Offices), reducing districts to a little more than statistical units.
Slovakia currently has 79 districts, with the city of Bratislava divided into 5 districts and the city of Košice divided into 4 districts. 

</doc>
<doc id="54040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54040" title="Žilina">
Žilina

Žilina (German: "Sillein", Hungarian: "Zsolna") is a city in northwestern Slovakia.
The city is located in the northwestern Slovakia, at the confluence of Váh, Kysuca and Rajčanka rivers. It is surrounded by numerous mountains ranges, for example Lesser Fatra, Strážov Mountains and many others.
People have lived here since the Neolithic age. The Slavs started to move here in the 5th century. German colonists started to live here since the 13th century. When the Hussites burned the city down, it declined it for some time. It regained its position in the 19th century, when it became an important railway junction. Today, it is the fifth largest town in Slovakia and the third most important industrial centre in Slovakia.
The centre of the city is the "Mariánske námestie", with the city hall, baroque statue of the Virgin Mary and so on. Other sights include:
Žilina is the main industrial and business centre of the Váh river. The biggest employer is the Kia Motors company, which invested here 1 billion dollars and created 3000 work positions.

</doc>
<doc id="54043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54043" title="Renting">
Renting

Renting (also called leasing or letting) is where someone pays money to use something for a definite amount of time. This can be anything from a car or house to a DVD. The document that has all the details written on it is called the "lease". The person who owns the item that will be leased or rented is called the "lessor". The person who is paying the money to use the item is called the "lessee". If it is a house, building, or land that is being leased, the person who pays the money is called the "tenant". For example, a tenant farmer is a person who rents a farm from its owner.
In a closed-end lease (like a car), it is best to drive a vehicle with a residual value of at least 55%.

</doc>
<doc id="54050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54050" title="Prešov">
Prešov

Prešov (; ; ; ; ) is a city in eastern Slovakia. With a population of approximately 91,000 it is the third-largest city in the country. The town is a centre of Rusyns in Slovakia.
Prešov is a city lying in the Torysa river valley, in the historical Šariš region. It is located 33 km north of Košice, connected by the motorway D1.
People have lived in the area since the Paleolithic period. Prešov is first mentioned in 1247. It became a free royal town in 1374. Salt mining started here in the 16th century, in the nearby town of Solivar (which is now part of Prešov).

</doc>
<doc id="54051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54051" title="Trnava">
Trnava

Trnava (German: "Tyrnau", Hungarian: "Nagyszombat") is a city in western Slovakia, around 50 km from the capital Bratislava. Because it has so many churches with its town walls, it is commonly called Little Rome or Slovak Rome.
The town was first mentioned in 1211. It received royal free town privileges as the first town in Slovakia in 1238. The town had its height as a cultural and religious centre, as it was seat of archbishopric from 1541 to 1820. The first horse drawn railway in the Kingdom of Hungary was built to Trnava from Bratislava in 1846. It is again an seat of archbishopric since 1978. In 2003, French car manufacturer PSA started construction of automobile plant. It was finished in 2006

</doc>
<doc id="54052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54052" title="Nitra">
Nitra

Nitra (Hungarian: "Nyitra" / "Nyitria" [archaic]; German: "Neutra" ()) is a city in western Slovakia (and the fifth largest urban settlement in Slovakia) situated at the foot of Zobor Mountain in the Nitra River valley. 
Nitra is one of the oldest cities in Slovakia. It existed as a town since at least the early 9th century.
Nitra is a city with special history. People have lived there for at least 6000 years. It was an important center of the Celts (in the last few hundred years BC), and later the seat of the first known rulers of what is today Slovak territory, i.e. of : 
Nitra is also site of the first known Church in Central and Eastern Europe, built in 828.

</doc>
<doc id="54056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54056" title="Trenčín">
Trenčín

Trenčín (German: "Trentschin"; Hungarian: "Trencsén"; Latin: "Laugaritio") is a town in western Slovakia (close to the Czech border) on the Váh river.
The site is inhabited since time immemorial. Trenčín is best known for Roman writing below the Trenčín castle. In the 13th century, the castle was home to the legendary Matthew Csák, "Lord of the river Váh and the Tatra mountains".

</doc>
<doc id="54063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54063" title="Banská Bystrica">
Banská Bystrica

Banská Bystrica (German: "Neusohl", Hungarian: "Besztercebánya", Latin: "Villa Nova"), is a large town in central Slovakia, on the Hron river.
It was first mentioned in 1255 as a royal free mining town. The town had rich ore deposits, mainly copper, and to a lesser extent silver, gold and iron. As the deposits were depleted, the town has reoriented to the industry. During the World War II, the Slovak National Uprising broke out in the town.

</doc>
<doc id="54069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54069" title="Social realism">
Social realism

Social realism is a style of art, fiction, movies and plays. It describes the daily life of workers and poor people. Social realist artists try to show people and their lives in a realistic way. This means that they often show things which are not beautiful or attractive. They may show people who are elderly, sick, sad, insane or have a disability. This does not mean that a Realist work of art or literature is ugly. It can be made beautiful by the way that the artist or writer creates it.
Social realism art does not belong to one period of history, but has been the style of some artists in different centuries and different countries. Caravaggio, who was a late Renaissance artist, painted "Realist" pictures. Several Spanish painters were "Realists": Velazquez, Esteban Murillo and Francisco de Goya. There were many realist painters in the 19th century, including Gustave Courbet in France and Luke Fildes in England. 
Social Realism was popular in Russian art and literature. In the 20th century it became the main type of literature in the Soviet Union. It was also used by David Siqueiros to depict daily struggles of the people in his country, Mexico. 

</doc>
<doc id="54082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54082" title="Scottish Premier League">
Scottish Premier League

The Scottish Premier League (known as the Clydesdale Bank Premier League or SPL) was a professional competition for football clubs. It was the top level of the Scottish football league system. In 2013 the Scottish Premier league was replaced by the Scottish Premiership as Scotland's top football competition.
In Scotland, watching the SPL is more popular than watching the top football league is in any other European country. The Scottish Premier League is currently fifteenth in the UEFA rankings of European leagues, which are based on the how well the participating clubs play in all European competitions. Eighteen clubs have played in the SPL since it began in 1998, but only two have won the title: the Old Firm of Celtic and Rangers both seven times.
The SPL began in 1998, when a group of teams decided to split from the Scottish Football League and create their own league. The idea of splitting from the league was from a similar event in 1992 with the start of the English Premiership. 
The SPL had 10 clubs playing until the 2000–01 season when the league was expanded to 12 teams. The increase from 10 clubs to 12 was part of the deal offered to get approval from SPL member clubs. Since the 2001–02 season, the table is split in half near the end of the season, with the teams playing the other clubs from their half of the table once more. This sometimes results in the seventh placed team having more points than the sixth placed team, but they do not move up to the top half. In the 2005–06 season, the seventh placed team (Inverness) had more points than the fourth placed team (Hibernian) but still did not move up to fourth place due to the split.
The SPL has been home to many important events. For example, when Heart's goalkeeper, Craig Gordon moved to Sunderland for a fee of £9 million, a record fee for a British goalkeeper. It is also the most amount of money paid for a Scottish player, but Alan Hutton shared this record when he moved from Rangers to Tottenham Hotspur for the same fee. Tore André Flo's move from Chelsea to Rangers was also a record for the most amount paid for a player by a Scottish club, when he moved for £12 million. The most amount of money paid by a Scottish club to another Scottish club is £4.5 million for Scott Brown when he moved from Hibernian to Celtic.
The SPL is in a league format – a team gains points by playing another team in the league. Three points are awarded for a win and one point for a draw. No points are awarded for a loss. Once all the games have been played, the team at the top of the league wins the SPL trophy. If two or more teams are equal on points, then the difference between of goals scored and goals against is considered. The season runs from August until May each year. Each club will play each other at least three times before the table splits in half for the last part of the competition. Each club will then play five more games against clubs in their half of the table. Each team plays a total of 38 games.
Once every team has played each other three times the league splits into two halves for another five games. This means that the top six teams play each other once, and the bottom six teams play each other once. Many people do not like the SPL splitting. Many managers such as Jim Jeffries, the manager of Hearts at the time, has publically asked for the split to be removed. The man in charge of the SPL, the Chief Executive, said that 11 out of the 12 SPL teams would need to agree and out of eight teams asked, five said that they wanted the split kept. 
Teams cannot move between the two splits, meaning that even if a team in seventh place has more points than the team in sixth they will not move above them in the league. This happens often, for example in the 2005–06 season, the seventh placed club, Inverness Caledonian Thistle, gained more points than the fourth placed club, Hibernian but finished the league in seventh.
In the 2000–01 season, the SPL decided to stop the "winter break", forcing teams to play through January. This means that many games are stopped because of the damage to the pitch and very bad weather. Former Celtic manager Martin O'Neill, former Dundee manager Jim Duffy, and former Rangers manager Walter Smith are among those who have asked to start the winter break again. Former Rangers manager Alex McLeish accused the SPL of taking Scottish football "back to the Dark Ages" after its decision to stop the winter break, meaning that they were going back to an old, outdated system.
A total of four clubs can qualify for European competitions. The teams who finish first and second in the SPL qualify for the UEFA Champions League. The third-placed team, and the winner of the Scottish Cup, qualify for the UEFA Cup.
Rangers and Celtic have recently played in the final of the UEFA Cup, with neither club winning in the final match. In 2003 Celtic played FC Porto in Seville, Spain but Porto won 3– 2. More recently, in 2008 Rangers played FC Zenit St. Petersburg in Manchester, England, but lost 2– 0. More than 200,000 Rangers fans went to Manchester to watch the game on several large televisions.
Normally, the team who finishes last in the SPL is relegated to the Scottish First Division and the team who finishes first in the First Division is promoted to the SPL. However, there are some criteria that the team must meet in order to be promoted. In 2003, Falkirk finished first in the Scottish First Division but their stadium did not meet the agreed criteria. Instead, they asked if they could share a stadium with Airdrie United while their own stadium was expanded. This caused arguments as the chairmen of the SPL clubs voted against this idea. Because Falkirk's stadium was too small, they were not promoted into the SPL, and the team who finished last in the SPL (Motherwell) was not relegated.
This situation almost happened again in 2004. There were many votes and threats of legal action from Partick Thistle, the team who finished last in the SPL. The situation was solved and Inverness Caledonian Thistle were allowed promotion, as long as they shared a stadium with their rivals Aberdeen at Pittodrie, a stadium over 100 miles (160 km) away. 
In 2005, the stadium size criteria was reduced. A team playing in the SPL must now have at least 6,000 seats (down from 10,000). Standing room is not allowed in SPL grounds for safety reasons. This then allowed Inverness Caledonian Thistle to return to their home stadium during the 2005–06 season.
In the SPL, there are no restrictions on clubs signing players. The only rule on signing players is with general Scottish employment law. There are no salary caps or age restrictions. There are no restrictions on the size of the playing squad or restrictions on the number of players from other countries. 
The only rule is the "Under-21" rule. This means that every club must name at least three players under the age of 21 in their match day squad. They do not need to play. There has been some criticism over this rule. Walter Smith, Gus MacPherson and Jim Jeffries all showed their disapproval.
Between the 1998–99 season and the 2001–02 season, the right to show SPL matches on television was held by Sky Sports, with highlights being shown by STV's Scotsport. Sky Sports withdrew from the SPL when their offer for £45 million, to continue showing live games on TV, was declined by the SPL. The SPL asked for more money. Discussions began in 2002 for a new pay-per-view satellite television channel, called "SPL TV". However Rangers and Celtic did not like the idea, and rejected it. Because of this, the remaining 10 SPL clubs announced their intention to resign from the league. 
Even though a two-year television deal had been agreed with BBC Scotland in July 2002 (for less than the money previously offered by Sky Sports), the 10 non-Old Firm clubs confirmed their resignation from the SPL in August 2002, because they were unhappy with how the league voted which allowed the Old Firm clubs to stop any attempts to change SPL rules. The ten clubs withdrew their resignations in January 2003 after an agreement was reached to change the voting rules and to change the way the money from TV was given out to the SPL teams.
With BBC Scotland's television contract due to expire after the 2003–04 season, the SPL agreed a new television deal with Irish company Setanta Sports in February 2004 in a four-year deal worth £54 million. In June 2008, it was announced that a further four-year deal would start for the 2010–11 season, with the deal worth £125 million. However, Setanta went bankrupt in June 2009. In July, Sky Sports and ESPN agreed a £65 million five-year deal with the SPL.
The right to broadcast SPL games on radio is currently held by BBC Radio Scotland, who have held the rights since the SPL started in the 1998–99 season. BBC Radio Scotland also provide internet webcasts to all Scottish Premier League matches, having became the first broadcaster to introduce such a service in June 2000.
As with many sport competitions, the name of the SPL has been sold to a sponsor, currently the Clydesdale Bank, a Scottish Bank. The Clydesdale Bank bought the name in the 2007–08 season for £8 million, taking over from another Scottish bank, the Bank Of Scotland. The SPL is now known as the ""Clydesdale Bank Premier League"".
Until the start of the 2012-13 season the two Glasgow football clubs known as the Old Firm played in the SPL, Rangers and Celtic. The Old Firm was criticised by some due to the fact that they held such a strong position in Scottish football. The amount of money they made was very large compared to the other teams in Scotland. In 2001 their income was £90 million, almost double the income of the other ten teams, whose income was £48 million combined. Every year since the SPL started one of the Old Firm has won the league. Only once, in the 2005–06 season, did the Old Firm clubs not come first and second in the SPL. 
Rangers entered administration in 2012 because they owed money which they could not afford to repay. Some of this money was owed to HMRC (Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs) as Rangers had not payed the tax they should have. Rangers asked HMRC if they would take only some of the money owed to them, called a Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA) however HMRC demanded the full amount and Rangers were closed. The people who owned Rangers have set up a new company ('newco') and bought Ibrox stadium, the training buildings and other things. This 'newco' was forced out of the SPL moved to the Scottish Third Division from the 2012-13 season.
Although the two teams had a strong position over other Scottish teams, they still cannot compete with other leagues for players because other leagues, particularly the English Premiership, have a lot more money to spend. There were rumours about the Old Firm splitting from the SPL, and joining the English Premiership, but this was stopped by FIFA.
These teams play in the Scottish Premier League in the 2012–13 season:
These are previous members of the SPL in reverse order of them losing membership.
Inverness Caley Thistle and St Mirren are the only clubs to have been promoted into the SPL twice. Dunfermline Athletic are the only club to have been relegated from the SPL twice.
"Updated on 28 October 2009; and partly on 07/10/12"

</doc>
<doc id="54083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54083" title="Metropolitan county">
Metropolitan county

There are six metropolitan counties in England, which each cover large urban areas, typically with populations of 1.2 to 2.8 million. They were created in 1974 and are each divided into several metropolitan districts. 
There are no county councils any more since 1986. Most of their functions were taken over by the individual boroughs. So the boroughs became unitary authorities. The remaining functions were taken over by so-called "joint-boards".
The metropolitan counties have population densities of between 838 (South Yorkshire) and 28 (West Midlands) people/km². Individual metropolitan districts range from 4 people/km² in Liverpool to only 500 people/km² in Doncaster.
The six metropolitan counties and their metropolitan districts are:
The structure of Greater London is similar to the metropolitan counties, but it is not one. It was created earlier in 1965, by the London Government Act 1963.
The idea for creating administrative areas based upon the large conurbations outside London based on the model of the County of London or Greater London. 
The metropolitan counties were established by the Local Government Act 1972, the county councils were first elected in 1973, and were formally established in April 1974.
Since 1995, the cities of Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham and Sheffield have come together in the "English Core Cities Group". This organisation has no distinct legal status but seems to move towards a role of these cities as regional capitals outside of London.

</doc>
<doc id="54085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54085" title="Unitary authority">
Unitary authority

A unitary authority is a type of local authority that is responsible for all local government functions within its area. This is different from a system where local government functions are divided between different authorities.
Typically unitary authorities cover large towns or cities, which are large enough to be independent of county or regional administration. Sometimes they consist of counties which have no lower level of administration.
In the United Kingdom, "Unitary Authorities" are English councils which are responsible for almost all local government functions within their areas.
This is opposed to the system of local government which still exists in most of England, where local government functions are divided between county councils and district councils.
Until 1996 a similar system existed in Scotland and Wales but this has now been replaced by a fully unitary system. A unitary system has existed in Northern Ireland since 1973.
Some cities, large towns and groups of neighbouring towns are unitary authorities and independent from county councils and some English counties, such as Rutland, Herefordshire and the Isle of Wight, have so small populations that the entire county is a unitary authority.
In practice most unitary authorities in the UK are not entirely unitary, as they often run some services on a joint basis with other authorities, these typically include policing, fire services, and sometimes waste disposal and public transport. In addition some unitary authorities contain civil parishes, which effectively form another limited of local government
When the metropolitan councils were abolished in 1986 their functions were given to the boroughs. These became unitary authorities in all but name.
Similar institituions exist in other countries, which although not called unitary authorities, are similar in concept.
In the United States an Independent city or a consolidated city-county is roughly equivalent to a unitary authority. The city might be separate from any county government, as in Virginia, or merged with a county government, as in San Francisco, California, or as is common in Florida. Another type of local government that is roughly equivalent to a unitary authority is a county when there are no municipal or township governments in the county. That is the case in Arlington County, Virginia, and Baltimore County, Maryland.
Unitary authorities or "single-tier municipalities" exist as a single level of government in a province that otherwise has two levels of local government. One should not confuse municipalities in provinces with no upper-level of local government as single-tier municipalities, as these are the "only" level of local government in that province.
In Germany a kreisfreie Stadt is the equivalent term for a city which is responsible for the local and the Kreis (district) administrative level.

</doc>
<doc id="54087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54087" title="Administrative division">
Administrative division

Administrative division is a term for an administrative region within a country that is created for the purposes of managing of land and the affairs of people. The area typically has a local government with a certain degree of autonomy, and is on a level below that of the sovereign state. 

</doc>
<doc id="54090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54090" title="County council">
County council

A county council is the elected administrative body governing an area known as a county. This term has slightly different meanings in different countries.
County councils were responsible for more strategic services in a region, with smaller urban district councils and rural district councils responsible for other activities. The new system was a major modernisation, which became necessary because of the increase of functions carried out by local government in late Victorian Britain.
In England and Wales, a county council is the local government that governs a county.
County Councils were introduced in 1889 in England and Wales by the "Local Government Act 1888". They took over the administrative functions of the unelected "Quarter Sessions".
The system was soon extended to Scotland, by the "Local Government (Scotland) Act 1889", and the island of Ireland by the "Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898". Except in Scotland, the areas they covered were called administrative counties and were not always the same as the traditional shire counties.
In the United States, most of the individual states have counties as a form of local government; in nine states, they are headed by a county council. In other states, each county is headed by a county commission or a county board of supervisors.

</doc>
<doc id="54101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54101" title="L. Ron Hubbard">
L. Ron Hubbard

Lafayette Ronald Hubbard (March 13, 1911 – January 24, 1986) was an American pulp fiction writer. He created Dianetics and Scientology. Hubbard was born in Tilden, Nebraska to Harry Ross Hubbard and Ledora May Hubbard. He died of a stroke in Creston, California.

</doc>
<doc id="54106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54106" title="East Midlands">
East Midlands

The East Midlands is one of the regions of England and is the eastern half of the Midlands. 
The counties of Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Rutland, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire and most of Lincolnshire belong to this region.
The highest point in the region is Kinder Scout, in Derbyshire at 2,088 ft (636 m). 
Its main cities are Nottingham, Leicester, Lincoln, Derby, Northampton, Mansfield and Chesterfield. Leicester is officially the largest city in the region, although the largest area is the Nottingham Urban Area.
East Midlands Airport is situated between the three main cities of Derby, Leicester and Nottingham.
Midland Mainline and GNER trains go to London and to Birmingham and the South West. 
The M1 motorway serves the three largest cities.
A historical basis for such an area exists in the Five Burghs of the Danelaw. The current government office region was created in 1994.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:

</doc>
<doc id="54109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54109" title="Pirates of the Caribbean">
Pirates of the Caribbean

Pirates of the Caribbean is a franchise by Disney. It includes a theme park ride, a series of movies, video games, and novels. The movies have grossed more than $2.7 billion.
Elizabeth Swann is the daughter of Weatherby Swann, governor of Port Royal. She was played by Keira Knightley. 
She becomes James Norrington's fiance after he proposes to her. She only accepts his marriage proposal so he will save Will Turner, the man she loves. After Will is rescued, the marriage is called off. She marries Will Turner instead and has a son named Jack Turner.
After Elizabeth gives birth to Jack Turner, William is forced to go to sea every ten years. When William's son is ten years old and it has been ten years Will Turner returns to see his wife and son. At the end of At Worlds End we don't see Will unite he is with his family.
Jack Sparrow, known to many people as Captain Jack Sparrow, is a pirate. He is played by Johnny Depp.
Jack Sparrow was captain of the black-sailed ship called the "Black Pearl". However, after a mutiny led by his first mate Hector Barbossa, he was marooned on an island with nothing but a gun holding one bullet. However, he survived for three days on the island. There were many rumors about how he escaped the island, many of them glorifying Sparrow. In reality, Sparrow had discovered a smuggler's cache of rum and waited for the smugglers to come rescue him.
He assembles a crew to help him re-claim the "Black Pearl". After the curse is lifted from the crew of the "Black Pearl", he kills Barbossa using the gun he was left with when he was marooned. He re-claims his position as captain of the "Black Pearl".
Captain Hector Barbossa, commonly called Barbossa, is a pirate. He is played by actor Geoffrey Rush.
Barbossa was Jack Sparrow's first mate who later becomes his toughest enemy. He led the mutiny against Sparrow, and became captain of the "Black Pearl". He and his crew became cursed after stealing a chest of cursed Aztec gold. Just as the curse is lifted, Jack Sparrow shoots Barbossa (using the bullet from the gun left with him when he was marooned). This shot kills Barbossa. However, he is brought back to life by Tia Dalma to rescue Jack Sparrow from Davy Jones' Locker.
Barbossa was brought back to free Tia Dalma, not to rescue Jack Sparrow. Tia Dalma was actually in the process of reviving Barbossa when Jack showed up and traded the cursed monkey for a jar of dirt to ward off Davy Jones. His boot can be seen in the shot if one looks closely enough. Jack hadn't died yet when she started to revive Barbossa. This was also, very likely, Tia Dalma's reasoning behind helping the others rescue Jack without charging.
William "Will" Turner is a blacksmith who lives in Port Royal yet is very good with a sword. He was played by Orlando Bloom.
After being found in the wreckage of a ship at sea, Will Turner was taken aboard a ship traveling to Port Royal. There, he became a blacksmith's apprentice. He falls in love with Elizabeth Swann, the governor's daughter, and wants to marry her but she plays hard to get.In the end he finally marries her in the middle of an awful fight called Malstorm. However, after killing Davy Jones, he became captain of the "Flying Dutchman", which allows him to make port only once per ten years.
James Norrington is a British Royal Navy Officer. He was played by Jack Davenport.
James Norrington is a commodore in the Royal Navy. He proposes to Elizabeth Swann, however, she marries Will Turner instead.
After Jack Sparrow escapes hanging on the gallows, Norrington gives Sparrow a day's head start, effectively letting him escape. This causes him to lose his commission and position in the Royal Navy. He goes to Tortuga, a privateer port where many pirates and criminals live. However, he redeems himself by stealing the heart of Davy Jones and giving it to Lord Beckett. However, he regrets this decision as Beckett begins executing all pirates.
James Norrington was killed by Bootstrap Bill Turner with a wooden spear going straight through to the heart on board the "Flying Dutchman" after helping Elizabeth and her crew escape the Dutchmans brig.
Lord Cutler Beckett is a ruthless Lord of the East India Trading Company. He is played Tom Hollander.
After gaining the heart of Davy Jones from James Norrington, Beckett uses it to control Davy Jones by taking over the ship and ordering a mass execution of all pirates, even women and children.
He is killed aboard the ship the "Endeavor". He loses his control of Davy Jones after Will Turner stabs the heart of Davy Jones and becomes the captain of the "Flying Dutchman". The "Endeavor" is destroyed by the "Black Pearl" and the "Flying Dutchman", killing almost all those aboard, including Beckett.
Tia Dalma is the human form of the goddess Calypso. She is played by Naomie Harris.
Little is known about Tia Dalma. She once had a relationship with Jack Sparrow when they were "inseparable". It was in this time when she gave Sparrow his compass. She was Davy Jones' lover at one point. She was the one who turned him into a monster, after he cut his heart out for her.
She is revealed to be the nymph Calypso, bound to human form by the Brethren Court.
Davy Jones is captain of the "Flying Dutchman". He is voiced by Bill Nighy.
Davy Jones turned into a monster after he cut his heart out for Calypso. He is the captain of the "Flying Dutchman", a ship crewed by those offered a second chance at life for a hundred years. Their job is to ferry souls to the afterlife. However, Davy Jones uses the crew for his own purposes. This has caused him and the crew to transform into monsters resembling sea life.
Davy Jones was killed by Will Turner aboard the "Flying Dutchman".Will was stabed by Davy Jones and then Bootstrap charged at Davey Jones and attacked him. But when Davey Jones got a grip on him he took out his sword and was going to stab Bootstrap just as Jack sparrow took the heart out of the chest and helped Will stab it with a broken sword.
Davy Jones did not cut his heart out "for" Calypso. He cut his heart out "after" she betrayed him by not showing up the one day Davy Jones was allowed to make port. He was so hurt that he cut out his own heart, refusing to have those feeling near him. This is also the reason Davy Jones tought the brethren court how to bind Calypso to human form.
Sao Feng is a Pirate Lord of the Brethren Court. He is played by Chow Yun-Fat.
Sao Feng is the pirate lord of the South China Sea. He is known for betraying anyone, even his friends, to get on the winning side. He says this is "just good business". He often uses a dao (a Chinese single-edged sword), as his weapon of choice.
Elizabeth and Barbossa visit Sao Feng to request a ship and a crew. Feng is suspicious and informs them that earlier that day someone broke into his uncle's temple and attempted to steal the navigational charts to World's End. He reveals the thief to be Will Turner. Barbossa and Elizabeth deny knowing Will, but when Feng threatens to kill him, Elizabeth reacts, confirming they are allies. Barbossa explains that the Brethren Court has been summoned to meet at Shipwreck Cove and Feng, being one of the nine Pirate Lords, is honor bound to attend. Feng demands to know why they want to sail to the Locker. When Will admits they want to rescue Jack, Feng becomes angry and declares that he would only bring Sparrow back to life to kill him in person. Barbossa reminds Feng that Jack is one of the nine Pirate Lords and is still in possession of a "piece of eight," a pirate lord's symbol and didn't have a successor to give it to before his "death."
Joshamee Gibbs, known as Mr. Gibbs, is a pirate. He is played by Kevin McNally.
Mr. Gibbs is right hand man to Jack Sparrow. He helps Jack Sparrow assemble a crew to go after the "Black Pearl". He is very superstitious. Not much is known about his past, aside from the fact he had served in the Royal Navy at one point.
Weatherby Swann is the governor of Port Royal, and is father to Elizabeth Swann. He is played by Jonathan Pryce.
Governor Swann wanted Elizabeth to marry James Norrington. However, he did not mind when she chose Will Turner instead, because he wanted her to be happy.
He was assassinated by an employee of the East India Trading Company under Beckett's orders.
Pintel and Ragetti are pirates. Pintel is played by Lee Arenburg, and Ragetti is played by Mackenzie Crook.
Pintel and Ragetti were part of the crew on the "Black Pearl". They took part in the mutiny led by Barbossa, and each became immortal after taking part of the cursed chest of Aztec gold. Ragetti has a wooden eye, which is in fact Barbossa's Piece of Eight. They often are comic relief in the movies.
Bill Turner, often called Bootstrap, is a pirate played by Stellan Skarsgård.
Bootstrap is Will Turner's father. He was part of the crew of the "Black Pearl" with Jack Sparrow as captain, but he did not take part in the mutiny. After stealing the Aztec gold (meaning he was cursed, and immortal) Bootstrap felt bad for the part he played in the mutiny against Jack. He stuck up for Jack, so Barbossa strapped him to a cannon and sent him to the depths, unable to breathe yet unable to die (as said by Bootstrap himself in Dead Man's Chest). Davy Jones offered him a way out of his eternal torture, and Bootstrap Bill accepted. Thus he becomes part of the crew on the "Flying Dutchman" with Davy Jones. He also chose to be on the ship with his son William Turner after agreeing to leave every ten years to give his wife and his son a visit.
The Kraken is a fictional sea monster. It is based on the mythical beast in mythology (extremely redundant). It is a sea monster that does the bidding of Davy Jones. When summoned by him, it arises from the ocean. Often Davy Jones tells it to destroy ships that he believes threaten or annoy him. The Kraken kills Jack Sparrow and destroys the "Black Pearl" but Jack lived. The Kraken is Killed in fact by Davy Jones.He has a lizardy kind of skin.
Captain Teague is pirate, and is Keeper of the Code for the Brethren Court. He is played by Keith Richards.
Teague is Jack Sparrow's father. He is the former Pirate Lord of Madagascar, but he resigned to become Keeper of the Code.
Anamaria is a female pirate. She is played by Zoë Saldaña.
Not much is known about her, other than her ship was stolen by Jack Sparrow at one point. She becomes part of Jack Sparrow's crew in helping him find the "Black Pearl".
Lieutenant Gillette is a British Royal Navy officer. He is played by Damian O'Hare.
Gillette is James Norrington's Flag-Lieutenant. He survives the battle on the "HMS Dauntless".
Lieutenant Groves is a British Royal Navy Officer. He is played by Greg Ellis.
Groves is a British Royal Navy Officer. He served under the command of James Norrington. He also serves as Beckett's second-in-command aboard the "Endeavour" when it is destroyed by the "Flying Dutchman" and the "Black Pearl". When Beckett gives no commands for the crew, he orders them to abandon ship.
Mercer is an employee of the East India Trading Company. He is played by David Schofield.
Mercer is Beckett's assistant. Beckett often uses Mercer to carry out his "dirty" work, such as assassination and spying.
Giselle and Scarlett are prostitutes from Tortuga. Giselle is played by Vanessa Branch. Scarlett is played by Lauren Maher.
Both women often flirt with Jack Sparrow. They both also often slap him for lying to them.

</doc>
<doc id="54123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54123" title="Greater Nottingham">
Greater Nottingham

Greater Nottingham is a conurbation based around the city of Nottingham in Nottinghamshire, England. 
Unlike Greater Manchester, which is a metropolitan county and Greater London, which is a region, Greater Nottingham not officially an administrative area. But it is an own Nottingham Urban Area with a population of 666,358 at the time of the 2001 census.
The Nottingham Urban Area includes Nottingham itself and the surrounding towns and villages of Arnold, Beeston, Breaston, Carlton, Clifton, Eastwood, Heanor, Hucknall, Ilkeston, Kimberley, Long Eaton, Ripley, Ruddington, Stapleford, and West Bridgford. This Nottingham Urban Area is separated from the Derby Urban Area only by a narrow gap between Breaston and Borrowash. Similar narrow gaps exist between the Nottingham urban area and the Mansfield Urban Area and Alfreton Urban Area.

</doc>
<doc id="54124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54124" title="Hanau">
Hanau

Hanau is a town in Hesse, Germany. It is 25 km east of Frankfurt am Main, where the little river Kinzig joins the river Main. Hanau has about 89,000 inhabitants, and is the sixth-largest city in Hesse. 
Hanau was first mentioned in 1143 and became a city in 1303.
During World War II Hanau was almost completely destroyed by British airstrikes in March 1945.

</doc>
<doc id="54126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54126" title="John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich">
John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich

John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich was born on November 3, 1718 and died on April 30, 1792 in Great Britain. He is known as the person the sandwich is named after.

</doc>
<doc id="54127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54127" title="Nottingham">
Nottingham

Nottingham is a city (and county town of Nottinghamshire) in the East Midlands of England. The centre of Nottingham lies on the River Leen and its southern boundary follows the course of the River Trent, which flows from Stoke to the River Humber estuary. According to the 2011 census, Nottingham has a city population of 305,700. Nottingham is a member of the English Core Cities Group. It is also known as "Shottingham" due to the high rate of gun crime.
The first evidence of settlement dates from pre-Roman times, and it is clear that the Romans also lived in the area.
An early name for Nottingham was "Tigguo Cobauc" which means "a place of cavy dwellings." Founded by Anglo-Saxon invaders after 600 AD, parts of the settlement have included man-made caves, dug into soft sandstone.
Nottingham was later captured by the Danes (Vikings) and in the 9th century became one of the five boroughs (fortified towns) of the Danelaw.
The legend of Robin Hood developed in the Middle Ages. Robin Hood is said to have lived in Sherwood Forest, which extended from the north of Nottingham to the north side of Doncaster, Yorkshire. Hood's main opponent was the Sheriff of Nottingham. While the legends are almost certainly untrue, particularly in their details, they have had a major impact on Nottingham, with Robin Hood imagery a popular choice for local businesses and many modern tourist attractions use the legend. The Robin Hood Statue in Nottingham is within walking distance from the Old Market Square.
Three pubs in Nottingham claim the title of "England's Oldest Pub". The are Ye Olde Trip To Jerusalem near the castle, The Bell on the Old Market Square, and The Salutation on Maid Marian Way.
In the 18th and 19th centuries, much of Nottingham's wealth was founded on the textile industry.
Famous people born in or near Nottingham include (sorted by DOB):
Novelists and poets

</doc>
<doc id="54128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54128" title="Nottingham (disambiguation)">
Nottingham (disambiguation)

Nottingham is the name of several places in the world:
UK:
USA:
and a succession of Royal Navy destroyers:
Nottingham also refers to a housing cooperative in Madison, WI.

</doc>
<doc id="54129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54129" title="Little Red Riding Hood">
Little Red Riding Hood

"Little Red Riding Hood" (or "Little Red Cap") is a beloved fairy tale for young children. It is a story about a young girl and a wolf. The story comes from a folktale which means that it was a "spoken" story for a long time before it was a written story. It was first written down in the late 1600s, by Charles Perrault. The best-known version (the way the story is told) is "" by the Brothers Grimm and dates from the 19th century (1800s).
The most common version of the story is the one written by the Brothers Grimm in the 19th century. The Brothers Grimm listened to many traditional stories from old people and wrote them into a book. Many "fairy stories" as they are usually called, were made better known by the Grimm's book. The title of the story is properly translated as "Little Red Cap" even though it is usually known in English as "Little Red Riding Hood".
A girl has been given red cap (or cloak and hood) to wear. Her mother sends her to take food to her sick grandmother. The mother tells her she must not stop on the way. A wolf sees the girl walking through the woods and makes a plan to eat her. The wolf politely asks the girl where she is going. The girl answers him, because he seems friendly. The wolf tells the girl to pick some flowers for her grandmother. While she is picking flowers, the wolf goes to grandmother's house and eats her. He puts on the grandmother's night-cap and gets into her bed. When the girl arrives at her grandmother's house, she gets into bed with the wolf.
In the Perrault version, the girl is surprised to see what her "grandmother" looks like without her clothes. "What big arms you have, granny!" she cries. "The better to hug you with, my dear!" the wolf responds. The dialogue continues, with the child remarking upon other body parts until she notes the wolf's big teeth. "What big teeth you have, granny!" she cries. "The better to eat you with, my dear!" the wolf responds.
The wolf leaps upon the child and eats the girl. In the Grimms' version, a woodcutter (lumberjack) comes and cuts opens the wolf's body. He saves the grandmother and the girl who are still alive in the wolf's stomach. Then, stones are put in the wolf's body to kill the wolf.
The story of "Little Red Riding Hood" seems to have been told for centuries in different countries, under different names. In France, the story has probably been told for at least 700 years. In Italy, there are several versions. One is called "The False Grandmother". There is also a story from China which is like this, called "The Grandaunt Tiger".
In the old versions of the story the wolf is sometimes a terrible monster or a werewolf. In one version of the story, the wolf gives the girl some food to eat. It is part of the body of her grandmother. The wolf tells the girl to throw all her clothes in the fire, and get into bed. She says that she needs to use the toilet first. The wolf ties her with a long string so that she cannot run away without him knowing. But the girl puts the rope around something else, and escapes.
The story was first written and published in a book from 1697 by the French writer Charles Perrault. The name of the book, in English, is "Tales and Stories of the Past with Morals: Tales of Mother Goose". The story is called "The Little Red Cap" ("Le Petit Chaperon Rouge"). Perrault's version of the tale is the original printed version, but it is likely based on an older oral tradition. It is uncertain if Perrault knew a folk tale from the south of France about a girl who cleverly escapes a werewolf occupying her grandmother's bed.
Perrault wanted to make a strong point about wise and foolish behaviour. He wanted to show that a beautiful young woman was in danger of having men with bad morals try to trick her into "wrong behaviour". In Perrault's story the girl is eaten and there is no happy ending.
The story has been changed many times in the centuries following its publication. It is a little different from the way that the Brother's Grimm tell it. In their version, a huntsman slays the child-devouring wolf. He then frees the heroine from the animal's stomach.
Little Red Riding Hood often appears as a picture book or in collections of stories for very young children. Like a folktale, these books are for telling and listening, not for reading alone. In many re-tellings of the story for very young children, having grandmother get eaten is thought of as too frightening. So grandmother hides in the cupboard. In these tellings, Red Riding Hood is rescued by a hunter or the woodcutter just as the wolf is catching at her apron.
An important part of the story is the questions and answers. A young child can learn and say these parts with the person who is reading the story. In the story, the wolf knocks at the grandmother's door. 
The story goes: 
The second section of repeating parts of the story happens when Red Riding Hood sees the wolf in her grandmother's bed. 
These lines are the best-known part of the story and are often quoted. They are thought of as an important part of good "story-telling" which makes the story more exciting for young children. 
This has led to a series of jokes which are called "Knock, knocks!" 
It has also led to a feeding-time game for little children in which the parent opens the child's mouth by using the nose as a "latch", and pops a spoonful of food in the child's mouth at "walk in!"
There are many stories in which a hungry wolf threatens a young person or animal. In most of these stories, the young one escapes by cunning (cleverness). One story is the Russian folktale "Peter and the Wolf". The Brothers Grimm told the story of the "Little Kids and the Wolf". Another story like this is "The Three Little Pigs", first published by James Orchard Halliwell-Phillipps. 
There is a Norse Legend which has a question and answer part that is like the questions that Red Riding Hood asks the wolf. In this story Thor is pretending to be a giant's beautiful bride. The giant asks the same sort of questions about Thor, who is really a man in disguise.
As with many fairy tales, hidden messages can be found in "Little Red Riding Hood". People have very different "interpretations" (ways of understanding the hidden meanings). There are two main ways that the story of "Little Red Riding Hood" can be interpreted. 
The first type of interpretation is about morality. It is about what is right and what is wrong. 
The second way of seeing the stories has nothing to do with peoples' behaviour or feelings. These interpretations have to do with the cycle of the sun and the seasons, and with the cycle of life, with people dying and being born.
François Adrien Boieldieu (1775 - 1834) made an opera from the story. The opera is called "Le petit chaperon rouge". Its first performance was in Paris, in the year 1818. 
In 1927, Sir Compton MacKenzie used Little Red Riding Hood as the central character of a novel for children "Santa Claus in Summer". Red Riding Hood, in this re-telling, is the daughter of a highway man called Riding Hood.
The story has been adapted to various media. Tex Avery made a cartoon out of it, Red Hot Riding Hood. He adapted the story to be more appealing to adults. Little Red Riding Hood works at a striptease club. The wolf, dressed in a suit, goes after the stripper (a stripper is a person who takes off his or her clothes in public).
Roald Dahl re-told the story in a funny poem about Little Red Riding Hood. It is in his collection "Revolting Rhymes".
"Lon Po Po" is an ancient Chinese version of "Little Red Riding Hood" which won the 1990 Randolph Caldecott Medal for its watercolour and pastel illustrations by Young.
Many paintings have been done of "Little Red Riding Hood". Artists who have painted pictures of this story are George Frederick Watts, Samuel Albrecht Anker, and François Richard Fleury.

</doc>
<doc id="54164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54164" title="Dettelbach">
Dettelbach

Dettelbach is a town in Bavaria, Germany where about 4500 people live. It is famous for its wine.

</doc>
<doc id="54165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54165" title="Albertshofen">
Albertshofen

Albertshofen or "Höpper" is a village in the Kitzingen district of Lower Franconia, Bavaria. Albertshofen is famous for its "Höpper Theater".

</doc>
<doc id="54167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54167" title="Kitzingen">
Kitzingen

Kitzingen is a town in Franconia, Bavaria, Germany with about 21,000 people. There are many restaurants and shops, the famous "Fastnacht Museum" in the sloping tower, and many schools such as Armin-Knab-Gymnasium, Friedrich-Bernbeck-Schule, Fachoberschule.

</doc>
<doc id="54170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54170" title="Wiesenbronn">
Wiesenbronn

Wiesenbronn is a village in the Kitzingen district of Bavaria. About 1000 people live there, and it is famous for its wine and vineyards.

</doc>
<doc id="54175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54175" title="Neuhof">
Neuhof

Neuhof an der Zenn is a small village in the Neustadt (Aisch)-Bad Windsheim district of Bavaria, Germany. 

</doc>
<doc id="54176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54176" title="Geiselwind">
Geiselwind

Geiselwind is a municipality in Lower Franconia, Bavaria with 2,323 people. It is between Kitzingen and Bamberg. It has a theme park, a discotheque and a McDonald's. It has a nice hotel at the marketplace called "Hotel Stern" where guests can have a nice meal and good service. Geiselwind has a fire brigade, sportclub, golf hotel, casino and a nice swimming pool.

</doc>
<doc id="54177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54177" title="Markt Einersheim">
Markt Einersheim

Markt Einersheim is a village in Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany where about 1500 people live.

</doc>
<doc id="54179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54179" title="Mainbernheim">
Mainbernheim

Mainbernheim is a small German town. The population is about 2400. It has an area of 12.24 km². The small town lies between Kitzingen and Iphofen.

</doc>
<doc id="54181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54181" title="Robert College">
Robert College

Robert College, also called RC is an American high school in Istanbul, Turkey. It is the most prestigious, private high school in Turkey. The institution was founded by Cyrus Hamlin, with the financial help of Christopher Rhinelander Robert, in 1863 (during the Ottoman Empire). Robert College is also the first American educational institution founded outside the United States. It was founded as a boys' college for Christian minority of the empire. Later the girls section was opened as American College for Girls. Then the Muslims were allowed to be educated in the schools. Hüseyin Pektaş became the first Muslim boy to graduate from college. In 19th century, many additions were made to college including, middle school and high school.
After the foundation of the Republic of Turkey in 1923, the school continued to educate young people, who later became the leaders of the country. Prime ministers Bülent Ecevit and Tansu Çiller are among the school's graduates.
In 1971, Robert College donated one of its two campuses (Boys' campus or Bebek campus) to the Republic of Turkey. A new, public university was founded on this campus. The other campus (Girls' campus or Arnavutköy campus) has since been serving the society as a coeducational high school.

</doc>
<doc id="54185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54185" title="Demonym">
Demonym

A demonym or gentilic is a word used for people or the inhabitants of a place. The name of a people's language is usually the same as this word, for example, the "English" (language or people). Some places may not have a word for the people that live there.
The English language has many ways to create demonyms. The most common is to add a suffix to the end of the location's name. These may use Latin, Semitic or Germanic suffixes, such as:
In many cases, both the location's name and the demonym are created by using a suffix, for example "England" and "English" and "Englishman". This is not always true, for example, "France" → "French".
In a few cases, the name of the country is not at all related to the name of the people ("Netherlands" → "Dutch"). This is usually because the two words come from different languages.
Demonyms can be nouns or adjectives. In many cases the noun and adjective forms are the same ("Canadian/Canadian"); in other cases they are different ("Spaniard/Spanish").
In the case of Canadian provinces and territories and U.S. states, demonyms are not usually used as adjectives.
Some peoples, mainly cultures that were taken over by European colonists, have no demonym. They may also have a demonym that is the same as the name of their nation. Examples include Iroquois, Aztec, Māori, and Czech. Often, the "native" languages of these people have forms that did not get used in English. In Czech, for example, the language is "Čeština", the nation is "Česko" or "Česká republika", and the people are "Češi".
The demonym for people of the United States of America has a similar problem. "American" refers to both the United States and to the two American continents. "United Statian" is not used in English, but it exists in Spanish ("estadounidense") and is widely used in Latin American Spanish, French ("étatsunien(ne)") exists but is rarely used, Portuguese ("estado-unidense" or "estadunidense") but it is not as commonly used, Italian ("statunitense") exists but is rarely used, and also in Interlingua ("statounitese"). "US American" (for the noun) and "US-American" can be used but is not widely used in German ("US-Amerikaner").

</doc>
