<doc id="27031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27031" title="Greenhouse gas">
Greenhouse gas

Greenhouse gases reflect radiation that the Earth emits, and stop it from being lost into space. This causes the Earth's temperature to be higher than it would be without greenhouse gases. The name for this is the "greenhouse effect."
Most greenhouse gases are natural - water vapor is the most common, and causes most of the greenhouse effect on Earth. Other greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, chlorofluorocarbon and ozone. 
Without greenhouse gases, the earth would be on average 33 degrees Celsius colder. Life as we know it would probably not be possible on Earth, for heat is important for life. Natural emissions of greenhouse gases vary. For example, the great volcanic eruptions that created the Siberian Traps a quarter billion years ago may have released enough gases to partly cause the Permian–Triassic extinction event which killed most life on Earth. 
However, humans are adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. Mainstream science believes that this has caused the planet's average temperature to rise by increasing the greenhouse effect. The most important greenhouse gas that humans add to the atmosphere is carbon dioxide which is less than 0.4% of the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is released when people burn fossil fuels, like oil, coal, and natural gas. Carbon dioxide emissions come mostly from transportation, energy and industries. Among these, the largest contributor is from meat production. The Food and Agriculture Organization said emissions associated with livestock added up to 7.1 gigatonnes (GT) of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO-eq) per year – or 14.5% of all human-caused greenhouse releases. This exceeds the 13% that comes from global transport (including all cars and planes) each year.
Water vapour is the most abundant of these gases but merely reacts to climate change. In other words, when the atmosphere is warm, there is more water vapour. Thus there is a higher possibility of clouds and precipitation. 
In addition to burning fossil fuels, human beings reduce the planets absorption of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by cutting down trees. We also add methane to the atmosphere by raising cattle and other farm animals, such as geese, turkeys, pigs, chickens, and sheep. Scientists have shown that producing 1 kg of beef results in more CO emissions than going for a three-hour drive while leaving all the lights on at home. Additionally, human activity adds water vapor to the atmosphere through increased evaporation by the use of cooling towers in thermal cycle power plants or creation of artificial lakes. These activities contribute to global warming.

</doc>
<doc id="27040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27040" title="Omaha hold'em">
Omaha hold'em

Omaha hold'em is a poker game, similar to Texas hold 'em. In Omaha, each player is given four cards. Then there is a round of betting. Then three community cards are placed on the table. Another round of betting is after that. Then a fourth community card is put down. After this, there is another round of betting. Then there is the final community card put down, there is a last round of betting, and each player uses exactly two cards from the hand and three from the table to form a five-card poker hand. Whoever has the best hand wins all the money put in the middle during betting.
Omaha can also be played as Omaha Hi Lo, where the best hand and the lowest hand splits the pot.
The low hand's cards have to be 8 or lower .

</doc>
<doc id="27049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27049" title="Leverkusen">
Leverkusen

Leverkusen is a city near Cologne at the river Rhine in Germany. As of October 2005, about 162,000 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="27050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27050" title="Tocotronic">
Tocotronic

Tocotronic is a German indie rock band. They were founded in 1993 in Hamburg.

</doc>
<doc id="27053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27053" title="Bolesław Prus">
Bolesław Prus

Bolesław Prus (pen name of Aleksander Głowacki; August 20, 1847 - May 19, 1912) was a Polish writer.
He was born in Hrubieszów and died in Warsaw. As a 15-year-old high-school student, he fought in Poland's January 1863 Uprising.
Prus is best known for his novels, "Lalka" (The Doll) and the historical novel "Faraon" (Pharaoh). He also wrote "Anielka," "Placówka" (The Outpost), "Emancypantki" (The New Woman), and many other stories and novels. He was an advocate of Positivist philosophy and social progressivism.
Prus is regarded as one of the greatest Polish writers, and one of the world's most prominent.

</doc>
<doc id="27056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27056" title="2040">
2040

2040 (MMXL) will be a leap year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="27059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27059" title="Wayne Mixson">
Wayne Mixson

John Wayne Mixson (born 16 June 1922) is a retired American politician. He was born in Alabama, but was raised and is still living in Florida. He is a democrat.
He served in Florida's House of Representatives. In 1978 he was elected a lieutenant governor of state (deputy governor) to governor Bob Graham. They were reelected in 1982. Mixson served as lieutenant governor from 1979 to 1987. During his second term he was also state Secretary of Commerce. In 1987, Graham resigned from office to become U.S. Senator. Mixson was sworn in as governor for three days, from January 3 to January 6, when governor-elect Bob Martinez (Rep.) took over.
During the 2004 presidential election, Mixson crossed party lines to endorse the re-election of President George W. Bush. 

</doc>
<doc id="27060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27060" title="Neustadt an der Weinstrasse">
Neustadt an der Weinstrasse

Neustadt an der Weinstraße is a city in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It has about 54,000 people. The main parts of the city's economy are tourism and winegrowing. Every year the city is the location of the German wine harvest festival with the election of the Gerrman wine queen.
Its districts are 
Neustadt have two on-ramps (North and South) of the highway A 65.
Except for the central station, the town have a second railroad station (Böbig) and a third (South).
Neustadt is the seat of the Hornbach Holding AG and Team Rosberg.

</doc>
<doc id="27061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27061" title="Reubin Askew">
Reubin Askew

Reubin O'Donovan Askew (September 11, 1928 - March 13, 2014) was a American politician. He is a democrat from Florida. He was born in Muskogee (Oklahoma), but since 1937 he lived in Florida. He was a lawyer. He served both in US Army and US Air Force.
Askew was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma. He studied at Florida State University and at University of Florida Levin College of Law. Askew married Donna Lou Harper in August 1956.
Prior to becoming governor, Askew served as state representative (1959-1963) and state senator (1963-1970). For a year (1969-1970) he was president pro tempore of this body.
He was elected governor in the same year and assumed duties in January 1971. He was one of the first southern governors (alongside Jimmy Carter of Georgia) yo openly support desegregation. In 1972 then-democratic Presidential nominee, senator George McGovern of South Dakota offered him vice presidency, but Askew declined it. McGovern lost to Richard Nixon.
Askew was reelected in 1974 and served until early 1979. After leaving office he was, for two years, United States Trade Representative under President Carter.
In 1984 he ran for President, but was defeated in the primary.
Askew had two children; one son and one daughter. Askew lived in Tallahassee, Florida.
Askew died at the age of 85 on March 13, 2014 at his Tallahassee home, after a recent stroke.
He was regarded by many (including Harvard Scholars) as one of the best U.S. governors in the 20th Century.

</doc>
<doc id="27063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27063" title="Trabant">
Trabant

The Trabant (or "Trabi") was a series of cars built in the German Democratic Republic. When the first cars were released, people saw them as being innovative. The cars were also easy on fuel, they did not need much fuel. Trabant had a two-stroke engine. The outside of the Trabant was not made with steel or iron, because the German Democratic Republic did not want to import steel and iron for the cars, because that would have been too expensive. Instead, the Trabant was made of Duroplast, a special kind of plastic, made by mixing formica and bakelite, and made stronger with fibres of cotton. They could afford some steel from Russia, and this was used for the engine and the floor, and to give the plastic strength. After the Berlin Wall was opened the Trabant did not sell as much as before, because the people wanted bigger cars that they could get after the wall was opened. Trabants can still be found in East Europe, for example in Hungary.
The Trabant was a small car, good for driving in the city. The two-stroke engine created lots of air pollution, but because of the plastic body, it was stronger and safer than western cars of the same time. It was famous for being better in a crash test than a VW Polo.
Between 1957 and 1990, about 3 million Trabants were built. As of January 2005, about 67.000 such cars were still registered.

</doc>
<doc id="27065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27065" title="Lindsay Lohan">
Lindsay Lohan

Lindsay Dee Lohan (born July 2, 1986) is an American actress and singer. She has acted in several movies, including "The Parent Trap" and "Freaky Friday".
Lohan's parents are Dina Lohan and Michael Lohan, both of whom are of Irish and Italian descent. She has a sister named Ali Lohan.
The movies "Parent Trap", "Freaky Friday" and "Mean Girls" made Lohan popular in the United States. They also showed her talent in singing. She plays the guitar and has done many singing parts.
She first sang in the soundtrack of the movie "Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen".
In 2004, she released her first album named "Speak". In 2005, her second album, "A Little More Personal (RAW)" was released. Now, in recent years she has been working on a new album with Ne-Yo, Snoop Dogg, Timbaland. This album was released at the end of 2008.
Between 2008 and 2009 Lohan dated Samantha Ronson. However, Lohan now identifies as heterosexual. She had a miscarriage in 2013.
In May 2011, Lohan was convicted of misdemeanor theft of a $2,500 necklace from a jewelry store in Venice Beach.

</doc>
<doc id="27069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27069" title="Postum">
Postum

Postum is a drink first made by C. W. Post in 1895. It is a powder substitute for coffee that is mixed with water. The ingredients are wheat bran, wheat, molasses, and corn dextrin.
It is advertised as a healthier choice of drink than coffee.

</doc>
<doc id="27070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27070" title="Brok">
Brok

Brok nad Bugiem (English: "Brok near Bug") is a small town in Mazowsze Voivodship, Poland. Brok is in Ostrowian County (head town of this region is Ostrów Mazowiecka). Brok is one of the smallest places in Europe with town status (since 1500).
Brok is regarded by many as one of the most beautiful places in this part of Poland. This is a tourist town near two rivers: Bug and one also named Brok.
Attractions include:

</doc>
<doc id="27071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27071" title="1480">
1480


</doc>
<doc id="27072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27072" title="1099">
1099


</doc>
<doc id="27077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27077" title="Herb Alpert">
Herb Alpert

Herb Alpert (born March 31, 1935 in Los Angeles, California) is an American musician. He is known for his trumpet playing with his group, Tijuana Brass. He is also the co-founder and one of the heads of A&M Records.

</doc>
<doc id="27085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27085" title="Teddy bear">
Teddy bear

A teddy bear is a type of toy that looks like a bear. The teddy bear is normally a cub or baby bear. In Russia, bears were used as children's toys for many years before they became popular in the United States. The teddy bear in Russia has been the subject of folklore or stories for many years. Some people believe that teddy bears are only a children's toy but the bear is more than that. The teddy bear is used to comfort people and also to teach. As you will read in the Wikipedia: teddy bears are for adults as well as for children. 
A teddy bear is a popular and well-known toy. It may often have human-like features. They are usually small and soft. Teddy Bears are found all over the world. In the early days of teddy bears, they were made from mohair. Now they are usually made from synthetic fabrics.
There are many stories about how the Teddy Bear got its name. It may be a myth but the teddy bear is said to be named after Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt was the 26th and youngest President of the United States. He was president from 1901–1909. Friends of the president gave him the nickname "Teddy". 
The most told story happened in November 1902. President Roosevelt was in Mississippi for a bear hunt. He and other men went out hunting for bear on horseback. The President and the men had hunting dogs to help find the bears. The dogs ran off following the scent of the bears. When the men could no longer hear the dogs, they turned around and went back to their camp, When they got to camp a bear was there. Everyone at the camp wanted President Roosevelt to shoot the bear. He would not do it or let anyone else do it.
British soldiers in World War I, wore fur coats that they called Teddys. The American soldiers also wore a one piece fur overall they called a teddy. Women's nightgowns have also been nicknamed "Teddy" because the are comfortable.
The teddy bear has been a mascot and a companion for many adults. Olympic Long Jump Gold Medal winner Randy Wililams 1972 pictured on Life magazine with a teddy bear at the Munich games. The bear was giving to him by an ex-girlfriend. 
While playing baseball with the San Francisco Giants, Ron Bryant was nicknamed "Bear" for always taking his teddy bear everywhere with him. After playing for the Giants, he was traded to the Chicago Cubs. While he was playing with the Cubs, Bryant bought a bear from a girl on the street. He took the bear to the game and they won that day. After that, he brought the bear with him to all the games. The teddy bear was even fitted with a baseball uniform with Bryant's number.
Adults often collect "Cherished Teddies". They are figurines of teddy bears. They are considered knick knacks. Only a limited number from each mold is produced. Some are more rare, or uncommon than others. The less made of a particular one, the more valuable they are. 
Beanie Baby bears are of the most popular in Beanie Baby collections. "Princess Diana" bear honors the late Princess of Wales. Her bear is of royal purple color with two flowers on its heart. Accessories for the bear such as a copy of Princess Di's actual license, a crown, and royal cape can be purchased to enhance the royal bear. Some bears that were defective in production are considered to have the highest worth, since limited amounts were effected. Collectors search for the defective ones to have the most unique collection. Just as with "Cherished Teddies" the less available ones are worth the most amount of money. The TY tags on the ears of the bears condition also attributes to their value. Children have a tendency to rip off these tags making the collectibles an everyday toy.
The teddy bear is used in children's classrooms. According to "The Much Maligned Teddy Bear" teddy bears comfort and support children. The teddy bear is also used to teach children about different places. In story, the bear does traveling and sends postcards to the readers, which helps children learn. A child can learn a lot through teddy bears. There are books, logos that teach and comfort children. The teddy bear books help children learn to read and are also fond memories for parents and grandparents.
Law enforcement in America gives children in tramatic experiences teddy bears for comfort. Several agencies provide the bears the children going through crisis. The bears are donated by citizens to help children deal with transition from their homes to foster care or when a parent is arrested for disobeying the law and is taken to jail. Firemen also hand out bears to children victims of fire.

</doc>
<doc id="27096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27096" title="Hangul">
Hangul

Hangul or Hangeul () is the alphabet used for the Korean language and Cia-Cia language.
It was made by Sejong the Great, the 4th King of the Joseon Dynasty in 1443, and it is still used by many people. When Hangeul was spread out, King Sejong published Hunminjeong'eum Haeryebon (훈민정음 해례본) which was chosen as the Memory of the World by UNESCO in 1997. In this book, the design ideas of Hangeul and information on its usage were written down in detail. 
The book Hunminjeong'eum Haeryebon states the 2 design ideas of Hangeul. The first one is that the consonants of Hangeul look like vocal organs. The second one is that the vowels of Hangeul are based on Cheonji'in (천지인). Cheonji'in refers to the three elements of philosophy which are sky (천), earth (지) and human (인). Because of these ideas, Hangeul is well-known for being easy to learn.
Although it was only used by the lower classes at first, Hangeul became the official writing script of Korea in the late 19th century. Today it is the most used writing system of both North and South Korea. North Korea abolished the use of Hanja, and today North Koreans write only in Hangeul. In South Korea, people write mostly in Hangeul, although in some contexts Hanja is still used.
Vowels are letters like A, E, O and so on
There are 21 letters for vowels in Hangul.
Meaning:
Those with two small lines are pronounced with an extra "y" first.
Consonants are letters like B, G, L, M, N, S and so on.<br>There are 14 simple consonants: ㄱㄴㄷㄹㅁㅂㅅㅇㅈㅊㅋㅌㅍㅎ<br>They can be written two next to each other. Meaning:
The consonants and vowels are combined into blocks of syllables. A syllable means one vowel and a few consonants, like "han" and "gul".
The blocks look like these examples: 서울 한글 평양

</doc>
<doc id="27100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27100" title="Lincoln Chafee">
Lincoln Chafee

Lincoln Davenport Chafee (born March 26, 1953) is an American politician. He was the Governor of Rhode Island from 2011 to 2015. Before becoming governor, he was a junior U.S. Senator of Rhode Island from 1999 to 2007.
Chafee was born in Providence, Rhode Island. His father, John Chafee, was also a Senator from Rhode Island and member of the liberal wing of the Republican Party. His mother was Virginia Coates. Chafee was raised in Warwick, Rhode Island. He studied at Brown University and at Montana State University.
Chafee entered politics in 1985 as a delegate to the Rhode Island Constitutional Convention. A year later, he was elected to the Warwick City Council, where he served until his election as Warwick's mayor in 1992, a post he held until his 1999 appointment to the U.S. Senate.
After his father died in office, Chafee was appointed to fill his vacancy. He was elected to his first full term in 2000.
He was a very liberal Republican senator. He is strongly pro-choice and supports gay rights and gun control. He was the only Republican senator in 2002 to voted against war in Iraq. He was the only Republican United States senator to vote against authorizing the use of force to remove Saddam Hussein from power.
In 2004, he did not endorse the reelection of President George W. Bush, and urged other Republicans to write-in in the November election George H. W. Bush, not his son. In January 2006, he was also the only Republican senator to vote against Samuel Alito to the United States Supreme Court.
He was defeated for re-election in the Senate in 2006 by Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse.
Chafee was elected as Governor of Rhode Island in 2010. He was sworn in on January 4, 2011. He became the first Independent to serve as Governor of Rhode Island since John Collins in 1790.
In 2012, he served as co-chair of Barack Obama's re-election campaign. Since then, he was a Democrat.
On May 1, 2013, Chafee signed a bill that legalized same-sex marriage in Rhode Island]].
Chafee has shown some willingness to deviate from strict "War on Drugs" policies, in favor of alternative approaches to America's drug-crime problem.
On September 4, 2013, Chafee announced that he would not run for re-election as Governor of Rhode Island after months of low-approval ratings from the public and by election officials.
On April 9, 2015, Chafee announced that he had formed an exploratory committee in preparation for a potential candidacy for President of the United States as a Democrat in 2016. He formally declared his candidacy on June 3, 2015.
Following a widely panned debate performance, poor polling numbers, and a poor fundraising campaign, Lincoln Chafee announced on October 23 that he would be suspending his campaign.
Chafee has been married to Stephanie Chafee. Together, they have three children.

</doc>
<doc id="27101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27101" title="Sascha Fischer">
Sascha Fischer

Sascha Fischer (born 24 December 1970) is a German rugby player. He started with volleyball, then he began to play rugby for DSV 1878 Hannover (Niedersachsen, Germany). Right now he is playing in France as a pro for C.A. Périgueux-Dordogne. With his former team, C.S. Bourgoin-Jallieu, he took part at Heineken Cup. He is 6 feet, 8 inches tall (2.08 meters) and one of the tallest rugby players in Europe. He is a 27 time national player for Germany. He is a very aggressive player and with his height, he can overlook the whole rugby field.

</doc>
<doc id="27103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27103" title="Bob Graham">
Bob Graham

Daniel Robert "Bob" Graham (born November 9, 1936) is a retired American politician. He was a well known member of the Democratic Party.
Graham has never lost an election. His career started with being a state legislator (Representative 1966-1969, and Senator 1971-1979).
In 1978 he was elected Governor of Florida. His Lt. Governor was Wayne Mixson. Graham was reelected in 1982, when he won 65% over a Republican candidate, Skip Bafalis.
He was a popular Governor. He did much to protect the environment. He also oversaw restart of state executions (as first time since 1964), when 16 people were electrocuted. The first of them, John Spenkelink, was the first to die in the electric chair since 1966 in the United States. He was the second to be executed since 1967 (after Gary Gilmore in Utah in January 1977).
Graham was elected to the United States Senate in 1986, defeating sitting Senator Paula Hawkins. He served as Senator from 1985 to 2005, when he retired. He resigned from governorship on January 3, 1985, three days before the swearing-in of the governor-elect, Republican Robert Martinez. For this time Mixson assumed his duties, making him the shortest serving governor in Florida history.
From 2001 to 2003 Graham was a chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
In early 2003 he decided to run for President but, after poor results in an opinion polls, he resigned and later supported John Kerry, who won the Democratic nomination. He was regarded as possible Kerry Vice Presidential candidate, but Kerry chose John Edwards.
Graham voted in 2002 against intervention in Iraq.

</doc>
<doc id="27105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27105" title="Americans">
Americans

Americans are citizens of the United States. They are of many different ethnic groups and religions, due to immigration from all over the world. 
Also, there are other groups that did not immigrate to the United States but became American because of American expansion in the late 19th century. These groups are people from Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines. The Philippines is now an independent country.
In addition to the United States, Americans and people of American descent can be found around the world. Three to seven million Americans are estimated to be living outside the United States.
Most Americans are of European descent. The number of Latin Americans and Asians is more than ever. About 13% of Americans are of African descent. People from many cultures, religions and ethnic groups live in the U.S. This is why the United States is called the "Melting Pot".
The United States is a diverse country. Six races are officially recognized by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes: White, American Indian and Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander.
The current population of Americans in the U.S. is 308,745,538.

</doc>
<doc id="27114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27114" title="Ohio Wesleyan University">
Ohio Wesleyan University

Ohio Wesleyan University is a private university in Delaware, Ohio and a member of the Five Colleges of Ohio. Wesleyan was founded in September 1844.

</doc>
<doc id="27132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27132" title="Lakshmi">
Lakshmi

Lakshmi is the goddess of money and good luck in Hinduism. She is the wife of the Hindu god Vishnu. Most Hindus pray to her on Diwali, which is a festival in India.
Lakshmi has four arms, fair skin and sits on a lotus flower and is normally surrounded by elephants. She is covered in jewellery.
She also has several avatars (means a god coming to the earth in the form of a human being or in any other form) who are usually married to Vishnu's avatars:

</doc>
<doc id="27136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27136" title="Ancient Australia">
Ancient Australia

Ancient Australia (also called the Prehistory of Australia), covers the time from when the first humans came to Australia to the arrival of the First Fleet in 1788.
Aboriginal artefacts on Rottnest Island have been dated from 6,500 to more than 30,000 years ago. However, more recent evidence suggests human occupation by or even before 50,000 years ago.
During the Pleistocene period, sea levels were much lower than they are today. This would have made migration from Asia to Australia much easier than it is now. However several long sea crossings would still have had to be made. These crossings would have included distances of 90100 km of open sea. It is not known what kind of boat would have been used for these crossings, but they were probably a raft made from bamboo. These first Australians were the world's first ocean travellers.
The land bridge between Australia and New Guinea was blocked by rising sea levels about 8,000 years ago. The people of Australia and New Guinea are closely related by DNA. DNA evidence shows that the Australian Aborigines belong to the modern humans who left Africa between 50,000 and 70,000 years ago. Research shows that the Australian Aborigines were part of a group that left Africa 24,000 years before the groups that settled in Europe and Asia. This makes them one of the oldest indigenous peoples outside Africa. The DNA also shows that most migration to Australia stopped about 50,000 years ago, and the people here developed in isolation to the rest of the world. The Australian Aboriginal population is one of the oldest continuous cultures in the world. Many Aboriginal stories from northern Australia say that the people came to Australia from across the sea.
It is not known what the first Australians looked like. The oldest place where humans lived in Australia dates to 55,000 years ago, the Malakunanja II rock shelter in the Northern Territory. The earliest human remains in Australia, found at Lake Mungo in New South Wales, are 15,000 years younger. The bones of people born from 40,000 to 10,000 years ago, show they were more robust, and were more physically varied than later people. Several important archaeological sites reveal information about the life of these people. These sites include Lake Mungo, Kow Swamp, Coobool Creek, Talgai, and Keilor.
The first Australians had dark skin and black hair. Most of them were hunter-gatherers, hunting animals and collecting plants to eat. They were nomadic people moving from place to place in search of seasonal foods.
They developed into different ethnic groups and each group had its own language and traditions. In 1788 it is estimated that there were about 500 separate language groups in Australia. Each of these language groups was made up of many smaller groupings. These smaller groups often combined for ceremonial and trade activities. Because they were all different, it is difficult to make general claims about Aboriginal traditions and beliefs.
Archaeologists have found that fires increased with the arrival of people. Hunter-gatherers use fire as a tool to drive game, to produce new growth to attract animals, and to clear scrub. Dense forests became more open forest, and open forest became grassland. Species that could survive fire began to take over: in particular, eucalyptus, acacia, and grasses.
The changes to the fauna were even more dramatic. Megafauna, species much larger than humans, disappeared, as well as many of the smaller species. About 60 different vertebrates became extinct, including the Diprotodon family (very large marsupials that looked rather like hippos), several large flightless birds, meat eating kangaroos, a five-metre lizard and Meiolania, a tortoise the size of a small car.
The direct cause of the mass extinctions of the megafauna is uncertain. It may have been fire, hunting, climate change, or a combination of all. Without large herbivores to eat the vegetation, the extra fuel made fires burned hotter, further changing the landscape.
In the period from 18,000 to 15,000 years ago, Australia became drier, with lower temperatures and less rainfall. Between 16,000 and 14,000 years ago the sea levels rose quickly. One scientist has estimated sea levels rose 50 feet in 300 years. At the end of the Pleistocene, about 13,000 years ago, rising sea levels cut the land access across the Torres Strait to New Guinea, the Bass Strait between Victoria and Tasmania, and to Kangaroo Island.
The Tasmanian Aborigines were cut off from the rest of Australia. By 9,000 years ago there were no longer people living on the small islands in Bass Strait or Kangaroo Island.
Studies of language and genes shows that there has been long-term contact between Australians in the far north and the people of modern-day New Guinea and the islands. This seems to have been mainly trade with a little intermarriage. Macassan praus are also recorded in the Aboriginal stories from Broome to the Gulf of Carpentaria. There were some semi-permanent settlements established, and cases of Aboriginal settlers finding a home in Indonesia.
The Aboriginal people did not know writing but they painted pictures on rocks and bark. They also scratched or carved designs into rocks. They used paint that they made from crushed rocks and water in colours like brown, red, orange, and yellow. Many ancient cave paintings have been all over Australia. As the paints made form crushed rock and clay are not organic, it is not possible to use carbon dating to date these pictures. Some paintings have been found showing megafauna that became extinct over 40,000 years ago. These paintings may be the oldest known paintings in the world. Another site in Arnhem Land has charcoal drawings that have been radiocarbon-dated at 28,000 years old.
Aboriginal people had a strong spirituality. They believed that everything had come from the Dreamtime and that the earth was sacred. They believed that ancestor spirits such as the Rainbow Serpent had made the world and everything in it. The laws and customs of the Dreamtime are passed on from parents to children. They have complex ritual songs and dances which are performed at corroborees.

</doc>
<doc id="27137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27137" title="Dreaming (spirituality)">
Dreaming (spirituality)

In Australian Aboriginal culture, life is based on a foundation of beliefs which are called the Dreamtime, or The Dreaming. This a complex set of ideas with deep levels of meanings. The Dreamtime has four parts: The beginning of everything; the life and power of the ancestors; the way of life and death; and power in life. Dreamtime was all four of these things at the same time because it is more powerful than time and space. In it all things exist at once. The Aboriginal peoples call Dreamtime the all-at-once time because they think it is the past, present, and future at the same time. It is a beginning that has no end.
They meet The Dreamtime by doing special dances and singing special songs. Aboriginals believe that people have a part of them that will live forever. This part existed before a person was born and will exist after they die. It exists in The Dreamtime. 
All Australian Aboriginals believe in the Dreamtime. Each group and each person has their own stories and traditions. In Central Australia, the Pitjantjatjara call it the Tjukurpa. The Tjukurpa provides the answers for questions about life. It also gives the rules for behaviour and how to live together. It explains the complex relationship between the people, animals, plants and the land. It teaches the how and why the land is to be looked after. It provided the information about what could be eaten, the rules of marriage, of growing up and the rituals of death. Some parts of the Dreamtime are only known to those who have inherited the right to the knowledge.
Dreamtime is often used to describe the time before time, or the time of the creation. Most Aboriginals believe that all life is connected to the great spirit ancestors of the Dreamtime. Every hill, water hole, river, the sky, every feature was created in the Dreamtime. The journeys of the ancestors across the country created the landscape, and populated it with plants and animals. These journeys are often told in cycles of stories, songs and dances, known as "iwara", or songlines. These great spirit ancestors have not gone, they are still present, even if they can not be seen. The ceremonies of songs and dance keep the people in contact with the spirits. "Without ceremony the land soon dies..." 

</doc>
<doc id="27138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27138" title="Loch Ness Monster">
Loch Ness Monster

The Loch Ness Monster, also refered to as Nessie, is a supposed animal, said to live in the Scottish loch of Loch Ness, the second biggest loch in the country. The Loch Ness Monster story was big in the field of cryptozoology. 
Most scientists believe that the Loch Ness Monster is not real, and they say that many of the seeings are either hoaxes or pictures of other mistaken existing animals. However, a popular theory among believers is that "Nessie" is a plesiosaur, an extinct meat-eating aquatic reptile that lived in the Mesozoic era. The Loch Ness monster has also been described as an elephant, eel, and other animals. 
The Surgeon's photograph was the only photographic evidence of a head and neck – all the others are humps or disturbances. Dr. Wilson claimed he was looking at the loch when he saw the monster, so grabbed his camera and snapped five photos. After the film was developed, only two exposures were clear. The first photo (the more publicised one) shows what was claimed to be a small head and back. The second one, a blurry image, attracted little publicity because it was difficult to interpret what was depicted. 
The image was revealed as a hoax in 1994. 
Supposedly taken by Robert Kenneth Wilson, a London gynaecologist, it was published in the "Daily Mail" on 21 April 1934. Wilson's refusal to have his name associated with the photograph led to it being called "Surgeon's photograph". 
The strangely small ripples on the photo fit the size and of circular pattern of small ripples as opposed to large waves when photographed up close. Analysis of the original uncropped image fostered further doubt. A year before the hoax was revealed, the makers of Discovery Communications's documentary "Loch Ness Discovered" analysed the uncropped image and found a white object was visible in every version of the photo. "It seems to be the source of ripples in the water, almost as if the object was towed by something", the narrator said. "But science cannot rule out it was just a blemish on the negative", he continued. Additionally, analysis of the full photograph revealed the object was quite small, only about long. 
After Christian Spurling's confession, most agree it was what Spurling claimed – a toy submarine with a sculpted head attached. Details of how the photo was accomplished were published in the 1999 book, "Nessie – the Surgeon’s Photograph Exposed". Essentially, it was a toy submarine with a head and neck made of plastic wood, built by Christian Spurling.
Spurling was the son-in-law of Marmaduke Wetherell, a big game hunter who had been publicly ridiculed in the "Daily Mail", the newspaper that employed him. Spurling claimed that to get revenge, Marmaduke Wetherell committed the hoax. His co-conspirators were Spurling (a sculpture specialist), his son Ian Marmaduke, who bought the material for the fake Nessie, and Maurice Chambers (an insurance agent). Chambers asked surgeon Robert Kenneth Wilson to offer the pictures to the "Daily Mail". 
The hoax story was disputed by Henry Bauer. Unfortunately for Bauer, he claimed that plastic wood did not exist in 1934, when actually it was a popular DIY and modelling material from the 1920s. 
No animal has ever been discovered in the loch which resembles the mythical monster.

</doc>
<doc id="27150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27150" title="Wesleyan">
Wesleyan

Wesleyan is the adjective form of "Wesley", which could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="27156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27156" title="Macintosh">
Macintosh

Macintosh, Mackintosh, or McIntosh can be:
Macintosh and similar spellings is a surname:

</doc>
<doc id="27158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27158" title="Southern rock">
Southern rock

Southern rock is a kind of rock music from the southern part of the United States. Some southern rock music groups include: Lynyrd Skynyrd, The Allman Brothers Band and Molly Hatchet.

</doc>
<doc id="27159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27159" title="Ostrów Mazowiecka">
Ostrów Mazowiecka

Ostrów Mazowiecka is a main town of Ostrów County, Masovian Voivodeship, Poland.

</doc>
<doc id="27163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27163" title="100">
100

100 (Roman numerals: C) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Friday.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="27174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27174" title="Niue">
Niue

Niue is an island country in the south Pacific. Situated between Tonga, Samoa and the Cook Islands, it is commonly known as "Rock of Polynesia". It has its own government, but it is an associated state of New Zealand. This means that Niue's head of state is New Zealand's sovereign (queen) in right, and most diplomatic relations are conducted by the latter on Niue's behalf.
The territory is 2,400 kilometres northeast of New Zealand in a triangle between Tonga, Samoa, and the Cook Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="27196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27196" title="Master race">
Master race

Master race is an idea that one group of people is better than all other people. A group of people may believe themselves to be better because of their history, race, culture or some other reason. The idea first appeared in the 19th century. It was also used at different times in the 20th century, for example by the Nazi party and during Apartheid in South Africa.
This idea mostly began in the 19th century. It is not a theory liked by any scientists today. It claims there is a hierarchy of races (or that some races are better than others). It was also claimed that at the bottom of the hierarchy were black-skinned people from Africa and Aborigines from Australia, while pale-skinned Nordic people were at the top of the hierarchy.
Arthur de Gobineau (1816–1882) believed that cultures become bad when races mix. In his book "Moral and Intellectual Diversity of Races" (, 1853–55), de Gobineau states that the mix of races has a bad influence on culture. In his view, the development of culture is linked to that of the race. When empires are created, this leads to a mixing of races. According to de Gobineau, this would lead to degeneration, and the downfall of the respective empire.
During this time, Charles Darwin started to develop his ideas about evolution. Social Darwinism is the attempt to use these concepts to predict the development of societies. Houston Steward Chamberlain believed the Germanic race was there "to save the world".
In colonialism, the concept was helpful too. Germany and Great Britain had many colonies. They would pick an ethnic group and say that this was better than the other groups. This would then lead to an indirect rule in the respective colony. People who conducted African studies in Germany developed a whole system, to make this easier. The Hamitic theory said that the Hamitic people were superior and should rule over the other Negroid people in Sub-Saharan Africa. John Hanning Speke (1827-64) and Charles Gabriel Seligman (1873-1940) were among the most prominent people with this idea. People such Johann Ludwig Krapf, Karl Richard Lepsius, or Carl Meinhof used the study of languages in this context. They said that languages that had a grammatical genus were Hamitic, those that did not were Negroid. Using these criteria to find suitable candidates for indirect rule also led to problems: According to the theory, the Massai were hamitic, and should rule in German East Africa. Unfortunately, they were unable to make such a system for political and econmic reasons. The explanation was that "out of bad luck", the Massai were a Hamitic people kept at a lower level of social development. In their place, the Swahili were picked, as the "next-higher" people. In German South-West Africa, there was a similar problem: The theory identified the Khoikhoi as Hamitic, but they were too few to rule the country. For this reason, the Ovambo were picked for indirect rule.
Arthur Schopenhauer liked this idea, but had the ideal of "Übermensch": He said that the White race had become what it was though hardship and bad conditions in the North. Others who liked his theory were Guido von List and Lanz von Liebefels.
Hitler and his supporters, the Nazi party, took power in Germany in 1933. They were Social Darwinists, Social Darwinists believe that human races are stronger or weaker than each other. They believed that the stronger races would prove themselves better in the long run, this concept was called "survival of the fittest". Nazis believed that their race the Aryans were stronger than all the other races, because of this, they believed the Aryans would one day rule over the weaker races. The Nazis made laws that were based on their ideas of race. They prevented marriage and sex between races so that the aryan race would not become mixed with other "weaker" races because they believed it would weaken the master race. They claimed that "Aryans" were the "master race". They also made propaganda that blamed Jews for many things. Jews were considered by Nazis, a weak race whose weak values would infect the better values of the Aryan race. German Jews were not allowed to own property. In many cases they were attacked and killed because of their Race. When Germany invaded other countries in Europe, they also started putting people into concentration camps. This systematic killing is known as The Holocaust today.
To help increase the numbers of Aryans, the Nazis set up special homes called "Lebensborn". These were for unmarried pregnant woman who were likely to have children that had Nordic or Aryan qualities. This mainly meant fair skin, blond hair, blue eyes. Though slight differences could still be considered Aryan as lots of people in Germany at the time had dark hair and eyes. Heinrich Himmler believed that this would help create more members of the master race. He arranged for nine Lebensborn homes to be built in Germany, and another ten in Norway. There were also Lebensborn in France, Belgium and Luxembourg. About 20,000 children were born in these homes during the Third Reich.

</doc>
<doc id="27197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27197" title="Reichstag (disambiguation)">
Reichstag (disambiguation)

Reichstag is the name of

</doc>
<doc id="27201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27201" title="The Last Supper">
The Last Supper

The Last Supper is a painting by Leonardo da Vinci. It is a picture of the last supper of Jesus and his disciples. It shows how they reacted when Jesus said that one of them would betray him. Each disciple has their own expression showing their own reaction to what Jesus has just told them.
The painting is a mural on the wall of the Santa Maria delle Grazie rectory in the dining room in Milan, Italy. It measures 460 X 880 cm. Da Vinci began painting it in 1495 and finished it in 1498, but did not work on it all the time between these years.

</doc>
<doc id="27207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27207" title="Thomas the Apostle">
Thomas the Apostle

Saint Thomas is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. His name means "the twin". He is most famous for not being present when the other apostles (Jesus's followers and friends) first saw Jesus after he has been risen from the dead. Thomas was not there and when he heard about it, he did not believe his friends, and he said he wanted to see it for himself, even the marks in his hands where Jesus had been nailed to the cross. Jesus did return and showed Thomas. The phrase "Doubting Thomas" (a term for a person who does not believe something at first) comes from this story.

</doc>
<doc id="27208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27208" title="Bartholomew the Apostle">
Bartholomew the Apostle

Bartholomew the Apostle is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. He is the patron saint of Armenia, bookbinders, butchers, Florentine cheese and salt merchants, Gambatesa, Italy, leather workers; nervous diseases, plasterers; shoemakers; tanners, and trappers. Along with Saint Jude Thaddeus, he helped bring Christianity to Armenia. He is the patron saint of people who work with leather and animal skins because he was martyred (killed for his beliefs) by being skinned alive (which is why he is the patron saint of people who work with animal skins). He is usually represented by holding a large knife and his skin.

</doc>
<doc id="27209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27209" title="Matthew the Evangelist">
Matthew the Evangelist

Saint Matthew is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. Matthew wrote the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. Sometimes, he is called "Levi". He was a tax collector before his decision to follow Christ.

</doc>
<doc id="27210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27210" title="John the Apostle">
John the Apostle

Saint John was one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. He is believed to have written the one of the four gospels of the New Testament of the Christian Bible that is named after him. He also wrote the New Testament books of First 2nd and 3rd John and the Book of Revelation. Tradition holds he was the last surviving apostle, and the only apostle to die a natural death rather than by martyrdom. John is the brother of James according to the Bible. He is remembered in many churches on December 27.

</doc>
<doc id="27211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27211" title="Saint Peter">
Saint Peter

Peter (, "rock") also called Simon (Kephas) Peter is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus. He is often talked about in the New Testament. Most of what we know about Peter comes from the Bible. It is not known when Peter was born. But the date of his death is about the year 64 C.E. He died by being nailed to a cross in Rome. This type of death is called crucifixion. There is a legend that says that Peter asked to be crucified upside down, as he felt unworthy to die as Jesus did. Most historical sources only say he was crucified.
The Roman Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran Church and Anglican Communion, consider Simon Peter a saint. Roman Catholics believe that the Pope is Peter's successor. For this reason, he is the rightful head of all other bishops. Eastern and Oriental Orthodox also recognise the Bishop of Rome as the successor to Saint Peter and the Ecumenical Patriarch sends a delegation each year to Rome to participate in the celebration of his feast. In the "Ravenna doumernt" of 13 October 2007 the representatives of the Eastern Orthodox Church agreed that "Rome, as the Church that 'presides in love' according to the phrase of St Ignatius of Antioch (To the Romans, Prologue), occupied the first place in the "taxis" (order), and that the bishop of Rome was therefore the "protos" (first) among the patriarchs. They disagree, however, on the interpretation of historical evidence from this era regarding the rights of the bishop of Rome as "protos", a matter that was already understood in different ways in the first millennium."
The historical accuracy of the accounts of Peter's role in Rome is a matter of ongoing debate.
In art, he is often shown holding the keys to the kingdom of heaven (interpreted by Roman Catholics as the sign of his primacy over the Church), a reference to Matthew .
Peter was married according to the gospel of Mark. The name of his wife is unknown.
Christian tradition says Saint Peter was the first leader of an early apostolic community for at least 34 years. At that time the word Pope or "Papa" was not used to name the leader of the Roman Catholic Church. At that time there was only one Christian Church. Later, the Roman Catholic Church would say that Peter was their first Pope.
Tradition also locates his burial place where St. Peter's Basilica was later built, in Vatican City.
The following people were the twelve apostles of Jesus: 

</doc>
<doc id="27216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27216" title="Sistine Chapel">
Sistine Chapel

The Sistine Chapel is a large chapel in the Vatican Palace, the place in Italy where the Pope lives. The Chapel was built between 1473 and 1481 by Giovanni dei Dolci for Pope Sixtus IV.
The Sistine Chapel is the Pope's own chapel. It is used for important Masses and ceremonies. When a pope dies, the College of Cardinals meet in the Sistine Chapel to elect a new pope.
The Sistine Chapel is famous for its fresco paintings by the Renaissance painter Michelangelo.
 
The Sistine Chapel is a brick building shaped like a rectangle. The outside is plain, with no decoration and no big door. It has a walk-way near the top, for soldiers. 
It has six arched windows on its two side walls and a curved ceiling called a barrel vault.
The inside of the chapel is richly decorated. The floor is of coloured marble. The lower parts of the walls are painted to look like gold and silver cloth.
The other decorations in the chapel are paintings which tell stories to help people understand about Jesus Christ and about the Roman Catholic Church.
The middle part of the walls has 12 large paintings called frescoes, done by famous artists in 1481. The artists' names were Domenico Ghirlandaio, Sandro Botticelli, Perugino, Cosimo Rosselli, Pinturicchio, Benedetto Ghirlandaio, Luca Signorelli and Bartolomeo della Gatta.
The frescoes show stories from the Bible. On the north side, the stories are about the life of Moses. On the south side, they are about the life of Jesus.
Above the stories, near the windows, are painted pictures of Popes.
The ceiling is the most famous part of the Sistine Chapel, and many thousands of visitors go to see it. 
In 1505 Pope Julius II asked Michelangelo to paint the ceiling. Michelangelo was a famous sculptor. He did not want to be a painter. Three years later, he agreed to paint the ceiling. He worked from 1508 to 1511, standing on a high platform with his arms stretched above his head. 
(Although some people think that he lay down to paint, this is not true.) Because he painted onto wet plaster, the smell and the heat was terrible. He wrote a poem about how sick he was.
Along the centre of the ceiling are painted nine pictures that tell stories from the Book of Genesis in the Old Testament of the Bible. The stories start with three pictures of God making light, making the Earth, the Sun and the Moon, and making the Sea and Sky.
The next three pictures tell the story of the first man and woman, Adam and Eve. In the first scene, God has just made Adam. He reaches out his hand and touches his finger to give him Life.
In the next picture, Adam is asleep and God makes Eve from one of Adam's ribs.
In the third picture there are two scenes. Adam and Eve are tricked by the Devil to eat fruit from the tree that they have been told not to touch. In the other scene, an angel chases them out of God's Garden of Eden. This story tells how sin came into the world.
The last three pictures are about Noah's Ark. They tell about a sad and sinful world. Because of human sin and unkindness, God sends a flood. Only Noah and his family escape in the large boat that they build. When the flood has ended, they make an altar and kill a sheep as a sacrifice to God. But then Noah grows grape vines, makes wine and gets drunk. One of his sons sees Noah lying naked and laughs at his father. Noah is ashamed and curses his son. These stories show how people keep acting the wrong way, even when they get a second chance.
All around the wall, Michelangelo painted twelve big figures of wise men and women. These were the prophets and sibyls who told people that God would send Jesus Christ to save them from sin.
Also painted on the ceiling are 20 beautiful young men called the "ignudi". No-one knows what they are for sure, but perhaps they are angels.
When the ceiling was finally uncovered, everyone was amazed. Giorgio Vasari, who wrote Mchelangelo's life story, says that hundreds of people came every day to stare and stare.
Michelangelo was happy to get back to his sculpture. But in 1537 Pope Paul III ordered him to paint another large fresco. This time it was on the wall above the altar. It was finished in 1541.
Michelangelo painted "The Last Judgement" which shows Jesus judging the people of the Earth and sending some to Hell while others are welcomed into Heaven by Saints. He painted most of the figures naked. This made some of the priests in the church very angry. They paid another artist to paint clothes onto the Blessed Virgin Mary and many of the other figures.

</doc>
<doc id="27219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27219" title="Pope Paul III">
Pope Paul III

Pope Paul III (; February 29, 1468 – November 10, 1549), born Alessandro Farnese, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 221st Pope from 1534 to 1549.
Alessandro Farnese was born in an ancient Roman family. His grandfather was commander-in-chief of the papal troops under Pope Eugenius IV. 
In 1493, Pope Alexander IV made Farnese a cardinal.
Cardinal Farnese was elected Pope in 1534; and he chose to be called Paul III.
Pope Paul was involved in Italian and European political disputes.
He convened the Council of Trent in 1545.

</doc>
<doc id="27220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27220" title="Pope Sixtus IV">
Pope Sixtus IV

Pope Sixtus IV (; 21 July 1414 - 12 August 1484), originally "Francesco della Rovere", was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 213th Pope from 1471 until his death in 1484. 
He is known for beginning construction of the Sistine Chapel. 
Della Rovere was born in Celle Ligure, a town near Savona in Liguria. His family was important.
As a young man, he joined the Franciscan Order. He rose in the order to head of the Franciscans in Liguria.
Della Rovere studied philosophy and theology at the University of Pavia; and he lectured at Padua, Bologna, Pavia, Siena, and Florence.
In 1467, Pope Paul II raised della Rovere to the rank of Cardinal.
He was elected pope on August 9, 1471. He took the name Sixtus because the first day of the conclave which elected him pope was the Feast Day of St. Sixtus.
Pope Sixtus was involved in Italian and European political disputes.
Sixtus ordered the building of the Ponte Sisto (Sistine Bridge) across the Tiber River.
The Vatican Library was enlarged during the reign of Sixtus; and the number of manuscripts grew ten times larger—from 360 during the reign of Pope Nicholas V to 3650.

</doc>
<doc id="27221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27221" title="Pope Julius II">
Pope Julius II

Pope Julius II (; December 5, 1443 - February 21, 1513), originally "Giuliano Della Rovere", was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 217th Pope from 1503 until his death in 1513. He was known as "the Warrior Pope."
He was the nephew of Pope Sixtus IV.
Giuliano della Rovere was the son of Rafaello della Rovere.
His uncle would become Pope Sixtus IV.
In 1471, Sixtus made della Rovere a cardinal.
Della Rovere was elected pope in 1503; and he chose to be called Julius II.
Pope Julius was involved in Italian and European political disputes.
In 1506, Pope Julius he established the Swiss Guard. 
 

</doc>
<doc id="27222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27222" title="Donato Bramante">
Donato Bramante

Donato Bramante (c. 1444 - April 11, 1514) was an architect who introduced the High Renaissance style to architecture.

</doc>
<doc id="27224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27224" title="Alexandre Dumas, père">
Alexandre Dumas, père

Alexandre Dumas (born 24 July, 1802 at Villers-Cotterêts, died 5 December 1870 at Dieppe) is a French writer. He is famous for writing "The Three Musketeers" (1844), "Queen Margot", "The Count of Monte Cristo" (1844-1845) and about the Man with the iron mask.
Dumas was the son of a general, who fought in the French Revolution. His father died and his mother raised him. They didn't have much money when he was growing up.
Dumas wrote his first plays in 1825 and 1826 after reading Shakespeare, Sir Walter Scott, Friedrich von Scholler and Lord Byron.
Dumas was also a gourmand (lover of food), and wrote Le Grand Dictionnaire de cuisine, an encyclopædia of food and cooking with 1152 pages. He finished it weeks before his death. It is not thought very reliable, because it relies on Dumas' opinions rather than fact.
Dumas was a member of the Club des Hashischins, or Hashish Club. This group of French writers experimented with hashish to get ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="27226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27226" title="Beastie Boys">
Beastie Boys

The Beastie Boys were an American rap group. According to an interview with Charlie Rose, the word "Beastie" is the backronym of "Boys Entering Anarchic States Towards Internal Excellence". They formed in 1981 as punk rock band, and are still performing music today. Their most famous albums are probably "Licensed To Ill" (1986) and "Paul's Boutique" (1989). "Licensed To Ill" is their first album, and it is an album that is given credit for starting the type of music "rap rock", which is rapping done over rock guitar or beats. "Paul's Boutique" is an album famous for its use of samples, or snippets of music, and the fact that the samples were put together in creative, interesting ways.
Adam Yauch (1964-2012) was one of the founding members of the band until his death on May 4, 2012 after a near 3-year battle with cancer of the parotid salivary gland. Former original guitarist, John Berry (1963-2016), died on May 19, 2016 from dementia at 52.

</doc>
<doc id="27227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27227" title="Public Enemy">
Public Enemy

Public Enemy is an American rap group. They are also known as PE. They formed in 1982, and are still together today. They became famous for their politically charged, militant messages in their songs. They are also famous for using lots of jazz and funk samples in their songs, doneto create a loud, noisy sound and back their angry, powerful rapping. Group members include Chuck D. and Flavor Flav, as well as Terminator X and Professor Griff, who left the group in 1990, but rejoined in the late 1990's.

</doc>
<doc id="27228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27228" title="Macbeth">
Macbeth

Macbeth is a play by William Shakespeare. Shakespeare wrote three types of plays; histories, comedies and tragedies, and Macbeth is the shortest tragedy written by Shakespeare. It was written between 1603 and 1607, during the reign of King James I of England.
Shakespeare based some characters in the play (Macbeth, Macduff, and Duncan) roughly on records of real people in "Holinshed's Chronicles", a history book from 1587. However, the things that happen in the play are very different from what happened in real life. 
Macbeth is one of Shakespeare's most popular plays, and has often been acted since his time in theatres and movies. There have also been several comic books and novels written based on the story of the play.
The first characters we see in the play are the three Witches. They talk to each other in a mysterious way, and agree to meet with Macbeth on the heath. This scene includes the famous line "fair is foul, and foul is fair", a subject which becomes a main part of the play. 
In Act 1 Scene 2, there is a war going on. King Duncan is at a camp, listening to reports from the battlefield. An injured officer (some scripts say a captain, others a sergeant) is brought in. He saved Malcolm's life. The officer tells Duncan about the battle. He says that it was going badly, until Macbeth fought his way to the rebel leader Macdonald and disembowelled him. But as soon as that happened, the Norwegians, led by their king Sweno, also attacked. They were joined by a traitor, the Thane of Cawdor. Macbeth and Banquo fought bravely until they were defeated. Duncan is pleased by the news. He orders that the Thane of Cawdor be executed and his title given to Macbeth.
In I.iii, the Witches appear again. They talk about using their powers on humans, and it becomes clear that they have a lot of power, but they cannot kill people. Macbeth and Banquo are returning from the battlefield to Forres, and meet the witches. Banquo is amazed by the way the witches look, because they look like women but they have beards. Macbeth is not afraid and asks them what they are. They do not answer him, but greet him as the Thane of Glamis, the Thane of Cawdor and the future King. Macbeth is surprised, because he knows that he is not the Thane of Cawdor, and does not think he will ever become the King. Banquo asks the witches what his future will be like. They answer in riddles, saying that he will be "lesser than Macbeth, and greater", "not so happy, yet much happier", and that he will be the father to a line of kings. Then the witches disappear. 
Ross and Angus come to find Macbeth, and tell him that the King has given him the title of Thane of Cawdor. Macbeth is surprised and happy, but he starts thinking of ways to become king. This frightens him, because he thinks that the only way he can become king is to murder Duncan.
In I.iv, Macbeth and Banquo return to Forres and Duncan thanks them for their courage and hard work. He also says that his son Malcolm will be his heir. Macbeth realizes that he will have to get past both Duncan and Malcolm to become king. Duncan says he is going to Macbeth's castle for the night. 
In I.v, Lady Macbeth is reading a letter from Macbeth that tells her about the witches and their prophecy. She is very excited, and starts planning to murder Duncan. A messenger tells her that Duncan will be staying at their castle that night. She calls on evil spirits to make her strong and evil so that she can murder Duncan. Macbeth comes in and she tells him of her plans.
I.vi shows Duncan, Banquo, Donalbain, Malcolm, Macduff and some of the thanes entering Macbeth's castle. Duncan and Banquo agree that the castle is sweet and pleasant. Lady Macbeth enters and greets them.
I.vii is the last scene in Act I. Macbeth is talking to himself about why it is wrong to kill the king. He knows that it is a bad thing to do, especially because he is the host and Duncan trusts him. Lady Macbeth enters and scolds him for being a coward and says that he is not brave enough to be a man. She works out how they are going to kill Duncan, and convinces Macbeth to do it.
Act II starts with Banquo and his son Fleance walking in a courtyard in Macbeth's castle. They meet Macbeth, who lies to Banquo and says that he has not thought about the witches' prophecy. When they leave, Macbeth sees a hallucination of a knife. He knows it is not real, but before his sight it changes and becomes covered in blood. He leaves to kill Duncan.
Lady Macbeth enters in scene ii. She has already made Duncan's guards drunk. Macbeth comes in with his hands covered in blood, carrying the knifes of the guards. He is very troubled. Lady Macbeth comforts him and tells him to wash his hands and cover the guards with blood, so it looks like they did it. But Macbeth is afraid, so Lady Macbeth does it instead.
In II.iii, the porter is very drunk. He pretends to be the porter of the gate of hell, and takes a long time to open the gate for Macduff and Lennox. Macbeth greets them. Macduff says that he is there to wake the king, and Macbeth leads him to the king's room. Macduff is shocked to see the king murdered on his bed. He runs out shouting and wakes everybody up. Macbeth pretends he did not know about the murder, as everyone comes to see what is happening. He admits that he killed the guards, and says that he did it because he was so angry that they killed Duncan. Lady Macbeth faints and they rush to help her. Malcolm and Donalbain think that somebody is lying. They know it is not safe for them to stay in Scotland, so they run away. Malcolm goes to England, and Donalbain to Ireland.
Scene iv is a talk between Ross and an old man. They talk about how strange the night was. Nature seems to have turned into a mess now that Duncan is dead. Macduff comes in and says that Macbeth is going to become king. He does not trust Macbeth, and is not going to the coronation.
Banquo is alone on stage at the start of Act III. He realizes that Macbeth has become everything the witches said he would become. He thinks that Macbeth did wrong to get the crown, but he does not want to say anything. He hopes that his son will also be king, as the witches said. Macbeth, Lady Macbeth, and the lords enter. Macbeth asks Banquo if he is going riding that afternoon, and if Fleance is going with him. Banquo says yes to both. Two men come to see Macbeth, and he goes to meet them. He is angry that he has risked everything to become king, but that Banquo's sons will be kings after him. The men are actually murderers. Macbeth tells them that Banquo is the reason they are unhappy and have bad lives, and convinces them to kill Banquo and Fleance.
Macbeth talks to Lady Macbeth in scene ii. He says that he has nightmares and cannot sleep. He is jealous of Duncan, because he is dead and does not need to worry anymore. Macbeth also says that he is worried about Banquo being alive, but he does not tell his wife about the murderers.
In III, the two murderers meet another one, also sent by Macbeth. They kill Banquo, but Fleance escapes.
In Scene iv Macbeth has a banquet with the nobles. The murderers come in and inform him of Banquo's death and Fleance's escape. He returns to the table where the nobles are eating, and looks for a seat. Even though there is one empty, he cannot see it. He has a vision of the murdered Banquo sitting in his seat, and becomes hysterical talking to the vision. Lady Macbeth explains it to the nobles as an illness, and asks them to leave as Macbeth becomes more and more upset.
Many editors say that scene v of Act III, along with a song in IV.i, is not written by Shakespeare. This is because the writing is different to the way Shakespeare usually writes. It has a witch called Hecate in it, who is not previously mentioned in the play. She seems to be in charge of the other witches and is scolding them for dealing with Macbeth without informing her.
In the final scene, Lennox is talking to another lord. They find out that Macduff has gone to England to convince Malcolm to return and claim his throne, and to ask for the help of King Edward of England.
Scene (i) starts with the witches, who are standing in a circle around their cauldron, throwing things in, like the tongue of a dog. Then suddenly Macbeth arrives and asks them to tell him some more prophecies. As the first prophecy they tell him to be careful of Macduff, Thane of Fife. As the second prophecy they say he can`t be killed by anyone who was born of a woman and as the third prophecy the witches say if Birnom Wood stays at its current position Macbeth is okay but if the wood moves he will have problems. Macbeth is happy because he thinks that all of these things are impossible. He wants to know a forth thing but suddenly the witches dance crazily and then run away.
Next Lennox enters and tells Macbeth that Macduff has fled to England. Macbeth orders Macduff's castle to be seized.
In scene ii Macbeth’s men arrive at Macduff’s castle and kill Macduff´s family and everybody else in the castle. 
In scene iii Macduff finds out what Macbeth did to his family. He is very sad and angry, so he decides to go back to Scotland with Malcolm and they plan to kill Macbeth.
Scene i takes place in Macbeth’s castle. A doctor and a servant are talking about Lady Macbeth. They’re talking about Lady Macbeth’s sickness. She is sleepwalking and while she sleepwalks she says that she regrets having told her husband to kill Duncan and Banquo.
In scene ii Lennox and other Scottish thanes think that Macbeth is crazy and that he is killing too many people. Together they go to Malcolm and king Edward of England and tell them that they want to fight against Macbeth with the English army.
Scene iii takes place in Macbeth’s castle. He is told that Malcolm and Macduff are coming with the English army and want to kill him. The doctor tells him that his wife is ill. She has become crazy and is sleepwalking.
In scene iv Malcolm, Macduff and the English army hide in Birnam Wood. They don’t want to be seen, so they cut off some branches and cover themselves with them. 
In scene V, the doctor comes to Macbeth and tells him that his wife is dead. Macbeth is depressed, and then he has a monologue about how meaningless life is. After that, a servant says that Birnam Wood is moving, but Macbeth doesn't believe him, so the servant shows him.
In scene VI, Macduff, Malcolm and the English army are planning to attack Macbeth.
In scene VII, Macbeth and an English Lord fight, and Macbeth says he cannot be killed by anyone born of a woman. Macbeth then kills him. Meanwhile Macduff is looking for Macbeth.
Scene VIII shows the fight between Macduff and Macbeth, who says again that he cannot be killed by anyone born of a woman. Macduff replies that he was cut out of his mother‘s stomach (Caesarean). He then kills Macbeth. In the last scene Malcolm is declared king.
Many actors think it is bad luck to say the word "Macbeth", and will not say the play's name. Instead, they call it "The Scottish Play". One theory about where this superstition came from is that the play deals with witchcraft.

</doc>
<doc id="27229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27229" title="Love's Labour's Lost">
Love's Labour's Lost

Love's Labour's Lost is a comedy play by William Shakespeare which was written between 1588 and 1597.
Ferdinand, the King of Navarre, and three of his men meet together and talk about their intellectual plans. Their plans then go wrong when the Princess of France and three of her ladies arrive. The men find that they are in love with the ladies and cannot hide it.

</doc>
<doc id="27232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27232" title="Titus Andronicus">
Titus Andronicus

Titus Andronicus (c. 1589–1592) is the first tragedy play by William Shakespeare. Most of its theme, structure and language comes from "The Spanish Tragedy" by Thomas Kyd.

</doc>
<doc id="27233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27233" title="The Comedy of Errors">
The Comedy of Errors

The Comedy of Errors (c. 1589–94) is one of the first plays by William Shakespeare. It is a comedy. Shakespeare's sources were "Menaechmi" by Plautus and "Amphitruo" by Plautus.

</doc>
<doc id="27236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27236" title="Pieta (Michelangelo)">
Pieta (Michelangelo)

The Pieta is a statue by Michelangelo. It is now in the first temple on the right of Saint Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City.
The following are other statues by Michelangelo:

</doc>
<doc id="27240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27240" title="Raphael">
Raphael

Raffaello Sanzio, usually known as Raphael (April 6, 1483 - April 6, 1520) was a Renaissance painter and architect. With Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, he is one of the three greatest painters of the High Renaissance.
He is best known for his paintings of the Madonna and Christ Child and for his paintings in the Vatican in Rome, Italy. 
Raphael was born in Urbino, in the region of Umbria, Italy. He was the son of Giovanni Santi (d. 1494), who was also a painter, and Magia di Battista Ciarla (d. 1491). Giovanni Santi was Raphael's first teacher, but he died when Raphael was only eleven.
While about 15, Raphael became an apprentice at the workshop of the painter Pietro Perugino, called by that name because he was the most famous painter in the town of Perugia. Perugino was famous, not only in Umbria, but also in Rome and in Florence, the home of Leonardo and Michelangelo. He had been one of the artists given the important job of painting the Pope's large chapel in the Vatican, the Sistine Chapel.
Perugino was known to have expert ways of painting (technique), and was good at getting paintings finished on time which made him popular with his patrons. He painted some portraits of people alive in his day, but most of his pictures are of religious figures of the past. Some of his paintings are small pictures of the Madonna and Child that could be used in a family chapel for private worship. Because he was famous, Perugino also got lots of work from wealthy patrons and from churches, so he painted many very large pieces to go above the altars in churches. To do this, he needed the help of his "apprentices". 
Raphael was able to learn a great deal from Perugino - drawing, the anatomy of the human figure, paint chemistry, and the technique of putting the paint onto the picture in smooth layers. The figures in Perugino's paintings often have very sweet gentle faces. Many of Raphael's paintings are also sweet and gentle. Some painters, such as Leonardo, were quick to change their style and make their paintings show their own touch. But Raphael continued to paint in the style that Perugino taught him. He added new ideas that he learned by looking at the work of other artists. Unlike Leonardo and Michelangelo, Raphael did not give the world anything new in the Art of Painting. He is famous simply because he was so expert at what he did, and because people loved his paintings so much.
The painting that is thought to be his earliest known work is a small picture called "The Vision of a Knight". In this painting a knight lies asleep. In his dream there are two beautiful women. One woman, dressed in soft flowing clothes, offers him flowers. The other woman, dressed in dark clothing, offers the knight a sword and a book. The path behind the pretty woman runs beside a river. The other path leads up a steep mountain. Raphael was thinking about choices. Should the knight take the easy road, or should he try to change things?
Other early pictures by Raphael are "Three Graces", and "Saint Michael".
Raphael's first major work was "The Marriage of the Virgin" which was painted in 1504. It was influenced by Perugino's painting for the Sistine Chapel of "Jesus giving the Keys to Saint Peter". It is now in the Brera Gallery in Milan, Italy.
In about 1504 Raphael went with another painter, Pinturicchio, to Florence, Italy. Florence was famous for its artworks, its artist's workshops, its new Renaissance buildings and its huge cathedral. Raphael wanted to see the work of Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci and other important painters and sculptors.
Florence had a very strong tradition of making images of the Madonna and Child because the city was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary. On almost every street corner there was a painting or a brightly-coloured statue of the Madonna and Child.
While he was in Florence, Raphael painted many of his famous "Madonna" paintings. The most famous of these paintings are:
In 1508 Raphael was called to Rome by Pope Julius II. He became so popular whilst he was in Rome that he was known as the "Prince of Painters". He spent the last 12 years of his life in Rome and created many of his most famous paintings.
While he was in Rome he was "commissioned" (given a job), to paint a fresco of the Prophet Isaiah in the Church of Sant'Agostino. While he was working on the painting, he went to visit his friend, the architect, Donato Bramante. Bramante was at the Vatican while Michelangelo was painting the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Of course Raphael wanted to see what the famous master was doing. While Michelangelo was away, Bramante took Raphael into the Chapel. When Raphael saw the way that Michelangelo had painted the prophets, he was so excited that he went back to Sant'Agostino's Church, scraped his painting off the wall and started all over again. It is easy to see that Raphael's painting is in the style of Michelangelo. Raphael was not ashamed of this. He did it to give honour to the great master.
Among Raphael's most famous paintings are the frescos that are painted on the walls of Julius II's own rooms in the Vatican Palace, known as the "Stanze". The paintings in the "Stanza della Segnatura" and the "Stanza d'Eliodoro" were created by Raphael himself, whilst the "Stanza dell'Incendio" was designed by Raphael and painted by his assistants.
One of the frescoes in the "Stanza della Segnatura" is of the greatest importance. This painting is called "The School of Athens". It shows a group of learned people from Ancient Greece, philosophers, poets, dramatists, mathematicians and others. They are listening to the central figure, who is the philosopher, Plato. The painting is meant to show that at that time, the early 1500s, there was a new birth of ideas and learning among the people of Rome that was equal to the learning of Ancient Athens.
To make this message clear, Raphael used the faces of the people that he knew. Michelangelo, with his broken nose, is sitting with his chin on his hand. The tall figure of Plato with long hair and flowing beard is a portrait of Leonardo da Vinci.
One of the excellent things about this painting is the way that Raphael has painted the building in which the figures are standing. The architecture looks as if it is opening up from the real room.
In the 1500s, painters were often asked to design architecture. Raphael's first work as an architect was the funeral chapel in the church of Santa Maria del Popolo. Pope Leo X also chose Raphael to help design Saint Peter's Basilica alongside Donato Bramante. After Bramante died, Raphael took over the designing of the basilica and changed its groundplan from a Greek Cross to a Latin Cross. Michelangelo went back to Bramante's plan but made it simpler. Then another architect, Maderna, made the building longer, as Raphael had planned.
Raphael's last work of art was a painting of the "Transfiguration". This was an altarpiece, but Raphael died before he could complete it. It was instead finished by Giulio Romano, who was one of Raphael's assistants.
Raphael died on his 37th birthday and was buried in the Pantheon in Rome. His funeral mass was celebrated at the Vatican and his "Transfiguration" altarpiece was put at the head of Raphael's funeral carriage. 

</doc>
<doc id="27262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27262" title="Non-governmental organization">
Non-governmental organization

A non-governmental organization (NGO) is a group of people from different countries acting together, but not connected with the government of any country. Usually non-governmental organizations are non-profit - that is, they are trying to do something other than make money for the people who run them. They include organisations such as 'Oxfam' and 'World Vision'. 
Non-governmental organization (NGO) is a term that has become widely accepted as referring to a legally constituted, non-governmental organization created by natural or legal persons with no participation or representation of any government. In the cases in which NGOs are funded totally or partially by governments, the NGO maintains its non-governmental status and excludes government representatives from membership in the organization. 
Government funding of NGOs is controversial, since, according David Rieff, writing in "The New Republic", "the whole point of humanitarian intervention was precisely that NGOs and civil society had both a right and an obligation to respond with acts of aid and solidarity to people in need or being subjected to repression or want by the forces that controlled them, whatever the governments concerned might think about the matter."
Unlike the term intergovernmental organization, "non-governmental organization" is a term in general use but is not a legal definition. In many jurisdictions these types of organization are defined as "civil society organizations" or referred to by other names.

</doc>
<doc id="27263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27263" title="Wikipedia">
Wikipedia

Wikipedia () is an Internet encyclopedia project in many languages. It is free of charge: users do not pay. But they can choose to donate to the Wikimedia Foundation to fund Wikipedia and her sister projects. It is "open content". This means anyone can copy it, and make changes to it if they follow the for copying or editing.
Wikipedia is owned by an American organization, Wikimedia Foundation, which is in San Francisco, California.
Its name is a combination of the two words "wiki", a Hawaiian word for quick, and "encyclopedia." Because the word was made by combining parts of those words, it is a portmanteau.
It was started on January 10, 2001 by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger as part of an earlier Internet encyclopedia named Nupedia. On January 15, 2001, Wikipedia became a separate website of its own. It is a wiki that runs using the software MediaWiki (like all other Wikimedia projects).
Anyone who wishes to, can change the pages in Wikipedia, or even make new ones. Wikipedia has a standard page layout for all pages in the encyclopedia.
As of December 2007, Wikipedia had about 9.25 million pages in 253 languages, and more than 1.74 billion words across all Wikipedias. The English Wikipedia is the biggest.
Wikipedia began as a related project for Nupedia. Nupedia was a free online English-language encyclopedia project. Nupedia's articles were written and owned by Bomis, Inc which is a web portal company. The main people of the company were Jimmy Wales, the guy in charge of Bomis, and Larry Sanger, the editor-in-chief for Nupedia. Nupedia was first licensed under the Nupedia Open Content License which was changed to the GNU Free Documentation License before Wikipedia was founded when Richard Stallman requested them.
Larry Sanger and Jimmy Wales are the ones who started Wikipedia. Wales is credited with defining the goals of the project. Sanger created the strategy of using a wiki to reach Wales' goal. On January 10, 2001, Larry Sanger proposed on the Nupedia mailing list to create a wiki as a "feeder" project for Nupedia.
Wikipedia was launched on January 15, 2001. It was launched as an English-language edition at www.wikipedia.com, and announced by Sanger on the Nupedia mailing list. Wikipedia's policy of "neutral point-of-view" was codified in its initial months, and was similar to Nupedia's earlier "nonbiased" policy. Otherwise, there were not very many rules initially, and Wikipedia operated independently of Nupedia.
Wikipedia gained early contributors from Nupedia, Slashdot, and also from search engines. It grew to about 20,000 articles, and 18 languages by the end of 2001. By late 2002 it had 26 languages, 46 by the end of 2003, and 161 by the end of 2004. Nupedia and Wikipedia both existed until Nupedia's servers were stopped in 2003. After this, its text was incorporated into Wikipedia. The English Wikipedia passed the 2 million-article mark on September 9, 2007, making it the largest encyclopedia ever assembled, even larger than the Yongle Encyclopedia (1407), which had held the record for exactly 600 years.
The English Wikipedia reached 3 million articles in August 2009. The numbers of articles and of contributors appeared to be growing less quickly around spring 2007.
In October 2014, the Wikipedia Monument was unveiled to the public in Poland to honor all the contributors of the Wikipedia.
On January 15, 2011, Wikipedia celebrated its 10th anniversary. It used a special logo "(pictured)" to celebrate its 10 years since it opened on January 15, 2001, and the logo was used for the whole day on the sidebar of the English Wikipedia.
Wikipedia is a free site just like the online encyclopedia that anybody can start or edit a page. A global site that is available in many languages. While people can use any searching engine, the Wikipedia page will come out in the first results of many searches. To use Wikipedia better, people should understand the basic function on the page. The page is organized while they are looking up the page. As Wikipedia users, they should have good understanding of Wikipedia.

</doc>
<doc id="27280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27280" title="Conservation law">
Conservation law

A conservation law is a statement used in Physics that says that the amount of something does not change in time. That thing could be as simple as mass or charge, or something that has to be calculated, like energy, or angular momentum.
For example, the "law of conservation of mass" is the conservation law that says that the amount of mass is always conserved, even if it is changed into another form. This means that if the mass of the universe could be measured right now, its mass would be known tomorrow because it will not change.
For a long time, people thought that these laws were true for the amount of mass and energy in the universe. Later on, Albert Einstein said that they were not completely true. He said that mass could change into energy (or the other way around). If this happened, it would be against the conservation laws because if mass was changed into energy, the total amount of mass goes down, and the total amount of energy goes up. 
Einstein said that conservation laws could still be used if all the mass and all the energy were combined. He said that even though the mass changes or the energy changes, the sum when they are added together does not change. So now there is just one conservation law for mass and energy together.
Of course, mass is measured in kilograms, and energy is measured in joules. They cannot be added together directly, but Einstein found a way to add them together. He created the equation formula_1. This equation means is that before adding the amount of mass to the amount of energy, the mass must be multiplied by the speed of light and then by the speed of light again.
Some of the things that are thought to be conserved are:
Conservation laws are helpful for people when they do problems in Physics. This is because if they know that a thing is conserved, it gives them more mathematical information about the thing they are doing the problem about.
Emmy Noether showed that conservation laws can be said to arise from symmetries in the laws of physics. This theorem, called Noether's theorem gives physicists an extremely powerful tool to try and solve complicated problems.
For example: 
Conservation laws can come in two types, global, or local. 
A global conservation law just says that the total amount of something in the universe does not change in time. 
A local conservation law says a little bit more than that. It says that if the amount of something changed in one place, it's because it moved in to or out of that place, and we can measure that movement.

</doc>
<doc id="27285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27285" title="Animal rights">
Animal rights

Animal rights is a term used for the general belief that non-human animals have certain natural rights. Most animal rights promoters believe that non-human animals have the natural right not to be used by humans for any means, including food, clothing, experimentation, and entertainment. Just as human rights are gained simply because someone is a human, animals have animal rights simply because they are an animal.

</doc>
<doc id="27287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27287" title="Aaron Sorkin">
Aaron Sorkin

Aaron Benjamin Sorkin is an American screenwriter. He was born on June 9, 1961 in New York, New York. He is most famous for creating and writing "The West Wing", a television series about the lives of people who work in the White House. He also wrote the movies "The American President" and "A Few Good Men" (which he took from a play he had written with the same name), and created and wrote the television series "Sports Night".

</doc>
<doc id="27292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27292" title="470s">
470s


</doc>
<doc id="27293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27293" title="1060s">
1060s


</doc>
<doc id="27294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27294" title="30s BC">
30s BC


</doc>
<doc id="27295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27295" title="Aristophanes">
Aristophanes

Aristophanes (born around 450/445 BC – died around 385 BC) was a Greek writer who wrote 40 plays. However, only 11 of his plays survive in their entirety. He is famous for writing comedies. They were biting satires aimed at famous men of his day, and the all-too-human weaknesses of ordinary people.
His most famous play, "Lysistrata", is about a group of women who protest against a war by not having sexual intercourse with their husbands until the war is ended. 
Ancient Greek theatre was first presented in competitions at the festival of Dionysia, dedicated to the god Dionysus. The interesting thing is that Aristophanes did not always win first prize. The plays which won ahead of his have been lost, so we cannot make any comparisons.
George Grote said of Aristophanes:

</doc>
<doc id="27296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27296" title="40s BC">
40s BC


</doc>
<doc id="27303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27303" title="California Institute of Technology">
California Institute of Technology

The California Institute of Technology (called "Caltech" for short) is a major American research university in the city of Pasadena in the state of California. Caltech specializes - is especially good, or especially interested - in the study of engineering, computer science, and the physical sciences (some physical sciences are physics and chemistry, as well as others). Caltech is also in charge of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, also called JPL. JPL is part of NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which is the part of the United States government that explores space. Caltech is not owned or run by the United States, or NASA, but NASA pays Caltech to run JPL for them.
Caltech's mascot is the beaver. Many schools that specialize in engineering have beavers for their mascot, because in the wild, beavers are known for making dams, and so people think that they are the animal most like engineers.

</doc>
<doc id="27304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27304" title="Secrecy">
Secrecy

A secret is information or facts that only one person or group knows about. There are many reasons for not telling or sharing the truth with others. 
Some secrets are good. These are ones that should be kept secret. An example of a good secret is respect for a citizen's privacy. But some secrets are bad, if keeping facts hidden causes harm. An example of a bad secret is child abuse. Some things might be kept secret only for a short time, such as a surprise party. Other things may need to be kept secret forever. Sometimes things might be kept secret from someone because it is believed that it would upset them to know. 
Some things need to be kept secret for security reasons. If a person has a bank account they must keep their password secret. No one else should know it. Espionage is snooping for someone else's secrets. Criminals like to keep their crimes secret. 
In a business, some information is kept secret. This is also called "confidential". Conversations at meetings are sometimes confidential. People who were at the meeting cannot go telling everyone else what was discussed. Usually, managers will make this a rule for an employee. Trade secrets are protected by law.
Another type of secret is Cryptography. These are codes that unlock other secrets. So, secrets are being used to protect secrets.

</doc>
<doc id="27317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27317" title="Chicago Cubs">
Chicago Cubs

The Chicago Cubs are a Major League Baseball team that plays in Chicago, Illinois. The Cubs filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on October 12, 2009. They are also the worst team in MLB. 
The Cubs were started in 1870. They originally wore all-white uniforms and were called the Chicago White Stockings. (The current Chicago White Sox got their nickname from the Cubs' original nickname.) By the 1890s the team was called the "Colts". In the early 1900s, the nicknames "Colts" and "Cubs" were both used. The name "Cubs" became official in 1906.
The team was very successful in its early years. They won the first National League championship in 1876. They won several pennants in the 1880s and then again in the early 1900s. The won the World Series in both 1907 and 1908. They have not won a World Series since then, and last appeared in the Series in 1945. They played poorly for over 20 years after that. During the early 1930s, future President Ronald Reagan broadcasted for the Cubs during his early years. Since the 1980s they have been in several postseason series, but have not reached the World Series.
The Wrigley family, founders of the Wrigley Gum Company, owned the team from about 1920 to about 1980. The Chicago Tribune bought the team and operated them for close to 30 years. They were sold to the Ricketts family in 2009.
When playing home games in Chicago, the Cubs play at Wrigley Field. The stadium was built in 1914 and has been the home playing field of the Cubs since 1916.
During games, the stadium is filled with Cubs fans, who are known for always cheering for their team, even if they are not winning. Even though the Cubs currently hold the record for the longest championship dry spell in all of American professional sports, their fans remain loyal to them.
The name "Billy Goat " comes from a bar known to reporters as Billy Goat's Tavern, located on lower Wacker drive in downtown Chicago. By the time the story of this "curse" started to get out, all the main characters were conveniently dead. 
The story is:
During the 1945 World Series, a man by the name of Vasili "Billy Goat" Sianis attended Game 4 of the series with his pet goat. During the 7th inning of the game, the Stadium's security guards asked Sianis to leave the stadium because his goat was bothering other fans. Sianis became angry and cursed the Cubs, saying that they would never win a World Series as long as they played at Wrigley Field. Although the curse is often seen as a joke for most Cubs fans, some fans think it could be the reason why the Cubs have not won a World Series title.

</doc>
<doc id="27330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27330" title="Herpes simplex">
Herpes simplex

The herpes simplex virus (HSV) is a virus. It causes two common diseases. Both diseases have painful, watery blisters in the skin or mucous membranes (such as the mouth or lips) or on the genitals. 
The disease is contagious, particularly when the disease is active. "Contagious" means that it can spread from one person to another. It is not possible to stop this disease completely after it has started in a person. However, there are some medical treatments that stop the disease for a little while.
An infection on the lips is commonly known as a cold sore or fever blister. A cold sore is not the same as a canker sore, which appears inside the mouth and is caused by something else.

</doc>
<doc id="27332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27332" title="Władysław Reymont">
Władysław Reymont

Władysław Stanisław Reymont, born as Stanisław Władysław Rejment. Born at May 7, 1867 in Kobielce Wielkie, Poland, died at December 5, 1925 in Warsaw, Poland), was a well-known Polish writer, who won the Nobel Prize in 1924 for his four-volume epic novel "Chłopi" ("The Peasants"). This novel was about life of this part of the society. He also wrote "Ziemia obiecana" ("The Promised Land"), about industrial capitalism in 19th century Łódź.
Many people say he is one of the greatest and most prominent Polish writers of all time and one of the greatest in 20th century.
Reymont was born in the family of the organist. His father, Józef Rejment, well-read man, had a musical education and in tuszyńskiej performed the parish duties of the organist, and also carried on Civil Status Registers and the correspondence of the parish priest with Russian authorities. Mother, Antonia from Kupczyńskich, had talent for a story. She came from the impoverished Cracow gentry; in mature years the writer has often emphasized this fact.

</doc>
<doc id="27333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27333" title="Introversion and extroversion">
Introversion and extroversion

Introversion and extroversion is a personality dimension. It was promoted by Carl Jung in the 1920s. Individual people differ on this scale. "Introverts" are quiet and shy, and "extroverts" are loud and sociable. According to the theory, introverts get energy from inside themselves (ideas and concepts in their own minds), and extroverts get energy from outside of themselves (interacting with other people). 
Those who follow this way of looking at the world say that everyone has some parts of both traits in them, though one will usually dominate over the other. At one time, extroverts were thought to make up almost three-fourths of American society. Now, researchers typically assume that the number of extroverts is pretty much equal to the number of introverts in the country.

</doc>
<doc id="27334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27334" title="Sartell, Minnesota">
Sartell, Minnesota

Sartell is a city in the U.S. state of Minnesota. The 2000 census said 9,641 live in the city. Newer information says 12,629 people live in the city. Sartell is in both Stearns County and Benton County.
Sartell started as a small town near the Mississippi River. It was first named "The Third Rapids" because it was the third rapids that French fur traders came to as they went north from St. Anthony Falls in Minneapolis.
One of the first people to live in this young town was Joseph B. Sartell. He came in 1854 and worked as a millwright at a local sawmill. In 1877, he started a flour mill at the nearby Watab River. In 1884, he started the Sartell Brothers Lumber Company with his sons.
In 1905, some people started to build the Watab Pulp and Paper Company. They also started to build the Sartell Dam across the Mississippi near the "third rapids". Both of these things were finished in 1907. Seven people died when building the dam. Since that time, Watab Pulp and Paper was rebuilt several times and many people bought and sold it. Now a company called International Paper owns it.
It was in 1907 that residents of the town decided it was time to incorporate. Several influential people felt the town ought to be named "Wengert" after a local businessman. Another man lobbyied to have the town named "Oberly" after himself. However, because of his many relatives and generous contributions to the community, the town was incorporated as "The Village of Sartell" in honor of Joseph B. Sartell. From 1907 until 1973, there was a Sartell on nearly every City Council, the most prominent being Ripley B. "Rip" Sartell who was mayor for 31 years.
The town continued to grow slowly and developed a number of businesses and a "downtown" on the east side of the Mississippi along U.S. Highway 10. In the 1960s, the highway was re-routed, greatly contributing to the demise of the downtown area. The later construction of a new bridge over the Mississippi in the early 1980s replaced the remaining businesses. This and Sartell’s nearby location to St. Cloud, Minnesota's major retail center account for Sartell's lack of a traditional "downtown".
Because residents wanted to educate their children locally, Independent School District #748, Sartell-St. Stephen, was created in 1969. Despite not having a downtown the city continued to grow and the pace of the growth increased in the 1970s. From 1970 to the present, the population of the city has grown from 700 to over 10,000.
Sartell's city council has a mayor and four council members. They are elected at-large to represent the community. They also legislate policy for the city. As of October 2005, Sartell's mayor is Robert Pogatshnik and its four council members are Mary Lewandowski, Tim O'Driscoll, Paul Orndorff, and Joe Perske. They have the authority to pass and enforce ordinances, establish public and administrative policies, create advisory boards and commissions, and manage the city's financial operations including preparing a budget, auditing expenditures, and transacting other city business as required by law. The City Council also appoints a City Administrator who overseas the day-to-day operations of the city and implements the policies of the Council.
The United States Census Bureau says that the city has a total area of 15.9 km² (6.1 mi²). 15.3 km² (5.9 mi²) of it is land and 0.6 km² (0.2 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 3.75% water.
The city is located on both sides of the Mississippi River. The area around the city has lots of farmland and forests.
Because the Mississippi River goes through the city, people use the river to have fun. When it is warm, people ride boats, swim, catch fish and water ski on the river. When the river is frozen in winter, people ride snowmobiles, cross country ski, and catch fish through holes in the ice. 
The city has also built places for people to have fun. These include 24 parks, walking pathways, playgrounds, a bike lane, tennis courts, baseball and soccer fields, ice rinks, a disc golf course and a wading pool.
Sartell's largest employer is Verso Paper. They own a paper mill in the city. Another large employer is DeZurik Water Controls.
Sartell's Chamber of Commerce says that the city has many small business.
As of the census of 2000, there were 9,641 people, 3,443 households, and 2,513 families living in the city. The population density was 630.9/km² (1,633.9/mi²). There were 3,531 housing units at an average density of 231.1/km² (598.4/mi²). The racial makeup of the city was 97.42% White, 0.29% African American, 0.17% Native American, 1.21% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.21% from other races, and 0.69% from two or more races. 0.87% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 3,443 households out of which 46.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.6% were married couples living together, 9.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.0% were non-families. 20.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.75 and the average family size was 3.23.
In the city the population was spread out with 32.0% under the age of 18, 8.4% from 18 to 24, 35.5% from 25 to 44, 15.5% from 45 to 64, and 8.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 31 years. For every 100 females there were 95.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.3 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $52,531, and the median income for a family was $61,056. Males had a median income of $39,834 versus $27,476 for females. The per capita income for the city was $22,667. 4.0% of the population and 3.0% of families were below the poverty line. 4.7% of those under the age of 18 and 8.3% of those 65 and older were living below the poverty line.
Transportation to and from Sartell is limited to surface roads, mainly U.S. Highway 10 and Minnesota Highway 15 which both pass along the outskirts of the city. A rail line runs through town but serves only as freight transportation for the local paper mill. The presence of dams along the Mississippi River and the waterway's relatively shallow depth render it useless for anything more than recreational watercraft traffic. 
Sartell's proximity to St. Cloud allows for convenient access to St. Cloud Regional Airport.

</doc>
<doc id="27340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27340" title="50s BC">
50s BC


</doc>
<doc id="27341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27341" title="1690s BC">
1690s BC


</doc>
<doc id="27343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27343" title="1680s BC">
1680s BC

Events (things that happened):
Important people:

</doc>
<doc id="27344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27344" title="1670s BC">
1670s BC


</doc>
<doc id="27346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27346" title="1080s BC">
1080s BC

Events (things that happened):
Important people:

</doc>
<doc id="27347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27347" title="Sunset">
Sunset

A sunset, which in some American dialects is called a sundown, is the time where the Sun goes below the horizon to the West. It is not dusk, which is the point when darkness begins, which can be sometime after the Sun sets, this begins twilight. Its opposite is the sunrise.

</doc>
<doc id="27361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27361" title="Pop punk">
Pop punk

Pop-Punk or Punk-Pop, is a form of popular music that blends punk rock with pop music and rock music. Pop-punk music has a lighter, happier sound than most punk rock and hardcore punk music. Most punk rock and hardcore punk music sounds angry and harsh, and has lyrics (words) about protest and anger.
There are several types of pop-punk. An early type of pop-punk was developed right after Punk rock became popular in the late 1970s. Most of this kind of music is very much like Punk rock, but it features things from other kinds of music like pop music and older rock music, and country music, so different people can enjoy it. Some people call the Ramones a pop-punk band. The Ramones were a band from the United States.
In the 1990s, pop-punk became very popular in North America. Bands such as Green Day, Blink-182 and Zebrahead sold millions of recordings and did many tours.
In the 2000s and 2010s, which is the decade we are in now, many bands have joined, or contributed to the pop punk genre. They include Fall Out Boy, Relient K, FM Static, Hawk Nelson, and Amber Pacific.
Some people who like 1970s punk rock or 1980s hardcore punk do not like pop-punk. The 1970s punk rock or 1980s hardcore punk was usually angry, rebellious protest music. In contrast, 2000s pop-punk songs are nicer and lighter. Some people think 2000s pop-punk is too commercialized and nothing like the older punk music from the 1970s and 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="27365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27365" title="Sheryl Crow">
Sheryl Crow

Sheryl Crow (born February 11, 1962) is an American singer-songwriter. She can also play guitar and bass guitar.
Many of her songs have charted and are still popular. They include "The First Cut Is the Deepest", "Soak Up the Sun", "If It Makes You Happy" and "All I Wanna Do".
Crow has never married. She has two adopted sons, Wyatt Steven Crow (born on May 11, 2007) and Levi James Crow (born on April 30, 2010).
She had breast cancer in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="27366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27366" title="Chubby Checker">
Chubby Checker

Ernest Evans (born October 3, 1941) better known as Chubby Checker, is a pop singer from the United States. He is most famous for his dance songs. After his famous appearance on American Bandstand, his cover version of Hank Ballard's "The Twist" hit #1 and became a popular dance.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="27370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27370" title="Irish people">
Irish people

The Irish are an ethnic group who come from or came from the island of Ireland. There are two countries on the island of Ireland: the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Many countries, especially English-speaking countries, have people with Irish roots.
In Northern Ireland, there have been violent fights between the Unionists, who identify as British and are mainly Protestant, and the Nationalists, who identify as Irish and are mainly Catholic. Irish people have a strong culture and beliefs.
Due to problems in Ireland, most importantly a famine between 1845 and 1852, caused by the potatoes in Ireland being destroyed by disease, many Irish moved out of Ireland and to other countries, including the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia. At present, many more Irish live in the United States than in Ireland, with many of them living in large American cities such as Boston, New York, and Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="27374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27374" title="Claude Debussy">
Claude Debussy

Achille-Claude Debussy (born St Germain-en-Laye, 22 August 1862; died Paris, 25 March, 1918) was a French composer. He was one of the most important composers of the early 20th century. Most of his compositions are for orchestra or for piano. He also wrote some songs, chamber music and one opera. He made his music very different from the Romantic style that other composers were using at the time. He is often called an Impressionistic composer because he was influenced by the group of painters called “Impressionists”. They were not so much interested in making their paintings look exactly like the real world, but preferred to paint things such as the effect of the sunlight shining on water. Debussy often did this in his music, which creates a special atmosphere.
Claude Debussy did not have an easy childhood. His father was a travelling salesman and his mother worked as a seamstress. He learned the piano when he was young and was inducted into the Paris Conservatoire at age 11. For a time it seemed that he would become a concert pianist, but he did not do well enough in his examination. After winning an important prize, the Prix de Rome, he went to Rome for two years but he did not enjoy it. He visited Bayreuth in 1888 and 1889 to hear Wagner’s operas but he did not like them. He preferred sounds like that of the Javanese gamelan which he heard in Paris at the World Exhibition.
In 1899 he married a young woman named Rosalie Texier. He got a job as music critic of a journal called "La revue blanche". He wrote his opera "Pélleas et Mélisande" which was performed at the Opéra-Comique. It was extremely successful and was performed 100 times there during the next ten years. He wrote exciting music for orchestra: "Fêtes galantes" and a work called "La Mer" ("The Sea") which he worked at while staying in Brighton on the south coast of England. It is one of the most exciting pieces of music about the sea.
Debussy was now starting to become very famous. His personal life changed. He left his wife because he had fallen in love with Emma Bardac who was an amateur singer for whom Gabriel Fauré had written a song cycle "La Bonne Chanson". Her husband was a banker. She bought an apartment and Debussy lived with her there for the rest of his life. They had a daughter called Chou-Chou, born in 1905. They married in 1908.
Debussy’s next orchestral work was called "Images". He began composing a set of preludes for piano. Other works followed: "Khamma", "Le martyre de St Sébastian" and the ballet "Jeux", which was produced in 1913 by Dyagilev’s company. People soon forgot about this work because only two weeks later the same ballet company produced Stravinsky’s "Rite of Spring" which caused a riot.
By this time Debussy was ill with colorectal cancer. His visit to London in 1914 was his last trip to another country. He wrote more piano works: a set of Études and a piano duet called "En blanc et noir" ("In white and black"). He planned to write six sonatas, each for a different group of instruments, but he only wrote three of them: one for cello and piano, one for flute, viola and harp and one for violin and piano. The "Sonata for violin and piano" (1917) was the last work he played in public (he played the piano part). He died of colorectal cancer in 1918.
Saint-Saëns, for example, did not understand the way that the musical ideas flowed gently into one another. He was always an enemy of Debussy.
There is a lot of variety in Debussy’s piano music.　Some of it is very difficult to play, e.g. the "Études" and pieces such as "L’isle joyeuse" ("The happy island"). Other collections are much simpler, e.g. "Suite bergamasque" which includes the very popular piece called "Clair de lune" ("Moonlight"). He wrote two books of preludes. Each of the pieces has a title, but the titles are printed at the end of each piece, as if he did not want the listener to know what it was about until afterwards.
Debussy wrote wonderfully for the voice, making the music just right for the rhythm of the French language. This can be heard in his songs and his opera. Using melodies and harmonies which are often quite simple he creates a special kind of dream-world which can be very powerful. He often uses the whole tone scale and the pentatonic scale which give the music a hazy feeling because it does not seem to be clearly in one particular key. He liked to use unusual chords just for their own sake, not in order to make them lead to a particular key. He also used the old scales known as the church modes.
Debussy’s music had a great influence on many composers in the 20th century. Cage, Messiaen, Boulez and Stockhausen all learned from listening to his music.
Groves Dictionary of Music Online

</doc>
<doc id="27377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27377" title="P.O.D.">
P.O.D.

P.O.D. (which stands for Payable on Death) is a metal band from San Diego, California. Its fans are called "The Warriors", and the band is known for its Christian messages.
The members are Sonny Sandoval (lead singer), Marcos Curiel (guitar player), Wuv Bernardo (drummer) and Traa Daniels (bass player).
The band released an album in 1999 called "The Fundamental Elements of Southtown", which became very popular, and P.O.D. made a lot of fans who saw the band on MTV.
In 2001, P.O.D. made a second album called "Satellite", which had a more nu metal post-grunge vibe and several hit songs, like "Boom," "Alive," "Youth of the Nation," "Set It Off," "Satellite," and "Portrait." In 2003, P.O.D. made the album "Payable On Death", which had a heavy neo-grunge sound and a hint of reggae.
Their next album, "Testify", was released in 2006. It was similar to "Satellite" in sound and featured two duets with Matisyahu. In 2008, P.O.D. released the album "When Angels & Serpents Dance".

</doc>
<doc id="27399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27399" title="Differential">
Differential

Differentials are the main focus of differential calculus. (See differential equation).
Differentials can also be used in automobiles, where they are used for turning, for example, while turning right, the right wheel travels a shorter distance than the left, the differential slows down the wheel so it will not slip.
This is because the inside (right) wheel is closer to the center of the turn, meaning that it travels on an arc with a shorter radius, thus resulting in less distance traveled.

</doc>
<doc id="27400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27400" title="Blackbird">
Blackbird

The blackbird ("Turdus merula", or common blackbird) is a thrush. It is a member of the passerine songbird family Turdidae.
It has a huge range across Europe, Asia, and North Africa, and has been introduced to Australia and New Zealand. It has a number of subspecies across its range. Depending on latitude, the Common Blackbird may be resident, partially migratory or fully migratory. 
The adult male is black, with a yellow/orange bill (beak). Juveniles and females are brown, and less easy to see. Blackbirds are easy to find in gardens all over Europe and in Asia, South of the Arctic Circle. On average, Blackbirds live to be 2.4 years old, but some have been found to be 20 years old.
It is a terrific singer, and will breed whenever the weather is right.
The male common blackbird defends its breeding territory, chasing away other males or utilising a "bow and run" threat display. This is a short run, the head first being raised and then bowed with the tail dipped simultaneously. If a fight between male Blackbirds does occur, it is usually short and the intruder is soon chased away. 
The female blackbird is also aggressive in the spring when it competes with other females for a good nesting territory, and although fights are less frequent, they tend to be more violent.
The male attracts the female with a courtship display: oblique runs and head-bowing movements, an open beak, and a "strangled" low song. The female stays still until she raises her head and tail to permit copulation. This species is monogamous, and the established pair usually stay together as long as they both survive. Pair separation rates of up to 20% have been noted following poor breeding. Although socially monogamous, there have been studies showing as much as 17% extra pair paternity.
As long as winter food is available, both the male and female will remain in the territory throughout the year, although occupying different areas. Migrants are more gregarious, travelling in small flocks and feeding in loose groups in the wintering grounds. The flight of migrating birds comprises bursts of rapid wing beats interspersed with level or diving movement, and differs from both the normal fast agile flight of this species and the more dipping action of larger thrushes.

</doc>
<doc id="27403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27403" title="Geta (footwear)">
Geta (footwear)

Geta are traditional Japanese sandals. They are stilted to keep the hem of a kimono above the ground. They are worn with tabi socks. Geta makes the person's feet stay out of the mud.
Usually Japanese people wear them with a casual kimono rather than formal one. It is common to wear them with bare feet when a yukata is worn. Also they are worn with western clothes. 
Today, in Japan, most people rarely wear kimono and rarely wear geta. One reason for this is most gravel roads were changed to asphalt roads for Tokyo Olympic. Since 1995, the number of people who wear geta casually increased because of the pretty looks and sounds. In addition, the popularity of geta grew little by little through trend for yukata. At one time, Japanese people thought that it is hard to walk with geta and sometimes get injured by hanao. Hanao is a rope which is set between the big toe and second toe when geta are worn. However, because of efforts by yukata makers and footwear makers, Japanese people are starting to like to wear geta again.

</doc>
<doc id="27404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27404" title="Tabi">
Tabi

Tabi are traditional Japanese socks. The sock is divided at the toes that forms them into two groups. Tabi socks are worn with "zori" or "geta" sandals. The Tabi is of many different colours mainly white.

</doc>
<doc id="27417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27417" title="Bydgoszcz">
Bydgoszcz

Bydgoszcz (, ) is a city in the north of Poland, capital of Kujavia-Pomerania voivodship, on the Brda and Wisła rivers. As of 2012, 362,286 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="27428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27428" title="The Mystery of Edwin Drood">
The Mystery of Edwin Drood

The Mystery of Edwin Drood is the last novel of Charles Dickens. It was not finished when he died.
The story is set in a fictional town called Cloisterham, which is believed to be based on Rochester. It begins as John Jasper is leaving a place in London where opium (a powerful drug) is taken by lots of people. Jasper leads a choir (group of singers) in a large church in Cloisterham. The next day Jasper is visited by his nephew Edwin Drood. Edwin tells Jasper he is worried about getting married to a girl called Rosa Bud. He has to get married to her because his parents and Rosa’s parents said they had to.
The next day, Edwin finds Rosa in a nun’s house which is a school. At the same time, Jasper wants to learn about the graveyard, so he goes to find a man called Durdles, who knows a lot about the graveyard. A person called Neville Landless has a twin sister called Helena. They are both sent to a school in Cloisterham. Helena goes to live with Rosa in the nuns’ house, and Neville is taught by a reverend named Crisparkle.
We find out that Neville doesn’t like his stepfather who is a nasty man. He tells this to Crisparkle. Rosa tells Helena that she doesn’t like Jasper, who is her music teacher. She says she finds him scary. When Neville meets Rosa, he falls in love with her. He is angry that Edwin Drood doesn’t like her very much, but still wants to get married. Edwin makes Neville angry, and Neville attacks him. Jasper tells everyone that Neville is a violent (hurts a lot of people) person. 
Reverend Crisparkle wants Edwin and Neville to be friends. He wants to say sorry to Edwin, but only is Edwin accepts the apology (saying sorry). They all decide to have dinner the day before Christmas at Jasper’s house, so that everyone can say sorry.
Mr. Gregious who takes care of Rosa, tells Rosa that she has a lot of money. This money is from her father who is dead. She asks him if they money will still be given to her if she doesn’t marry Edwin. Mr Gregious says that she will still get the money even if she doesn’t marry Edwin. Mr. Gregious meets Edwin and gives him a ring. The ring belonged to Rosa’s father, and gave is to Rosa’s mother when they got married. Mr Gregious says that if Edwin loves Rosa and wants to stay with her forever, he must give her the ring. If he doesn’t love Rosa, and doesn’t want to stay with her forever, he must give the ring back to Mr. Gregious. There is another man watching to make sure Mr. Gregious and Edwin follow the rules. Rosa and Edwin talk and they say they both don’t want to get married anymore. They want ask Mr. Grewgious to tell Jasper this. Edwin says he will soon give the ring back.
Meanwhile, Jasper is in the graveyard again with Durdles. Jasper gives Durdles some very strong wine, which makes him drunk. Jasper finds out that Durdles can tap the stone coffins and knows what is in them from this. Jasper is interested in this trick. Suddenly they see a boy called Deputy. Jasper thinks the boy was following them, so he holds him by the neck. He doesn’t kill him though, and lets him go. 
On Christmas Eve, Neville buys a stick for walking. He wants to do some walking in his spare time in the countryside. Edwin goes to a jewellery shop because his watch is broken. A woman who uses opium (powerful drug) asks him what his first name is. He tells her. She says that she is happy his name is not Ned. She says that Ned is in danger. Edwin doesn’t listen to her, but he knows that Jasper sometimes calls him Ned.
They have the planned dinner, and everyone is friends again. Edwin and Neville go down to the river to see the storm. The next day, we find out that Edwin is missing. Jasper tells everyone that Neville killed him. Neville goes off for a walk, but the village people bring him back to the town. 
Reverend Crisparkle stops Neville from going to jail by saying that he will look after him. He says that he will bring Neville forward whenever he is needed. Jasper is then told that Edwin and Rosa won’t get married. He is very upset. Crisparkle finds Edwin’s watch and other belongings at the river. 
Half a year later Neville is living in London. A man called Mr. Tartar meets Neville and he wants to share his garden with him. He lives near Neville. A new character called Dick Datchery comes to Cloisterham. He lives near Jasper and watches him. Datchery meets Deputy and asks where Jasper lives. Deputy doesn’t ever go near there because he is afraid Jasper will choke (grab his neck) him again.
Jasper goes and visits Rosa. He tells her that he loves her. She tells him to leave. He doesn’t give up, and says he will destroy Neville unless she loves him. Because Neville is the brother of her friend Helena, Rosa is frightened. She goes to Mr. Grewgious in London, and Crisparkle follows her. Mr. Tartar meets him and asks him if he knows who he is. Crisparkle remembers that Tartar once saved him from dying in a river. They tell Rosa not to talk to Neville or Helena in case Jasper is watching. However, Tartar lets Rosa meet Helena. Grewgious finds a place for Rosa to live with another woman. 
We see that Jasper is visiting the place where lots of people smoke opium in London. He has not been there for a long time. The woman who owns the place follows him. She promises not to lose him again like last time. She follows him all the way to Cloisterham. She meets Mr. Datchery, who tells her Jasper’s name. He also says that he is going to sing in the church service in the morning. The woman is called Princess Puffer. She goes to the service and shakes her fist (a sign of anger and hate) at Jasper.
Dickens died before the story was finished. He made a summary of the story as planned in a letter to his friend John Forster.
His first fancy for the tale was expressed in a letter in the middle of
July. "What should you think of the idea of a story beginning in this
way?--Two people, boy and girl, or very young, going apart from one
another, pledged to be married after many years—at the end of the book.
The interest to arise out of the tracing of their separate ways, and the
impossibility of telling what will be done with that impending fate."
This was laid aside; but it left a marked trace on the story as
afterwards designed, in the position of Edwin Drood and his betrothed.
I first heard of the later design in a letter dated "Friday the 6th of
August 1869", in which after speaking, with the usual unstinted praise
he bestowed always on what moved him in others, of a little tale he had
received for his journal, he spoke of the change that had occurred
to him for the new tale by himself. "I laid aside the fancy I told you
of, and have a very curious and new idea for my new story. Not a
communicable idea (or the interest of the book would be gone), but a
very strong one, though difficult to work." The story, I learnt
immediately afterward, was to be that of the murder of a nephew by his
uncle; the originality of which was to consist in the review of the
murderer's career by himself at the close, when its temptations were to
be dwelt upon as if, not he the culprit, but some other man, were the
tempted. The last chapters were to be written in the condemned cell, to
which his wickedness, all elaborately elicited from him as if told of
another, had brought him. Discovery by the murderer of the utter
needlessness of the murder for its object, was to follow hard upon
commission of the deed; but all discovery of the murderer was to be
baffled till towards the close, when, by means of a gold ring which had
resisted the corrosive effects of the lime into which he had thrown the
body, not only the person murdered was to be identified but the locality
of the crime and the man who committed it. So much was told to me
before any of the book was written; and it will be recollected that the
ring, taken by Drood to be given to his betrothed only if their
engagement went on, was brought away with him from their last
interview. Rosa was to marry Tartar, and Crisparkle the sister of
Landless, who was himself, I think, to have perished in assisting Tartar
finally to unmask and seize the murderer.

</doc>
<doc id="27439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27439" title="Vientiane">
Vientiane

Vientiane is the capital city of Laos. It is in the Mekong Valley, and over two hundred thousand people live in its central area.

</doc>
<doc id="27444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27444" title="Dome">
Dome

A dome is a feature of architecture that usually looks like the upper half of a sphere on top of a building.
It is a feature that makes many religious and government buildings stand out, because if someone is speaking to others inside or under a dome, the voice sounds louder. Also a dome makes it easier to identify an important building, for example a temple or a palace.
A large stadium with a roof over the playing field is often called a "dome". One example of that usage is the Metrodome.

</doc>
<doc id="27447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27447" title="Address">
Address

An address (pronounced AD-dress or ad-DRESS) is a way to find or communicate with someone. It can be a postal address or an e-mail address. On forms, it is common to ask for someone's name, address and phone number, so that the person can be found easily.
A postal address is usually the location of someone's house, but sometimes it is the person's Post Office Box. It is the information that is put on a letter to have the letter delivered to a person.
Example (in England):
Example (in the U.S.):
An email address is used to send someone an e-mail. It has a username, and this is followed by the name of the person's email provider. The at sign (@) separates the two. For example:
The "name" part can be made up of any letters or numbers, and a few special characters, but it cannot contain spaces. The "provider" part can be made up of any letters or numbers, but no special characters and no spaces. Some providers may restrict the "name" part in other ways. For example, Gmail does not allow underscores.

</doc>
<doc id="27461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27461" title="T cell">
T cell

A T cell is a type of lymphocyte, a white blood cell. 
It plays an important role in the immune system by attacking virus-infected cells, foreign cells, and cancer cells. The "T" in T cell stands for thymus. The thymus is where T cells mature.

</doc>
<doc id="27478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27478" title="Biscuit">
Biscuit

A biscuit is a type of food. They are small baked breads or cakes.
In British English, Australian English, Canadian English and New Zealand English, biscuits are usually sweet and can be eaten with tea, milk or coffee. In North America these are called "cookies".
In spite of the difference, this is the meaning in the name of the United States' most famous maker of cookies and crackers, the National Biscuit Company (now called Nabisco).
In American English, a "biscuit" is a small form of bread, similar to scones, made with baking powder or baking soda as a leavening agent rather than yeast. (Biscuits, soda breads, and corn bread, among others, are sometimes referred to all together as "quick breads" to show that they do not need time to rise before baking.) 

</doc>
<doc id="27480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27480" title="Electromagnet">
Electromagnet

Electromagnets are temporary and artificial magnets.They are magnets that are only magnetic when there is a coil of wire with electricity running through it. This is called a solenoid. The strength of the magnet is proportional to the current flowing in the circuit. The electricity running through the wire is called a current. The current is the flow of electrons, which are negatively charged particles. Electromagnets are used for a variety of purposes. In a simple example, an electromagnet can pick up pieces of iron, nickel, and cobalt.
Electromagnets can be made stronger by adding more coils to the copper wire, or adding an iron core through the coils (for example a nail). The current can also be increased to make the magnetism stronger. British electrician William Sturgeon invented the electromagnet in 1825.
An electromagnet is very beneficial because it can be turned on and off easily (using an electric current), whereas a permanent magnet cannot be turned off and will continue to affect its immediate environment. Iron stops being an electromagnet very quickly, but steel takes time to wear off. To make an electromagnet, copper wire is wound around a steel rod. The two ends of the wire are connected to the + (positive) and - (negative) side of the battery.
Electromagnets are used in everyday items such as burglar alarms, electric relays and fire bells. Electric motors are basically electromagnets. Their ability to change from the state of non-magnetic to magnetic just by passing an electric current through it allows it to be used in many different items. This ability is used in relays.
Electromagnets can also be used to make electricity. Movement of a magnet back and forth in front of the electromagnet will make an electric current.
Electromagnets work because when electricity flows through a wire it makes a magnetic field around the wire. The direction of the magnetic field can be found by using the "right-hand rule". This means that if a person points the thumb of their right hand in the direction of the current, the magnetic field would go around the wire the same way their fingers would wrap around the wire.
The magnetic field made by a single wire is not usually very strong. To make an electromagnet normally the wire is wrapped in many loops to make the fields of each piece of wire add together into one stronger magnetic field.

</doc>
<doc id="27481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27481" title="Palau">
Palau

Palau, officially the Republic of Palau, is an island nation. It is in the Pacific Ocean. Palau is 300 miles (500 km) east of the Philippines. It got independence from United Nations trusteeship administration (administered by the United States of America) in 1994. It is one of the world's youngest and smallest nations. It is sometimes referred to in English under its native name Belau. The capital city of Palau is Melekeok. This has been true since October 1, 2006.
Palau is divided into sixteen administrative states:
Palau has a tropical climate all year round. Average yearly temperature is around 82 °F (27 °C).

</doc>
<doc id="27485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27485" title="Island country">
Island country

An island country (also sometimes called island nation or borderless country) is a country that is made up only of islands. They are not connected by land to any other nation. Each island only belongs to that country, so there are no borders. Examples of borderless countries are Iceland, Japan and Madagascar.
Many island nations get money from fishing.

</doc>
<doc id="27491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27491" title="Llivia">
Llivia

Llívia is a small Catalan town which is an exclave of Spain, being surrounded by France. The Spanish border is about one kilometre away. The town is part of Cerdanya, province of Girona. The French territory surrounding Llivia is the Pyrénées-Orientales "département". Llivia had a total population of 1252 in 2005.
Llívia is located at .
People lived there in Roman times. Originally, the settlement was a Roman fort (known as an "oppidum)". The name of the oppidum was "Julia Libica".
Llivia was the capital of Cerdagne in antiquity, but in the early Middle Ages, Hix (a commune of Bourg-Madame, France) became the capital of the region.

</doc>
<doc id="27503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27503" title="Monkey Island">
Monkey Island

Monkey Island is a well-known adventure game series made and published by LucasArts.
The games are known for their humor, and often use parody and clichés, both from pirate stories as well as from films.
The story takes place in the Caribbean. In the different games the main character Guybrush Threepwood, who wants to become a pirate, has many adventures. Each of the games usually involves the evil undead pirate LeChuck and the island which gave the series its name.

</doc>
<doc id="27510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27510" title="Port Arthur massacre">
Port Arthur massacre

The Port Arthur massacre was a mass killing that took place at Port Arthur, Tasmania, Australia. On Saturday 28 and Sunday 29 April 1996 35 people were killed, and 37 people were badly hurt. Martin Bryant used semi-automatic guns to shoot people who were visiting Port Arthur. Port Arthur is an old penal colony or large prison. More than 75,000 convicts from England and Ireland had been kept at the prison from the 1830s to the 1870s. The ruins of the prison are one of the biggest attractions for visitors to Tasmania. Bryant is in jail for the crime. 
The massacre was the worst single-day mass murder incident in Australian history. 32 people died on 28 April 1996, the middle day of the massacre. After the massacre, Australia made new laws about gun control. People could not buy guns very easily anymore. New laws were changed which meant that Martin Bryant had to give many millions of dollars to the families of the people who were killed. This law does not exist anywhere else in the world.
Bryant had first killed the owners of a small guesthouse. The next day he went to the Port Arthur Historic Site. 20 of the people killed were shot in the Broad Arrow Cafe in a 90 second burst of gunfire. Bryant went into the cafe at lunchtime and began shooting. There were more than 60 people in the cafe. He then went into the gift shop and continued shooting. Two minutes later he went back to his car to get more guns. He continued to shoot and kill people outside in the gardens. 
Bryant then took a hostage and went back to the Seascape Guest House. He killed the hostage and then set fire to the house. He finally gave himself up to the police after 18 hours. He was burned in the fire.
Bryant was found guilty of killing 35 people. He was sentenced to a life sentence for each murder. The court said he was never to be released.
The ruins of the cafe are now a memorial to the people who were killed in the massacre. A square pond has been built as a place for quiet thinking. The Prime Minister of Australia, John Howard spoke at the memorial in 2006. This was to remember 10 years since the massacre.
 

</doc>
<doc id="27511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27511" title="Backpacker murders">
Backpacker murders

Between 1990 and 1996, a total of seven people were killed in Australia. Since all of the people were backpackers, the events are known as backpacker murders today. All of their bodies were found in Belangalo State Forest, which is close to Sydney. Ivan Milat killed all of these people.
7 people were found in Belangalo State Forest. Five of these people were visiting Australia - three Germans and two British people. The other two were visiting Sydney from other parts of Australia. Some of these people were by themselves. Some of these people were with a friend. The 7 people were all different from each other.
On the TV they said that tourists were killed, but not everyone who died was a tourist. 
The 7 people were found all over Belangalo State Forest, which is a big area. One of them had their head chopped off. Someone had sex with some of them. Some of them had their clothes taken off. Some of them had bits of their bodies cut off and put somewhere else. Some of the bodies were by themselves. 
Some of the people had been killed with a knife. Some had been killed with a gun. Some seemed to have been strangled.
The 7 people who died had nothing in common. People who tried to find out who did it said that there may have been more than one person who killed them. They said that they may have been a part of a gang.
Ivan Milat (born 1944) is an Australian man from New South Wales who lived near Belangalo State Forest. So police arrested Milat and searched his house. They found out that:
Milat went to court, and people in court said that he did kill all of these people.
Some people think that other people helped Milat. Some people said his brothers helped him, or a girl, or lots of other people. Police have said that there are more than 30 people that went missing that might have been killed by Milat. 

</doc>
<doc id="27512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27512" title="Death of Azaria Chamberlain">
Death of Azaria Chamberlain

Azaria Chamberlain (11 June 1980 – 17 August 1980) was an Australian baby who was born in Mount Isa, Queensland, and went missing in 1980 near Ayers Rock, Northern Territory, Australia. The family were camping in a tent at the base of the rock. Her mother, Lindy Chamberlain, said that she had been taken by a dingo and killed. Police said that Lindy Chamberlain had murdered the baby and had lied about the dingo. After a long trial which was reported around the world, Chamberlain was convicted of murder and sent to jail. Chamberlain kept arguing that she was innocent. When some of the baby's clothes were found three years later near a dingo's den, the case was reopened. After a long legal battle which involved three inquests, three appeals and a royal commission, she was released. In 2012, a fourth inquest found that Azaria had been taken by a dingo, and the death certificate has now been changed to show this. The inquest noted that there had been other dingo attacks in the region.
Lindy Chamberlain was released from jail on February 7 1986, but not cleared until September 15 1988, at which time Lindy and Michael (her husband) were declared innocent of all charges. She and Michael were divorced on June 27 1991. She met Rick Creighton on a speaking tour of the United States in February 1992 and married him on December 20 1992.
The disappearance of Azaria became one of the most argued about events in Australia. Many people thought that a dingo would be unable to kill a baby. This meant that the mother must have lied. People in Australia say "a dingo stole my baby" as a joke, when they think someone is lying. After a dingo killed a nine-year-old boy on Fraser Island in 2001, people have had to rethink their beliefs about dingos.
Author John Bryson wrote a book about the case, called "Evil Angels." This was later made into a movie called "Evil Angels" and starred Meryl Streep and Sam Neill. The movie was released in other countries as "A Cry in the Dark."
In 2005, a woman called Erin Horsburgh said that she was really Azaria Chamberlain and wanted police to do a DNA test to check. But police said that the woman was lying and they did not need to check. This created interest in the media, but there was no truth to the story.

</doc>
<doc id="27513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27513" title="Murder of Peter Falconio">
Murder of Peter Falconio

Peter Falconio (20 September 1972 - c. 14 July 2001) was an English tourist who went missing in Northern Territory, Australia in 2001. Falconio was last seen near a place called Barrow Creek. This is one of Australia's greatest murder mysteries. Police say that he is dead. A trial decided that Bradley John Murdoch murdered Falconio.
Peter Falconio and his girlfriend Joanne Lees had been fighting with each other. Lees was going to leave Falconio because she had a new boyfriend in Australia. Some people think that Lees wanted to kill Falconio because of this. Some people think that she might have asked Murdoch to kill Falconio for her.
Bradley John Murdoch sold drugs to people. Falconio and Lees liked to use drugs. It is thought that they knew each other, and that Falconio and Lees bought drugs from Murdoch. Falconio owed a lot of money in taxes, and he was scared. Falconio had told people that he wanted to fake his own death. Many people say they saw Falconio over a week after police say that he died. It was known that Murdoch had hurt people before this. He had once shot at some aborigines just for fun. He had told people that he thought he was being followed and was going to get rid of them. Some people think that he raped some women too.
This remains a great mystery and many people have different stories as to what really happened. A movie called "Wolf Creek" was made that is similar to the story. It was not allowed to be shown until after the trial.

</doc>
<doc id="27514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27514" title="John Howard">
John Howard

John Winston Howard (born 26 July 1939) is a former Australian politician who was the 25th Prime Minister of Australia from 11 March 1996 to 3 December 2007. John Howard is the second longest serving prime minister of Australia after Robert Menzies. John Howard is a member of the Liberal Party. 
John Howard was a lawyer before he became a politician. He was in parliament from 1974 until 2007. From 1977 to 1983 he was the Treasurer in Malcolm Fraser's government. Malcolm Fraser lost the 1983 election to Bob Hawke. On 24 November 2007, John Howard lost to Kevin Rudd and his parliamentary seat to Maxine McKew. He became the second prime minister to lose a parliamentary seat after Stanley Bruce in 1929.
John Howard is the fourth son of Mona ("nee" Kell) and Lyall Howard. His parents were married in 1925. His eldest brother Stanley was born in 1926, followed by Walter in 1929, and Robert (Bob) in 1936. Lyall Howard was an admirer of Winston Churchill, and a sympathiser with the New Guard. Howard's ancestors were English, Scottish and Irish.
Howard was born and raised in the Sydney suburb of Earlwood, in a Methodist family. His mother had been an office worker until her marriage. His father and his paternal grandfather, Walter Howard, were both veterans of the First AIF in World War I. They also ran two Dulwich Hill petrol stations. Howard worked there as a boy.
Howard suffered from a hearing impairment in his youth. It ruled out the chances of him becoming a barrister as a likely career from his mind. To this day, John wears a hearing aid.
One of Howard's first initiatives was to unite the state governments of Australia to place a ban on gun ownership in Australia. This move came after the Port Arthur Massacre in Tasmania in 1996, where 35 people were killed and a further 37 injured at the hands of a gunman. In 1998, Howard and his Treasurer, Peter Costello took a big tax reform (the GST) to the election and won. 
In 1999 John Howard's government held a referendum on whether Australia should become a republic and have a President instead of a Queen. However, John Howard did not support the referendum and urged people to vote no. The Australian Labor Party opposition led by Kim Beazley criticised John Howard's handling of the 1998 Australian Waterfront Dispute. 
In 1999, Howard led a United Nations force into East Timor (INTERFET), to help them set up an independent democracy. 
After the September 11 attacks, John Howard was involved in world issues. He was close with George W. Bush who was the leader of the United States. George Bush called John Howard a "key ally". John Howard sent SAS troops to Afghanistan and Iraq to support the United States, and signed a free trade agreement with the United States. Despite this alliance, Australia remained fairly neutral on Israel and Palestine. 
Like before Howard, Australian trade with Asia got bigger while John Howard was leader. He invited the Chinese leader Hu Jintao to speak to the Australian Parliament for the first time. After the 2004 Boxing Day Tsunami, John Howard called the President of Indonesia and offered a billion dollars to help. John Howard increased immigration a lot and people came to Australia from all over the world, but he tried to stop boats of people coming without asking for visas first. 
Australia was successful while John Howard was leader. In 2005, he made it easier for bosses to get rid of workers by introducing the controversial WorkChoices industrial legislation introduced by his Workplace Relations Minister Kevin Andrews. This upset people and the Labor Party became more popular. On 24 November 2007, Kevin Rudd won an election and John Howard stopped being Prime Minister. John Howard also lost his seat in the Parliament to the Labor Party candidate Maxine McKew, a former ABC TV journalist.

</doc>
<doc id="27517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27517" title="Swedish language">
Swedish language

Swedish () is a language mostly spoken in Sweden and in parts of Finland, typically along the southern and western coasts and on the Åland islands. More than nine million people speak Swedish. It is similar to two of the other Scandinavian languages, Norwegian and Danish, and a person who understands one of these languages can understand the others. Other Scandinavian languages, such as Icelandic and Faroese, are less closely related and cannot be understood by Swedish speakers. Standard Swedish is spoken and written throughout Sweden, but there are some local dialects with differences in grammar and vocabulary in small towns and rural areas. 
Swedish began as a dialect of Old Norse, which was a language that everyone in Scandinavia understood during the Viking Age. Around the 12th century Swedish began to slowly become different from the other dialects. These dialects later became what we today call Norwegian, Icelandic, Faroese and Danish. Swedish is a Germanic language and some similarities to English because of the Vikings that invaded England in the 10th Century. It is even more similar to German and Dutch, partly because of the Hanseatic League of the Middle Ages, when Sweden traded very openly with Germany.
There are three characters in the Swedish language that are not used in English. These are å, ä and ö. The letter å is a vowel sound between [a] and [o], similar to the English word "awe". The letter ä is a vowel sound similar to [ɛ], like in the English word "bed". The letter ö is a vowel sound between [o] and [ɛ], pronounced [øː] like the "u" in the English word "burn". These characters are also used in the Finnish language, while Norwegian and Danish languages replace ä and ö with similar characters æ and ø. 
Swedish also has some important differences in grammar. Definite articles are suffixed onto the end of their nouns, so "ett hus" (a house) becomes "huset" (the house). Also unlike English, Swedish uses two grammatical genders called "Common" and "Neuter". Nouns of the Common gender are sometimes called "en words", and many words for living (or once-living) things are "en words". Nouns of the Neuter gender are sometimes called "ett words".

</doc>
<doc id="27519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27519" title="Walter Mikac">
Walter Mikac

Walter Mikac is an Australian writer and motivational speaker. 
Walter Mikac's wife and two small children were killed at the Port Arthur massacre. He has written two books, one called "To Have And To Hold" and the other is called "Circle of Life: Sustenance for the Soul". It is about handling grief and tragedy. He helped create the Alannah and Madeline Foundation to help children who are the victims of violent crime

</doc>
<doc id="27525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27525" title="Martin Bryant">
Martin Bryant

Martin Bryant (born 7 May 1967) is an Australian criminal who killed 35 people in Tasmania in 1996, in the Port Arthur massacre. He is now in prison for the most murders in Australian recorded history.
Bryant has been given a sentence of life in gaol for each of the 35 murders. He is never to be released. He is held in solitary confinement (by himself) in Hobarts Risdon Prison. 
Martin Bryant is believed to have an IQ (thinking level) of an 11-year-old. Guards and doctors report that his only interest seems to be himself. He has tried to kill himself several times in prison.

</doc>
<doc id="27526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27526" title="Rugby league">
Rugby league

Rugby League is a ball sport. Two teams of thirteen players play against each other. The ball used is oval in shape. The field is a rectangle shape. It is 100 metres long and 70 metres wide. It is played for 80 minutes (40 minutes aside).
A "try" is scored when a player scores or touches the ball down in the in-goal area. A try is worth 4 points and if its converted (the goal kicker kicks the ball in between the top of the goal post), the team gets an extra 2 points. Another method of scoring points is through drop goals which are worth 1 point, or penalty goals which are worth 2 points.
Rugby league is played in over 30 countries in the world. The countries that play it the most are Australia, England, Ireland and New Zealand. The Rugby League World Cup has been played by Australia, New Zealand, England, Ireland, France, Wales, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Samoa, Tonga, Scotland, United States, Italy, Cook Islands, Lebanon, Russia and South Africa. The current world champions are New Zealand, who won the 2008 Rugby League World Cup. Before this, Australia had won every World Cup since 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="27528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27528" title="Dustin Hoffman">
Dustin Hoffman

Dustin Hoffman (born August 8, 1937) is an American actor. He has been in many movies. 
Hoffman was born in Los Angeles, California. He is the younger son of Lillian, a jazz pianist, and Harry Hoffman, who worked as a prop supervisor/set decorator at Columbia Pictures before becoming a furniture salesman. His brother, Ronald, is a lawyer and economist. Hoffman's family was Jewish, although he was not brought up religious. He graduated from Los Angeles High School in 1955.
Hoffman starred in "The Graduate", "Midnight Cowboy", "Marathon Man", "All the President's Men", "Kramer vs. Kramer", "Tootsie" and "Rain Man".
In 2013, Hoffman had successful treatment for cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="27529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27529" title="Chopper Read">
Chopper Read

Mark Brandon "Chopper" Read (November 17, 1954 - October 9, 2013) was an Australian mobster who was born in Melbourne, Victoria. During his criminal career in the Melbourne mafia scene, he was convicted of many crimes, including armed robbery, assault, attempted murder, arson, impersonating a police officer and kidnapping. Read retired from a life of crime and wrote a series of fiction books based on his life as a criminal.
Read started his criminal career as a child; robbing drug dealers as a teenager. During this time he was the leader of a gang. While in prison as an adult, Read made another prisoner cut off his ears so he could leave prison where a gang wanted to have him killed. Read claims that he killed 19 people during his time as a criminal. His first book was written in 1991 while he was in prison. In 2000, a movie called Chopper was made about Read's life and based on his books, it stars Eric Bana as Read.
Read has stated that he had attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, hepatitis C, cirrhosis and liver cancer. He died of liver cancer in Melbourne.

</doc>
<doc id="27530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27530" title="Elle McFeast">
Elle McFeast

Elle McFeast was a fictional character played by Australian comedienne Libbi Gorr, who started off on a show with Andrew Denton about sport in Australia called "Live and Sweaty". Gorr made up her character's name to make fun of Australian model Elle Macpherson. "McFeast" was the name of a hamburger from McDonald's. 
McFeast had her own show for many years in Australia. She talked about many scary things, like jails and criminals, and made fun of them. One day she interviewed Chopper Read on her show. He was so scary that she had to stop her show.

</doc>
<doc id="27531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27531" title="Elle Macpherson">
Elle Macpherson

Elle Macpherson (born Eleanor Nancy Gow on 29 March 1964, in Killara, New South Wales, Australia) is an Australian supermodel and actress. She first became famous because of her advertisements for Coca Cola where she wore a string bikini. She became a supermodel and became very famous. She is part owner of a cafe in America. She has been in a movie called "Sirens". Macpherson is nicknamed "the body" because some people say she has a perfect body.
In 2010, she became the host and executive producer of "Britain & Ireland's Next Top Model". She is currently the host and an executive producer NBC's "Fashion Star".
Macpherson met Gilles Bensimon in 1984 on a photo-session for "Elle" magazine. They were married in May 1986, and divorced in 1989.
Macpherson has two sons, Arpad Flynn Alexander Busson (born 14 February 1998), and Aurelius Cy Andrea Busson (born 4 February 2003). The father is her former partner, French financier Arpad Busson. 
Macpherson lives most of the time in Britain along with her two sons. She speaks fluent French and conversational Italian and Spanish.
From 2010 to early 2012, Macpherson was in a relationship with property developer Jeff Soffer.

</doc>
<doc id="27532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27532" title="Andrew Denton">
Andrew Denton

Andrew Christopher Denton (born May 4, 1960) is an Australian comedian and television presenter who likes to make fun of politics. Andrew Denton used to have a television programme about sports in Australia called "Live and Sweaty". He now has a programme called "Enough Rope" where he interviews people about politics. Denton is a very smart man. The Australian media use him in many news stories. One of Denton's interviews was with Rene Rivkin, who police said had cheated in the stock market to make money. Rivkin was very sad, and after the interview he went to jail. Rivkin killed himself in jail. Denton says that he feels very sorry for interviewing Rivkin. Denton says that he does not want to interview someone like that again.

</doc>
<doc id="27533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27533" title="Rene Rivkin">
Rene Rivkin

Rene Rivkin (June 6, 1944 – May 1, 2005) was an Australian man, born in Shanghai, who made much money by buying stocks and shares on the Australian stockmarket. Rivkin had his own television show and magazine to help people to make money. Rivkin had cheated to make money from the stock market. Rivkin became depressed. Rivkin was put in jail. He was released, and killed himself in Sydney. Before killing himself, Rivkin said on a television show called "Enough Rope" with Andrew Denton that if he went to jail he would kill himself. Andrew Denton has said that he is very sad about this.

</doc>
<doc id="27534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27534" title="Eric Bana">
Eric Bana

Eric Bana (born Eric Banadinovich on 9 August 1968) is an Australian actor. He was a comedian for a long time, and he was in a show called "The Comedy Company". He then became a serious actor in the movie "Chopper" which is a biopic of criminal Chopper Read. Bana also acted in the movies "Troy" and "Hulk".

</doc>
<doc id="27536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27536" title="African American Vernacular English">
African American Vernacular English

African American Vernacular English (AAVE) is a name for the way some African-American people, often called "black" because of their generally dark skin, talk. Linguists, or people who study language, gave AAVE its name. Some non-black people use this dialect, too. Some of its pronunciations and grammar resemble the way people talk in West Africa.
It first came about in the 16th and 17th centuries. The African slaves developed a way to communicate among all their various tribes. 
African American Vernacular English became famous in 1996, when some educators in Oakland, California said they wanted to use AAVE to help teach black kids. They called it Ebonics. However, Ebonics often has a negative connotation. 
There are many rules that govern how the sounds of AAVE are different from Standard English. Some have to do with pronunciation and vocabulary (or lexicon). Most have to do with grammar. This includes verb tenses, and sentence structure.
Hip hop music has made AAVE more famous since the 1980s. Some people think it is cool and they try to speak it or learn it even if they are not really familiar with it. Some non-black people can speak it well.

</doc>
<doc id="27538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27538" title="60s BC">
60s BC


</doc>
<doc id="27542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27542" title="Joe Vialls">
Joe Vialls

Joe Vialls (1944 – 2005) was an Australian Internet journalist and conspiracy theorist. He was once a policeman and detective, but became a private investigator. He is most famous for writing many stories on the Internet about famous things that have happened around the world.
On April 17, 1984, a police woman called Yvonne Fletcher was killed while she was in London. Joe Vialls told people that he knew why she was really killed. Because of Joe Vialls, police in London spent a long time trying to find out what really happened. In the end, police agreed with Joe Vialls, and they said that they had found out what really happened because of Joe Vialls.
In April 1996, Joe Vialls said that he knew who had really killed people in the Port Arthur massacre, and that it was not Martin Bryant, who police said had killed people. Joe Vialls talked to Wendy Scurr who was there, and Stewart Beattie who was a gun expert, and he also talked to Martin Bryant's mother, to find out what really happened. Joe Vialls wrote a book and had many articles talking about what he thinks really happened. You can see 9 articles that Joe Vialls wrote here. Joe Vialls says that the Australian government killed people so that they could take guns away from people. This is the same story that the Australian National Rifle Association says.

</doc>
<doc id="27545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27545" title="Tatts Group Limited">
Tatts Group Limited

Tatts Group Limited, formerly known as Tattersalls, is the name of a company in Australia that helps people to bet money. Tattersalls has made lots of money. A woman named Helen Harvey owned Tattersalls and had lots of money. When she died, she gave the money to her friend Martin Bryant. When Bryant went to jail after he killed people in the Port Arthur massacre, he had to give all of the money to people who were killed or injured there. 

</doc>
<doc id="27547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27547" title="Tsukuba, Ibaraki">
Tsukuba, Ibaraki

Tsukuba is a new city in Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan. It is 50 km northeast of Tokyo and 40 km from Narita International Airport.
It has been recognized as a special city since 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="27548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27548" title="Narita International Airport">
Narita International Airport

The airport is east of Tokyo Station and east-southeast of Narita Station in the city of Narita in Chiba Prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="27563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27563" title="Pup">
Pup

Pup means the babies of several species of animals, such as:
Pup could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="27564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27564" title="Monitor">
Monitor

The word monitor is a Latin word for "warner" or "suggester". The many uses of the word are listed below.

</doc>
<doc id="27568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27568" title="Chest">
Chest

The chest is the front part of the torso. It is between the neck and abdomen.

</doc>
<doc id="27585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27585" title="Blackburn">
Blackburn

Blackburn is a town in Lancashire, England. The town has a population of about 105,000 people.
Blackburn is mentioned in one of the Beatles' songs. The town's football team is Blackburn Rovers F.C.

</doc>
<doc id="27586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27586" title="Springfield">
Springfield

Springfield can be:

</doc>
<doc id="27589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27589" title="National Security Agency">
National Security Agency

The National Security Agency (NSA) is a part of the United States government. It was started in 1952, and the main office is in Maryland. 
Their stated goal is to protect the US people. They do this by

</doc>
<doc id="27591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27591" title="Robert Wadlow">
Robert Wadlow

Robert Pershing Wadlow (February 22, 1918 – July 22, 1940) was the tallest person who ever lived. 
Robert Pershing Wadlow was born to Addie Johnson and Harold Wadlow in Alton, Illinois on February 22, 1918, and was the oldest of five children. During elementary school, they had to make a special desk for him because of his size. In 1936, after graduating from Alton High School, he enrolled in Shurtleff College with the intention of studying law.
Robert Wadlow was normal at birth but started growing abnormally when he was two, after a double hernia operation. He was six feet tall at age six. By the time he was 17, he was eight feet tall. Because he was so tall, he got lots of attention and became very famous, but his bones were very weak and he had to wear leg braces. In 1940, he was walking in a Fourth of July parade, when one of his braces made his ankle get infected; he died on the 15th of that month. When he died he was 8' 11.1". Robert was 6' 5" on his knees.
Wadlow died at the age of 22. Four days later, at his funeral, 40,000 people attended and it took 12 people to carry his coffin. People remember him as the "Gentle Giant" and there is a statue of him at the Southern Illinois University Edwardsville School of Dental Medicine. People now say Wadlow had something called gigantism, which made him so tall.

</doc>
<doc id="27592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27592" title="Code">
Code

A code is a way of changing information into something else. Sometimes this is done as a way of keeping a message secret. This is called encryption or cryptography. 
One source gives this explanation: a code is "a word, number or some other symbol used to represent a word, phrase or syllable in plaintext". It is one of the earliest forms of cryptography. Contrast code with cypher, in which the individual letters are encrypted (changed).
Sometimes it is done as an easier way of sending a message. For example, when people on two different boats want to send a message, they may be too far away to shout, but they can send messages with a flag code. Another code that people use is called Morse code, which changes letters to dots and dashes, like this:
Computers use codes, by changing letters into 1's and 0's. This is called an ASCII code.
Some people write codes as a kind of game. They think it is fun to make ciphers, and fun to break them. Breaking a code means taking it apart to understand how it works, and then you can understand messages that are written in that code. Cryptanalysis is also serious business. Nations and other organizations have been breaking each others ciphers for many centuries. 
The algorithm (code) for making a message secret is called the encryption algorithm. To change a secret message back a decryption algorithm is needed.

</doc>
<doc id="27594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27594" title="Goaltender">
Goaltender

The goaltender (also known colloquially as goalie or netminder) in ice hockey is the player who defends his team's goal net by stopping shots of the puck from entering his team's net, thus stopping the other team from scoring. They usually stay close to the net.
At the very end of a game, if a team is losing by one goal, teams may take their goaltender out of the game and replace him with another player. This makes it more likely that they will score a goal, however, it is also much easier for the other team to score without anybody defending the goal.

</doc>
<doc id="27627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27627" title="Wikispecies">
Wikispecies

Wikispecies is a sister project of Wikipedia, and so it is a wiki supported by the Wikimedia Foundation. It is a free directory of species that wants to make a full catalogue of all living things. It tells of how "species" are classified into groups (taxonomy), and how those groups are similar to one another. It calls itself the "directory of life". 
It is supposed to be written and used by scientists, not by normal people. The people who write Wikispecies do not need to show their education but need to show their general understanding in the area. 
It was started in August 2004, with biologists around the world invited to help. Now, the project has become a good directory listing the Linnaean taxonomy with links to Wikipedia articles on individual species since April 2005. The links are provided in different languages. 
The articles in Wikispecies are all written in the Latin names, so that scientists around the world, no matter what language that use, can use the website. There is information in the article telling people what the article's living thing is called in every other language that has a common name for it. Still, Wikispecies is mostly in English; its main page is in English, and it is run in English. 
The taxoboxes in Wikipedia come from Wikispecies, where people in Wikipedia can go to refer.
As of July 1, 2014, Wikispecies has over 400,000 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="27709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27709" title="Lopp Lagoon">
Lopp Lagoon

Lopp Lagoon is a tidal lake on Cape Prince of Wales (the western-most tip of the Seward Peninsula) in the U.S. state of Alaska. Many creeks empty into it, but the most water comes from the Mint River. Some salt water from the Pacific Ocean also enters the lagoon through several channels between it and the Bering Strait.
It was named in 1900 for William Thomas "W.T." Lopp, the civilian leader of the 1897–8 Overland Expedition.
Historically, Lopp Lagoon has been an important source of food (salmon and waterfowl) for people living in the Wales, Alaska area.

</doc>
<doc id="27710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27710" title="Welsh people">
Welsh people

The Welsh are people from Wales, a country in the United Kingdom. Welsh people speak two languages, Welsh and English. 

</doc>
<doc id="27711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27711" title="League of Nations">
League of Nations

The League of Nations (French La Société des Nations) was the predecessor to the United Nations. The League was founded in 1920, after World War I, but failed to maintain peace during World War II. The League had a Council of the great powers and an Assembly of all the member countries.
The League of Nations was thought up by Woodrow Wilson, the American President during the First World War. It was to be a group of nations that worked together to keep peace. One of the reasons for its downfall was that, after a vote, the American public refused to join. The League did not have the power it needed to enforce any of the rules that made it up. This later proved to be a fatal flaw in the League's structure. 
Another flaw in the League was that it was not representative enough: no more than 65 nations were members at any given time, and the interests of the leading members (notably Britain and France) often outweighed those of smaller, less powerful members. 
The League also had no troops of its own, and decisions it made were often slow. For example, when the Empire of Japan invaded Manchuria in 1931, it took a whole year for the League's decision to be heard.
After a series of disasters in the 1930s, it was abolished. It was thought to be weak and powerless, after Japan completely ignored it when the League of Nations tried to stop Japan from invading Manchuria (North-East China) and Italy invaded Abyssinia. The League did not fail completely: it had prevented a few conflicts in Europe in the 1920s and worked hard to stamp out various public health and social problems around the world.
President Woodrow Wilson arranged a plan for a "government of governments", or rather an international peacekeeping force. The idea of his plan was to settle problems between nations peacefully. Wilson tried to persuade the international community that the league would discourage aggression and tackle the underlying problems that often lead to war, such as poverty. Wilson was however unable to convince the American public into supporting the League. The United States did not want to be part of Wilson’s approach for several reasons:
First of all the United States had many German immigrants who hated the Treaty of Versailles. The treaty said that Germany and its allies were to accept full responsibility for causing the war and reparations were to be made to certain countries. The Treaty of Versailles was also the treaty that set up the League of Nations and not agreeing to it meant not being part of the League of Nations.
Second, Americans did not want to risk more Americans dying in a European war, as they had in World War I. They also felt that it would result in pouring effort into pointless actions such as sending soldiers all around the globe to sort out small disputes. This attitude was called isolationism. Most Americans felt it would be best to avoid European and British affairs completely. 
In 1946, the already inactive League of Nations formally ended, and the United Nations was established, along with a few of the League's committees, such as the World Health Organisation, which still today maintains many of the same responsibilities of the League of Nations.
These countries joined League of Nations in 1920:
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
Dominion of Canada,
Commonwealth of Australia,
Federation of New Zealand,
Union of South Africa

</doc>
<doc id="27713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27713" title="Audiolingual method">
Audiolingual method

The Audiolingual Method is a method for teaching foreign languages. Linguists at the University of Michigan invented this method in the late 1950s. In the Audiolingual method, students first hear a language. Later, they speak the language, and after that, they read and write in it. This way of language teaching is similar to the Direct Method. Like the Direct Method, the Audiolingual Method does not use the students’ native language. For example, if you are in an English class in Turkey, the teacher only speaks English, and no Turkish. However, unlike the Direct Method, the Audiolingual Method does not teach vocabulary. Rather, the teacher drills grammar. In the Audiolingual method, grammar is most important for the student. In other words, the student must repeat grammar patterns after the teacher. The students do not learn lots of vocabulary. This method also uses psychology. The students get a reward for speaking correctly. They get punishment if they speak incorrectly; because it is based on habit formation, which is establishesd by stimulus, response and reinforcement. It gives priority to speaking the target language, and using the native language is not allowed.

</doc>
<doc id="27716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27716" title="Montenegro">
Montenegro

Montenegro (meaning Black Mountain) is a country in Southeastern Europe. It is on the Adriatic Sea, between Albania (to the South) and Croatia to the North. Inland (to the East and South-East) it also has a common border with Serbia, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The country came to exist when its people decided to split from the country Serbia and Montenegro on May 21, 2006. For most of the 20th century it was part of Yugoslavia. It had also been independent before World War I and existed as a kingdom. Its leader is Filip Vujanović.
The national song is called "Oj, svijetla majska zoro"Montenegrin Cyrillic: Ој, свијетла мајска зоро""Oh, Bright Dawn of May.""
The size of the economy's GDP is $4.114 billion and it has a population of 625,000 people. The traditional old capital of Montenegro is "Cetinje", but Podgorica is the new one. The country adopted the Euro unilaterally as Montenegro does not have its own currency, but the adoption has raised the national debt to 57 percent of GDP in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="27722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27722" title="Solar eclipse">
Solar eclipse

When seen from Earth, a solar eclipse (ee klips') happens when the Moon passes between the Earth and the Sun. This makes the Moon fully or partially (partly) cover the sun. Solar eclipses can only happen during a new moon. Every year about two solar eclipses occur. Sometimes there are even five solar eclipses in a year. However, only two of these can be total solar eclipses, and they are quite uncommon.
Eclipses are total only in a narrow track along the Earth, and only for a few minutes. Outside this path, all eclipses are partial, and places far from the track get no eclipse at all. The track can be predicted many years before it happens. Many people who are sometimes called ""eclipse chasers"" or ""umbraphiles"" (the moon's shadow is called an "umbra") travel to faraway places to see solar eclipses. After the solar eclipse on August 11, 1999, in Europe, people began to show more interest in solar eclipses. On October 3, 2005, there was another solar eclipse, and unusually many people came to see it.
The last total eclipse was the solar eclipse of September 13, 2015. The next will be on August 21, 2017. 
A total solar eclipse is a natural phenomenon (event). Long ago, solar eclipses were thought to happen because of something supernatural or as a sign that something bad was going to happen. This is still believed in some cultures today. A total solar eclipse can frighten people who do not know what it means, because the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky turns dark in just a few minutes.
Solar eclipses happen somewhere on Earth almost every year, and very similar solar eclipses happen every 18 years, 11.3 days. This period is called the Saros cycle.
There are four different types of solar eclipses:
The Sun's distance from the Earth is about 400 times the Moon's distance, and the Sun's diameter is about 400 times as big as the Moon's. This is why the Sun and Moon seem to be about the same size from Earth.
Looking directly at the bright surface of the Sun itself can hurt the retina of the eye greatly because of the radiation that comes from the Sun. It can even blind people. The retina does not feel pain, so damage may not be felt for hours.
The Sun is usually so bright that it is hard to look at it directly. However, when the Sun is covered in an eclipse, it is easier to look at it. Looking at the Sun during an eclipse is equally dangerous, except in the very short time when the Sun's surface is completely covered. Looking at the Sun's surface through binoculars, a telescope, or even a camera is extremely dangerous and can damage the eye in less than a second.
Looking at the Sun without an eclipse does not usually hurt the eye very greatly, because the pupil of the eye closes down and makes everything darker. If the Sun is almost completely covered, the pupil opens because there is not as much light. However, the parts of the Sun that can be seen are still equally bright, and can hurt the eye very much.

</doc>
<doc id="27724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27724" title="Kate Fischer">
Kate Fischer

Kate Fischer (born November 30, 1973) is an Australian model and actress. She was a very famous model for a long time. She had a job working on television on a cartoon program with a puppet called "Agro". She was in a movie called "Sirens" with Elle Macpherson and Sam Neill.

</doc>
<doc id="27731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27731" title="Alton, Illinois">
Alton, Illinois

Alton is a city in Madison County, Illinois, in the United States. About 34,500 people lived in Alton as of the year 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="27733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27733" title="Armenian">
Armenian

Armenian may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="27736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27736" title="Minneapolis">
Minneapolis

Minneapolis is a city in Minnesota. It is next to St. Paul. St. Paul and Minneapolis are called the Twin Cities because they are right next to each other. Minneapolis is the biggest city in Minnesota with about 392,000 people. People who live here enjoy the lakes, parks, and river. The Mississippi River runs through the city.
We know Indians first lived in Minneapolis around Lake Calhoun and St. Anthony Falls waterfall. They are called the Dakota. They thought St. Anthony Falls was a spiritual place. Dakota hunted, fished, and planted food. The United States wanted the land in 1800 and bought it with the Louisiana Purchase. The army built Fort Snelling. Soon, people from the East Coast or "Yankees" came to Minneapolis. They used the waterfall for their flour mills. They named the new city Minneapolis. It comes from the Dakota Indian word for "laughing waters" or "Min-ne ha-ha" and the Greek word for "city" or "po-lis." Minneapolis means "City of Waters." A nearby city called St. Anthony then joined with Minneapolis. The first mayor was Dorilus Morrison.
Minneapolis is flat near the river and hilly away from it. The city is also in the middle of the country. The weather is like many places in America with hot summers and cold winters. The winter is very long, very cold, and there is almost no spring. Summers are humid, meaning a lot of water is in the air, so it feels very muggy. There are lots of mosquitos too. 
"Minnesota Nice" is a saying that describes Minneapolis residents well. They are generally kind and polite people. Most residents of Minneapolis live in houses and apartments. Some now live in tall buildings called condos. They work and play in the city. Many different people make up Minneapolis today. After the Dakota Indian were people from Britain, French Canada, and Spanish Mexico. They were followed by Scandinavians who are from Norway, Denmark, and Sweden. Soon people from almost all parts of the world started coming including East Europe, Russia, and Asia. Today the newcomers are from East Africa (Somali) and Southeast Asia (Hmong). Once Minneapolis was even larger than it is today with 520,000 people. But many people moved away to suburbs using new highways. 
Lots of big companies are in Downtown in tall skyscraper buildings. These include lawyers, doctors and people in banks. They work near Nicollet Mall where there are restaurants and shops. Minneapolis also has neighborhoods. People there work in small stores too, like barber, grocery, hardware, and coffee shop. Anyone in Minneapolis can get internet to their laptop too.
There are lots of art and shows in the city. The biggest theater is the Guthrie Theater and kids like shows by the Children's Theatre Company. You can see interesting art at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and the Walker Art Center.
Minneapolis hosts lots of sport teams for the state. The Minnesota Vikings play at TCF Bank Stadium. The Minnesota Twins at Target Field. Nearby is the Target Center where the Minnesota Timberwolves play. 

</doc>
<doc id="27737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27737" title="St. Louis">
St. Louis

Saint Louis is a large and important city in the American state of Missouri. It is by the Mississippi River. It was founded by the French and named after King Louis IX of France, who is also a Saint. It is often called the "Gateway City" because it was important to settlers traveling out west. Its most famous landmark is the Gateway Arch.
St. Louis has a hot-summer continental climate ("Dfa" in the Köppen climate classification).
There are many colleges and universities in and around St. Louis. Some of these are Washington University in St. Louis, Saint Louis University, Fontbonne University, and Lindenwood University.
Professional sports teams in St. Louis are:

</doc>
<doc id="27738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27738" title="Albert Coady Wedemeyer">
Albert Coady Wedemeyer

General Albert Coady Wedemeyer (1897–1989) was an American army officer during World War II.
Wedemeyer was born in Omaha, Nebraska on 9 July 1897. He studied at the United States Military Academy in West Point and graduated in 1919. After the start of World War II, he was made a temporary Lieutenant Colonel in 1941. Between 1941 and 1943, he served as a staff officer in the war-plans division of the U.S. War Department. He was the chief author of the 1941 Victory Program which advocated the defeat of the German armies in Europe. When the U.S. entered the war this plan was adopted and expanded. He helped plan the invasion of Normandy.
In 1943, Wedemeyer was made Chief of Staff to Lord Mountbatten, the supreme Allied commander of the South East Asia Command (SEAC) in the Southeast Asian Theatre.
Between 1944 and 1946, he was Chief of staff to General Chiang Kai-shek and commander of U.S. forces in China under the command SEAC. The China Burma India Theatre assigned to Joseph Stilwell was split in two with command of the Burma–India theatre going to General Daniel Sultan. Wedemeyer had been commander of the U.S. China Theatre (USFCT) in 1944–1945. He had an intimate knowledge of the Allied airlift from India over the Himalayas into China. This airlift was both to supply the Nationalist Chinese Army and the U.S. Twentieth Air Force engaged on Operation Matterhorn.
In 1948, as the Army Chief of Plans and Operations, Wedemeyer supported Lucius D. Clay's intention to create an airbridge during the Berlin Crisis. His expertise in this area was considerable as he had been U.S. Army theater commander in China during World War II and had been supplied by air over the mountains from India by army transport planes. This earlier operation had been commanded by Lieutenant General William H. Tunner, who was later named to head the Berlin Airlift operation.
Wedemeyer retired in 1951. He was promoted to general in 1954. He died 17 December 1989 in Fort Belvoir, Virginia. His son Albert Dunbar Wedemeyer was a captain in the U.S. army and a Central Intelligence Agency operative.

</doc>
<doc id="27739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27739" title="William H. Tunner">
William H. Tunner

Lt. General William H. Tunner (July 14 1906 - April 6 1983) was an American general.

</doc>
<doc id="27740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27740" title="Sarasota, Florida">
Sarasota, Florida

Sarasota is a city on the West coast of Florida, in the United States. It is the place where the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus has its home. In 2000, 52,715 people lived there (US. Census 2000). Many famous people have lived in the city, such as: Tom Cruise (actor), Brian Johnson (band singer), and Paul Reubens (the actor, "Pee-wee Herman").

</doc>
<doc id="27742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742" title="Paul Reubens">
Paul Reubens

Paul Reubens (born Paul Rubenfeld; August 27, 1952) is an American actor, writer, movie producer, game show host, and comedian, best known for portraying Pee-wee Herman. He appeared in many movies and television series in the late 1970s and early 1980s and worked with a group called "The Groundlings". Around this time, Reubens created Pee-Wee for a stage show, which was a parody of old kids programs. In 1985, he starred in a movie called "Pee-ee's Big Adventure", which was very successful. The next year, he got his own television program, "Pee-wee's Playhouse". It was very popular. 
He was born in Peekskill, New York and grew up in Sarasota, Florida. 
In 1991, Reubens was arrested for masturbating in an adult movie theatre. This ended the Pee-Wee craze and forced Reubens to stop playing the character. 
He has since appeared in many other movies and there have been rumors that he would return as Pee-wee. These rumours have not been denied by any official.
2016 

</doc>
<doc id="27743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27743" title="Peekskill, New York">
Peekskill, New York

Peekskill is a city in the U.S. state of New York. It is the birthplace of New York Governor, George Pataki. Other famous people born there include Paul Reubens and Mel Gibson.

</doc>
<doc id="27750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27750" title="Małkinia Górna">
Małkinia Górna

Małkinia Górna is a village in Małkinia Dolna Community, Ostrowian County (head town of the county: Ostrów Mazowiecka), Masovian Voivodeship, Poland. There is probably the greatest village in Europe (by population) and one of the greatest places without town status.

</doc>
<doc id="27754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27754" title="John C. Calhoun">
John C. Calhoun

John Caldwell Calhoun (March 18, 1782 – March 31, 1850) was the Vice President of the United States for John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson. Calhoun was Vice President under two different presidents. He is one out of two Vice Presidents who did this; George Clinton served under two presidents as well. Calhoun's father was an Irish immigrant. Calhoun is probably best remembered for his strong belief in supporting nullification, which said any US state had the right to reject a federal law if it wanted to. Jackson hated nullification and this disagreement started the feud between him and President Andrew Jackson. Calhoun was the first vice president in U.S. history to resign from office, doing so on December 28, 1832.

</doc>
<doc id="27755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27755" title="Pelvis">
Pelvis

The pelvis (plural: pelves) is a set of bones. Many people think of the pelvis as the "hip bone", because it is at the hip. The pelvis is at the lower end of the spine. In vertebrates, the legs are attached at the pelvis.
The function of the pelvis is to protect the organs used for digesting and for reproduction (making babies). It is also important for bearing some load.
The pelvis is symmetrical. It is made of the following bones:
1. The hip bone made of: 
2. The sacrum
3. The coccyx
Male and female human pelves are different. The female pelvis is wider and more shallow than the male pelvis.

</doc>
<doc id="27757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27757" title="Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace">
Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace

Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace is a movie released in 1999. This movie is the fourth movie that director George Lucas made in the "Star Wars" series.
Two Jedi Knights, Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi, are sent on a mission by the Galactic Republic to engage in peace talks with the greedy Trade Federation of Neimoidia. They learn that the Neimoidians are sending a blockade to the planet of Naboo. In order to warn the people of Naboo, they transport themselves on Trade Federation battleships, after their ship was destroyed purposely. They reach the swamps of Naboo, separately. Qui-Gon Jinn meets Jar Jar Binks, and they find Obi-Wan. Qui-Gon Jinn asks Jar Jar to tell them of a safe place to hide from the attacking droids. Jar Jar takes them to Otoh Gunga, his birthplace, but Jar Jar was sent into exile from Otoh Gunga years ago. As such, when he returned, Boss Nass, the Gungan leader, ordered Jar Jar to be executed. Obi-Wan, following his master's instructions, rescues Jar Jar and flees to the city of Theed on a bongo, a water transport system. They find the Queen, Amidala, who escapes with them to the Republic, but in the blockade, their ship's engine was damaged. 
They barely had enough power to reach Tatooine, and still needed a new T-14 hyperdrive generator so as not to be stuck on the planet forever. They were not able to afford any, as the planet concentrates only on money, not galactic credits. Luckily, they met Anakin Skywalker, a young slave, who helped them gain the money by participating in a very dangerous podracing event. Finding abnormal midi-chlorians in the boy, Qui-Gon attempts to take Anakin as his Padawan, but was disallowed by the Jedi Council. On the other hand, war at Naboo breaks out and during the war, Qui-Gon, who faced a battle with a Sith apprentice named Darth Maul, died in the battle. Obi-Wan agrees to train Anakin as his Padawan. Anakin turns out to be a very successful padawan and later loses his mom.

</doc>
<doc id="27758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27758" title="Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones">
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones

Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones is a American movie produced by Lucasfilm and 20th Century Fox. This is the fifth movie that George Lucas made in the "Star Wars" series. It shows the reasons why Anakin Skywalker eventually became Darth Vader.
It has been 10 years after the events of the blockade of Naboo and the Senate is deciding to build a army for the Republic as there aren't enough Jedi's to protect the Galaxy and several planets chose to leave the Republic and join the Separtist. As a Bounty Hunter is hired to kill Senator Padme Amidala and Obi-Wan Kenobi and his padawan Anakin Skywalker and after some investigation Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the creation of a clone army on a planet Kamino in the name of a Jedi killed a decade ago! 
Senator Padmé Amidala is nearly killed by an unknown assassin, and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine assigns two Jedi knights - Obi-Wan Kenobi and his apprentice Anakin Skywalker - to protect her. Anakin falls in love with Senator Padmé, and a war is started by the Separatists, who are led by the evil Count Dooku. Meanwhile, Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the army of clone troopers made in the Planet Kamino, which, according to the makers, was ordered by a Jedi Master who was killed ten years back. While chasing the bounty hunter Jango Fett (whose DNA was used to make the clone army), Obi-Wan was captured by the Separatists in Geonosis and was sent off to be executed.
Anakin, meanwhile, was in his home planet of Tatooine, after dreaming of his mother. He tried to rescue his mother but was too late. He later began to hate the Sand People who took his and killed his mother.
Padmé comforted him, and later asked him to save Obi-Wan in Geonosis. They too were sentenced to be executed but other Jedi knights came to save them. Master Yoda later arrived, bringing the Clone Troopers along to help the Jedi. But Anakin and Obi-Wan had to fight Count Dooku after they suffered injuries. Yoda comes to their rescue, but Count Dooku gets away.
Meanwhile in the capital, Coruscant, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine gains more power because of the war.

</doc>
<doc id="27760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27760" title="Cyprus Mail">
Cyprus Mail

The Cyprus Mail is a newspaper written in English based in Cyprus. It is made every day, except Monday. Some of its news can be found on its website.

</doc>
<doc id="27761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27761" title="Collision">
Collision

A collision occurs when two objects come in contact with each other. All collisions have the same momentum before and after a collision. Examples of collisions include car crashes, bouncing a ball, and playing pool. Collisions are made from two smaller sections called elastic and inelastic collisions. 
In the case of playing pool or bouncing a ball, an elastic collision occurs. An elastic collision generally occurs when an elastic or hard object experiences a collision that bounces off another elastic or hard object, where the kinetic energy and momentum are the same before and after the collision. In an experiment, a small amount of energy will still be lost because of the friction between the surface and the objects.
In the case of a car crash, an inelastic collision occurs. An inelastic collision generally occurs when a soft object experiences a collision that does not result in a bounce. Kinetic energy is lost during this type of collision because the energy is transformed into other forces. The momentum is the same before and after the collision.
In the case of a two dimensional collision, the rules in elastic and inelastic collision are still the same, but vectors are used to find the momentum before or after a collision.
Duncan, Tom. "Advanced Physics for Hong Kong: Volume 1 Mechanics & Electricity". John Murray Ltd, 1995.
Wai, Loo Kwok. "Longman A-Level Course in Physics: Volume 1". Pearson Education South Asia Pte Ltd, 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="27762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27762" title="Belgrade">
Belgrade

Belgrade is the capital city of the country of Serbia. Before the wars of the 1990s, it was the capital of Yugoslavia.
Belgrade is also one of the most popular travel destinations in Eastern Europe. It is famous for a very busy nightlife and a lot of entertainment activities.
The main tourist attractions in Belgrade are:

</doc>
<doc id="27763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27763" title="Puncknowle">
Puncknowle

Puncknowle is a village in Southwest Dorset, England, United Kingdom. In 2001, 491 people lived in it.

</doc>
<doc id="27775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27775" title="Hydrogen economy">
Hydrogen economy

A hydrogen economy is a hypothetical future economy in which the primary energy used for automobiles and other vehicles as well as creating electricity comes from hydrogen and renewable energy sources, like windmills and solar panel. 
The reason to use this is to replace the use of petroleum. It would also stop the use of fossil fuels which causes carbon dioxide along with many other greenhouse gases, such as carbon monoxide and methane, to be created. These float up into the atmosphere, damaging it. This is bad for the ecology.

</doc>
<doc id="27783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27783" title="Brachiosaurus">
Brachiosaurus

Brachiosaurus (meaning ""Arm lizard"") was a herbivorous dinosaur genus that lived in the Upper Jurassic period. The name comes from the fact that the Brachiosaur's front legs were longer than its back legs. Most other dinosaurs had back legs that were longer than their front legs or arms. "Brachiosaurus" was about 25 m (82 feet) long and 13 meters (42 feet) tall. It was one of the biggest dinosaurs.
Brachiosaurus was a sauropod. Its fossils were found in North America. At full stretch, Brachiosaurus could reach heights of up to 16 meters (52 feet). The "Brachiosaurus" skeleton in the Humboldt Museum in Berlin, Germany is both the tallest and largest complete sauropod skeleton. This means that it is also the tallest and largest complete dinosaur skeleton.

</doc>
<doc id="27788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27788" title="Barnacle">
Barnacle

A barnacle is a cirripede, a kind of crustacean. It is covered with hard plates of calcium carbonate, and lives stuck to hard surfaces.
It does not look like a crustacean, and for many centuries it was thought to be a mollusc. In the 1830s, J.V. Thompson found their larvae, and followed their development through to their adult form. They have a nauplius larva, typical of crustaeans. Later Charles Darwin, who spent eight years working on barnacles, found that Thompson had been right.
Barnacles grow on hard surfaces like piers, boats, rocks, and on other animals such as turtles and whales. Barnacles are a different group from crabs and shrimps. They are considered a nuisance to the shipping industry and private boat owners.
Barnacles are suspension feeders, sweeping small food into their mouth with their curved 'feet'. They are cemented to rock (usually), and covered with hard calcareous plates, which they shut firmly when the tide goes out. The barnacles reproduce sexually, and produce little nauplius larvae which disperse in the plankton. Eventually, the larvae change into cypris form, and attach on other hard surfaces to form new barnacles. Their comparative anatomy was worked out in detail by Charles Darwin.
Barnacles have the largest penis to body size ratio of the animal kingdom. A few forms have become fully parasitic on larger crustacea.
Barnacles are by far the commonest animals on rocky sea shores. Their numbers on a shore in the Isle of Man have been estimated as a thousand million (10), and they produce body material of 12 hundrededweight (~600 kg) of tissue, weighed after drying. Each year they let go a huge number of larvae, estimated as a million million (10).
Darwin set his work out in four parts: There were the barnacles on stalks (pedunculated), and those that sat on hard substrate (the sessile barnacles). Each of these was divided into living and fossil barnacles.

</doc>
<doc id="27789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27789" title="International organization">
International organization

An international organization is an organization, but rather than having people as members, they have individual countries as members. International organizations are active in more than one country. These organizations can not command countries and citizens in a way a government can, but they do make rules that put limit on what governments can do.
Examples of such organizations are the United Nations and the Red Cross.

</doc>
<doc id="27796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27796" title="Weapon of mass destruction">
Weapon of mass destruction

Weapons of mass destruction are weapons that can cause a lot of damage to a large number of people. In general, people see the following as weapons of mass destruction:

</doc>
<doc id="27811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27811" title="Port Arthur, Tasmania">
Port Arthur, Tasmania

Port Arthur is a small town on the Tasman Peninsula, in Tasmania, Australia. It is about 80 km south east of the state capital, Hobart. It was settled as a penal colony (a very large prison for convicts). Port Arthur is now one of Australia's most important historic areas. In 2010 it was included on the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites as one of the Australian Convict Sites. It is officially Tasmania's top tourist attraction. In 1996 the worst mass murder in Australian history took place here.
At the 2006 Census, Port Arthur and the local area had a population of 499.
Port Arthur was named after Van Diemen's Land lieutenant governor George Arthur. It started as a place to cut down timber from the forests in 1830. It is best known for being a penal colony. From 1833, until the 1853, criminals from United Kingdom and Ireland were sent to Port Arthur as convicts. The prisoners were kept busy ship with jobs including building the prison, shoemaking, smithing, timber and brick making. In the 1840's there were more than 1100 prisoners. In 1842 the prisoners built a hospital and a big flour mill and grain store. At the time it was built, it was the biggest building in Australia. This was later turned into a cell block. After 1853 convicts from other prisons in Australia were sent to Port Arthur if they did more crimes, or would not behave properly.
In 1864 they started building the Asylum to hold the prisoners who had become insane. During the 1860's and 1870's the prisoners left at the prison were either too old, too sick, or insane to keep working. The prison closed in 1877.
For many years, researchers could not work out whether or not the fossils discovered at Port Arthur were remnants of the dinosaur era.
Port Arthur has the best example of a "Separate Prison" system. This system was started at Pentonville prison in London. The Separate Prison (sometimes called the Model Prison) was started in 1848, finished in 1853 and made bigger in 1855. It has 80 prison cells built in the shape of a cross. In the centre is a hall and a chapel. There are exercise yards built between the arms of the cross. The Separate system was a change in the way that prisoners were treated. Instead of physical punishment the system used psychological (mind) punishment. It was thought that physical punishment, such as whippings, only made prisoners worse. It did not turn bad people into good people. In the Separate prison they used the "Silent System". Prisoners wore a hood over their heads. They were not allowed to talk or make any noise. The guards wore special shoes and walked on mats so they wouldn't make any noise. Even in the chapel, each prisoner was kept in a separate wooden box where they could only see the altar. The prisoners were supposed to use the quiet time to think about the bad things they had done. Port Arthur was seen as the best prison in Australia.
Port Arthur was a natural prison. It is on the Tasman Peninsula which is almost completely surrounded by the sea. It is joined to the rest of Tasmania by a small narrow piece of land about 30 metres wide. This is called Eaglehawk Neck. The Neck had a fence, prison guards, and savage dogs to stop prisoners from leaving. There was no contact between visiting seamen and prisoners. Ships had to give the guards their sails and oars when they arrived to stop people leaving without permission. A semaphore message system was also set up between Port Arthur and Hobart. Messages could be sent in just 15 minutes.
Escape from Port Arthur was said to be impossible, like Alcatraz Island in the United States. Some prisoners did try to escape. One prisoner, George "Billy" Hunt, covered himself with a kangaroo skin and tried to get across the Neck. The hungry guards on duty tried to shoot him to make an extra meal. When he saw them pointing their guns, Hunt gave himself up. He was whipped 150 times. Bushranger Martin Cash successfully escaped along with two others.
The British Empire's first boys' prison was built on Point Puer, 3 kms across Opossum Bay from Port Arthur. Puer is the Latin word for boy. It was for young boys, some as young as 9, like James Lynch, arrested for stealing toys. The boys were kept away from the main convict area. About 3,500 boys were sent to Point Puer. Like the adults, the boys were given hard work such as stone cutting and building. There was also a school run by 2 ex-convicts. One prisoner was James Gavagan. When he was 11 he stole some umbrellas. He was sent to Tasmania for 7 years. He arrived at Point Puer in 1835. When he turned 17, he was sent to the main prison at Port Arthur. He was released in March 1842. There is only a few stones left to mark the site of the boys' prison. Point Puer Excavation
The convicts built one of Australia's first non-denominational churches, built in a gothic style. All prisoners had to go to the church every Sunday. People who did not like the new prison system said that this did not seem to make the prisoners into good people.
Port Arthur was seen as a much better prison, and would make the convicts better people. But life at Port Arthur was just as hard and brutal as other penal colonies. Some critics might even say that its use of psychological punishment, together with no hope of escape, made it one of the worst. Some stories say that prisoners would murder others to escape the prison. Murder would be punished by death. Isle of the Dead is a small island in the bay near Port Arthur. Everyone who died at the penal colony was buried on the island. There are 1646 graves on the island, but only 180, mainly those of prison staff, have a headstone.
The first railway in Australia was a human powered railway at Port Arthur. The railway was built in 1836. The line ran from the beach at Taranna, Tasmania for 7 kms to Port Arthur. It carried both people and supplies. It meant that ships from Hobart could unload in the calm water and not have to travel right around Cape Raoul to Port Arthur through rough seas. The carriage was pushed along the tracks by 4 convicts. Very little sign of the railway has survived. The State Library of Victoria has a drawing of the convict railway. 
When the penal colony closed in 1877 the area was renamed "Carnavon". During the 1880s the was sold and a small town was started. Many buildings were pulled down and the bricks sent to make new buildings in Hobart. Fires burned the area in 1895 and 1897 and ruined many of the old prison buildings. Some buildings were changed for the new town to make a post office and town hall.
Tourism started as soon as the prison closed. This brought money into the new town. Some of the old convicts gave guided tours of the prison. In 1927 tourism had grown so much the area's name was changed back to Port Arthur. 1916 saw the start of the Scenery Preservation Board (SPB) which looked after the Port Arthur site. By the 1970s the National Parks and Wildlife Service took over the site.
In 1979 the government gave money to protect the site as a tourist area, because of its historical importance. The post office and town hall of Port Arthur were moved to nearby Nubeena. Several grand sandstone buildings, built by convicts were cleaned up. These buildings include the Separate Prison, the Round Tower, the church, and the remains of the main prison building. The buildings are surrounded by green grass.
The mass graves on The Island of the Dead also attract visitors. The air about the small bush-covered island is described as being sad and peaceful by visitors.
Tourists can either walk around the area themselves, or go on a guided tours. There are also late night ""ghost tours"". There is a museum, with written records, tools, clothing and other interesting things from convict times.
Since 1987 the site has been managed by the Port Arthur Historic Site Management Authority, paid for by the Tasmanian Government.
On 28 April 1996, Martin Bryant killed 35 people and hurt 37 others at Port Arthur. He was captured by the police. This is now called the Port Arthur massacre. This led to a national ban on semi-automatic shotguns and rifles. It also made a link between the Port Arthur and Dunblane, a Scottish town which also had a shooting that year.

</doc>
<doc id="27859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27859" title="Odysseus">
Odysseus

Odysseus was a person in the Greek mythology. He was the king of the island Ithaca, and was married to Penelope. Odysseus and Penelope had a son called Telemachos. Odysseus is a major character in Homer's "Iliad" and Odyssey.
Odysseus fought in the Trojan War, and invented the Trojan Horse, which helped the Greeks win the war. After the war, his adventurous journey home took the time of 10 years. The story of that journey is told in the "Odyssey".
The Latin name for Odysseus is "Ulysses".

</doc>
<doc id="27860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27860" title="Cast iron">
Cast iron

Cast iron is an alloy of iron. The term is usually used for grey cast iron. There are two main types of cast iron: "grey cast iron" and "white cast iron". The differences between the two are mainly based on the amount of silicon in the alloy. All cast iron has about 95% iron in it. Grey cast iron has 3% silicon and 2% carbon. White cast iron has less silicon.
The silicon in grey cast iron causes the carbon to change into graphite. This causes it to have a dark grey or almost black color. With less silicon, the carbon in white cast iron changes to cementite or "iron carbide" (FeC). This causes white fractures to form on the surface and give white cast iron the name.
Grey cast iron is very good at conducting heat. Because of this, it is often used to make cookware. 

</doc>
<doc id="27868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27868" title="Incest">
Incest

Incest means sexual intercourse between people who are closely related. Usually, this means members of the same family. In many societies, it is forbidden by law and religion. Which relatives it is forbidden to have sex with depends on the law, religion and culture. If pregnancy is a risk, there may be reasons based on health. Children that result from incest between blood relatives are more likely to have birth defects.
The exact definition of the incest relationship varies. In some societies it is immediate relations, such as parents and their children; or brothers and sisters of the same parents. It sometimes includes extended family like aunts, nephews, nieces and uncles. That way, intercourse between cousins is legally permitted in the large majority of the world, but is disliked in many countries. In some U.S. states, such as Texas, the legal definition of incest includes first cousins, but not second cousins. A person who engages in incest is called an "incestophile" or "incestualist".
Other societies define it much more widely, to include all "blood relatives", or all who live in the same household, or belong to the same clan. Some religions say that sex between people related by marriage is incest. For example, the Old Testament forbids sex between siblings-in-law. In South Africa, sex between a parent-in-law and child-in-law is illegal.
The type of incest most often reported in the Western world is father-daughter incest. Incest between adults and children is a form of child sexual abuse. This form has been shown to cause one of the worst forms of childhood trauma, a trauma that often causes serious and long-term psychological damage, especially in the case of parental incest. Stepparents are more likely to abuse stepchildren than biological parents are to abuse their children, because people typically care about their own children more than they care about their stepchildren the Cinderella effect. It is suggested that the Westermarck effect prevents a person being attracted to anyone whom he lived in the same house as during his childhood, hence most people are never sexually attracted to their siblings or parents.
The term is often used to apply to less serious sexual relationships between related people. It is difficult to say how frequent incest is, but researchers have estimated that between 10% and 15% of people have at least one "incest experience" (this means some kind of sexual relationship falling short of actual incest). Less than 2% of these involve intercourse or attempted intercourse. Among women, research by Russell (1986) and Wyatt (1985) has given estimates as high as twenty percent (for such 'incest experience'). In a survey of women in San Francisco, of those who had grown up with a stepfather, 17% (1 in 6) said that he sexually abused her. In the same study, 2.5% (1 in 40) of the women said that they had been sexually abused by their father. Cousincest refers to incest with a cousin. Siblingcest refers to incest with a sibling. 
Incest between consenting adults is very rare, or rarely reported. Willing incest between adults is a crime in most countries. It is seen by some as a victimless crime. A reason why it is prohibited is because severely handicapped children are often born to parents who are blood-related. Other reasons for it being illegal are religion and to try to prevent sexual predation.
Most societies have some form of incest avoidance. The incest taboo is and has been one of the most common of all cultural taboos, both in current nations and many past societies, with legal penalties imposed in some jurisdictions. Most modern societies have legal or social restrictions on closely consanguineous marriages. However, in some societies, such as that of Ancient Egypt, brother–sister, father–daughter, and mother–son relations were practiced among royalty. In addition, the Balinese and some Inuit tribes have altogether different beliefs about what constitutes illegal and immoral incest. 

</doc>
<doc id="27875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27875" title="The Canterbury Tales">
The Canterbury Tales

The Canterbury Tales is a book of stories written by Geoffrey Chaucer. It was written in the 14th century. It was one of the first books to be written in the English language. The book is about a group of pilgrims traveling from London to Canterbury. As they travel along, each person tells a story to pass the time. Chaucer planned to write 120 stories, with each person telling two stories on the way there and two of the way back. However, only 23 were completed, and one was partially finished. Two of the stories are written in prose. The others are written in verse. They were so popular that he was invited to read his stories to the king and royal court.
"The Canterbury Tales" is about a group of people who are pilgrims. They are travelling to an important sacred site. In the Middle Ages, many Christian people went on pilgrimages to Jerusalem, Rome, Santiago de Compostela and Canterbury. Canterbury Cathedral was a famous pilgrimage site because it contained the "shrine" (a place for remembering) of Saint Thomas Becket.
Thomas Becket had been the Archbishop of Canterbury in the 1100s. He had an argument with his old friend, King Henry II, and in 1170 he was murdered by some of the King's knights on order from the King. The King felt very sad and guilty. He had a magnificent tomb built for his old friend. 
People began to visit the tomb. Soon, some people said that Thomas Becket was a saint, and that his bones could work miracles. He is regarded as a martyr for the Christian faith and as a saint by both the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches. In the late Middle Ages his shrine made Canterbury one of the four most important pilgrimage places in Europe.
Many pilgrims used to meet together in London. "The Canterbury Tales" tells of the meeting of a group at an inn in Southwark, which was a village south of the Thames River and now making up part of London. This was a good place to meet because people from the north could cross the Thames River by London Bridge. 
Canterbury is in the south-east of England. Pilgrims used to gather in groups because it was dangerous to travel alone. In the days before modern banking, every traveller had to carry a lot of money to pay for food and accommodation (a place to sleep). Robbers often attacked people along the roads. 
When pilgrims gathered in a group, the group could be made up of many different kinds of people, both rich and poor, noble and humble. The groups often contained a number of religious people such as priests, monks and nuns. In Chaucer's story, the most noble person is a knight.
"The Canterbury Tales" begins with a Prologue (which means "a few words to begin"). In the prologue Chaucer describes the time of year, which is April, when the weather begins to get warmer after winter. He says that it is at this time that people begin to go on pilgrimage. Chaucer tells the reader about the people who are gathered at the inn. He describes the people so clearly that many of them have become famous characters in English Literature, and have often been shown in paintings. Chaucer describes how each person tells a story to entertain the other as they travel along. 
The Tales are:
• The General Prologue
• The Knight's Tale
• The Miller's Prologue and Tale
• The Reeve's Prologue and Tale
• The Cook's Prologue and Tale
• The Man of Law's Prologue and Tale
• The Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale
• The Friar's Prologue and Tale
• The Summoner's Prologue and Tale
• The Clerk's Prologue and Tale
• The Merchant's Prologue and Tale
• The Squire's Prologue and Tale
• The Franklin's Prologue and Tale
• The Physician's Tale
• The Pardoner's Prologue and Tale
• The Shipman's Tale
• The Prioress' Prologue and Tale
• Chaucer's Tale of Sir Topas
• The Tale of Melibee
• The Monk's Prologue and Tale
• The Nun's Priest's Prologue and Tale
• The Second Nun's Prologue and Tale
• The Canon's Yeoman's Prologue and Tale
• The Manciple's Prologue and Tale
• The Parson's Prologue and Tale
• Chaucer's Retraction
Some of the tales (stories) are serious and others are funny. Some of the funny stories are vulgar (sexually rude). A lot of the tales talk about the Christian faith. Sometimes the "theme" (main idea) of one story is followed into the next story, as a new story-teller responds (or answers) to a story they have just heard. All of the tales are about the way that people think and behave towards each other.
"The Canterbury Tales" is written in the type of English that most ordinary people used in Chaucer's day. Chaucer was one of the first authors (writers) who wrote stories in English. Before, stories were written in Latin or French. Some other writers of Chaucer's time also wrote in English. Some of these writers were John Gower, William Langland, and the Pearl Poet. 
Chaucer planned the stories before he wrote them but he did not finish his plan. He planned that each character would tell four stories: two while going to Canterbury and two while returning to London. If Chaucer had finished, he would have written 120 stories. He only actually wrote 24. Chaucer began to write the stories in the 1380s. He stopped writing them in the 1390s. Some think that he deliberately did not write the total 120 stories.
Chaucer was an important person in the royal court. Some people think that, in the stories, Chaucer was saying things about court politics. Some people think that Chaucer based his characters on people that he really knew and who were at the royal court.
Some people think that Chaucer copied ideas from others peoples’ writings because some of the stories in "The Canterbury Tales" are very similar to them. The characters, however, are very different. The characters have different occupations and personalities. They all tell different types of stories and they tell them in different ways.
The big story is about many pilgrims traveling to Canterbury. They are riding horses and the trip takes several days. Chaucer does not say much about the big story and most of the writing is about the stories told by the pilgrims.
The two earliest manuscripts (hand-written copies) of "The Canterbury Tales" are the Hengwrt manuscript and the Ellesmere manuscript. There are also 84 manuscript and four printed copies of "The Canterbury Tales" that were made before 1500. There are quite a lot of differences in the different copies. Some experts on Chaucer have started The "Canterbury Tales Project". The project is to read all these copies of "The Canterbury Tales", find out the differences and write the most accurate copy.

</doc>
<doc id="27878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27878" title="Sweat">
Sweat

Sweat is a liquid that is made by the skin when the body is hot. Sweat is made in sweat glands under the surface of the skin, and it comes out of tiny holes in the skin called pores. Sweat is mostly water, but it also contains some salts. 
The body makes sweat to cool itself down. The sweat takes the heat from the body when it evaporates (turns to gas).
Some people think sweat makes a person smell bad. Many people use special sprays to stop this from happening. Deodorants hide the odor of sweat. Anti-perspirants stop the body from sweating.
The sweat glands in our skin contains two different groups of sweat glands: apocrine sweat glands and merocrine sweat glands.
Sweat also helps to remove waste from the body.
Perspiration, or sweat, is your body's way of cooling itself, whether that extra heat comes from hardworking muscles or from overstimulated nerves. The average person has over 4 million sweat glands in their skin. Sweat glands are distributed over the entire body, except for the lips, nipples and external genital organs. The sweat gland is in the layer of skin called the dermis along with other "equipment," such as nerve endings, hair follicles and so on. 
The sweat gland is a long, coiled, hollow tube of cells. The coiled part in the dermis is where sweat is made, and the long part is a duct that connects the gland to the opening or pore on the skins's outer surface. Nerve cells from the sympathetic nervous system are connected to the sweat glands. There are two types of sweat glands:
We are constantly sweating, even though we may not notice it. Sweating is your body's major way of getting rid of excess body heat, which is produced by metabolism or working muscles. The amount of sweat produced depends upon our states of emotion and physical activity. Sweat can be made in response to nerve stimulation, hot air temperature, and/or exercise. First, let's concentrate on how sweat is made in an eccrine sweat gland. 
When the sweat gland is stimulated, the cells secrete a fluid (primary secretion) that is similar to plasma -- that is, it is mostly water and it has high concentrations of sodium and chloride and a low concentration of potassium -- but without the proteins and fatty acids that are normally found in plasma. The source of this fluid is the spaces between the cells (interstitial spaces), which get the fluid from the blood vessels (capillaries) in the dermis. This fluid travels from the coiled portion up through the straight duct (Figure 2). What happens in the straight duct depends upon the rate of sweat production or flow: 
Sweat is produced in apocrine sweat glands in the same way. However, the sweat from apocrine glands also contains proteins and fatty acids, which make it thicker and give it a milkier or yellowish color. This is why underarm stains in clothing appear yellowish. Sweat itself has no odor, but when bacteria on the skin and hair metabolize the proteins and fatty acids, they produce an unpleasant odor. This is why deodorants and anti-perspirants are applied to the underarms instead of the whole body. 
The maximum volume of sweat that a person who is not adapted to a hot climate can produce is about one liter per hour. Amazingly, if you move to a hot climate such as the American desert southwest or the tropics, your ability to produce sweat will increase to about two to three liters per hour within about six weeks! This appears to be the maximum amount that you can produce. 
When sweat evaporates from the surface of your skin, it removes excess heat and cools you. This is actually due to a neat principle in physics, which goes like this. To convert water from a liquid to a vapor, it takes a certain amount of heat called the heat of vaporization. This heat energy increases the speed of the water molecules so that they can escape into the air. For water, this value is 540 calories/gram or 2.26 x 106 joules/kilogram. So, if you can produce one liter of sweat, which is equal to 1000 g or 1 kg (density of water is 1 g/ml or 1 kg/l) in one hour, then 540,000 calories of heat can be removed from your body. This is an extreme example using the maximum amount of sweat that a person can make. Typically, all of the sweat does not evaporate, but rather runs off your skin. In addition, not all heat energy produced by the body is lost through sweat. Some is directly radiated from the skin to the air and some is lost through respiratory surfaces of the lungs. 
A major factor that influences the rate of evaporation is the relative humidity of the air around you. If the air is humid, then it already has water vapor in it, probably near saturation, and cannot take any more. Therefore, sweat does not evaporate and cool your body as efficiently as when the air is dry. 
Finally, when the water in the sweat evaporates, it leaves the salts (sodium, chloride and potassium) behind on your skin, which is why your skin tastes salty. The loss of excessive amounts of salt and water from your body can quickly dehydrate you, which can lead to circulatory problems, kidney failure and heat stroke. So, it is important to drink plenty of fluids when you exercise or are outside in high temperatures. Sports drinks contain some salts to replace those lost in the sweat. 
Sweating responds to emotional state. So when you are nervous, anxious or afraid, there is an increase in sympathetic nerve activity in your body as well as an increase in epinephrine secretion from your adrenal gland. These substances act on your sweat glands, particularly those on the palms of your hand and your armpits, to make sweat. Thus, you feel a "cold" sweat. Also, the increased sympathetic nerve activity in the skin changes its electrical resistance, which is the basis of the galvanic skin response used in lie detector tests.
Excessive sweating usually occurs on the palms of the hand or the armpits. If it is not caused by emotional or physical activity it is called "diaphoresis" or hyperhidrosis. It is often an embarrassing condition. The cause or causes are unknown. The condition may be due to the following: 
The condition can be treated.

</doc>
<doc id="27883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27883" title="Adult Swim">
Adult Swim

Adult Swim (also called [adult swim]) is a group of television shows for adults older than 17 that is shown on Cartoon Network. It began on September 2, 2001 and was created by Williams Street Studios. On March 28, 2005, Nielsen Media Research shows that Adult Swim is now separate from Cartoon Network (like Nickelodeon's Nick at Nite). Adult Swim is part of Turner Broadcasting System. It is known for showing mature, adult anime, or Japanese-style animation.

</doc>
<doc id="27892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27892" title="WESC">
WESC

WESC is a Swedish company. The company makes clothing, like jeans and shirts. Many people like these clothes, and they can buy them in many countries, for example in the United States, Japan and Germany. Because some famous people use the clothes, other people want to buy them too.

</doc>
<doc id="27902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27902" title="Ozámiz">
Ozámiz

Ozámiz is a city in the Philippines, in the province of Misamis Occidental. There were 110,420 people living there according to the 2000 census.
Ozámiz is named after Senator José F. Ozámiz, a hero of the Philippine resistance against the Japanese during World War 2.

</doc>
<doc id="27904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27904" title="Tillage">
Tillage

Tillage is the process in which soil is loosened and softened by tillers or harrows pulled by a tractor or by a plough pulled by an animal or human. The plough breaks the upper crust of the soil so that air and sunlight enter into the soil. This makes the soil more fertile but too much or frequent tillage may make it less fertile.

</doc>
<doc id="27963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27963" title="Yarmouth">
Yarmouth

Yarmouth could mean one of the following places.
In Canada:
In England:
In the United States:

</doc>
<doc id="27964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27964" title="Yarmouth, Nova Scotia">
Yarmouth, Nova Scotia

Yarmouth is a town in the province of Nova Scotia in the country of Canada. In 2011, the population of Yarmouth was 6,761.

</doc>
<doc id="27966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27966" title="Spleen">
Spleen

The spleen is an organ in vertebrates. The spleen is part of the lymphatic system. In people, it is on the left side of the body, under the heart. The spleen helps fight infections and keeps the blood cells healthy.
The spleen cleans out old blood cells from the blood and recycles them. It helps save the iron and the amino acids from the old blood cells. The spleen also holds a supply of extra blood, in case the body needs some quickly. The spleen works together with the circulatory system (the system which brings blood to the body).
A study published in 2009 using mice found that the spleen is a reservoir which holds over half the body's monocytes. These monocytes move to injured tissue (such as the heart after myocardial infarction), turn into dendritic cells and macrophages, and promote tissue healing. The spleen is rather like a large lymph node. Its absence makes certain infections more likely.
The spleen is shaped like a loose fist. It is tucked under the left side of the diaphragm, close by the heart.The average adult spleen weighs 0.44 lbs.
The spleen can get bigger when a person is digesting food or is sick. If a person's spleen gets big enough, it can break open. If this happens, the person needs medical care right away. Emergency surgery might be needed to control the bleeding.
Some of the diseases that cause the spleen to get bigger are: 
In the past, many people believed the spleen helped control emotions. For example, if a person was upset or angry, people would think it was because of a spleen problem.

</doc>
<doc id="27967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27967" title="Placenta">
Placenta

The placenta is a temporary organ found in eutherian female mammals while they are pregnant. 
The placenta is connected to the fetus by the umbilical cord, which is made of blood vessels and connective tissue. When the fetus is delivered, the placenta is delivered afterwards. The placenta is often called the afterbirth.
One of the placenta's jobs is to make sure blood from the mother and fetus never mixes. The placenta acts as an exchange surface between the mother and the fetus. Nutrients and oxygen are passed over by diffusion only. If the mother's and fetus's blood mixed, it could be deadly for both of them. If the mother and the fetus had different blood types, they might both die if their blood mixed.
The placenta has two parts, one of which is genetically and biologically part of the fetus, the other part of the mother. It is implanted in the wall of the uterus, where it receives nutrients and oxygen from the mother's blood and passes out waste. This forms a barrier called the placental barrier, which filters out some substances which could harm the fetus. 
However, the placental barrier is not able to protect the fetus from everything that could hurt it. For example, alcohol goes through the placental barrier into the fetus. This is why drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause Fetal Alcohol Syndrome. The placenta is also unable to filter out many other things. Chemicals that can cross the placental barrier and hurt the fetus are called teratogens. 
Some infectious diseases may also cross this barrier and infect the fetus.
Prototherial (egg-laying) and metatherial (marsupial) mammals produce a type of placenta that provides nutrients mostly from the egg sac, instead of from the mother's blood. It is positioned in the female's body similar to eutherian mammals. Some snakes and lizards have evolved a system of internal development with a placenta-like tissue: this is an example of convergent evolution.

</doc>
<doc id="27972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27972" title="Glorious Revolution">
Glorious Revolution

The Glorious Revolution was an event in the history of England and Scotland in 1688. The people of England and Scotland did not like the Catholic King James II because he would not let them vote or practice the religion of their choice. They invited the Protestant William III of Orange-Nassau to take over as king. William was King James II's nephew and Mary's first cousin. He came to England with his wife Queen Mary, the daughter of King James II. They let the old king escape, so he moved to France out of fear.
William signed the "Bill of Rights" and became king, and England became a constitutional monarchy.
On the surface, this is a story about religion. However, it is also about the balance between monarch and Parliament. A civil war had been fought because Charles I tried to rule as an absolute monarch. Charles II had been accepted back because he agreed to limit his powers. However, his brother, James II, made it clear he wanted to get back the absolute power that Charles I had. 
When Charles II died without any legitimate children in 1685, his brother the Duke of York became King as James II in England and Ireland. He also became James VII in Scotland. He tried to give freedom of religion to non-Anglicans. He did this by making the acts of Parliament invalid by Royal Decree. The public did not like this. Several Protestant politicians and noblemen entered into discussions with Mary's husband as early as 1687. In May 1688, James forced Anglican clergymen to read the Declaration of Indulgence. The Declaration of Indulgence was a statement that gave religious freedom to those who did not agree with the Church of England. This made him much less popular. 
Protestants became even more fearful when James's wife, Mary of Modena, gave birth to a son–James Francis Edward–in June 1688. They were fearful because the son would, unlike Mary and Anne, be raised a Roman Catholic. Some said that the boy had been secretly carried into the Queen's room in a bed-warming pan instead of her stillborn baby. There was no strong proof to support this story, but Mary publicly doubted the boy's legitimacy. She sent a list of suspicious questions to her sister, Anne, about the boy's birth.
On 30 June, the Immortal Seven secretly asked William, who was in the Netherlands with Mary, to come to England with an army. William, who was jealous of Mary's position and power, did not want to go at first. But Mary told William that she did not care about political power. She said "she would be no more but his wife, and that she would do all that lay in her power to make him King for life".
William agreed to attack. He declared that James' newborn son was the "pretended Prince of Wales". He also gave a list of what the English people wanted, and said that he only wanted to have "a free and lawful Parliament assembled". The Dutch army, which had been turned back by a storm in October, landed on 5 November. The English Army and Navy went over to William. At this time, the English people's confidence in James was very low. They did not even try to save their King. On 11 December, the King tried to run away, but failed. He tried to run away again on 23 December. This second attempt was successful, and James escaped to France. He lived there in exile until his death.
Though Mary was sad because of the deposition of her father, William ordered her to look happy when they arrived in London. Because of this, people thought she was being cold to her father. James also thought his daughter was unfaithful to him. This hurt Mary deeply.
In 1689, a Convention Parliament called by the Prince of Orange came together to discuss what they should do. William of Orange felt uncomfortable about his position. He wanted to rule as a King, not simply as a husband of a Queen. The only example of joint monarchy was from the sixteenth century. This was Queen Mary I and the Spanish Prince Philip. When they married, it was agreed that Prince Philip would take the title of King. But Philip II was King only during his wife's lifetime. He also did not have much power. William wanted to remain King even after his wife's death. Some important people suggested making Mary the only ruler. But Mary, who was faithful to her husband, refused.
On 13 February 1689, Parliament passed the Declaration of Right. In this declaration, it said that James, by trying to run away on 11 December 1688, had abandoned the government, so no one at the time was king. Normally, James's oldest son, James Francis Edward would have been the heir. However, Parliament offered the crown to William and Mary as joint Sovereigns instead. But it was added that "the sole and full exercise of the regal (royal) power be only in and executed by the said Prince of Orange in the names of the said Prince and Princess during their joint lives." The declaration was later extended to take out all Catholics. This was because "it hath been found (discovered) by experience that it is inconsistent (not in harmony) with the safety and welfare of this Protestant kingdom to be governed by a papist prince".
William and Mary were crowned together at Westminster Abbey on 11 April 1689. The Archbishop of Canterbury usually performed coronations. But William Sancroft, the Archbishop at that time, felt that James II's removal had been wrong. Therefore, the Bishop of London, Henry Compton, crowned them instead. On the day of the Coronation, the Convention of the Estates of Scotland declared at last that James was no longer King of Scotland. William and Mary were offered the separate Scottish Crown. This was because the two kingdoms were not united until the Acts of Union in 1707. They accepted on 11 May.
Even after this was declared, there was still strong support for James in Scotland. John Graham of Clevehouse, the Viscount of Dundee, raised an army and won a victory at Killiecrankie on 27 July. But Dundee's army suffered great losses, and he was seriously wounded at the start of the battle. This stopped the only effective resistance to William, and the revolt was quickly crushed. The next month, there was a great defeat at the Battle of Dunkeld.

</doc>
<doc id="27976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976" title="Electromagnetism">
Electromagnetism

Electromagnetism is the study of the electromagnetic field. The electromagnetic field pushes or pulls anything that has an electric charge. The electromagnetic field affects all of space.
An electric field is an area where charged particles will feel an electric force. The units used to measure electric fields are newtons per coulomb. Electromagnetism is closely related to both electricity and magnetism because both involve movement of electrons.
Electric fields can be drawn as arrows. The arrows point which way a positive particle, like a proton, will be pushed if it's in the field. Negative particles, like electrons, will go in the opposite direction as the arrows. In an electric field, arrows will point away from positive particles, and towards negative ones. So, a proton in an electric field would move away from another proton, or towards an electron.
A magnetic field is a part of the electric field that only exerts a force on moving charges.
Through electromagnetic induction, a changing magnetic field can produce an electric field. This concept is used to make electric generators, induction motors, and transformers work. Since the two types of fields were dependent on each other, the two are thought to be one. Together they are called the electromagnetic field.
The electromagnetic force is one of the fundamental forces of nature. The electromagnetic force is the force that causes an attraction between electrons and the positive nucleus. All forces between atoms are caused by the electromagnetic force.
The electromagnetic radiation is thought to be both a particle and a wave. This is because it sometimes acts like a particle and sometimes acts like a wave. To make things easier we can think of an electromagnetic wave as a stream of photons (symbol γ).
A photon is an elementary particle. It is the particle that light is made up of. Photons also make up all other types of electromagnetic radiation such as gamma rays, X-rays, and UV rays. The idea of photons was thought up by Einstein. Using his theory for the photoelectric effect, Einstein said that light existed in small "packets" or parcels which he called photons.
Photons have energy and momentum. When two electromagnetic fields act on each other, they switch photons. So photons carry the electromagnetic force between charged objects. Photons are also known as messenger particles in physics because these particles often carry messages between objects. Photons send messages saying "come closer" or "go away" depending on the charges of the objects that are being looked at. If a force exists while time passes, then photons are being exchanged during that time.
Fundamental electromagnetic interactions occur between any two particles that have electric charge. These interactions involve the exchange or production of photons. Thus, photons are the carrier particles of electromagnetic interactions.
Electromagnetic decay processes can often be recognized by the fact that they produce one or more photons (also known as gamma rays). They proceed less rapidly than strong decay processes with comparable mass differences, but more rapidly than comparable weak decays.
In 1600, William Gilbert said that electricity and magnetism were two different effects in his book "De Magnete". The link between electricity and magnetism was found through the work of Hans Christian Ørsted. A scientist named Ampère then used mathematics in electromagnetism. Many physicists then developed a theory of electromagnetism now known as classical electromagnetism. James Clerk Maxwell then brought everything together into one theory of electromagnetism. This type of electromagnetism was based on Maxwell's equations and the Lorentz force law. Maxwell's studies showed what light actually was. Maxwell's work did not work with classical mechanics because he said that the speed of light was always constant. It only depended on the permeability of the substance it was travelling through. This led to the development of the theory of special relativity by Einstein.
Albert Einstein's work with the photoelectric effect and Max Planck's work with black body radiation did not work with the traditional view of light as a continuous wave. This problem would be solved after the development of quantum mechanics in 1925. This development led to the development of quantum electrodynamics which was developed by Richard Feynman and Julian Schwinger. Quantum electrodynamics was able to describe the interactions particles in detail.

</doc>
<doc id="27981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27981" title="Acton, Massachusetts">
Acton, Massachusetts

Acton is a town in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It is 21 miles away from Boston.

</doc>
<doc id="27982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27982" title="Urbana, Illinois">
Urbana, Illinois

Urbana is a city in the U.S. state of Illinois. It is the twin city of Champaign, Illinois and is separated by a single street.

</doc>
<doc id="27990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27990" title="Bill Oddie">
Bill Oddie

William Edgar (Bill) Oddie OBE (born 7 July 1941) is a British comedian, actor, writer and television personality. 
Oddie was born in Rochdale, Lancashire and grew up in Birmingham. He read English Literature at Pembroke College, Cambridge where he gained an MA. He is most famous for his birdwatching and conservation work. In the 1970s, he was a member of the BBC One television comedy series, The Goodies. Doctors found that his mother, Lilian, had schizophrenia. Oddie says that he does not remember her living at home because she spent a lot of her life in mental hospitals.
Oddie has bipolar disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="27994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27994" title="Montgomery Ward">
Montgomery Ward

Montgomery Ward was an American department store chain. It started as a mail-order catalog (called a "Wish Book") and department store in 1872. It owned Jefferson Ward discount stores. Jefferson Ward stores in the northern US were sold to Bradlees in 1985. The rest closed in 1988. All its stores closed in 2000. In 2004, it reopened as an online store.

</doc>
<doc id="28019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28019" title="Toe">
Toe

Toes are the "digits" of the foot of an animal. Many animal species walk on their toes, and are called "digitigrade". Humans, and other animals that walk on the soles of their feet, are "plantigrade"; hoofed animals are "unguligrade".
In humans, the bones of each toe continue all the way to the heel, although in from the base of the toes they come together in the body of the foot. The inside toe is by far the thickest, and is called the "big toe", "great toe", or "hallux".
The one on the other end is short and thin. The toes, especially the big toe, play an essential role in walking, although a loss of the smallest toe will not affect the way people move.

</doc>
<doc id="28023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28023" title="AFC Champions League">
AFC Champions League

The AFC Champions League is a football competition between the best club teams in Asia. The teams are selected because of good performances in matches. South Korea is the country that has the most titles for a team. Pohang Steelers got the most titles.

</doc>
<doc id="28026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28026" title="Raptor">
Raptor

Raptor can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="28036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28036" title="Newton's laws of motion">
Newton's laws of motion

Isaac Newton (1642–1727), the father of the study of dynamics – the study of motion – developed three sets of laws that are believed to be true because the results of tests done by scientists agree with the laws he produced.
A "uniform velocity" means that an object moves at a constant speed without changing direction (i.e. in a straight line). A "resultant force" means that the forces acting on the object are not balanced. In other words, the first law states two things:
The first part states that a table resting on the ground will not move unless pushed. Although gravity is acting on the table, pulling it down, there is a "reaction force" from the ground which is pushing it back. The forces acting on the table are "balanced", so the object will not move.
The second part is harder to understand. A ball rolling along a flat surface will slow down and eventually come to a halt. But this is because of friction, which is a force that slows the ball down. A ball rolling down a slope is also affected by friction, but the force of gravity that causes it to move is stronger. In a place without the forces of friction, air resistance and gravity (e.g. in outer space) a moving object would keep on moving in a straight line if there were no force to slow it down or change its direction.
This law provides the definition and calculation of force through mass and acceleration. Newton's second law says that acceleration is dependent on the forces acting upon an object and the mass of the object. Therefore if the force is increased, the acceleration is increased. And the more mass the object has, the acceleration decreases. 
For example, weight is a force that we feel on Earth, caused by the gravity. Weight is calculated as
where "m" is the mass of the object and "g" is the local gravitational acceleration (not to be confused with "G", the universal gravitational constant), roughly equal to 9.8 meters per second (32 feet per second) on Earth.
We can express Newton's second law in terms of momentum. The momentum of a particle is defined as the product of its mass and velocity :
Newton's second law states that
For a particle of fixed mass (constant ),
which is the equation above in vector form.
This is best understood with billiard balls, where you can easily see the action/reaction pairs of forces. Likewise, when you kick a football, not only does the ball move, but you feel a force on your foot.
The size of the forces on the first object equals the size of the force on the second object. The direction of the force on the first object is opposite to the direction of the force on the second object. Forces always come in pairs - equal and opposite action-reaction force pairs. 
A variety of action-reaction force pairs are evident in nature. Consider the propulsion of a fish through the water. A fish uses its fins to push water backwards. But a push on the water will only serve to accelerate the water. Since forces result from mutual interactions, the water must also be pushing the fish forwards, propelling the fish through the water. The size of the force on the water equals the size of the force on the fish; the direction of the force on the water (backwards) is opposite the direction of the force on the fish (forwards). For every action, there is an equal (in size) and opposite (in direction) reaction force. Action-reaction force pairs make it possible for fish to swim.
Consider the motion of a car on the way to school. A car has wheels which spin forwards. As the wheels spin forwards, they grip the road and push the road backwards. Since forces result from mutual interactions, the road must also be pushing the wheels forward. The size of the force on the road equals the size of the force on the wheels (or car); the direction of the force on the road (backwards) is opposite the direction of the force on the wheels (forwards). For every action, there is an equal (in size) and opposite (in direction) reaction. Action-reaction force pairs make it possible for cars to move along a roadway surface.

</doc>
<doc id="28037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28037" title="Fencing">
Fencing

"This is about the sport. You may be wanting to read about a fence."
Fencing is a sport that includes two people with swords. The aim is to score hits. There is also a referee.
In the olden times when two people argued they fenced the first one to draw blood was wrong and the person would be dead, so the person that won would claim the dead person's house and belongings.
The floret is a light and easy to bend weapon, first made in mid 17th century as a weapon for practice. 'Hits' can only be scored by hitting the target area with the point of the sword. The target area is the torso.
The épée is the heaviest of the three weapons. To score a hit, the push-button on the end of the weapon must remain fully down for 2-10 milliseconds, and must arrive (hit) with a force of at least 7.35 newtons. The target area for Épée is the entire body. This includes the feet.
The sabre is the "cutting" weapon, with a curved guard (to protect the hand) and a triangular blade. However, in modern electric scoring, a touch with any part of the sabre, (point, flat or edge, as long as it is on target) will count as a hit. The target area in sabre is everything from the waist up, except for the hands.
Fencers wear a uniform to avoid injury. They wear a mask of black mesh with a bib. Also, a jacket, short pants and a sort of half-a-shirt (called a underarm protector or plastron), all of white fabric. They must also wear socks that cover their legs. Women must wear a chest protector. These are collectively called "whites."

</doc>
<doc id="28038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28038" title="Administrator">
Administrator

Administrators are people who organize things like businesses. All businesses have administrators. They make decisions, organize the people who work there and make sure that things are working alright and there are no problems. Their work is called "administration". The administrators are part of the "management".
Administrator is also the person in charge of some of the small territories of the United Kingdom, for example Ascension Island and the British Antarctic Territory which are too small to run their own government.

</doc>
<doc id="28039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28039" title="Geneva Conventions">
Geneva Conventions

The Geneva Conventions are a set of four treaties of international law. They were formulated in Geneva, Switzerland. All of the four treaties are about humanitarian issues. The Swiss Henri Dunant was the person who started the creation of the Conventions. He did this after he saw the unimaginable cruelty of the Battle of Solferino in 1859.
Some parts of the four Geneva Conventions say that all countries who signed must create national laws to make violations of the Geneva Conventions a crime.
The conventions and their agreements are as follows:
In addition, there are three more protocols to the Geneva Conventions:
After the First Convention was agreed, the International Committee of the Red Cross was founded in 1863.
All four conventions were last checked and agreed on in 1949. Those versions are related to previous revisions. In some cases, ideas from the 1907 Hague Convention were added. Usually, people refer to all four conventions as the "Geneva Conventions of 1949" or simply the "Geneva Conventions". Later conferences have added text that makes it illegal to use certain kinds of warfare, like chemical warfare. They have also spoken about issues of civil wars. 
Clara Barton was important in campaigning for the United States to agree to the First Geneva Convention. The United States signed that Convention in 1882. 
By the Fourth Geneva Convention in 1949, some 47 nations had ratified the agreements.
Today, nearly all 200 countries of the world are "signatory" nations. This means they have signed and agreed to follow the Geneva Conventions.

</doc>
<doc id="28041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28041" title="International law">
International law

International law is the law that is used when there is a conflict between countries. There are two different types of international law: 
In recent years, people have also seen international organizations like the United Nations use international law.

</doc>
<doc id="28044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28044" title="Hague Convention">
Hague Convention

The Hague Convention is a set of treaties signed in Den Haag in 1899 and 1907. Along with the Geneva conventions, they are among the first treaties to speak about war crimes and the laws of war. They are considered to be part of international law.

</doc>
<doc id="28046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28046" title="The Hague">
The Hague

The Hague (with capital T; Dutch: also called , commonly ) is the third-largest city in the Netherlands, after Amsterdam and Rotterdam. It has a population of 490,000 (January 1 2011) and an area of around 100 km². It is in the west of the country, in the province South Holland. It is the capital of the province. About 1 million people live in the urban area of The Hague, on about 405 square kilometers. 
Den Haag is where the government meets, even though it is not the capital of the Netherlands. The Dutch constitution makes Amsterdam the capital.
The Hague is the home of the "Eerste Kamer" (literally "First Chamber") or "Senaat", and the "Tweede Kamer" (literally "Second Chamber"). These are the same as the upper and lower houses in some other countries. They form the "Staten Generaal" (literally the "Estates-General"). The Dutch Queen Beatrix lives and works in The Hague. All foreign embassies and government ministries are in the city, as well as the Hoge Raad der Nederlanden (The Supreme Court) and many lobbying organisations.

</doc>
<doc id="28049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28049" title="Special Air Service">
Special Air Service

The S.A.S. or Special Air Service, is a Special Operations Organisation of the British Army. It was founded in 1941 to attack behind the German line of defence in North Africa, in World War II. They are one of the best schooled unites in the world, what makes them very valuable. There are about 500 active SAS soldiers.
The SAS is a very secret organisation, its members often do not tell anyone except close family that they are in it. The British Ministry of Defence (MOD) rarely speaks of the SAS and mission details are never released until after a set amount of time.
The Badge of the organisation is a knife with wings. It shows the motto: "Who Dares Wins".
Current SAS roles include:
The SAS is thought of all over the world as one of the best, if not the best Special Operations organisations.
This is mainly because of the intense training they are put through. The hardest part of this is intense interrogation (questioning while under torture) which the trainees must go through.
The SAS is respected worldwide and used to train many other Special Forces Units. Several special operations units are modeled after the SAS. For example, the U.S. Army's Delta Force was founded due in large part to Charles Beckwith, a U.S. Army special operations officer, serving as an exchange officer with the SAS. He felt that the U.S. Army was vulnerable in not having a unit comparable to the SAS.

</doc>
<doc id="28050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28050" title="Kookaburra Sport">
Kookaburra Sport

Kookaburra Sport is an Australian company named after an Australian bird related to the kingfisher, which eats snakes and is, therefore, very valuable to the Australians.
Kookaburra makes and sells cricket supplies which are used by amateurs and professionals. They are one of the leading brands and are famous for their colourful and artistic designs.

</doc>
<doc id="28051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28051" title="Lancashire">
Lancashire

Lancashire is a county in the North West of England. Its two cities are Lancaster and Preston. Before 1974, Liverpool and Manchester were part of Lancashire.
The county has developed a fierce rivalry with Yorkshire, the next county east. This comes from rivalry in sport, such as in cricket, and comes from the War of the Roses.
A big attraction in Lancashire is Blackpool, an English seaside resort, which has a theme park called Blackpool Pleasure Beach. It has the second largest rollercoaster in Europe ("The Big One") and Blackpool Tower, a tower which was made to look like the Eiffel Tower in Paris.
Lancashire has market towns (like Chorley) and small villages (like Bretherton, Croston and Eccleston). It is just south of an area of outstanding natural beauty called the Lake District. Lancashire also has a lot of pleasant countryside such as White Coppice and the Rivington Moors.
A famous food from Lancashire is "Lancashire Hot pot" which is made of meat, onion or other vegetables and potatoes. It is often found on many pub menus in the county and in other places in Britain. 
The people of Lancashire are known for their friendly nature. Humour is also an important part of Lancashire life.

</doc>
<doc id="28053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28053" title="Church of England">
Church of England

The Church of England is the leading Christian church in England. It is the church established by law, with its formal head being the English monarch (Elizabeth II). It is the mother church of the Anglican Communion. 
The Church of England understands itself to be both Catholic and Reformed:
There are other Protestant churches in England which are not part of the Anglican Communion.
The Church of England was created by King Henry VIII in 1534. Henry VIII was married to Catherine of Aragon, but asked the Pope to annul the marriage (say that there was a mistake and that Henry and Catherine were never really married). He had wanted to annul the marriage because he wanted a male heir to his throne and Catherine could not produce one. When the annulment was refused, Henry VIII used his position as King to break away from the Roman Catholic Church, and establish the Church of England, sometimes called the Anglican (English) Church. Methodism broke away from the church in the 18th century. The Oxford Movement brought Catholic beliefs back into the church in the 19th century. 
Under his son, King Edward VI, more Protestant forms of worship were adopted. The Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas Cranmer started more changes. A new pattern of worship was set out in the Book of Common Prayer (1549 and 1552). These were based on the older liturgy but influenced by Protestant principles.

</doc>
<doc id="28055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28055" title="Tense (grammar)">
Tense (grammar)

A tense is a form taken by a verb to show the time of an action. There are three main tenses:
The tense can be shown in the verb. For example, "am", "is", and "are" are always present tense, and "was" and "were" are always past tense. Or the tense can be shown by adding words to the verb. In English, the words that we add to the verb are "helping verbs" or "auxiliaries", like "be", "have", "shall", "will", and so on. So we get the continuous present with "is taking", the future with "will take", and so on.
Chinese and Indonesian verbs do not show tense. Instead they use context (other words in the sentence) to show when the verb happens.
In English as a second language (ESL) classes, 'tense' usually means any verb form that indicates a time. For example, many people say that "will go" is the future tense and that "He is loved by many" is the present passive tense. But, this is not correct. Tense means changes in the verb itself. English often uses "auxillary words" to do the same job.

</doc>
<doc id="28056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28056" title="Blackpool Tower">
Blackpool Tower

Blackpool Tower is a tall structure in Blackpool, a North England seaside town.
It was built in the style of the Eiffel Tower. Building started in 1891 and finished in 1894. It cost £45000 (around $70000), is 518 ft tall and weighs 2586 tons. It is mainly made from steel and cast iron.
It is one of the main tourist attractions in Blackpool. These include the tower itself, the Golden Mile, which is a row of arcades, the Irish Sea and beach, and Pleasure Beach Blackpool (a theme park).
The oldest part of the building is the old aquarium which was part of Dr Cockers' Menagarie and Aquarium since the 1870s. It was kept open to earn money while the tower building was built around it.
The tower was bought by Blackpool Council in 2010 and is now run by Merlin Entertainments for Blackpool Council.
Since Merlin Entertainments started running the tower, the building has been repaired and new attractions have been added. The aquarium was removed to make way for a new attraction.
Attractions at the tower include the Blackpool Dungeon, the Blackpool Tower Eye, the Blackpool Tower Circus, the Blackpool Tower Ballroom and Jungle Jim's.

</doc>
<doc id="28057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28057" title="Theme park">
Theme park

A theme park or an amusement park is a place with attractions made up of rides, such as roller coasters and water rides. They usually contain a selection of different types of rides, along with shops, restaurants and other entertainment outlets. Theme parks can be enjoyed by adults, teenagers and children.
Many are themed to a particular area; there are water parks, parks modeled after toys, parks modeled after movies or types of movies, usually adventure or action.
Some famous theme parks:

</doc>
<doc id="28061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28061" title="Kookaburra">
Kookaburra

Kookaburras are birds of the genus Dacelo and are native to Australia and New Guinea. An adult kookaburra is generally 28–42cm from the head to the tip of the tail.
Kookaburras usually eat small animals: small mammals (like mice), insects, small birds, lizards and snakes. 
Kookaburras usually live in family groups. Young kookaburras help their parents to hunt and care for the smaller children.
Kookaburras are well known for their loud call, which sounds a bit like human laughter. Kookaburras use their calling to show others their territory.

</doc>
<doc id="28063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28063" title="Poll tax">
Poll tax

Polltax is a system of taxing. It is based on the idea that everyone pays the same amount of tax. This is regardless of how much they earn. In the last few years of Margaret Thatcher's reign as British Prime minister, she received heavy opposition and mass riots were held when she tried to have poll tax used as the tax system.

</doc>
<doc id="28082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28082" title="Canadian dollar">
Canadian dollar

The Canadian dollar is the national currency of Canada. It has been used since 1858. The Canadian dollar is also used in Saint Pierre and Miquelon along with the Euro.

</doc>
<doc id="28083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28083" title="Printer">
Printer

A printer can be:

</doc>
<doc id="28084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28084" title="Bonn">
Bonn

Bonn is a city near Cologne. It is in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia.
Bonn was founded on an old Roman settlement. Today it has about 310,000 inhabitants.
Following World War II Bonn was in the British occupation zone. In 1949 Bonn was chosen as the provisional capital of West Germany.
Bonn was the choice of Konrad Adenauer, a former Cologne Mayor and the first Chancellor of West Germany after World War II, who came from that area. Frankfurt am Main had most of the needed facilities already, so using Bonn meant spending about 95 Million DM to building new roads and building. However, Frankfurt am Main had been an important city during the war, and choosing Bonn was to symbolise a new start for the new Germany.
Because of its relatively small size for a capital city, Bonn was sometimes jokingly called the "Bundesdorf" (Federal Village).
Bonn was the capital of West Germany from 1949 until 1990 it. The Bundestag voted to move to Berlin on 20 June 1991, after a heated debate. The Federal President had already decided to make Schloß Bellevue in Berlin his main official residence. The extra building work needed meant it was 1999 before the government's move was completed.
Beethoven's birthplace is located at Bonngasse. Next to the market place is the Old Town Hall, built in 1737 in Rococo style, under the rule of Clemens August of Bavaria. It's used for receptions of guests of the town, and as a bureau for the mayor. Close by is the "Kurfürstliches Schloss", which has been built as a residence of the prince-elector, and nowadays is the main building of the University of Bonn.
The "Poppelsdorfer Allee", an alley flanked by chestnut trees, connects the "Kurfürstliches Schloss" with the "Poppelsdorfer Schloss", a palace that was built as a resort to prince-electors in the first half of the 18th century. This axis is interrupted by a railway line and Bonn Central Station, a building erected in 1883/84.
The three highest buildings in the city are the radio mast of WDR in Bonn-Venusberg (180 m), the headquarters of the Deutsche Post called "Post Tower" (162.5 m) and the former building for the German members of parliament "Langer Eugen" (114.7 m) which nowadays is the new location of the UN-Campus.

</doc>
<doc id="28086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28086" title="CAF Champions League">
CAF Champions League

The CAF Champions League is a football competition between the best club teams in Africa. The teams are selected because of good performances in matches.

</doc>
<doc id="28088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28088" title="Copa Libertadores">
Copa Libertadores

Copa Libertadores de America (Libertadores Cup or Copa Libertadores) is a football competition between the best club teams in South America and Mexico. The teams are qualified based on how well they did in the national tournament. The last year winner has assured participation. The tournament is run by Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol (CONMEBOL).
Copa Libertadores de America is played annually. It usually happens between the months of February and June (South American summer and fall). Its winner is qualified for the annual FIFA Club World Cup.
Libertadores starts in January with the worst classified team of each country playing for to be a part of the "Main Draw". In February, the Main Draw begins. It is made up of 8 groups with 4 clubs in each group. Each team plays 6 games. They play three home games and three away games. The top 2 clubs in every group advance to the next round. A total of 16 clubs play in the playoffs.
The better qualified clubs in the Main Draw take advantage of playing the second game of each round of the playoffs at home. Libertadores goes on with clubs playing home and away, round after round till the Finals.
Unlike European club competitions, the Copa Libertadores, in the past, did not use extra time or away goals to decide a tie. Starting with the 2005 event, CONMEBOL began to use the away goals rule, with the extra time used only in the final matches.

</doc>
<doc id="28089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28089" title="Longbow">
Longbow

A longbow is a type of bow. It may not have been as powerful as a crossbow but it could shoot more arrows per minute. Also, the basic equipment cost little, and could be very easily mass produced. Metal-tipped arrows could pierce all but the best plate armour. Archers (longbowmen) would usually have a second weapon, often an axe, for close-quarter fighting.
The longbow was mainly used in the Middle Ages up until Henry VIII's reign. 
It was made from a single piece of hard wearing, flexible wood (often yew). Yew was cut during the winter when there was no sap. The flat side of the bow facing the target was flexible sapwood while the belly (facing the archer) was round and made of strong heartwood (from the center of a tree). The devastating hail of the longbowmen (at a rate of six per minute) was often very demoralizing. 
Longbows have been found in Europe as far back as the Mesolithic period.
In the British Isles the weapon was first recorded as being used by the Welsh. In AD 633 Offrid, son of Edwin, king of Northumbria, was killed by an arrow shot from a Welsh longbow. This was during a battle between the Welsh and the Mercians — more than five centuries before any record of its use in England. Despite this, the weapon is more commonly known as the "English longbow" than the "Welsh longbow".
In the Middle Ages the English and Welsh were famous for their very powerful Welsh longbows. They were used to great effect in the civil wars of the period and against the French in the Hundred Years' War (with notable success at the battles of Crécy (1346), Poitiers (1356) and Agincourt (1415).
The average length of arrowshafts recovered from the 1545 sinking of the Mary Rose is .
A longbow has practical advantages compared to a modern recurve or compound bow; it is usually lighter, quicker to prepare for shooting, and shoots more quietly. However, other things being equal, the modern bow will shoot a faster arrow more accurately than the longbow.

</doc>
<doc id="28093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28093" title="African Union">
African Union

The African Union (abbreviated AU) is an international organization consisting of fifty-three African member countries. Founded in Durban in July 2002, the AU was formed as a replacement to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the African Economic Community (AEC). 
The AU, in the future, aims to have a single currency and a single integrated defense force, as well as other institutions of state, including a cabinet for the AU Head of State. The purpose of the organization is to help secure the continent's democracy, human rights, and a sustainable economy, especially by bringing an end to conflict between African nations and creating an effective common market.

</doc>
<doc id="28095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28095" title="Bastille">
Bastille

The Bastille was a prison in Paris, France. It was destroyed during the French Revolution on 14 July 1789. It was attacked by rebels from the "third estate" (the people). This event is considered the beginning of the French Revolution. Today in France], the 14 July, "Fête Nationale", or Bastille Day, is a national holiday.
The Bastille was built during the Hundred Years' War. It was called the Bastion de Saint-Antoine. At first it was just the Saint-Antoine gate, but from 1370–1383, this gate was made bigger and became a fortress. It defended the east end of Paris and the Hôtel Saint-Pol royal palace. After the war, it was turned into a prison. Louis XIII(13) was the first king to send prisoners there.
The Bastille was built in a rectangle shape, 70 meters (220 ft) long and 30 meters (90 ft) wide. It had eight towers and walls 25 meters (80 ft) high, with a wide moat going around the outside. There were two courtyards inside and houses against the walls. Pairs of towers on the east and west sides had gates through which the rue Saint-Antoine passed. In the 1400s, these were blocked up, and a new city gate was built to the north on the present day rue de la Bastille. A bastion on the eastern side was built later. The walls and towers were of the same height and width and joined by a broad path. Soldiers on the wall could move quickly to any part of the fortress without having to climb down inside the towers. It also meant that there was enough room for placing artillery. A similar design can be seen today at Château de Tarascon.
As a prison, the Bastille held common criminals such as forgers and thieves, as well as people put in prison for religious reasons, such as the Huguenots. There were also people who had for printed or written things against the government or the King. People of high rank were sometimes held there too. The prison, which could only hold about 50 prisoners, was not as bad most of the prisons in Paris. But secrecy about the prison and its prisoners gave it an evil reputation.
The people of Paris attacked the Bastille on 14 July 1789, following several days of protests. They were after the gunpowder and weapons that were kept at the prison. They were not attacking the Bastille to free the seven prisoners inside. The prison was guarded by about 80 "invalides" (old soldiers) led by Governor Bernard-René de Launay. There was also an extra group of 32 grenadiers from one of the Swiss mercenary regiments brought to Paris by the King shortly before 14 July.
A crowd of around 8,000 men and women were outside the Bastille by mid-morning. They wanted the guards to give up the prison, remove the artillery guns, and give them the gunpowder and weapons. Two people chosen to represent those outside were invited into the fortress to talk with the Governor.
At about 1:00pm, the crowd broke into the undefended outer courtyard and the chains on the drawbridge to the inner courtyard were cut. There was some gunfire, but by mid-afternoon the crowd was supported by mutinous Gardes Françaises of the Royal Army and two cannons. De Launay ordered his guards to stop shooting and he gave up the fortress. The crowd swept into the Bastille at about 5.30pm.
The crowd took the weapons, gunpowder, and freed the seven prisoners. They had to break down the doors because the keys had already been taken and shown in the streets. Even though they had surrendered, the Governor and some of the guards of the Bastille were killed. Their heads were cut off, stuck onto long poles, and marched through the streets.
The propaganda value of the Bastille was quickly seen by Pierre-François Palloy, "Patriote Palloy". He got together a group of men to begin pulling down the fortress by the next day. People paid him to view the site and he sold off pieces as souvenirs. By November, 1789, the Bastille was largely pulled down. The cut stones of the fortress were used to build the Pont de la Concorde (Paris).
The site of the Bastille is now called the Place de la Bastille. It is home to the Opéra Bastille. The large moat behind the fort has been turned into a marina for boats, the Bassin de l'Arsenal. To the north, a covered canal, the Canal Saint Martin, goes under the road along the edge of the site.
The remains of one tower of the fort were found during digging for the Métro (rail mass-transit system) in 1899. These were moved to a park, the Square Henri-Galli, a few hundred meters away. The outline of the fort is also marked on the streets and sidewalks with special paving stones. A cafe and some other businesses are now on the site of the fort, and the rue Saint Antoine passes directly over it as it opens onto the roundabout of the Bastille.

</doc>
<doc id="28096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28096" title="The Freecycle Network">
The Freecycle Network

The Freecycle Network (TFN) is a global network of people who share and regive items. They organise their network through the Internet. Freecycle is a place for people to meet. There are just two things people can do there.
The first thing is this: A person can ask the other people for an item. If someone has it, they can tell the person who wants it.
The second thing is this: A person can give away an item. Sometimes many people want the item, and the donator has to choose just one person.

</doc>
<doc id="28097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28097" title="Slashdot">
Slashdot

Slashdot is a website where people can read news. Most people who go to Slashdot like computers. Other people go, too.
On the Slashdot website, people can comment on the news. Often this leads to interesting discussions with many points of view.
Slashdot has been a website for ten years. It has lots of things to talk about. Some of the things are: computers, the Internet, video games, and politics.
Many people like Slashdot because you can share ideas. People who like computers and the Internet can read the ideas to learn.
Anyone can go to Slashdot and read it and do not need to give money. People from every country go. It has many ideas which are never the same. 

</doc>
<doc id="28098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28098" title="Hooke's law">
Hooke's law

It is a law of mechanics and physics by Robert Hooke. 
This theory of elasticity says the extension of a spring is proportional to the load applied to it. Many materials obey this law as long as the load does not exceed the material's elastic limit. Materials for which Hooke's law is useful are known as linear-elastic or "Hookean" materials. 
The length of a spring always changes by the same amount when it is pushed or pulled. The equation for that is:
When x = 0, the spring is at the equilibrium position. 
This equation only works on a linear spring. A linear spring is a spring that is only being pushed or pulled in one direction, such as left or right or up or down.
Examples of everyday objects that have elastic potential energy are stretched or compressed elastic bands, springs, bungee cords, car shock absorbers, etc. 
Elastic potential energy is the energy saved in an object that is stretched, compressed (compression is pressing objects together), twisted or bent. For example, an arrow gets the elastic potential energy from the bow. When it leaves the bow, the potential energy turns into kinetic energy. 
The equation of the elastic potential energy is:

</doc>
<doc id="28100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28100" title="Railfan">
Railfan

A railfan is a person who likes railways and trains. Railfans like to take pictures of trains. They also like to watch trains. Some railfans make models of railways. These are called model railways. 
Some railfans like to study the history of railways. Some railfans collect things having to do with trains. Railfans may carry a radio scanner when they are watching trains, so they can listen to the railway workers talk. Some railfans work for a railway, or have family members who worked for a railway. Most railfans like to ride trains.
There are many magazines for people who like trains. Railfans enjoy reading books and magazines about trains.

</doc>
<doc id="28101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28101" title="Time (magazine)">
Time (magazine)

Time is an American news magazine. It was founded in 1923. It is printed every week in the United States. It is published by Time Inc. It has articles on politics and current events. It is read by more people than any other news magazine.
There is also a magazine called "Time For Kids", aimed at children. That magazine is eight pages long and contains more images and shorter articles than the regular "Time" magazine.

</doc>
<doc id="28102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28102" title="Cable television">
Cable television

Cable television is a way of letting people watch television without having to get signals from an antenna. The television signals are brought to the television through a coaxial cable. People usually have to pay to subscribe to cable television. With cable television, people can watch hundreds of television channels carrying many television shows. 
Cable TV is provided by many carriers in across with world. Some of those carriers in the United States are: AT&T U-Verse, CableVision, Comcast, Cox Communications, SuddenLink, Time Warner Cable, Verizon FiOS. 
Another method of subscription television is by Satellite television, especially in places where cable TV is not available.

</doc>
<doc id="28103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28103" title="Antenna">
Antenna

An antenna or aerial is a metal device made to send or receive radio waves. Many electronic devices like radio, television, radar, wireless LAN, cell phone, and GPS need antennas to do their job. Antennas work both in air and outer space. 
The word 'antenna' is from Guglielmo Marconi's test with wireless equipment in 1895. For the test, He used a 2.5 meter long pole antenna with a tent pole called ' "l'antenna centrale" ' in Italian. So his antenna was simply called ' "l'antenna" '. After that, the word 'antenna' became popular among people and had the meaning it has today. The plural of antenna is either "antennas" or "antennae" (U.S. and Canada tends to use "antennas" more than other places). 
Each one is made to work for a specific frequency range. The antenna's length or size usually depends on the wavelength (1/frequency) it uses.
Different kinds of antenna have different purposes. For example, the isotropic radiator is an imaginary antenna that sends signals equally in all directions. The dipole antenna is simply two wires with one end of each wire connected to the radio and the other end standing free in space. It sends or receives signals in all directions except where the wires are pointing. Some antennas are more directional. Horn is used where high gain is needed, the wavelength is short. Satellite television and radio telescopes mostly use dish antennas.

</doc>
<doc id="28104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28104" title="Jack London">
Jack London

John Griffith "Jack" London (born John Griffith Chaney, January 12, 1876 – November 22, 1916) was an American writer. He wrote many books. He lived in the U.S. state of California but also spent a lot of time in Hawaii and Alaska.
His most famous book was "The Call of the Wild". "The Call of the Wild" is about a dog named Buck who is taken to Alaska to work with a pack of dogs pulling a sled. This book took place during the Klondike Gold Rush. Many people bought "The Call of the Wild" and Jack London became a famous writer. He also wrote other books about dogs and wolves. Another one of his famous books is "White Fang".
Jack London was also a hobo at one time. He wrote a book about this called "The Road". Jack London had political beliefs. He was a socialist. One of his famous books is "The Iron Heel", which is the story of the government using force against the socialist movement.
He also spent some time at sea and making a living as an "oyster pirate". He wrote many books about sailing and boats. One of his best known books about life at sea was "The Sea Wolf".

</doc>
<doc id="28111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28111" title="Jerk">
Jerk

Jerk is the change in the acceleration of an object. Mathematically, jerk is the derivative, or the rate of change of acceleration by time. Jerk is also called jolt (in British English), surge, or lurch. Jerk is a vector and there is no word for its scalar value. 
The jerk is measured in metres per second cubed (formula_1).
Yank can be thought as a force in terms of jerk. Force is mass times acceleration. Similarly, Yank is mass times jerk. It is also the derivative of the force. However, when an object is moving near the speed of light, a force is often written as the derivative of momentum. In this case, Yank is the rate of change of the derivative of momentum.
Jerk is used in engineering, particularly in making roller coasters. Weak objects such as people can be damaged by high acceleration or high jerk.
Also, jerk must be thought in the process of making any product. Sudden change in acceleration means very large jerk. Extent of exposure to jerk is often a good predictor of the rate of deterioration of tools while in normal use; it corresponds better to the appearance of metal fatigue among other modes of failure.

</doc>
<doc id="28112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28112" title="Electric current">
Electric current

An electric current is a flow of electric charge. The equation of current is:
The SI unit of electric current is the ampere (A). This is equal to one coulomb of charge in one second.
Current can be found in wires, batteries, and lightning.
In conducting materials, some electrons are very loosely bound to the atoms of the material. When large amounts of these atoms come together, there is a sort of electron cloud that "hovers" near the atoms of the material. If you examine a cross-section of the piece of conducting material, the electrons will move very quickly through it. This motion is caused by temperature, and electrons flowing in one direction tend to equal the electrons flowing from the other direction, so this is not what causes current to flow. Electrons flow from one atom to another, a process has been compared to the passing of water buckets from one person to another in a bucket brigade.
When an electric field is put on the wire, the electrons respond almost instantly by drifting slightly in the opposite direction of the field. They gain energy from the field, which is lost very quickly when they bump into other electrons in the material. As long as the field is in place, however, the electrons will gain back that energy that they lost, and the process will continue. This "jolt" that electrons receive from the electric field is the source of current, not the overall flow of electrons themselves. From this discussion, we can see two things that current is "not":
When current is flowing in a wire circuit, it accelerates when there is no resistance in the circuit. Resistors are used to increase resistance in the circuit so it slows down the current. The relationship between resistance, current, and voltage (another part of the circuit) is shown by Ohm's law.

</doc>
<doc id="28118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28118" title="Inbreeding">
Inbreeding

Inbreeding is a term in genetics, meaning the crossing (mating) of closely related animals or plants. Self-fertilisation in plants is the most extreme kind of inbreeding. It is quite widespread in plants which carry both male and female flowers on the same plant. Inbreeding is the opposite of outcrossing, which is the mating of unrelated members of the same species.
Other terms are inbred strain, a group of organisms so inbred that they have little or no genetic variation, and inbreeding depression, which is the decreased fitness (usually lack of fertility and early illness and death) brought about by inbreeding.
For human beings, inbreeding is a very destructive trait, and almost all cultures in the world have attempted to restrict inbreeding e.g. by prohibiting marriages between first cousins. The ultimate form of inbreeding is called incest. It is mating with blood relatives within the nuclear family.
Loss of genetic variation means that many gene loci that were heterozygous are now homozygous. The result of both genes at a locus being mutant can be serious. 
The most intense form of inbreeding is the self-fertilisation in an hermaphrodite, in which the proportion of heterozygotes is halved in each generation. Aa x Aa (100%) gives 1 AA: 2 Aa; 1 aa (50%), and so on. A similar effect takes twice as long with brother-sister mating, and longer still with mating in very small isolated groups. The latter situation is famous because Sewall Wright did his calculations for just such groups, and he called the process genetic drift. Genetic drift and inbreeding are closely related concepts.
The degree of inbreeding can be measured in various ways. A simple test for mammals is the exchange of skin grafts. If the grafts are not rejected, the animals must be nearly identical genetically. Skin grafts can be successfully exchanged between rats in standard laboratory strains, and between cheetahs caught in the wild.
Why is it that inbreeding brings about a loss of viability? There are two answers, and both seem to be true. The first is that a group with little genetic variation is vulnerable to environmental challenges: infections, sudden climate events, predators. Small groups are vulnerable to chance events in any case, but with no heritable variability they are even more vulnerable.
The second explanation is genetic. Some of the homozygous genes will be "deleterious recessives" which would normally be shielded by a dominant allele. Also, there are some loci where the heterozygote is inherently fitter than either homozygote. If so, inbreeding will automatically cause a loss of vigour.
Many plant species do self-pollination in the wild, but the great majority have occasional outcrossing. This provides them with sufficient variety for their survival.

</doc>
<doc id="28127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28127" title="Cambridge">
Cambridge

Cambridge is a city in England. It is 50 miles north of London. The city is famous for its university, the University of Cambridge, which is thought to be one of the best universities in the world. The university has a hospital (Addenbrooke's Hospital), laboratory (Cavendish Laboratory), chapel (King's College Chapel) and library (Cambridge University Library). There is also a Central Library in Cambridge, on the first floor of the Grand Arcade, St Andrew's Street.
There are 108,863 people living in Cambridge, of which 22,153 are students. There are lots of smaller towns and villages around Cambridge.
The city has lots of parks and is next to the river Cam - the city's name, "Cambridge", means "bridge over the Cam".

</doc>
<doc id="28130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28130" title="Adventures of Huckleberry Finn">
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is a book written by Mark Twain, published in 1884. It is a sequel to his earlier book, "Tom Sawyer". 
After "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer", Huck was adopted by the widow Douglas who wants to “civilize” him and so he joined Tom’s band of robbers.
One day, Huck’s father Pap, a violent drunkard, appears in St. Petersburg. When a new judge arrives, Pap gains custody of his son and moves to a cabin on the other side of the river. Huck is kept locked but fakes his own death and hides on Jackson’s Island, a small island on the river. There he meets Miss Watson’s black slave Jim who ran away.
When they find a raft, they decide to go to a free state. After a storm, a house is floating down the river and they enter it and grab what they can. Inside, there is a dead man shot in the back and Jim prevents Huck from seeing the dead man’s face.
Huck dresses as a girl and returns to town because he wants to hear what’s going on in town. A woman tells that Jim is considered to be Huck’s murderer. Moreover, she is suspicious about Huck’s true sex and reveals that he is a boy. Huck returns to the island and together with Jim he flees downriver.
After some time on the river, they are separated by a passing steaming boat and Huck meets the Grangerfords, a rich family. He befriends with Buck Grangerford who is about his age. The Grangerfords are in a 30-year feud against the Shepherdsons, another rich family along the Mississippi. When a conflict breaks out, all Grangerford males are killed. Huck can escape and reunites with Jim. Together they float further downriver.
Later, they rescue two con men who join the boys on their journey. They pull several scams along the river. Once, they pretend to be a dead man’s brothers and escape after their true identities are revealed.
Later, the elder one sells Jim. Huck finds out that Jim is now owned by the Phelps. He decides to free him and pretends to be the Phelps’ nephew Tom Sawyer. When the real Tom arrives, he plays along.
Jim is held in a shed and Tom has a risky escape plan. As they carry out their plan, Tom is shot in the leg. While Huck gets help, Jim remains with Tom. When they return to the farm, Jim is recaptured while Tom is unconscious.
When Tom awakes, he reveals that Jim had been free for weeks after his owner died two months ago. He did not tell Huck because he wanted a risky plan to rescue Jim. Furthermore, Tom’s Aunt Polly arrives and reveals Huck’s and Tom’s real identities. Moreover, Jim tells that Pap was the dead man on the floating house. Finally, Huck decides to go West.
"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" received often good reviews, but the novel was controversial from the beginning. When the American edition came out in 1885 some libraries banned it.
Today, many people feel that the book attacks racism and shows that it is bad. Others criticize the book because it shows things like slavery, and uses words like "nigger". They also think that, although Jim is not meant to be a bad character, he has some stereotypes of that time.

</doc>
<doc id="28134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28134" title="Snooker">
Snooker

Snooker is a billiards sport for two players. It is played on a large (12' × 6') table that is covered with baize and has pockets in each of the four corners and in the middle of each of the long side cushions. The players use cues to strike the white ball (the cue ball). There are 15 red balls (worth 1 point each) and 6 colours: a yellow (2 points), green (3 points), brown (4 points), blue (5 points), pink (6 points) and black ball (7 points).
The player who scores more points wins the frame. A match consists of an agreed number of frames.

</doc>
<doc id="28139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28139" title="Aaliyah">
Aaliyah

Aaliyah Dana Haughton (better known simply as Aaliyah; January 16, 1979 – August 25, 2001) was an American recording artist and actress.
Aaliyah was born in Brooklyn, New York, and raised in Detroit, Michigan. From her youth, she began to sing: she did singing competitions, castings and shows. Her career began in 1994 with the release of her first album "Age Ain't Nothing But A Number". She continued going to the High School of the Performing Arts after this.
In 1996, Aaliyah's second album, "One in a Million", was released with R. Kelly as producer. Aaliyah always wanted to act and she got the leading role in "Romeo Must Die" (2000). Then she starred in "Queen of the Damned" in 2002.
In 2001, she returned to music with her third album called "Aaliyah", She put a lot into it, as a singer and as an executive producer. She worked on it with her uncle. She died on August 25, 2001 in a plane crash in the Bahamas. She was going to be in the movie "The Matrix Reloaded", but the filmmakers had to use another person after she died.
Aaliyah Dana Haughton was born in Brooklyn, New York. She was of African American descent, with Native American heritage from her grandmother. She was the second and younger child of Diane and Michael Haughton. Aaliyah was enrolled in voice lessons by her mother, and she would perform at weddings, church choir and charity events. When she was five years old, her family moved to Detroit, Michigan, where she was raised along with her older brother, Rashad. She attended a Catholic school, Gesu Elementary, where she received a part in the stage play named "Annie" in first grade. From then on, she was determined to become an entertainer.
Aaliyah's mother was a vocalist. Her uncle, Barry Hankerson, was an entertainment lawyer who had been married to Gladys Knight. As a child, Aaliyah traveled with Knight and worked with an agent in New York to audition for commercials and television programs, including "Family Matters"; she went on to appear on "Star Search" at the age of ten. She then auditioned for several record labels and appeared in concerts alongside Knight at age 11.
Aaliyah attended the Detroit High School for the Performing Arts, where she majored in drama and graduated in 1997. Aaliyah began her acting career that same year.
After Hankerson signed a distribution deal with Jive Records, he signed Aaliyah to his label named Blackground Records when Aaliyah was 12 years old. She released her debut album "Age Ain't Nothing but a Number" in 1994. Rumors circulated that she and her mentor R. Kelly were not only romantically involved, but had also married. Aaliyah admitted to a friendship with R. Kelly, which had developed while recording "Age Ain't Nothing but a Number". She said they would go out together and watch a movie or eat somewhere when they went on breaks from recording the album and said they were "rather close". She dismissed the rumors about her relationship with him as people taking it "the wrong way."
Jamie Foster Brown wrote about R. Kelly's recollection of the time he had spent working with Aaliyah, writing, "R. Kelly told me that he and Aaliyah got together and it was just magic." Brown reported hearing Aaliyah being a frequent guest at R. Kelly's home and walking his dog 12 Play. Along with this, he heard that she was pregnant. There were complaints about Aaliyah being in the studio recording with a bunch of older men. Aaliyah went on to admit that she had lied about her age in court documents and filed suit in Cook County to have the records erased since she was not old enough at the time (being fifteen when the marriage took place) to get married without having the go-ahead by her parents. Reports indicate that Aaliyah had a crush on R. Kelly at some point, but after the marriage was ended, she ceased professional and personal contact with him. 
Jomo Hankerson later said that Aaliyah was treated bad over the marriage and that she had a hard time getting her second album to have a producer because of what had happened between her and R. Kelly. With the exception of Sean Combs, he said, there were not too many producers seeking to work with her because people were upset with her, which he did not understand given her age at the time. After the marriage ended, she stopped answering questions about R. Kelly and would often change the subject whenever it was brought up. This was noted by several organizations that did interviews with her. Aaliyah indicated that she would never again work with R. Kelly during an interview with Christopher John Farley, who went on to write a biography of the singer titled "Aaliyah: More Than a Woman". R. Kelly would go on to have more allegations about relationships with underage girls and the relationship with Aaliyah was brought up or mentioned most of the time as a starting point. He refused to discuss his relationship with her and explained his reason for doing this: ""Out of respect for her, and her mom and her dad, I will not discuss Aaliyah. That was a whole other situation, a whole other time, it was a whole other thing, and I'm sure that people also know that." According to her mother Diane Haughton, everything "that went wrong in her life" began with her relationship with R. Kelly. The allegations were dismissed as having little effect on her image or career.
In 1996, Aaliyah left Jive Records and signed with Atlantic Records. She worked with record producers Timbaland and Missy Elliott, who contributed to her second studio album, "One in a Million". She developed friendships with the pair. Timbaland was in love with her, but did not act out on it due to her being years younger than him. Instead he wanted to be a bigger brother figure for her, similar to her own brother Rashad Haughton. However, he struggled with keeping his feelings at bay. During her last days, the pair had an argument and it would be the last time they would speak to each other, as he next learned that she had passed.
She played as herself in the police drama television series "New York Undercover". During this time, Aaliyah participated in the Children's Benefit Concert, a charity concert that took place at the Beacon Theatre in New York.
Aaliyah's first major movie role was in "Romeo Must Die". Aaliyah starred opposite martial artist Jet Li, playing a couple who fall in love amid their warring families. It grossed US$18.6 million in its first weekend, ranking number two at the box office. Aaliyah was scared about bad reviews so she did not look for them. She heard good things about her role in the movie, but there were critics that did not like her role because of her relationship with Jet Li's character not having any realism along with the rest of the movie.
Before she died, she talked to the Isley Brothers about working together, having recorded one of their songs when she was younger during her tenure with Jive Records and was signed to appear in more movies. One of them was "Honey", which came out in 2003 "Some Kind of Blue", a romantic movie and "Sparkle", a movie produced by Whitney Houston that was the remake of the 1976 film of the same name. Houston said after Aaliyah passed that she wanted to be in the movie. Studio officials from Warner Brothers said she and her mother read the script and Aaliyah was passionate about appearing in the movie.
Aaliyah had a vocal range of a soprano. With the release of her first single "Back & Forth", Dimitri Ehrlich of "Entertainment Weekly" expressed that Aaliyah's "silky vocals are more agile than those of self-proclaimed queen of hip-hop soul Mary J. Blige." Aaliyah described her sound as "street but sweet", which featured her "gentle" vocals over a "hard" beat. Though Aaliyah did not write any of her own material, her lyrics were described as in-depth. She incorporated R&B, pop and hip hop into her music. Her songs were often uptempo and melancholy, revolving around "matters of the heart". Her songs have been said to have "crisp production" and "staccato arrangements" that "extend genre boundaries" while containing "old-school" soul music. When she experimented with other genres, such as Latin pop and heavy metal, critics did not like the attempt. As her albums progressed, writers felt that Aaliyah acted more older, calling her progress a "declaration of strength and independence". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic described her eponymous album, "Aaliyah", as "a statement of maturity and a stunning artistic leap forward" and called it one of the strongest urban soul records of its time. She portrayed "unfamiliar sounds, styles and emotions", but managed to please critics with the contemporary sound it contained. Ernest Hardy of "Rolling Stone" felt that Aaliyah reflected a stronger technique, where she gave her best vocal performance. Others felt that she was "satisfying rather than extraordinary", stating that she added little to modern R&B.
On August 25, 2001, at 6:45 pm (EST), Aaliyah and various members of the record company boarded a twin-engine Cessna 402B (registration N8097W) at the Marsh Harbour Airport in Abaco Islands, The Bahamas, to travel to the Opa-locka Airport in Florida, after they completed filming the music video for the single "Rock the Boat". They had a flight scheduled the following day, August 26, but with filming finishing early, Aaliyah and her entourage were eager to return to the United States and made the decision to leave immediately. The designated airplane was smaller than the Cessna 404 in which they had originally flown. The whole party and all of the equipment were accommodated on board. As a result, when the aircraft attempted to depart, it was over its maximum takeoff weight by and was carrying one excess passenger, according to its certification. The plane crashed shortly after takeoff, about from the runway. Aaliyah and the eight others on board, pilot Luis Morales III, hair stylist Eric Forman, Anthony Dodd, security guard Scott Gallin, video producer Douglas Kratz, stylist Christopher Maldonado, and Blackground Records employees Keith Wallace and Gina Smith, were all killed.
According to findings from an inquest, conducted by the coroner's office in The Bahamas, Aaliyah suffered from "severe burns and a blow to the head", in addition to severe shock and a weak heart. The coroner theorized that, even if Aaliyah had survived the crash, her recovery would have been virtually impossible given the severity of her injuries. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) report stated that "the airplane was seen lifting off the runway, and then nose down, impacting in a marsh on the south side of the departure end of runway 27 and then exploding in flames." It indicated that the pilot was not approved to pilot the plane he was attempting to fly. Morales falsely obtained his Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) license by showing hundreds of hours never flown, and he may also have falsified how many hours he had flown in order to get a job with his employer, Blackhawk International Airways. Additionally, an autopsy performed on Morales revealed traces of cocaine and alcohol in his system. The NTSB reported that the maximum allowed gross weight of the plane was "substantially exceeded" and that the center of gravity was positioned beyond its rear limit. John Frank of the Cessna Pilots Association stated that the plane was "definitely overloaded".
The day of the crash was Morales' first official day with Blackhawk International Airways, an FAA Part 135 single-pilot operation. Morales was not registered with the FAA to fly for Blackhawk. As a result of the accident, Aaliyah's parents filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the company, which was settled out of court for an undisclosed amount. Barry & Sons, Inc., a corporation formed in 1992 to develop, promote and capitalize Aaliyah and to oversee the production and distribution of her records and music videos, brought an unsuccessful lawsuit in the New York Supreme Court against Instinct Productions LLC, the company that was hired in August 2001 to produce the music video for "Rock the Boat". The case was dismissed because of New York's wrongful death statute only permitting certain people to recover damages for wrongful death.
Aaliyah's funeral was held on August 31, 2001, at the Saint Ignatius Loyola Church in Manhattan. Her body was set in a silver casket, which was carried in a glass hearse and was drawn by horse. An estimated 800 mourners were in attendance of the procession. Among those in attendance at the private ceremony were Missy Elliott, Timbaland, Gladys Knight, Lil' Kim and Sean Combs. After the service, 22 white doves were released to symbolize each year of Aaliyah's life. She was interred in a crypt in a private room in the Rosewood Mausoleum at the Ferncliff Cemetery.
The week after Aaliyah's death, her third studio album, "Aaliyah", rose from number 19 to number one on the "Billboard" 200. "Rock the Boat" was released as a posthumous single. The music video premiered on BET's "Access Granted"; it became the most viewed and highest rated episode in the history of the show. The song peaked at number 14 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and number two on the "Billboard" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It was also included on the "Now That's What I Call Music! 8" compilation series; a portion of the album's profits was donated to the Aaliyah Memorial Fund. The following two singles from "Aaliyah", "More than a Woman" and "I Care 4 U", peaked within the top 25 of the "Billboard" Hot 100. The album was certified double Platinum by the RIAA and sold 2.95 million copies in the United States. "More than a Woman" reached number one in the UK singles chart making Aaliyah the first deceased artist to reach number one in the UK single chart. "More than a Woman" was replaced by George Harrison's "My Sweet Lord" which is the only time in the UK singles chart history where a dead artist has replaced another dead artist at number one.
She won two posthumous awards at the American Music Awards of 2002; Favorite Female R&B Artist and Favorite R&B/Soul Album for "Aaliyah". Her second and final movie, "Queen of the Damned", was released in February 2002. Before its release, Aaliyah's brother, Rashad, re-dubbed some of her lines during post-production. It grossed US$15.2 million in its first weekend, ranking number one at the box office. On the first anniversary of Aaliyah's death, a candlelight vigil was held in Times Square, where millions of fans observed a moment of silence. Throughout the United States, radio stations played her music in remembrance. In December 2002, a collection of previously unreleased material was released as Aaliyah's first posthumous album, "I Care 4 U". A portion of the proceeds was donated to the Aaliyah Memorial Fund, a program that benefits the Revlon UCLA Women Cancer Research Program and Harlem's Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. It debuted at number three on the "Billboard" 200, selling 280,000 copies in its first week. The album's lead single, "Miss You", peaked at number three on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and topped the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. In August of the following year, clothing retailer Christian Dior donated profits from sales in honor of Aaliyah.
Aaliyah was signed to appear in several future movies, including "Honey" (recast to Jessica Alba). "Some Kind of Blue" and a Whitney Houston-produced remake of the 1976 movie "Sparkle" were canceled due to Aaliyah's death. Before her death, Aaliyah had filmed part of her role in "The Matrix Reloaded" and was scheduled to appear in "The Matrix Revolutions" as Zee. The role was later recast to Nona Gaye. Aaliyah's scenes were later included in the tribute section of the "Matrix Ultimate Collection" series.
In 2005, Aaliyah's second compilation album, "Ultimate Aaliyah" was released in the UK by Blackground Records. "Ultimate Aaliyah" is a three disc set, which included a greatest hits audio CD and a DVD. Andy Kellman of Allmusic remarked ""Ultimate Aaliyah" adequately represents the shortened career of a tremendous talent who benefited from some of the best songwriting and production work by Timbaland, Missy Elliott, and R. Kelly." A documentary movie "Aaliyah Live in Amsterdam" was released in 2011., shortly before the tenth anniversary of Aaliyah's death. The documentary, by Pogus Caesar, contained previously unseen footage shot of her career beginnings in 1995 when she was appearing in the Netherlands.
In 2012 music producer Jeffrey "J-Dub" Walker via twitter said "Just got great news today; the smash unreleased song called "Steady Ground" I produced on #Aaliyah is gonna be on her upcoming album". Walker co-wrote "I Refuse" and "What if" from Aaliyah's third self-titled album and produced the song "Steady Ground" for her 'One in a Million' album. This second proposed posthumous album would feature this song using demo vocals since Walker claims the originals were somehow lost by his sound engineer. However, Walker's original tweet announcing this event has since been removed, and Aaliyah's brother, via Twitter, has stated that "no official album [is] being released and supported by the Haughton family."

</doc>
<doc id="28140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28140" title="Simple Plan">
Simple Plan

Simple Plan is a pop punk rock band from Montréal, Canada that was founded in 1999.
When they were 13, schoolmates Pierre Bouvier and Chuck Comeau founded the band "Reset". They published their first album in 1997. Soon after that, Comeau left the band because school was more important to him. He came back in 1999 and founded "Simple Plan" with Sebastien Lefebvre and Jeff Stinco. Bouvier met up with Comeau at a Sugar Ray concert, and Comeau offered Bouvier to join his band. David Desrosiers, who had replaced Bouvier in Reset, joined the band in 2000. in 2002, they published the album "No Pads, No Helmets... Just Balls". They worked together with Joel Madden (Good Charlotte) and Mark Hoppus (Blink-182). One year later, the album "Still Not Getting Any..." was published.

</doc>
<doc id="28141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28141" title="Serj Tankian">
Serj Tankian

Serj Tankian (born on August 21, 1967 in Beirut, Lebanon) is an Armenian-American musician who lives in Los Angeles. He was the lead vocalist of System of a Down. He is now a solo artist and has released five solo albums.
Tankian was born in Beirut, Lebanon. Tankian moved with his parents to Los Angeles, California when he was five years old.

</doc>
<doc id="28142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28142" title="Axl Rose">
Axl Rose

Axl Rose (born February 6, 1962) is an American hard rock singer and songwriter. He was born William Bruce Bailey in Lafayette, Indiana, and grew up under the name William 'Bill' Bailey. He is best known as the lead singer for the rock band Guns N' Roses.
Rose started dating Erin Everly in early 1986. He wrote "Sweet Child o' Mine" for her and she was in the song's video.
He married Everly on April 28, 1990 in Las Vegas. Everly later said that Rose came to her house the day before their wedding with a gun and told her he would kill himself if she didn't marry him.
In 2012 it was rumored that he was dating Lana Del Rey.

</doc>
<doc id="28144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28144" title="Gravitational energy">
Gravitational energy

Gravitational energy is the potential energy held by an object because of its high position compared to a lower position. In other words, it is energy associated with gravity or gravitational force. For example, a pen being held above a table has a higher gravitational potential than a pen sitting on the table. Gravitational potential energy is mechanical energy minus kinetic energy. It has a scalar quantity measured in Joules (J). 
An object gets gravitational potential energy when it moves uphill. The energy used up when moving up the hill is changed into gravitational potential energy. When the object comes back down again, the gravitational potential energy is turned back into kinetic energy (movement). That is why riding a bike up a steep hill is very hard, but when you are coming back down, you will not need to pedal at all - you are being powered by the gravitational potential energy that you stored when you rode up the hill. Another way gravitational potential energy helps us is by keeping earth and the other planets in orbit in our solar system around the Sun. 
The mathematical formula for the gravitational potential energy of an object is:
Force of gravity = formula_1 
Where:
Typical measurement units for the equation are:

</doc>
<doc id="28151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28151" title="Shining Rock Wilderness">
Shining Rock Wilderness

The Shining Rock Wilderness is a protected area in the U.S. state of North Carolina. Its first have been part of the National Wilderness Preservation System since the System was created in 1964. It now includes , and is managed by the United States Forest Service.
Within the wilderness, the Art Loeb trail can be followed to the top of Cold Mountain. Cold Mountain is the namesake of a historical fiction novel set in the time of the American Civil War. A movie based on the book is also named "Cold Mountain".

</doc>
<doc id="28153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28153" title="Radioactive decay">
Radioactive decay

Most chemical elements are "stable": If they are not part of a chemical reaction, they do not change. Chemical elements are made of atoms. In stable elements, the atom stays the same. In a chemical reaction, the atoms will form chemical bonds, with other atoms. Even if the bonds change during a reaction, the atoms themselves do not.
In the 19th century, Henri Becquerel discovered that some chemical elements have atoms that change: During their change they send out a particle. In 1898, Marie and Pierre Curie called this phenomenon radioactive decay. Becquerel and the Curies were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for this discovery, in 1903.
Most carbon atoms have six protons and six neutrons in their nucleus. This carbon is called carbon-12, because 12 is the number of protons plus the number of neutrons in the carbon-12 nucleus (six protons + six neutrons = 12). Its atomic weight is 12. If a carbon atom has two more neutrons it is carbon-14. Carbon-14 acts chemically like other carbon, because the six protons and six electrons are what govern its chemical properties. In fact, carbon-14 exists in all living things; all plants and animals contain carbon-14. However, carbon-14 is radioactive. It decays by beta decay. It can be detected and measured. Carbon-14, in the small amounts found about us in nature, is harmless. In archeology, this kind of carbon is used to determine the age of wood and other formerly living things. The method is called Radiocarbon dating which is one kind of radiometric dating.
Ernest Rutherford found that there different ways in which these particles penetrate matter. He found two different kinds, which he called "alpha decay" and "beta decay". Paul Villard discovered a third kind in 1900. Rutherford called it "gamma decay", in 1903.
Other kinds of decay were discovered later. The types of decay are different from each other because different types of decay produce different kinds of particles. The starting radioactive nucleus is called the parent nucleus and the nucleus that it changes into is called the daughter nucleus. The high-energy particles produced by radioactive materials are called radiation.
These various kinds of decay can happen sequentially in a "decay chain". One kind of nucleus decays to another kind, which decays again to another and so on until it becomes a stable isotope and the chain comes to an end.
The speed at which this change happens, is different for each element. Radioactive decay is governed by chance: The time it takes, on average for half the atoms of a substance to change is named the half-life. The rate is given by an exponential function. As an example, iodine (I) has a half-life of about 8 days. That of plutonium ranges between 4 hours (Pu) and 80 million years (Pu)
The rate of decay is calculated using equations. An equation has a nuclide on the left, a right-pointing arrow, and the reaction products of the decay on the right. The equation must be balanced to follow the conservation laws of quantum mechanics for nuclear reactions. Certain things are not changed by decay. Thses are called "conserved entities". The conserved entities are total energy (including mass), number of nucleons, linear and angular momentum, and lepton number. The particles or nuclei in the equation are written with a superscript to show mass number 'A' and a subscript to denote atomic number 'Z.'
Radioactive decay changes an atom from one that has higher energy inside its nucleus into one with lower energy. The change of energy of the nucleus is given to the particles that are created. The energy released by radioactive decay may either be carried away by a gamma ray electromagnetic radiation (a type of light), a beta particle or an alpha particle. In all those cases, the change of energy of the nucleus is carried away. And in all those cases, the total number of positive and negative charges of the atom's protons and electrons sum to zero before and after the change.
During alpha decay, the atomic nucleus releases an alpha particle. Alpha decay causes the nucleus to lose two protons and two neutrons. Alpha decay causes the atom to change into another element, because the atom loses two protons (and two electrons). For example, if Americium were to go through alpha decay it would change into Neptunium because Neptunium is defined by having two protons fewer than Americium. Alpha decay usually happens in the most heavy elements, such as uranium, thorium, plutonium, and radium.
Alpha particles cannot even go through a few centimeters of air. Alpha radiation cannot hurt humans when the alpha radiation source is outside the human body, because human skin does not let the alpha particles go through. Alpha radiation can be very harmful if the source is inside the body, such as when people breathe dust or gas containing materials which decay by emitting alpha particles (radiation).
There are two kinds of beta decay, beta-plus and beta-minus.
In beta-minus decay, the nucleus gives out a negatively charged electron and a neutron changes into a proton:
Beta-minus decay happens in nuclear reactors.
In beta-plus decay, the nucleus releases a positron, which is like an electron but it is positively charged, and a proton changes into a neutron:
Beta-plus decay happens inside the sun and in some types of particle accelerators.
Gamma decay happens when a nucleus produces a high-energy packet of energy called a gamma ray. Gamma rays do not have electrical charge, but they do have angular momentum. Gamma rays are usually emitted from nuclei just after other types of decay. Gamma rays can be used to see through material, to kill bacteria in food, to find some types of disease, and to treat some kinds of cancer. Gamma rays have the highest energy of any electromagnetic wave, and gamma ray bursts from space are the most energetic releases of energy known, even more energetic than supernovas.

</doc>
<doc id="28157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28157" title="Nicotine">
Nicotine

Nicotine is a drug found in tobacco cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, and chewing tobacco. Nicotine is an addictive stimulant that causes the heart to beat faster and makes blood pressure rise. It can also make a person feel less hungry and speeds up the metabolism. These effects can be very unhealthy. Many people who use tobacco products want to quit but have a hard time quitting. It is one of the most addictive chemicals that is widely consumed by humans.
Nicotine is a substance found in most members of the Nightshade family of plants. Small quantities of it can be found in tomatoes, potatoes, aubergines (eggplants) and green pepper ("Capsicum", the peppers used as vegetables). Nicotine is also present in the Coca plant. In higher quantities it is a very efficient poison. It acts on the nerves. It is a stimulant in lower quantities. It is one of the main reasons people are addicted to smoking.
Nicotine is named after Jean Nicot. Nicot was an French ambassador in Portugal. He had some tobacco seeds sent to Paris for analysis (As a drug).
Besides the treatment of nicotine dependency, it seems that the drug can also be used to treat special (severe) forms of epilepsy, as well as some other diseases.
The amount of nicotine found in one cigarette varies greatly. Factors which influence the amount include type of tobacco; brand of cigarette; country or region (some markets restrict maximum average nicotine levels; and how the cigarette is smoked.

</doc>
<doc id="28158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28158" title="Addiction">
Addiction

Addiction is when the body or mind badly wants or needs something in order to work right. When you have addiction to something it is called being "addicted" or being an "addict". People can be addicted to drugs, cigarettes, alcohol, caffeine, and many other things. 
When somebody is addicted to something, they can become sick if they do not get the thing they are addicted to. But taking more of the thing they are addicted to can also hurt their health. Some people who are addicts need to go to a doctor or hospital to cure the addiction, so they no longer crave (want or need) the drug.
Addiction takes place when the addictive element enters the body. The blood stream moves the element around the body so that it gets to the brain, and makes the person feel that they are enjoying it; then they want more of that substance. This takes place remarkably fast for some addictions such as hashish and cocaine; but all of them control the consumer. Once under this control, the consumer does not have a completely free will, and listens to the addiction's bidding.
People can also be addicted to other things which are not drugs. You may hear people talk about being "addicted to the Internet" or "addicted to chocolate" or gambling. This means that they get into a habit of enjoying that thing, so if they have to go without it for a while, they miss it a lot. 
Addiction is similar to a major disease like chronic heart disease or perhaps diabetes, but addictions are not taken as seriously as these major diseases. Most people believe addiction to be a lifestyle choice, which in fact it is but it is also part of a persons genetics. While some people can do things and control themselves others cannot due to their genetic makeup. There are ways of helping the addict but this takes the admission of a problem and then proper testing to reveal what kind of treatment is needed. 

</doc>
<doc id="28164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28164" title="Secession">
Secession

Secession usually means when part of one country breaks away, or leaves that country to start a new country. During the American Civil War, eleven southern states declared their secession (independence) from the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="28166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28166" title="Mine">
Mine

In English, the term mine can stand for different concepts:

</doc>
<doc id="28170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28170" title="New England">
New England

New England is a part in the north of the United States. It is a region (area) in the northeast part of the U.S. There are six states in the New England region. These states are Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. In the early days, their economy was mostly made of fishing. New England is not an official group of states.

</doc>
<doc id="28171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28171" title="Rockville, Virginia">
Rockville, Virginia

Rockville is a small town in the U.S. state of Virginia. It is in Hanover County near Richmond, Virginia. Rockville is mainly a farming town. It got its name from nearby rock quarries.

</doc>
<doc id="28173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28173" title="Intelligence quotient">
Intelligence quotient

An Intelligence quotient, or an IQ is a number. This number is the score (result) of one of several standard tests. The tests are designed to measure the intelligence of an individual. A person's IQ score tells how much his intelligence is above or below the average. The idea of the test was developed at the start of the 20th century. The tests try to avoid specific knowledge, and try to ask questions which, in principle, anyone might be able to answer.
One modern IQ test is the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. It says where the subject's score is on the Gaussian bell. The bell curve used has a center value of 100 and a standard deviation of 15; other tests may have different standard deviations. 
IQ scores can tell some things about a person, as well as intelligence. This is because intelligence is linked to other aspects of life. "All the cognitive tests completed in 1983 predicted onset of dementia and Alzheimer’s disease up to 11 years later". They can predict social status (how much money they earn and how important their job is) of the parents, and the parents' IQ. There is still disagreement about how much is heritable (passed from parents to children). People still disagree about how much of a person's IQ comes his parents and how much depends on his environment (what his home is like).
IQ scores are used in various ways: 
The average IQ scores for many populations have been rising about three points per decade since the early 20th century. Most of the increase is in the lower half of the IQ range. This is called the Flynn effect. People who study it disagree whether these changes in scores are really happening, or it they mean that there were mistakes with how people were tested in the past.
There are many different kinds of intelligence tests that use many different methods. Some kinds of tests are 
The psychologist Charles Spearman in 1904 first studied how the scores from different kinds of intelligence tests are related to each other. He found that if a person got a high (or low) score on one kind of test, he probably (but not always) would get a similar score on the other kinds of tests. Because of this, he said that a person's intelligence could be described with one number. He called this number "g" (for general factor). Tests that use abstract reasoning are usually the best to tell what the scores on the other kinds of tests probably will be. Because of that, Spearman thought that a person's abstract reasoning ability (how good he was at solving puzzles or problems) was what other kinds of intelligence are based on. 
Therefore, the number "g" is what an IQ test is supposed to measure. One of the most commonly used measures of "g" is Raven's Progressive Matrices, which is a test of visual reasoning.
During World War I, a way was needed to test if people could be in the military and then decide what kind of job they could do best. Because of this people wanted to learn the best way to test the minds of recruits (people serving in the military). Because of this, people in America (and other countries) worked to develop good intelligence tests. 
The testing generated controversy and much public debate. Nonverbal or "performance" tests were developed for those who could not speak English or were suspected of malingering. After the war, positive publicity on army psychological testing helped to make psychology a respected field. Afterwards, there was an increase in jobs and funding in psychology in the United States. Group intelligence tests were developed and became widely used in schools and industry.
There are a number of problems with intelligence quotients. They relate to different fields of the subject. The problems can be grouped:
Alfred Binet, a French psychologist who had designed one of the first such tests in 1905 had this opinion. He used the test to see which pupils would need special help with the school curriculum. He believed that the test scales were not able to measure intelligence:
He argued that with good education programs, most students could catch up and perform quite well in school. This was independent of the background of the pupil. He did not believe that intelligence was a measurable fixed entity.
Some dispute psychometrics entirely. Paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould argued that intelligence tests were based on faulty assumptions and showed their history of being used as the basis for scientific racism. In his opinion, the General intelligence factor "g" (which these tests measure), is simply a mathematical artifact.
However, as explained above, IQ tests were highly successful in assessing recruits during wartime. Therefore, it must be true that they are measuring a relevant mental capability. Therefore IQ are not simply a mathematical fiction: they relate to the ability of individuals to perform certain functions. Even if experts do not agree on a definition of intelligence, that does not disprove the usefulness (or otherwise) of the tests. In every day life people do notice the relative intelligence of others. The issue is central to human nature and evolutionary psychology, because humans evolved the characteristics which helped them survive and reproduce. 
The American Psychological Association's report "Intelligence: knowns and unknowns" states that IQ tests as predictors of social achievement are not biased against people of African descent. They predict future performance, such as school achievement, similarly to the way they predict future performance for European descent.
However, IQ tests may well be biased when used in other situations. A 2005 study stated that "differential validity in prediction suggests that the WAIS-R test may contain cultural influences that reduce the validity of the WAIS-R as a measure of cognitive ability for Mexican American students," indicating a weaker positive correlation relative to sampled white students. Other recent studies have questioned the culture-fairness of IQ tests when used in South Africa. Standard intelligence tests, such as the Stanford-Binet, are often inappropriate for children with autism and dyslexia; the alternative of using developmental or adaptive skills measures are relatively poor measures of intelligence in autistic children, and have resulted in incorrect claims that a majority of children with autism are mentally retarded.
Claimed low intelligence has historically been used to justify the feudal system and unequal treatment of women. In contrast, others claim that the refusal of "high-IQ elites" to take IQ seriously as a cause of inequality is itself immoral.
The American Psychological Association's Board of Scientific Affairs established a task force in 1995 to write a consensus statement on the state of intelligence research which could be used by all sides as a basis for discussion. The full text of the report is available through several websites. 
In this paper the representatives of the association regret that IQ-related works are frequently written with a view to their political consequences: "research findings were often assessed not so much on their merits or their scientific standing as on their supposed political implications".
The task force concluded that IQ scores do have high predictive validity for individual differences in school achievement. They confirm the predictive validity of IQ for adult occupational status, even when variables such as education and family background have been statistically controlled. They found that individual differences in intelligence are substantially influenced by genetics and that both genes and environment, in complex interplay, are essential to the development of intellectual competence.
They state there is little evidence to show that childhood diet influences intelligence except in cases of severe malnutrition. The task force agrees that large differences do exist between the average IQ scores of blacks and whites, and that these differences cannot be attributed to biases in test construction. The task force suggests that explanations based on social status and cultural differences are possible, and that environmental factors have raised mean test scores in many populations. 
The APA journal that published the statement, "American Psychologist," later published responses in January 1997. Several of these argued that the report failed to examine adequately the evidence for partly-genetic explanations.

</doc>
<doc id="28174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28174" title="Dead Calm">
Dead Calm

Dead Calm is an American novel that was written in 1963. A 1989 Australian movie was made from it. The movie stars Sam Neill, Nicole Kidman, and Billy Zane.
In it, a honeymoon couple rescue a young man from a sinking boat who claims to have lost his companions to food poisoning, but the real story is much less innocent.
In this movie, Kidman and Neill plays good guys and Zane plays a bad guy. This movie was Kidman's first well-known movie, and it helped make her famous. In this movie, Zane's character rapes Kidman's character.

</doc>
<doc id="28175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28175" title="Event Horizon">
Event Horizon

Event Horizon is a 1997 Anglo-American science fiction horror movie.
It was directed by Paul W. S. Anderson. It stars Laurence Fishburne, Sam Neill, Kathleen Quinlan and Joely Richardson.
This movie is set in 2047. A spaceship is stuck near Neptune. Sam Neill's character (Dr. William Weir) is very sad because his wife has died. When they go to the space ship, they find that everyone has killed themselves. It all looks very scary. Then they find out that the ship has been to another dimension. It is like hell and everyone sees their worst nightmares.
Weir sees his wife in his dream. She tells him to pull his eyes out. Weir then walks around without any eyes and starts to kill people. They send him out to space, but he does not die. People get very scared. Even after they kill Weir, they still see him.

</doc>
<doc id="28181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28181" title="Melting point">
Melting point

The melting point of a substance is the temperature at which this substance goes from the solid state to the liquid one, at a normal pressure. For water, this is 0° Celsius (32 Fahrenheit, 273,15 Kelvin).
When looking at when a liquid substance becomes solid, most people call this the freezing point. For most substances, like water, this is the same as the melting point. There are substances, where this is not the case (they melt at one temperature, and freeze at another). Agar seems to melt at 85° Celsius, but freeze at between 35°C and 40°C. Physicists call this phenomenon hysteresis. 
Adding certain substances or impurities will change the melting point of the resulting mixture: As an example, sugar or salt will lower the melting point, and alcohol will raise it. 

</doc>
<doc id="28183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28183" title="Michael Hayden">
Michael Hayden

Michael Hayden (born March 17, 1945 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) was the head of the CIA from 2006 to 2009. On 24 May 2006, he was voted as the new head of the CIA by the United States Senate. He was the director of the NSA from 1999 to 2005. The NSA and CIA are both spy agencies. He has worked as a spy since 1970.

</doc>
<doc id="28184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28184" title="Lutherstadt Wittenberg">
Lutherstadt Wittenberg

Wittenberg is a town in Germany. It lies in the eastern part of Saxony-Anhalt. Wittenberg became one of the most important German towns of political, cultural, historical, and artistic advances in the 16th century. The famous reformation places in the old town, and the buildings developed in different epochs, make up the architecture of the town.
Many people travel to Wittenberg because of its past, and its connection to Martin Luther who worked there.
Wittenberg has about 46,000 inhabitants. Its geographical coordinates are 51° 52’ N, 12° 39’ E.

</doc>
<doc id="28192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28192" title="Cyberstalking">
Cyberstalking

Cyberstalking is when someone is using the Internet to stalk or harass someone. Cyberstalking is illegal in some countries.
Stalking is following someone around in a way that makes them feel hunted or not safe in some other way. It is not just one event but an ongoing process that threatens or makes that person feel scared. Someone who does this is called a stalker. The stalker may do this because they want to be involved in that person's life or because they want to have power over that person's life. The stalker can hurt that person's feelings by making them scared. They may feel they do not have the power to stop the stalker. Psychologists say stalking is a way of hurting someone's mind with serious effects. Sometimes a stalker may go on to hurt that person's body by assaulting, raping or murdering that person.
Cyberstalking is when the stalker uses the Internet to contact or follow that person. The stalker may make direct contact with that person, they may send nasty messages to that person or spread lies about them to others. Sometimes stalkers use the Internet to learn more about the other person. They might find their address, phone number, workplace or photograph. Then they might use this information to do more stalking or find other ways to hurt that person on the Internet or hurt their body.
The person who is stalked on the Internet may feel they have more power if they can simply delete emails or turn their computer connection off. Or they may feel they have less power if they do not know who the stalker is.

</doc>
<doc id="28197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28197" title="Current">
Current

Current could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="28212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28212" title="Voltage">
Voltage

Voltage is a force that makes electricity move through a wire. It is measured in volts. Voltage is also called electric tension or electromotive force (EMF). It was named after Alessandro Volta. 
Technically, the voltage is the difference in electric potential between two points. Voltage is always measured between two points, for example between the positive and negative ends of a battery, or between a wire and ground. 
As seen in volt#Hydraulic analogy, voltage can be seen as the pressure on the electrons to move out of the source. It is directly proportional to the pressure exerted on the electrons. In other words, the higher the voltage, the higher the pressure. For example, a battery of 3 volts will exert pressure on the electrons twice as hard as a battery of 1.5 volts.
The voltage can push the electrons into a component, like a resistor, creating a current. Usually, the voltage and the current are related by a formula (see impedance). 
Note that there must be both voltage "and" current to transfer power (energy). For example, a wire can have a high voltage on it, but unless it is connected, nothing will happen. Birds can land on high voltage lines such as 12kV and 16kV without dying, because the current does not flow through the bird.
There are two types of voltage, DC voltage and AC voltage. The DC voltage (direct current voltage) always has the same polarity (positive or negative), such as in a battery. The AC voltage (alternating current voltage) alternates between positive and negative. For example, the voltage from the wall socket changes polarity 60 times per second (in America). The DC is typically used for electronics and the AC for motors.
Mathematically, the voltage is the amount of work needed to move a charge of 1 coulomb from one position to the other.
Where "V"=Voltage, "I"=Current, "R"=Total resistance.
Voltage is always measured between two points, and one of them is often called the "ground", or the zero volt (0V) point. In most AC electrical installation there is eventually a connection to the real ground through a water pipe or any convenient metallic conductor buried underground, using the whole planet Earth as a reference voltage. In DC circuits, the negative end of a battery is often called the "ground", even though there is no connection to the real ground. Lightning rods are normally "grounded" through a copper cable on the side of a building and connected to a spike planted into the ground.
Some of the tools for measuring the voltage are the voltmeter and the oscilloscope.
The voltmeter measures the voltage between two points and can be set to the DC mode or the AC mode. The voltmeter can measure the DC voltage of a battery for example (typically 1.5V or 9V), or the AC voltage from the power socket on the wall (typically 120V).
For more complex signals, an oscilloscope can be used the measured the DC and/or AC voltage, for example to measure the voltage across a speaker.
The voltage, or potential difference from point a to point b is the amount of energy in joules (as a result of electric field) required to move 1 coulomb of positive charge from point a to point b. A negative voltage between points a and b is one in which 1 coulomb of energy is required to move a negative charge from point a to b. If there is a uniform electric field about a charged object, negatively charged objects will be pulled towards higher voltages, and positively charged objects will be pulled towards lower voltages. The potential difference/Voltage between two points is independent of the path taken to get from point a to b. Thus, the voltage from a to b + the voltage from b to c will always equal the voltage from a to c.

</doc>
<doc id="28263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28263" title="Stopwatch">
Stopwatch

A stopwatch is a tool used to measure the amount of time something takes. For example, to learn how soon a car can reach 60 miles per hour, or how much time it takes a runner to run 40 yards. These days, stopwatches are even installed in digital watches. You press a button to start the time and press it again to stop the time. The time is displayed on the screen of it. It even tells you the millisecond!

</doc>
<doc id="28272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28272" title="Departments of France">
Departments of France

The départements (or departments) are administrative parts of France and many former French colonies, similar to English counties. "Départements" are a kind of local government.
The 101 French "départements" are now grouped into 22 metropolitan and five overseas régions. Their capitals are called préfectures.
Notes:

</doc>
<doc id="28273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28273" title="Macrosociology">
Macrosociology

Macro-sociology is a way of looking at the world of people in a broad way. It studies mass of many peoples. It is about "concerned with human societies". Macrosociology is considered one of the main foundations of sociology (contrast with micro-sociology). 
In sociology there are different levels of analysis. Macro-sociology is the analysis of either large collectivities (the city, the church) or, more abstractly, of social systems and social structures. (Dictionary of Sociology, 2000)
With the perspective of macro-sociology, it is possible to better understand societies, culture, groups and organizations.
Important representatives of macro-sociological theories are:

</doc>
<doc id="28277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28277" title="Banja Luka Region">
Banja Luka Region

Banja Luka is one of seven regions in Republika Srpska. In the center of this region is the city of Banja Luka. There are about 709,000 people in Banja Luka Region.

</doc>
<doc id="28279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28279" title="Doboj Region">
Doboj Region

"Doboj Region" is a one of seven regions in Republika Srpska. In the center of this region is town of Doboj. Doboj Region is located in the north of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

</doc>
<doc id="28281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28281" title="Bijeljina Region">
Bijeljina Region

Bijeljina Region is one of seven regions in the Republika Srpska entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The capital city of this region is Bijeljina.
Bijeljina Region is located in the northeast of the country.

</doc>
<doc id="28289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28289" title="Flag of Poland">
Flag of Poland

The flag of Poland is rectangular, divided into two stripes: white above red. It was created in its modern form in 1921. The colors white and red were earlier declared the official national colors in 1831 by the Polish Parliament in 1831.
For many centuries the Polish flag was a white eagle on a red background.
The ratio of height to width is 5 to 8. The two horizontal stripes are of equal height.
There is a second version which has a coat of arms in the upper (white) half. The use of this flag is legally restricted.
If the flag is shown hanging vertically, the white should be on the left.
Polish flag day is May 2.
The exact color of the red was not clearly stated originally, and has changed through the years. In 1919 the official act did not clearly define the red. In 1921 the Polish Ministry of Military Affairs used crimson as the shade of red in publications. In 1928 the president of Poland said the red should be vermilion. That was used until 1980, when people needed to specify the red more scientifically.
The same flag design is used in the German region Thuringia and the Spanish region Cantabria.
Both Indonesia and Monaco have flags that are the same colors, but upside-down.

</doc>
<doc id="28293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28293" title="Transrapid">
Transrapid

The Transrapid is a high speed train developed in Germany. It uses magnetic levitation. It can go very fast, up to 500km/h. Since now it is only used in Shanghai. 
It is developed by the company TRANSRAPID INTERNATIONAL GmbH & Co. KG, a company of the Siemens AG and the ThyssenKrupp AG. 

</doc>
<doc id="28295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28295" title="Torque">
Torque

In physics, torque is the tendency of a force to turn or twist. If a force is used to begin to spin an object, or to stop an object from spinning, a torque is made.
The force applied to a lever, multiplied by the distance from the lever's fulcrum, multiplied again by the sine of the angle created, is described as torque. This is also known as "r cross f," or "force times fulcrum distance times sine theta."
Fulcrum is the axis of rotation or point of support on which a lever turns in raising or moving something.
The equation for torque is:
where F is the force vector and r is the vector from the axis of rotation to the point where the force is acting. 
The units of torque are force multiplied by distance. The SI unit of torque is the newton-metre. The most common English unit is the foot-pound.

</doc>
<doc id="28299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28299" title="Warm">
Warm

Warm is the opposite of cool.
When objects get warm, more energy is stored in them. When an object is heated, its molecules move faster. Heat always goes from a warmer object to a colder object; it never goes in the opposite way. A person usually feels good when they are warm, but they do not like to be too warm, because this may become uncomfortable.

</doc>
<doc id="28300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28300" title="University of Leeds">
University of Leeds

The University of Leeds (sometimes called Leeds University) is a university in Leeds, West Yorkshire, UK. It first started in 1831 with the opening of a school to teach medicine which was one of the first outside of London, Oxford, and Cambridge.
Today one of the UK's leading universities. It is a member of the Russell Group. The university is one of two in the city, the other being Leeds Metropolitan University. The main campus is in the Woodhouse area of Leeds, close to Leeds City Centre.
The main campus is situated in the Woodhouse area of Leeds, which is about half a mile from the city centre. The campus has many older Victorial buildings such as the Great Hall, as well as some mid-twentieth century buildings such as the Parkinson Building. There are also many brutalist building on campus sich as the Roger Stevens Building and the Edward Boyle Library. In recent years newer buildings have been added such as the Marjorie and Arnold Ziff Building.

</doc>
<doc id="28301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28301" title="Leeds">
Leeds

Leeds is a city in the county of West Yorkshire in the north of England. It is one of the cities in the United Kingdom and about 443,247 people live here. Leeds has four universities: University of Leeds, Leeds Metropolitan University, Leeds Trinity University and the University of Law. Leeds is on the River Aire. The city's football team is Leeds United AFC.
In Roman times, Leeds was called 'Loidis' which means 'People of the flowing river'.
Leeds grew into a large city, mainly during Victorian times, many factories were built in the city, making cloth as well as other products. Most of these factories have now closed.
With the building of many of the factories and mills in Leeds, many canals and railways were built in the city as well. 
Leeds used to have a tram system, but this was removed in 1959. There have been plans to bring it back. Trolleybuses have also been thought of.
Marks and Spencers started with a market stall in Leeds Market, and they now have shops throughout the city, with their largest one being on Briggate.
Much of Leeds was rebuilt in the 1960s and 1970s as the old Victorian buildings were mostly run down and unsuitable for modern use. Many new council houses and flats were built around the city.
In the 1970s, the council used the motto 'Motorway City of the 1970s' to try to promote the city. This is because the Leeds Inner Ring Road is a motorway and the M1 motorway, which starts in London, ended in central Leeds.
Today Leeds still has many factories and offices for large companies. The City Centre has attracted many shops, offices, pubs, restaurants and bars. Leeds now has some skyscrapers such as Bridgewater Place. Leeds and Manchester are the most important cities for business in the North of England. Many banks have their offices in Leeds.
Many flats have also been built in the city centre. Leeds has some expensive areas to live like Chapel Allerton, Headingley, Kirkstall, Horsforth, Roundhay and Alwoodley but it also has some cheap places to live where crime is high like Harehills, Chapeltown, Seacroft and Beeston. There have been riots in Harehills and Chapeltown before.
Tetley's Bitter is made at a brewery in Leeds. This is sold in many pubs and shops in Britain. Tetley's also used to have many pubs in Yorkshire but have sold many, although Tetley's Bitter is still sold there.
ASDA is Britains second biggest supermarket. It started in Leeds, and it still has its headquarters in the city.
Leeds has a large railway station in the City Centre as well as many smaller ones in suburbs. It also has an airport called Leeds Bradford International Airport. There are many motorways in and around the city as well. Leeds has a bus station with 26 stands and more stands for National Express services going to other cities. However, it is too small to cope with internal buses, so they stop at bus stops along the streets. Leeds has an outer ring road and an inner ring road. The inner ring road is a motorway.
Leeds is famous for its sports, too. It has a Rugby league team called Leeds Rhinos and a Rugby union team called Yorkshire Carnegie. It also has a football team called Leeds United. Yorkshire Cricket play in Leeds too. The fourth test of the 2009 Ashes was hosted at the Headingley Stadium in Leeds.
Leeds City Council are the council for Leeds as well as other nearby towns that are part of the City of Leeds borough such as Wetherby, Otley, Yeadon, Garforth and Rothwell.
The Yorkshire Evening Post is the local newspaper for Leeds and is published every evening. BBC Yorkshire, Yorkshire Television and Leeds Television all have their studios in Leeds. The Yorkshire Television studios are currently in the process of being downsized as ITV looks to reduce costs.
See Also

</doc>
<doc id="28303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28303" title="Strong interaction">
Strong interaction

The strong interaction (or strong nuclear force) is one of the four fundamental forces in particle physics, which are forces which can't be made even simpler. Despite being the most powerful fundamental force, being 10 (1 followed by 38 zeros) times as strong as gravity, it only works over lengths of a few femtometres (fm), which is about 10 (0.000000000000001) metres long. Scientists often divide it into two parts: the colour force and nuclear force. At distances of 0.8 fm and less, the colour force is responsible for holding subatomic particles, like protons and neutrons together. At distances of 1 to 3 fm, the nuclear force binds subatomic particles into atom nuclei.
The strong interaction is often thought to be controlled by gluons, which 'glue' quarks together through the strong force. Gluons can be exchanged (moved) between quarks, antiquarks and other gluons. All of those particles are said to carry a 'colour charge', a property of elementary particles which is like electric charge. Particles with colour charge exchange gluons, like how particles with electric charge exchange electrons.
In the theory of quantum chromodynamics (QCD), the strong force is the interactions between quarks and gluons. Quantum chromodynamics is the theory that explains different colours. The strong force is the basic force controlled by gluons, affecting quarks, antiquarks, and the gluons themselves.
The strong force only affects quarks "directly". Between hadrons, the strong force is known as the nuclear force. The strong force is the reason why we can't see free quarks, i.e. quarks that are by themselves. This event is called colour confinement, a theory which says you can only see hadrons.
The colour strong force is the nuclear force that acts between the three quarks that a proton or neutron is made of. It is called the colour strong force because, like the electromagnetic force, the strong force has charges. The major difference is that the electromagnetic force has only one charge (magnetic charges are just slow-moving electric charges), and the strong force has three. These three types of charges are named after colours: red, blue, and green. They also have anti-colours: anti-red, anti-blue and anti-green. Like the electromagnetic force, opposite colors attract, and the same colors repel. Some particles that have color charge are quarks and antiquarks. The type of quark is not related to that quark's color charge at all. Quarks are one of the smallest particles currently known to humans; they take up no space because they are points, and the only particles that we have not been able to break apart from other particles yet. This is in fact because the nature of the strong force between particles is that it becomes stronger the further away the particles are. The force carrier of the strong force is called the gluon. Gluons also have color charge. Both quarks and gluons have properties that make them unique from other particles.
The nuclear force, or residual (leftover) strong force is the strong force as it acts between hadrons (particles made of two or three quarks, e.g. protons and neutrons). It is what holds the nucleus of an atom together. 

</doc>
<doc id="28304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28304" title="Neuwied">
Neuwied

Neuwied is a German town in Rhineland-Palatinate. It is on the north/west side of the Rhine River, about northwest from Koblenz. About 70.000 people live there.
The 86,5 square kilometres of area are divided in the districts of:
Neuwied is connected to the German network of "Bundesstraßen (national routes)" (here: B9, B42 and B256). The "Autobahnen (motorways)" A3, A48 and A61 are quickly reachable from Neuwied. Using the Koblenz main station, all rhine railways and the Intercity network of Germany are available.
There is a lot of industry in Neuwied, for example the production of building materials, metals and big-sized machines.

</doc>
<doc id="28309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28309" title="Brittany">
Brittany

Brittany is a region in Northwest France. In Breton it is called ' and in French '.
Today the official administrative region has 4 departments:
Before 1941, a fifth département was part of Brittany: Loire-Atlantique. The five departements are called "historical Brittany".
Brittany is situated in the West of France and its coastline juts out into the Atlantic. Warmed by the Gulf Stream, Brittany has a mild and temperate climate with warm summers and wet winters.
Three languages are traditionally spoken in Brittany:
The capital of Brittany is Rennes, a lively city in the Ille-et-Vilaine department.
Brittany is the home of the world's largest collection of standing stones in one place, the Carnac stones.
Brittany's main industry is agriculture, in particular: pork farming, chicken farming and the production of maize (for cattle feed). Brittany is also the name of a dog breed.

</doc>
<doc id="28310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28310" title="Standard Model">
Standard Model

The Standard Model (SM) of physics is a theory of the elementary particles, which are either fermions or bosons. It also explains three of the four basic forces of nature. The four fundamental forces are: gravity, electromagnetism, the weak force, and the strong force. Gravity is the one the model does not explain.
The model uses the parts of physics called quantum mechanics and special relativity, and the ideas of physical field and symmetry breaking. Some of the mathematics of the SM is group theory, and also as equations which have biggest and smallest points, called Lagrangians and Hamiltonians. 
Fermions are particles that join together to make up all "matter" we see. Examples of groups of fermions are the proton and the neutron. Fermions have properties, such as charge and mass, which can be seen in everyday life. They also have other properties, such as spin, weak charge, hypercharge, and color charge, whose effects do not usually appear in everyday life. These properties are given numbers called quantum numbers. 
Fermions are particles whose spin numbers equal an odd, positive number times one half: 1/2, 3/2, 5/2, etc. We say that fermions have "half integer spin."
An important fact about fermions is that they follow a rule called the Pauli exclusion principle. This rule says that no two fermions can be in the same "place" at the same time, because no two fermions in an atom can have the same quantum numbers at the same time. Fermions also obey a theory called Fermi-Dirac statistics. The word "fermion" honors the physicist Enrico Fermi.
There are 12 different types of fermions. Each type is called a "flavor." Their names are:
Quarks are grouped into three pairs. Each pair is called a "generation." The first quark in each pair has charge 2/3, and the second quark has charge -1/3. The three kinds of neutrino have a charge of 0. The electron, muon, and tau have charge -1.
Matter is made of atoms, and atoms are made of electrons, protons, and neutrons. Protons and neutrons are made of up and down quarks. You can find one lepton by itself, but you can never find quarks alone. This is because quarks are held together by the color force.
Bosons are the second type of elementary particle in the standard model. All bosons have an integer spin (1, 2, 3, etc..) so many of them can be in the same place at the same time. There are two types of bosons, gauge bosons and the Higgs boson. Gauge bosons are what make the fundamental forces of nature possible. (We are not yet sure if gravity works through a gauge boson.) Every force that acts on fermions happens because gauge bosons are moving between the fermions, carrying the force. Bosons follow a theory called Bose-Einstein statistics. The word "boson" honors the Indian physicist Satyendra Nath Bose.
The standard model says that there are:
These particles have all been seen either in nature or in the laboratory. The model also predicts that there is a Higgs boson. The model says that fermions have mass (they are not just pure energy) because Higgs bosons travel back and forth between them. The Higgs boson is believed to have been discovered on July 4th, 2012. It is the particle that gives mass to other particles.
There are four basic known forces of nature. These forces affect fermions, and are carried by bosons traveling between those fermions. The standard model explains three of these four forces.
The strong and weak forces are only seen inside the nucleus of an atom. They only work over very tiny distances: distances that are about as far as a proton is wide. The electromagnetic force and gravity work over any distance, but the strength of these forces goes down as the affected objects get farther apart. The force goes down with the square of the distance between the affected objects: for example, if two objects become twice as far away from each other, the force of gravity between them becomes four times less strong (2=4).
The standard model falls short of being a theory of everything. It does not include the full theory of gravitation as described by general relativity, or account for the accelerating expansion of the universe (as possibly described by dark energy). The model does not contain any dark matter particle that has all the properties got from observational cosmology. The SM is believed to be theoretically self-consistent. It has demonstrated huge and continued successes in experimental predictions, but it does leave some things unexplained.

</doc>
<doc id="28313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28313" title="Moldovan language">
Moldovan language

Moldovan () is the official language of the Republic of Moldova. It is the same as the Romanian language. The main difference is that Moldovan was written in Cyrillic alphabet, because the Moldavian SSR was part of the Soviet Union until 1989. In 1989 Moldova became its own country and they started to use the Latin alphabet just like in Romania. On the 5th of December 2013 the Moldovan government chose the Romanian language as the official one.
In the unrecognized state of Transnistria, one of the official languages is still Moldovan, along with Russian and Ukrainian. But here it is still written with the Cyrillic alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="28315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28315" title="List of states with limited recognition">
List of states with limited recognition

In international law a political entity needs to fulfill different criteria to become a state: One of these criteria is that other states must recognize it as a state. If more states recognize it, becoming a "de jure" sovereign state will be easier. 
Many of the territories listed below broke off (separated themselves) from their original parent state, and so they are often referred to as "break-away" states. They may have some military protection and informal diplomatic representation abroad. Another state may help them avoid forced reincorporation into its original state. 
United Nations member states that are only partially recognized by the totality of the other UN members are not listed here. (For example, 39 countries do not recognize Israel.)
Created by the Republic of South Africa from its own territory
These regimes had control over the territory of a country for which most other states recognized a different government as being the legitimate government:

</doc>
<doc id="28328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28328" title="Electrical resistance">
Electrical resistance

The electrical resistance of an electrical conductor is a measure of the difficulty of passing an electric current through that conductor. It explains the relationship between voltage (amount of electrical pressure) and the current (flow of electricity). With more resistance in a circuit, less electricity will flow through the circuit. 
Resistance, discovered by Georg Simon Ohm in 1827, is the ratio between voltage and current. Ohm's law said that the voltage between any two points in a conductor changes directly as the current between the two points, given the temperature remains the same. He described it with the equation:
which models the ratio, where: 
The resistance of a wire increases as it becomes longer and decreases as it becomes wider. (A simple analogy is a road - the more lanes there are, the less traffic there is.) The resistance of a wire with a constant width, therefore, can be calculated as:
where formula_6 is the length of the conductor, measured in meters [m], formula_7 is the cross-sectional area of the conductor measured in square meters [m²], and (Greek: rho) is the electrical resistivity (also called "specific electrical resistance") of the material, measured in ohm-meters (Ω m).
Example:
Calculate the resistance of copper wire with a radius of 2mm and a length of 5 meters.
Solution:
Because: formula_5
formula_15
Resistors are used in electrical circuits to provide electrical resistance. 

</doc>
<doc id="28331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28331" title="Electromagnetic induction">
Electromagnetic induction

Electromagnetic induction is where a voltage or current is produced in a conductor by a changing magnetic flux.
When a coiled wire is introduced near a magnet, the magnetic lines of force pass through the coil. This causes the magnetic flux to change.
Magnetic flux is represented by the symbol formula_1, therefore we can say that formula_1 = BAcos(a) and the resulting unit will be formula_3, where T is the unit for magnetic field and formula_4 is the unit for area.
The changing magnetic flux generates an electromotive force (EMF). This force moves free electrons in a certain way, which constitute a current.
Michael Faraday found that an electromotive force is generated when there is a change in magnetic flux in a conductor.
His laws state that:
formula_5
where,
formula_6 is the electromotive force, measured in volts;
formula_7 is the change in magnetic flux, measured in webers;
formula_8 is the change in time, measured in seconds.
In the case of a solenoid:
formula_9
where,
N is the number of loops in the solenoid.
The negative sign in both equation above is a result of Lenz's law, named after Heinrich Lenz. His law states that the electromotive force (EMF) produces a current that opposes the motion of the changing magnetic flux.

</doc>
<doc id="28335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28335" title="BBC Proms">
BBC Proms

The Proms are concerts which are part of a big music festival. “Proms” is short for “Promenade Concerts”. The Proms are organized by the BBC, so they are called the “BBC Proms”. They take place in the Royal Albert Hall, in London from mid-July to mid-September every year.
The Proms started more than 100 years ago, in 1895. Concerts were expensive in those days, and not many people had enough money to go and hear good music. Most people were only able to hear good music when they went for walks in the London parks where there were Promenade concerts. Orchestras and bands played in bandstands. Most of the music was popular and easy to listen to. People could enjoy the music while they walked about.
In the centre of London there was a building called the Queen's Hall. A man called Robert Newman organized concerts there. He had an idea. He wanted to start a series of concerts which ordinary people (people who were not rich) could afford to go to. He wanted to start a series of “promenade concerts” (in French “se promener” means “to walk”). The idea was that people could have standing places which would not cost much money. There would also be seats for people who could afford to pay more.
Robert Newman knew a very good young conductor, Henry Wood. He asked him to be the conductor of the Proms. A man called Dr Cathcart gave them enough money to get an orchestra together. On 10 August 1895 the first Promenade Concert took place in the Queen’s Hall. The price of a promenade ticket (a ticket for a standing place) was one shilling. 
The Promenade Concerts were a big success, and soon became known as the "Henry Wood Promenade Concerts". Wood conducted both popular music and the classical works of Mozart, Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Tchaikovsky, Brahms and Wagner, as well as some English composers. Wallace and Cowan, popular then, have today faded from the scene, although Elgar and Delius have survived due to Wood's Proms. This broke the convention that famous composers, conductors and singers could not be English. 
Some of the music Wood conducted was very new indeed. In 1912 he conducted a piece called “Five Orchestral Pieces” by an Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg (1874-1951). Its initial lack of appreciation was overcome by inviting Schoenberg to come to England and conduct it himself in 1914. 
Henry Wood conducted almost all of the Proms for fifty years, until just before his death in 1944. His innovations with the orchestra staff were to abolish deputies (allegedly in 1904 when, at one rehearsal, none of the regular orchestra, and only deputies attended). Forty members of the orchestra were offended by that decision, and broke away to form what is now the London Symphony Orchestra. In 1913, Wood was also the first English conductor to appoint women to play in his orchestra.
In 1927 the BBC started to fund Proms. The radio was a new invention (then termed the “wireless”). Radio broadcasts increased interest in attending live concerts. In 1930 the BBC Symphony Orchestra was formed, playing at a majority of Prom concerts.
In 1941, during World War II, the Queen’s Hall was destroyed by bombs. The Proms continued to take place in the Royal Albert Hall. Then it became too dangerous in London and the Proms were held in Bristol and then Bedford. After the War the Proms went back to the Royal Albert Hall. They have been held there ever since. From the 1940s to the late 1960s the BBC Symphony Orchestra played at most of the concerts under the very popular conductor Sir Malcolm Sargent whose Last Night speeches became legendary for their wit.
Today the Proms are very different from when they started. It is much more international. The BBC Symphony Orchestra play several concerts each season but there are lots of other orchestras from all over the world who come to play. People can hear different kinds of music at the Proms: not just classical music but jazz and music from far-away countries. In 2005 the famous Indian musician Ravi Shankar played the sitar at one of the Proms. In 2008 the violinist Nigel Kennedy played the "Violin Concerto" by Edward Elgar with the BBC Concert Orchestra, then came back an hour later to give a Late Night Prom of jazz music with the Nigel Kennedy Quintet.
The Proms also include special activities for children. The television programme Blue Peter put on a Blue Peter Prom which is given twice during the weekend at the beginning of the school holidays in late July. In the 2007 season they organized a special Brass Day where children could take part with their instruments. BBC Music Intro put on workshops in the late afternoon for children and their families to learn about music. In 2008 there was a Dr Who prom which was extremely popular, especially with children. This theme will be repeated in 2010.
Henry Wood encouraged composers to write new music by performing it at the Proms. Today this tradition continues as the BBC often commission composers to write new music for the Proms. Some pieces which had their first performance at the Proms have become very well-known, e.g. "The Confession of Isobel Gowdie" by James MacMillan (first performed in 1990), or John Tavener's "The Protecting Veil" (first performed in 1989).
For many years now every Prom has been broadcast live on BBC Radio 3. Some of them are shown on television, either on BBC2 or on BBC4 where viewers can, if they wish, read comments about the music as it is played. People can also listen to the Proms for several days afterwards on the Proms website.
There is a Prom every night (i.e. every evening) for two months during the summer. The last concert is called the “Last Night of the Proms”. It is very famous and millions of people can watch it on television in lots of countries all over the world. Some people who go to the Last Night dress up in funny clothes and wave flags. They hear a piece of music called "Fantasia on British Sea Songs", written by Henry Wood in 1905. It is based on sailors' sea shanties including a 'hornpipe'. The dance that gets faster and faster and the audience clap along, trying to keep up with the orchestra. It includes the song “Rule Britannia”. The orchestra always play Edward Elgar's "Pomp and Circumstance March no 1" which has the tune "Land of Hope and Glory". The concert finishes with Parry's hymn "Jerusalem". The conductor also makes a speech. 
Since 1996 there have been Proms in parks in other towns in the United Kingdom to which thousands of people can go. These all take place on the same night, and there is interactive communication between them and the Prom in the Royal Albert Hall. 
One way to go to the Proms is to buy a ticket for a seat, just like any other sort of concert. But many people think the best way to go to the Proms is to be a promenader. This means having a standing place. There are two places to prom: downstairs in the arena and upstairs in the gallery. The Royal Albert Hall is round, and looks like an old Roman amphitheatre. That is why the floor downstairs is called the “arena”, like in an amphitheatre. The promenaders who stand downstairs are near the orchestra, especially the front rows. But it can be quite a squash when there are lots of people, and small children need to be near the front to see properly. The other place to promenade is upstairs in the gallery. There is more room there, and it is easy to see, and easy to sit down or even lie down when one feels tired. 
A ticket to promenade costs £5. People who want to be a promenader have to wait in a queue outside and buy their ticket as they go in. Anyone who wants to be near the front should join the queue early, especially for the very popular concerts, and at the weekend. Some people queue for hours. They pass the time by talking to one another, reading or playing games. It is all good fun and part of enjoying being at the Proms.

</doc>
<doc id="28338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28338" title="Mount Merapi">
Mount Merapi

Mount Merapi (Gunung Merapi in Indonesian) is a volcano in Indonesia. It is on the island of Java. It is conical in shape. It is the most active volcano of Indonesia. In Indonesian, the name means "mountain of fire". The volcano has erupted (spewn fire,gases and ash) 68 times, since 1548. Many people have died during its eruptions.
In 2006, scientists believed that the volcano would erupt soon. An earthquake occurred in that region on May 27, 2006, and killed about 6,200 people. On June 6, super hot gas and ash poured down the mountain. These hot gases are known as a pyroclastic flow. Two people were killed, and 15,000 people rushed to safety.
On 25 October 2010 the Indonesian government warned villagers living near the mountain to move to safer ground. Officials said hundreds of volcanic earthquakes had been recorded on the mountain over the weekend of 23–24 October, and that the magma had risen to about 1 kilometre (3,300 ft) below the surface due to the seismic activity. People living within a 20 km (12.5 mile) zone were told they must leave.
On the afternoon of 25 October 2010 lava erupted from the southern and south-eastern slopes of Mount Merapi. Many more followed over the next two weeks. There were also pyroclastic flows.
After the recovery of more bodies, an official in disaster management said the death toll reached 273 up to 18 November.

</doc>
<doc id="28344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28344" title="Electrical conductor">
Electrical conductor

A conductor is a material which electricity, heat or sound can flow through. 
Most metals, like iron and copper, are electrical conductors. These metals are used to make wires to carry electric current. Plasma is an excellent conductor of electricity and is used for many purposes but metals are more used. 
Some materials are "semiconductors". This means that electricity "can" flow through them, but not very well.
Some materials are "resistors". This means that they make it very hard for electricity to flow through them.
A material that stops electric current is called an insulator (electricity). Wires are covered with insulators like plastic to stop the electricity from leaving the wire.
Some materials when really cold, are superconductors. They offer no resistance at all to the flow of electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="28345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28345" title="Michelson interferometer">
Michelson interferometer

The Michelson interferometer is the tool used for optical interferometry.
It was invented by Albert Abraham Michelson, famous for proving the inexistence of luminiferous aether in the Michelson-Morley experiment.
There are two mirrors in the interferometer, one fixed and the other is movable through a micrometer. 
There is also a beam splitter that separates the laser or light beam and a screen that shows the interference pattern.
A wide laser or light beam is first shot at the beam splitter. Reflection takes place as the beam hits the beam splitter, part of it reflects towards mirror 1 while the rest towards mirror 2. The two beams again reflect off mirror 1 and 2 and travel back to the beam splitter, the two beams that goes through the beam splitter will combine and form an interference pattern at the screen.
The interference pattern will appear as bands and each band represents 2 path length difference or 1 wavelength, that is because the crest of wave 1 has caught up with the crest of wave 2 (or the other way around), causing a constructive interference. If given the change in distance of the movable mirror and number of bands on the screen, we can easily calculate the wavelength of the light source.

</doc>
<doc id="28351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28351" title="The Gods Must Be Crazy">
The Gods Must Be Crazy

The Gods Must Be Crazy is a movie directed by Jamie Uys. It was released in the United States by 20th Century Fox in 1980.
Upon its release, "The Gods Must Be Crazy" made the more money than any other foreign movie. Four sequels followed from 1989 to 1994. The last three in the series were made in Hong Kong.
It stars Namibian farmer N!xau as a Bushman, whose happy village (in Africa's Kalahari desert) suddenly turns to a violent society, after a Coke bottle falls down there from a passing airplane. The Bushman, Xixo, decides to return the bottle to the "end of the earth", to finish all the evil his family has gone through. Along the way, he meets a group of terrorists on the run, as well as a clumsy scientist who falls in love with a former newspaper journalist. During his journey, Xixo encounters modern civilisation for the first time.

</doc>
<doc id="28352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28352" title="Janus">
Janus

Janus was a two-faced god of Roman mythology who kept the gate of Heaven. He was the god of beginnings and ends, and so of gates, doors, doorways and passages. He is usually depicted as having two faces, since he looks to the future and to the past. The Romans named the month of January (Ianuarius) in his honor. In January we look back on the last year and forward to the next. 
Janus presided over the beginning and ending of conflict, and hence war and peace. The doors of his temple were open in time of war, and closed to mark the peace. As a god of transitions, he was remembered at births, and journeys: he was concerned with travelling, trading and shipping.
It was also said that his face was split in two since a door can let you in or out. 
An unusual feature of the mythology is that the ancient Greeks had no version of Janus. 

</doc>
<doc id="28354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28354" title="The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland">
The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland

The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland is an animated movie from 1987, released by Cineplex Odeon Films. It is the last big-screen movie to star the Care Bears characters, and is loosely based on Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland" stories.
This movie has a sequel called "" (1986).

</doc>
<doc id="28360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28360" title="Rhea">
Rhea

Rhea could mean:
These people have "Rhea" as their family name:
These people have it as their given name:

</doc>
<doc id="28362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28362" title="Conducting">
Conducting

Conducting in the musical sense means: beating time to help a group of musicians to play well together.
If a large orchestra is playing music, it is important that they all play exactly together. They need to know exactly when to start, what speed to go, how loud or quietly to play and what the mood of the music should be. If two, three or four people play music together they can talk about this amongst themselves and one person can nod with his/her head or with a violin bow or flute to help the group to start and finish together. With an orchestra there are so many people that they need a conductor.
In the 17th century orchestras were very small so they did not need a conductor. But as orchestras grew in size it became more and more necessary to have someone in front to lead. The French composer Lully (1632-1687) used to beat time by banging a big stick (like a walking stick) on the floor to the time of the music. One day he banged his stick very hard and it went through his foot and he became ill and died.
Conducting as we know it had become normal by the 19th century. The composer Mendelssohn (1809-1847) was a very good conductor. Some conductors in Victorian times were very conceited and behaved like showmen. The conductor Louis Antoine Jullien (1812-1860) was a French conductor who often came to England. He wore white kid gloves which were presented to him on a silver tray at the start of the concert. He dressed in expensive clothes and his long black hair waved all over the place as he conducted. His success was immense, in France at first, in the UK afterwards and then even in the US where he worked with the showman P.T. Barnum. His concerts were a mix of dance and "classical" music, always with the best musicians. his life is so peculiar that a biography (in French) has been published (see http://louisjullien.site.voila.fr). The conductor Sir Henry Wood (1869-1944), who was famous for conducting The Proms was a well-liked man who was respected and loved by orchestras and audiences.
Conductors usually beat time with their right hand. This leaves their left hand free to show the various instruments when they have entries (when they start playing) or to show them to play louder or softer. Most conductors have a stick called a “baton”. It makes it easier for people at the back of large orchestras or choirs to see the beat. Other conductors prefer not to use a baton. A conductor stands on a small platform called a “rostrum”.
To be a good conductor is not easy. It is not just a question of giving a steady beat. A good conductor has to know the music extremely well so that they can hear any wrong notes. They need to be able to imagine exactly the sound they want the orchestra to make. They also have to communicate this to the orchestra so that they know what the conductor wants. Some conductors speak very little during their rehearsals. They make everything clear through the way they conduct.
Some of the most famous conductors of the past were: Gustav Mahler, Hans Richter, Arthur Nikisch, Arturo Toscanini, Bruno Walter, Wilhelm Furtwängler, Herbert von Karajan, Leopold Stokowski, Georg Solti, John Barbirolli, Otto Klemperer, George Szell and Leonard Bernstein.
Some of the most famous conductors today are: Claudio Abbado, Marin Alsop, Vladimir Ashkenazy, Sir Colin Davis, Sir Andrew Davis, Valery Gergiev and Bernard Haitink.
The main conductor who is in charge of an orchestra is often given the title "musical director". This will usually mean that he has a lot of power in the organization of the orchestra. Orchestras may give honorary titles to their conductor such as "conductor laureate". A "guest conductor" is one who conducts an orchestra regularly but is not the main conductor. An "assistant conductor" will often be a young conductor who helps the main conductor and gets the chance to conduct some of the concerts.

</doc>
<doc id="28363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28363" title="Norwegian language">
Norwegian language

The Norwegian language is the official language of Norway. It is spoken by over four and a half million people, and it belongs to the group of North Germanic languages which are spoken in Scandinavia. These include Swedish, Danish, Icelandic and Faeroese.
Two forms of the language exist: (which means "book language") and (which means "new Norwegian").
Old Norse is the language that was spoken hundreds of years ago in Scandinavia at the time of the Vikings. It is very similar to today’s Icelandic language. This is because many Vikings sailed from Norway to Iceland in order to escape from the rule of the Norwegian kings who were making people pay lots of tax.
During the 13th century the Black Death killed two thirds of the population of Norway. The Danish kings and queens noticed that Norway was weak and defenceless, so they annexed Norway (made it part of Denmark). For hundreds of years Norway was ruled by the Danes. All the rulers, priests, estate owners and noblemen were Danish. Many of them settled in Norway. This is why today’s standard Norwegian (Bokmål) is similar to Danish. Norwegians were not allowed to print books in Norwegian. Anyone wanting to study had to go to Denmark or Germany.
In 1814 Denmark lost a war and had to give Norway to Sweden. Then the Norwegians were allowed to have their own university. Gradually the Danish language was mixed up with the Norwegian dialects and became today’s Norwegian language. Norwegian and Danish look very similar when they are written, but when they are spoken they sound different. In Danish a lot of the sounds are swallowed.
During the 19th century a slightly different form of Norwegian was made up by several people. This eventually became known as “Nynorsk.” It was based on old forms of Norwegian and dialects. During the 20th century some attempts were made to join Bokmål and Nynorsk into one language, but they did not succeed. Today about one person in nine or ten in Norway writes Nynorsk. Children in school have to learn both forms.
The Norwegian alphabet has 29 letters. These are the same letters as the English alphabet plus three extra vowels: 
The letters "c", "q", "w", "x" and "z" are only used for words that have been borrowed from other languages.

</doc>
<doc id="28369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28369" title="French Polynesia">
French Polynesia

French Polynesia (, Tahitian: "Porinetia Farani") is a French "overseas collectivity" (French: "collectivité d'outre mer", or COM) with the particular designation of "overseas country" (French: "pays d'outre-mer", or "POM") in the southern Pacific Ocean.
The country is made up of several groups of Polynesian islands. The most well-known is Tahiti, the most populous island, which is in the Society Islands group. The capital of the territory, Papeete, is also there.
Although it does not really belong in the territory, French Polynesia is in charge of affairs for Clipperton Island.
Other island groups include:
Aside from Tahiti, some other important atolls, islands, and island groups in French Polynesia are: Ahe, Bora Bora, Hiva `Oa, Huahine, Maiao, Maupiti, Mehetia, Moorea, Nuku Hiva, Raiatea, Tahaa, Tetiaroa, Tubuai, and Tupai.

</doc>
<doc id="28370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28370" title="Magnitude">
Magnitude

Magnitude could mean:
In astronomy:
In seismology:
Other:

</doc>
<doc id="28372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28372" title="Osnabrück">
Osnabrück

Osnabrück is a city in Germany in the state of Lower Saxony. It is around 1,200 years old. The castle dates back to the 19th century. The city was founded by Charlemagne. It has about 165,000 inhabitants, and is twinned with Derby, UK, as well as five other cities around Europe.
Osnabrück is in the south of the state, on the border with North Rhine-Westphalia. It shares an airport with the neighbouring city of Münster which is in North Rhine-Westphalia. It is the only German city in a national park.
It is known as the City of Peace.

</doc>
<doc id="28373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28373" title="Neighbour">
Neighbour

A Neighbour (or neighbor in American English) is a person who lives nearby, normally in a house or apartment that is next door or, in the case of houses, across the street. Some people form friendships with their neighbours, and help them by sharing their tools and helping with gardening tasks. Other people become frustrated with their neighbours, if the neighbour makes a lot of noise or makes messes.
A group of people living close together in a small community is called a neighbourhood. Some neighbourhoods have many community organizations, where people volunteer and do charitable activities. Other neighbourhoods in poor communities may have no community organizations, and there may be many problems in the community, such as illegal drugs, prostitution, and homelessness.

</doc>
<doc id="28374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28374" title="Flip-flop (electronics)">
Flip-flop (electronics)

A flip-flop is a special kind of electronic switch. It's a logic element, and can hold one bit of binary memory (either on or off, 1 or 0..). More of these allow the storage of large amounts of information. There are many types of flip-flop Electrical circuits such as D-flip flop, Latch, etc.
Flip flop is a bistable multivibrator.
There are three kind of multivibrators:
1.Monostable
2.Bistable
3.Astable

</doc>
<doc id="28383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28383" title="Satoshi Tajiri">
Satoshi Tajiri


</doc>
<doc id="28385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28385" title="Ilkley">
Ilkley

Ilkley is a tourist town in the City of Bradford in West Yorkshire, England. The biggest attraction there is the wonderful and big "Ilkley moores". It is very green and grassy and provides walks for any type of people. One of these walks includes a big rock and a little rock called the cow and calf rocks. This is one of the bigger wonders of the Yorkshire dales. By these rocks there is a pub called "the cow and calf". 
The town is has two railway stations where trains run to Leeds and Bradford.

</doc>
<doc id="28388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28388" title="Econometrics">
Econometrics

Econometrics is a branch of economics. It is the use of statistical and mathematical methods to describe the relation between economic forces such as capital (any of the tools, work, or other things needed to make something useful), interest rates (the price of borrowing money), and labor.
Much of econometrics is making models which are simple pictures of the real world. These models then can be used to predict what will happen in the real world.
An example of econometrics would be looking at the prices of houses in a town. An economist (someone who studies economics) can try to make a simple picture of the house prices in the town. This picture might show that houses close to the market are worth more. An economist could then say that if a new market is made in another part of the town, home prices there might go up. The economist also might say that the new market could make prices less than before near the old one, because the new market will make it so that more houses are near a market. This would make the people who sell houses near a market sell them for less, since there could be more sellers than buyers.

</doc>
<doc id="28389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28389" title="Franconia">
Franconia

Franconia (German: Franken) is the northern part of the German federal state of Bavaria. This region is divided in three smaller regions: Oberfranken, Mittelfranken, and Unterfranken. The biggest city in Franconia is Nuremberg.
Other large cities in Franconia are Coburg, Aschaffenburg, Würzburg, Erlangen, Fürth, Bamberg, Bayreuth, Schweinfurt and Hof. 

</doc>
<doc id="28391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28391" title="King of Arms">
King of Arms

A King of arms is a government officer in countries like England, Scotland, and Wales. He grants coats of arms to other people. King of Arms is the highest rank of officer of arms. Some countries do not have a King of Arms, but have another person that grants coats of arms.
A King of Arms is also usually in charge of special ceremonies for a country.

</doc>
<doc id="28395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28395" title="Psychokinesis">
Psychokinesis

Psychokinesis or telekinesis is the supposed ability to change matter, energy, space or time by using your mind. It is often mentioned and performed in science fiction movies and video games. 
Psychokinesis is the word used to describe many different abilities. These abilities include:

</doc>
<doc id="28398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28398" title="List of international Cartoon Network channels">
List of international Cartoon Network channels

Cartoon Network is an international cartoon television channel for children owned by Turner Broadcasting.
This is a list of Cartoon Network Feeds around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="28401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28401" title="Autobiography">
Autobiography

An autobiography is a biography in which the author writes about his or her own life.
The word comes from the Greek stems "auto" (meaning "self"), "bio“ (meaning "life"), and "graph" (meaning "write").

</doc>
<doc id="28402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28402" title="Penjing">
Penjing

Penjing (盆景 pinyin: pén jǐng, literally tray scenery) is the ancient Chinese art of growing trees and plants in containers. The plants are kept small by skilled pruning.
Penjing is similar to the Japanese art of bonsai.
The first historical reference to "penjing" is from the 9th century.

</doc>
<doc id="28403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28403" title="Brian Eno">
Brian Eno

Brian Eno (born 15 May 1948) is an English musician. He was one of the original members of the band Roxy Music. He makes music called electronic music, which is music made using computers and other electronic devices, like the synthesizer. Brian Eno has worked with other famous musicians and groups like David Bowie and U2.

</doc>
<doc id="28404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28404" title="Kirby (character)">
Kirby (character)

"For the game series see, Kirby (series)"
Kirby is a fictional character in a series of video games published by Nintendo. He has the ability to copy enemies' abilities (special powers). He has been in a number of video games including "Kirby's Adventure", "Super Smash Bros.", "Kirby's Dream Land", "", "", and "".
Kirby (originally named Popopo) has been the main character of some of games made by HAL Laboratory (or HALKEN, as it was called in the 90's).
Kirby has appeared in over twenty games since 1992 and has starred in his own animated series. The Kirby series has sold over 33 million copies all over the world. The original games of the series are platformers. They typically begin with an evil villain threatening his home of Dream Land ("Pupupuland" プププランド) on the planet Pop Star, usually the greedy King Dedede or mysterious Dark Matter.
The main games always have Kirby with the same basic abilities; he can walk, run, jump, float, and inhale and spit out or swallow his enemies. After "Kirby's Dream Land", Kirby was able to gain the abilities of the enemies he swallowed, such as Fire, Sword, Fighter, and Cutter. Kirby also can spit water out of his mouth while underwater. Kirby also has had his own (anime is Japanese cartoons).

</doc>
<doc id="28406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28406" title="Capacitor">
Capacitor

A capacitor (also called condenser, which is the older term) is an electronic device that stores electric energy. It is similar to a battery, but is smaller, lightweight and charges up much quicker. Capacitors are used in many electronic devices today, and can be made out of many different types of material. The Leyden jar was one of the first capacitors invented.
Capacitors are usually made with two metal plates that are on top of each other and near each other, but that do not actually touch. When powered, they allow energy to be stored inside an electrical field. Because the plates need a lot of area to store even a small amount of charge, the plates are usually rolled up into some other shape, such as a cylinder. Sometimes, other shapes of capacitors are used for special purposes. A capacitor-like effect can also result just from two conductors being close to each other, whether you want it to exist or not.
The type of capacitor used depends on the application. Capacitors come in many sizes. They can be as small as an ant or as large as a dustbin. A few capacitors are adjustable. 
All capacitors have two connections, or leads. Most kinds of capacitors can be changed around easily by someone who has basic skills in electronics. However, one of the more powerful types - the electrolytic capacitor - must be used the correct way, or they can explode violently.
While capacitors do have similarities to batteries in that they can store energy - as mentioned earlier - capacitors can also release all their stored energy very quickly, even faster than a second.
A charging and discharging defibrillator or a photoflash capacitor is a good example of how a capacitor gradually charges up, until it can not be filled any more, and then quickly discharges its stored power to a device that needs to have it quickly. 
Supercapacitors hold a bigger charge than regular capacitors. They are used to store electricity for motors and other purposes when batteries won't discharge quickly enough. 
This type of capacitor is not for use in high frequency circuits, being made with a coil inside. They are used in filter circuits or timing circuits which run at several hundred KHz or less.
Electrolytic capacitors use a conducting surface inside a liquid electrolyte. They have polarity and so they have to be attached correctly. There are two leads; one will have a + and the other a -. This means one lead is "positive" and one is "negative". There are two different styles: axial, where the leads are connected to each end, and radial, where the leads are connected to one end. The rating of an electrolytic capacitor is easy to find because they are printed with capacitance and voltage rating.
Since the voltage rating can be low, it is important to check that the electrolytic capacitor is not overcharged. Capacitors can be separated from a battery, then connected in series. Because the capacitor is polarized, the positive terminal must be connected to a negative terminal. This creates "correct polarity" through the electrical circuit and prevents breakdown.
Some electrolytic capacitors are unpolarized, meaning that either side can be positive or negative. These are mostly used in loudspeakers to block low-frequency signals (bass) from reaching high-frequency (tweeter) drivers.

</doc>
<doc id="28410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28410" title="Condenser">
Condenser

Condenser may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="28411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28411" title="Strategy">
Strategy

Strategy is a word which was first used by the military. It comes from an ancient Greek word for the general officer commanding all the armed forces of a state. A strategy is a long term plan on what to do to achieve a certain goal. When talking about the near future, people often use the word "tactics". Military theorist Carl von Clausewitz said "tactics is the art of using troops in battle; strategy is the art of using battles to win the war". Today, the word "strategy" is in common use; people might talk about "business strategy", for example.
The distinction between strategy and tactics applies to any planning which might be done against an enemy or opponent. Strategy is what we broadly intend to do to reach our long-term goal or objective. Tactics is the detailed steps which are used as our progress is opposed by the opponent. For this reason, tactics are short-scale and flexible. Strategy, on the other hand, is changed as little as possible. It may be that our goal simply cannot be reached. In that case, a search goes on for a new goal and a new or adjusted strategy. Often, in war, chess or business, roughly the same tactics are still used to get to a different goal. Negotiation is another area where the distinction between strategy and tactics is especially clear.

</doc>
<doc id="28412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28412" title="Design pattern">
Design pattern

In Computer science, a Design pattern is an abstract solution to a certain problem. Design patterns are used in object oriented programming. They give a possible solution to a problem of designing software.
Design patterns became popular around the year 1995. They also simplify the language between computer scientists. Ideally, a design pattern should be reusable many times. It is like a brick of a house, it can be used for many different problems. One can also build bridges with bricks, not only houses.
These examples are actual examples of design patterns as they are in use. They have not been simplified. It is only the language used to describe them that has been made simpler.
The flyweight design pattern is used to minimize the use of many similar objects. In a text-processing system each letter can have some attributes like formatting, typeface, and size. While it would be possible to create a new object for each character in the document and give it these attributes, it is extremely expensive.
Instead it would be better to create one object for each type of formatting and link the letter to that information. That needs a lot fewer objects. The only extra information that would need to be stored is the word or letter's position in the document. All similar letters would use the same object to define font, size, and other properties.
Another easy to understand pattern is called "Singleton". It is used when there can only be one instance of a given class. That class usually has some static method (e.g. getInstance()) which returns a new instance. It also saves the instance internally. So if it already created the instance, it can simply return it.

</doc>
<doc id="28416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28416" title="Amarillo, Texas">
Amarillo, Texas

Amarillo is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is in the northern part of Texas. The city's economy is mostly based on cattle. In 2000, 173,627 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="28417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28417" title="Lansdowne, Pennsylvania">
Lansdowne, Pennsylvania

Lansdowne is a suburb of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the US.

</doc>
<doc id="28418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28418" title="Gillingham F.C.">
Gillingham F.C.

Gillingham Football Club is an English football club. They are based in the town of Gillingham, Kent. They are currently in the Football League One. They play home games at Priestfield Stadium. Gillingham are managed by Justin Edinbourgh and the chairman is Paul Scally. The club captain, Michael Flynn, plays in central midfield. they finished their last season (2015-16) in 9th.

</doc>
<doc id="28430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28430" title="Round (music)">
Round (music)

A round in music is a song which can be sung by two or more groups of people. One group starts off and the next group start to sing the same song a bit later. It should sound nice together. When a group gets to the end of the song they start again. They can go round and round, singing it several times.
Usually rounds are in 2, 3 or 4 parts (meaning that they are for 2, 3 or 4 groups of people). When a group of people sing or play a round they usually sing it an agreed number of times. This means that the group which starts last also finishes last.
"Frère Jacques" is a famous French round. "London's Burning" is an English round. Both those rounds can be sung in 4 parts.
The oldest round that we know is "Sumer is icumen in". This is a very famous piece of music because it is the oldest piece of music we know that was written down. It was written around 1250 by a monk. It can be sung in 4 parts with 2 bass drones (held notes).
Writing music by making one part imitate another is called canonic writing. Rounds are a kind of canon.

</doc>
<doc id="28431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28431" title="Gallbladder">
Gallbladder

The gallbladder is a pear-shaped organ in your abdomen. It stores about 50 ml of acidic liquid (bile) until the body needs it for digestion. That liquid helps digest fat. The gallbladder is about 7-10cm long in humans. It is dark green in color because of the bile in it. It is connected to the liver and the duodenum by the biliary tract.

</doc>
<doc id="28435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28435" title="Addenbrooke's Hospital">
Addenbrooke's Hospital

Addenbrooke's Hospital is a large hospital in Cambridge, England. The hospital lets people in to look around, once every two years. You can visit the mortuary, the operating theatres and the hospital roof.

</doc>
<doc id="28439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28439" title="Koala">
Koala

Koalas ("Phascolarctos cinereus") are herbivore marsupials that live in the eucalyptus forests of eastern Australia. They are the only living species in the family Phascolarctidae.
Koalas are often called the koala bears because it looks like a small bear or teddy bear. However, it is not a bear, it is quite a different type of animal. 
Koalas have brownish-grey or silver-grey fur, and a big pink and/or black nose. They have sharp claws which help them to climb. 
Koalas' also have finger prints which look the same as human finger prints. Finger print experts have had difficulty in being able to tell if the prints are from a human or koala. Finger prints are rare among mammals that climb trees. Scientists do not know why the koala has them, but their best guess is that it helps the koala select leaves to eat.
Koalas are mostly active at night. They live in trees and are rarely found on the ground. They eat leaves of Eucalyptus trees . Koalas do not drink often, they get most of their water from the Eucalyptus leaves.
Koalas live alone most of the time, but they have a social hierarchy with the other koalas who live near.
After a pregnancy of 35 days, the newly born koala is about a quarter of an inch long, and is born with no ears, eyes, or hair. It crawls into its mothers pouch on its own. After 12 months the young koala is old enough that it does not go into its mother's pouch or need milk anymore. The female koala can have another baby then. Young koalas usually leave their mothers when they are 18 months old, but if their mother does not have another baby they sometimes stay for up to three years. Koalas become mature when they are about two years old, but they often have their first baby after another two years.
The koala is not an endangered species, but it is a near vulnerable species. One reason is the loss of habitat, which means that koalas have less space to live. In some places there are very few koalas left. But there are also places, such as French Island (Victoria), with too many koalas that eat too much. Because of this the eucalyptus trees and other animals are in danger. A study looking at koala numbers at 1800 sites for 20 years, shows that the number of koalas is falling. The study, by the Australian Koala Foundation, estimates that there are only about 50,000 koalas left.
Most groups of koalas in Australia have the disease chlamydia. This is also affecting the survival of the species. Koalas on French Island do not have the disease, and so groups of them are often moved to the mainland to repopulate some areas. The disease can cause blindness, pneumonia, urinary tract infections and reproductive tract infections.

</doc>
<doc id="28440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28440" title="John Adams (composer)">
John Adams (composer)

John Coolidge Adams is an American composer. He was born in 1947. His music often uses minimalism with large orchestras and lots of different sounds. He was named after John Adams, the 2nd President. 
He studied music at Harvard University. After he had graduated he packed all his belongings into his Volkswagen and drove all the way across the United States to California where he got a job as a forklift operator. Soon he became part of the musical scene of San Francisco. He listened to the music of minimalist composers like John Cage, Terry Riley and Morton Feldman. By the mid-1980s he was earning a living as composer and conductor. The piece that made him famous was called "Harmonium". At times the music is made to sound like a harmonium instrument, but the title also refers to "harmony", showing that he is writing tonal music unlike some modern composers at the time whose music was getting harder and harder to understand because it was not in any key.
Adams wrote several short pieces such as "Short Ride in a Fast Machine" and "The Chairman Dances". This last piece is music from his opera "Nixon in China" which was widely performed but made some people angry because the Chinese leaders Chou En-lai and Mao Tse-tung are shown as human beings who deserve a certain amount of sympathy.
Adam's Violin Concerto has been performed over 100 times by many of the world's famous violinists. Adam's song "The Chairman Dances" appered in the game Civilization IV.

</doc>
<doc id="28457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28457" title="Handcuffs">
Handcuffs

Handcuffs are a type of restraint, mainly used by police, to prevent suspects from escaping, or hurting anyone. They do this by securing a person's wrists together. They are usually metal and are made up of two parts linked together by a chain. Handcuffs cannot be removed without the right key, so a handcuffed person cannot move their wrists more than a short distance apart.
There are three main types of handcuffs: chain, hinged, and solid bar. While they are harder to carry, rigid handcuffs allow a number of differences in cuffing. Both rigid and hinged cuffs can be used one-handed to apply pain-compliance/control techniques. Different accessories are available to improve the security or increase the hardness of handcuffs. These include boxes that fit over the chain or hinge and can be locked with a padlock.
In 1933 the Royal Canadian Mounted Police used a type called "Mitten Handcuffs". These stopped criminals from being able to grab the officer's objects. It was used by some in law enforcement but it was never popular.
Handcuffs can be made from different metals, including carbon steel, stainless steel and aluminium, or from synthetic polymers.
The National Museum of Australia has a number of handcuffs in its collection. These can be from as early as the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Handcuffs with double locks have a piece that can stop the cuff from getting tighter. Tightening could be done on purpose or by struggling. Handcuffs may cause nerve damage or loss of circulation if they are tightened. Some wearers could tighten the cuffs to try to escape. They do this by trying to escape when the officer is loosening the cuffs. Double locks also make picking the locks more difficult.
There are three kinds of double locks described in a Smith & Wesson brochure:
Moving a lever on the cuff makes the lock move into a position that locks the bolt. No tool is needed to double lock this type of cuff.
A small peg on the key is inserted into a hole to engage the lock.
These are also used with a peg, but here it is inserted into a slot and moved sideways to engage the lock.
Plastic handcuffs, are lightweight plastic strips that look like electrical cable ties. Soldiers and police can carry a lot of them at once. This is useful for some situations, such as during big protests and riots. In recent years, airlines have started to carry plastic handcuffs to restrain troublesome passengers. Disposable handcuffs could be considered cost-inefficient. This is because they cannot be loosened, and have to be cut off to let a restrained person be fingerprinted, or to use the bathroom.
However, this usage means that cheap handcuffs are used in times where steel ones would normally be unused for long times. Recent products have been made that deal with this. These include disposable plastic restraints that can be opened with a key. These are more expensive than traditional plastic restraints, since they can only be used for a small number of times, and are not as strong. In addition, many people think plastic restraints are more likely to cause nerve or soft-tissue damage to the wearer than metal handcuffs.
When a suspect is extremely aggressive, leg irons may be used as well. Sometimes the chain connecting the leg irons to each other is looped around the chain of the handcuffs. In a few rare cases, people lying on their stomachs have died from positional asphyxia. This makes the practice very controversial, and has led to it being restricted, or even banned, in many places.
Most handcuffs today in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and Latin America can be opened with the same key. This makes transporting prisoners easier. However, there are handcuff makers who use different keys. Maximum security handcuffs need special keys. Handcuff keys usually do not work with thumbcuffs. The Cuff Lock handcuff key padlock uses this same standard key.
In addition to the Universal handcuff key, a few modified designs exist. One kind of key is designed to fit behind an officer's badge.

</doc>
<doc id="28458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28458" title="Flashlight">
Flashlight

A flashlight (in North American English) or torch (in most Commonwealth countries) is a small, portable spotlight.
Its function is a beam of light which helps to see. It usually requires batteries.
The light is made by a small light bulb. In the 20th century it was usually an incandescent bulb. Nowadays most use LEDs, which work slightly differently. In 1896, the first dry cell battery was invented. Unlike previous batteries, it used a paste electrolyte instead of a liquid. This was the first battery suitable for portable electrical devices, as it did not spill or break easily and worked in any orientation. Sometimes the electricity comes from a small generator instead of a battery.
Hundreds of years ago, people used candles for all indoor light. This was expensive, and once the candle was gone, you would have to buy a new one or be stuck in the dark. When electricity was discovered and the light bulb was invented, David Misell, a British man working in Hubert's New York shop in 1898, came up with the idea of a light bulb that you could take with you, anywhere you wanted to go. Then, the torch was invented. 

</doc>
<doc id="28488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28488" title="Discrimination">
Discrimination

Discrimination is when someone is treated unfairly or differently. Discrimination against is when a person is treated unfairly or badly because the person is one of a particular group. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirms that all persons must be protected any kind of discriminations, or even its inciting.
A person might be discriminated "against" because of their race, age, sex, politics, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, the way they look, a past criminal record, the person's lifestyle, their choice of clothing, their age or their disabilities whether they are a member of or fit in with a social clique (group), social class, social status or caste, and many other reasons.
Discrimination "against" can take many forms. It can include being fired from a job, not being able to be hired for a job, being paid less money than others at the same job, being refused a home or apartment, teasing, harassment, or simply being treated differently than other people. Laws known as "equal opportunity legisation" protect people from discrimination. They say people should be employed whatever their race, age, sex or religion. There should be reasonable care for people with disabilities or accessibility. Two people in the same position must be paid the same wage if they have do exactly the same job.
In some countries, discrimination against somebody on the basis of race, sex, or religion is illegal for jobs or housing. Even in those countries where discrimination unlawful, it still takes place for reasons not covered by the law. In some other countries, discrimination against somebody is legal or even official government policy. This especially takes place in countries in which there is an official religion, and people of other religions are discriminated against. Discrimination is also widespread in countries which have a culture in which castes or social classes are widely recognized.

</doc>
<doc id="28498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28498" title="Ernest Rutherford">
Ernest Rutherford

Ernest Rutherford, 1st Baron Rutherford of Nelson, OM, PC, FRS (30 August 1871 – 19 October 1937) was a New Zealand scientist, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1908, for his work on nuclear physics, and for the theory of the structure of the atom.
Rutherford was one of the first researchers in nuclear physics, after the discovery of radiation by a French physicist by the name of Antoine Henri Becquerel in 1896. Rutherford discovered the three parts of radiation which he named Alpha, Beta, and Gamma. Rutherford also discovered that alpha particles were helium nuclei. Rutherford's Geiger–Marsden experiment led to what we know today about the atomic structure, where the atom is a nucleus and electrons orbit around it.
In 1919, Rutherford made the world's first nuclear reaction, where he put alpha particles with nitrogen gas and created particles of oxygen isotopes and protons. The important thing about the experiment was the fact that he changed nitrogen gas into oxygen gas.
Rutherford was the leader of the Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge. He proved the existence of the nucleus and that is was composed of protons and neutrons. In 1932 James Chadwick made an experiment at the Cavendish Lab that showed Rutherford was right.
Rutherford College, a school in Auckland, New Zealand, was named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="28509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28509" title="Serialism">
Serialism

Serialism is a way of composing music using a series of notes in a particular order and using this to build up a whole piece of music. These series and patterns can also be applied to other parts of music (like how loud or soft it is).
To show how serialism works we can take a very simple example. Let us use just five notes from the white notes of a keyboard. We can use the notes A, B, C, D and E. We are going to make a “tune” using all these five notes, but not repeating any until all five have been used (although we are allowed to repeat the note we have just had).
For example: we might have D, C, A, A, A, A, B, E. This is what we call our “row” or “series”, although usually one would expect a row of twelve different notes. It is the one we start off with, so we can call it our tone row.
We can change the tone row by playing it backwards. This is called retrograde. So we now get E, B, A, A, A, A, C, D.
We can also change it by playing it upside down. This means that instead of going up one step we go down one step, or instead of going up two steps we go down two steps etc. If we start on the same note D we now get: D, E, G, G, G, G, F, C. This is called inversion.
We can make it go backwards and upside down. So we get: C, F, G, G, G, G, E, D. This is called retrograde inversion.
We now have four ways of playing our row: tone row, retrograde, inversion, retrograde inversion.
These can now be transposed to create many more options.
In 1923 the composer Arnold Schoenberg (1874-1951) developed what he called the “twelve-tone system”. Instead of using just five notes as in our example, he used all 12 notes in the octave (5 black and 7 white notes on the piano keyboard). Most music we listen to is in a particular key (tonality). This is called “tonal” music. For example: if we start “Twinkle, twinkle little star” on a C we finish on a C at the end and the piece sounds finished. It is “tonal” (in a particular key). In twelve-tone music all 12 notes are equal, there is no “key note” (it is “atonal”). This makes the music very hard to understand and it took people a long time to get used to the sound of Schoenberg’s new music.
Schoenberg was not the only composer to use this way of composing. His pupils Alban Berg (1885-1935) and Anton Webern (1883-1945) also wrote twelve-tone music. Schoenberg, Webern & Berg are sometimes called the "Second Viennese School"-The first was Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven a hundred years before. The composers Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971) and Aaron Copland (1900-1990) started to write twelve-tone music when they were quite old. Composers such as Benjamin Britten (1913-1976) used it occasionally, often putting it together with music which was tonal (listen to Britten’s opera “Midsummer Night’s Dream”). When contrasted with tonal music in this way it can be very beautiful.
In the 1950s and 1960s some composers like Pierre Boulez (b.1925) and Karlheinz Stockhausen (b.1928) wrote music which was not only twelve-tone, but serial in other ways as well. For example: they organized levels of dynamics (from very quiet to very loud) in a series, and the lengths of notes (from very short to very long), and even timbre (the sound quality). By combining all these things their music became very complicated indeed. When all these things were used for the whole piece of music it was called “total serialism”. Boulez’s "Structures I" is an example of a piece which uses “total serialism”. A lot of people criticized this music, saying that it was too mathematical instead of being expressive. Such music can be hard to understand. 

</doc>
<doc id="28512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28512" title="Frédéric Chopin">
Frédéric Chopin

Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin (1 March 1810 – 17 October 1849) was a Polish-French composer and virtuoso pianist. He is considered one of the greatest Romantic piano composers. Chopin was born in Żelazowa Wola, a village in the Duchy of Warsaw. A famous child prodigy, he grew up in Warsaw where he completed his music education and composed many of his mature works in before leaving Poland in 1831 at age 21, shortly before the November 1830 Uprising.
After the Uprising, he lived in Paris as part of Poland's Great Emigration. During the last 19 years of his life, Chopin performed only about 30 times, usually in a salon. He supported himself by selling his compositions and teaching piano. After a romantic relationship with Polish women, including an abortive engagement, from 1837 to 1847 he carried on a relationship with the French writer Amandine Dupin, better known as George Sand. Chopin suffered from poor health most of his life and died of tuberculosis Paris in 1849 at age 39.
Since he composed many piano pieces, he was called the poet of the piano. Most of Chopin's works are for solo piano, though he also wrote two piano concertos, a few chamber pieces and some songs to Polish lyrics. His piano works are often technically difficult, especially because deep expression is involved along with the importance of considering each detail in his music. Chopin also created the instrumental ballade, along with the addition of new ideas to the piano sonata, mazurka, waltz, nocturne, polonaise, étude, impromptu, scherzo and prélude.

</doc>
<doc id="28516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28516" title="Mikhail Glinka">
Mikhail Glinka

Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka (1804-1857) was a Russian composer, regarded as the first to become very famous.
Russia is a very large country. In the 18th century there was a lot of music in Europe, but Russian people had not yet heard it. A lot of them were very poor and modern transport did not exist. By the time Glinka was born Russian people in the large towns like Saint Petersburg were becoming very interested in European music.
Mikhail Glinka was born in a little village called Novospasskoye. His father was a rich landowner. Glinka was brought up by his grandmother who looked after him very carefully. She was always afraid he would be cold, so she wrapped him up in a fur coat in a room which was kept at 77 °F. He was not often allowed to play in the fresh air. Later in his life Glinka was always worrying about his health.
It was a long way to the big cities from where the child lived. There was no radio in those days, and no CDs. The only music he heard was the church bells, and the singing of the peasants (the simple people who worked on the land). They sang folksongs and made up harmony underneath the tunes.
After his grandmother died he was allowed to travel 6 miles to his uncle’s home. His uncle had a group of musicians who played music by European composers like Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven. He had never heard such music before.
When he was 13 he went to school in St Petersburg. Now he could hear lots of music and meet some good musicians. He had piano lessons and spent a lot of time at parties. He started to compose some songs. 
In 1830 he went to Italy. Italy was famous for its music, especially for opera. Glinka met famous composers like Mendelssohn and Berlioz as well as Italian composers like Donizetti and Bellini. He like their music, and decided he wanted to write opera as well, but he wanted to make his music sound very Russian.
Glinka went back to Russia. He wrote two great operas. The first one was called "Ivan Susanin". The story of the opera, set in 1612, is about a poor peasant Ivan Susanin who dies to save the life of the Tsar (the Tsar was the ruler of Russia, like a king or emperor). The Tsar liked the opera and thought that it should be called "A Life for the Tsar". It was a big success when it was first performed in 1836.
He soon wrote his second opera: "Ruslan and Lyudmila". The story comes from a tale by the famous Russian poet Pushkin. The man who wrote the words for him did it very quickly while he was drunk, so the story is a bit muddled, but the music is wonderful. It is a fairy tale about a nasty dwarf Chernomor who has taken away a princess called Lyudmila. In the end Ruslan, the hero, rescues her. Some of the music sounds quite oriental. The overture that starts the opera is very famous.
Glinka also wrote piano music, songs and chamber music.
Glinka’s music is important because he was the first Russian composer to write music that sounded Russian. Later composers like Tchaikovsky were influenced by his music.
ISBN 0-19-315311-4

</doc>
<doc id="28521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28521" title="1510">
1510


</doc>
<doc id="28524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28524" title="Ellipsoid">
Ellipsoid

An ellipsoid is a shape like a sphere, but it may be longer in one or more directions, like an egg, or a rugby ball. It is the 3 dimensional analogue of an ellipse.
The Earth is shaped slightly like an ellipsoid. Its shape is called an oblate spheroid. An ellipsoid shaped like the Earth, called a reference ellipsoid, is often preferred to the geoid because it makes calculations simpler.

</doc>
<doc id="28525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28525" title="Liancourt Rocks">
Liancourt Rocks

Liancourt Rocks (Dokdo 독도) are a group of small islands of South Korea in the East Sea, the sea between Japan and South Korea. The islands are currently under the South Korean police. South Korea call them Dokdo. North Korea refers to them as Tok Islet in the English language, but in Korean both Korean states use the same term. The name Liancourt Rocks comes from the French whaling ship Liancourt. The people on the Liancourt made a map of the islands in 1849. The islands have been in dispute for some time by both Japan and Korean.
Tok-To consists of two islets, that are 150 metres apart. These small islands are called West Islet (), and East Islet (). The western islet is the larger of the two islets. Altogether, there are about 90 islets and reefs. The islands and rocks have a volcanic nature. A total of 37 of these islets are recognized as permanent land. The eastern islet formed 4.5 million years ago. Ulleungdo formed 2 million years later. Both are quickly eroding and weathering.
The total area of the islets is about 187,450 square meters. Their highest point is 169 meters on the western islet. The western islet is about 88,640 square meters in area; the eastern islet about 73,300 square meters. Liancourt Rocks is at about 131°52′ East longitude and about 37°14′ North latitude. The western islet is at and the eastern islet is at . The main islands coast lines are 217 km apart from mainland Korea and 212 km apart from main island's of Japan (honshu). The nearest Korean territory (Ulleung-do) is 87 km away and can be visible on fair days; the nearest Japanese territory (oki islands) is 157 km away.
The western islet is made of a single peak. It has many caves along the coastline. The cliffs of the eastern islet are about 10 to 20 meters high. There are two caves giving access to the sea, as well as a crater.
40 people are staying on the islands, several Korean telecom service providers (namely SK Telecom, KT, and LG U+) have also installed stations on Liancourt Rocks to cover the islets in the South Korean wireless telephone network. There is also regular ferry service from Ulleung-do.
Although the islets themselves are barely habitable, the Exclusive Economic Zone surrounding them has rich fishing grounds and possible reserves of natural gas. As of 2006, the expected reserves have not been found. A wide variety of fish as well as seaweed, kelp, sea slugs, and clams live around the islets. Major fishery catches in the area are squid, Alaskan pollock, codfish, and octopus. There are 102 species of seaweed, although many of these have no economic value.
This area used to be one of the largest breeding grounds of sea lions ("Zalophus californianus japonicus") and a good spot for hunting them and also a spot for obtaining abalone at the end of the Meiji period (1868-1912). Until the 1950s, sea lions were observed on the islets by the voluntary guards.
There are approximately 37 South Korean police that guard the islets, also there are Ministry of Maritime Affairs & Fisheries personnel, a married Korean couple (The first residents: Jong-Dok Choi) (who are fishermen), and three lighthouse keepers living on the islets. In the past, several fishermen also lived there.
Because they are classified as a nature reserve, special permits are required for tourists to land on the islets rather than just circling them. There were 1,507 and 1,597 recorded tourists in 2003 and 2004 respectively. Visitors generally come by boat from Ulleung-do.
In 2005, the first wedding ceremony was held on the islets. The South Korean couple chose the location to protest against Japanese territorial claims.
Liancourt Rocks can have harsh weather conditions. This is because of its location, and small size. Sometimes, ships are unable to dock because of strong northwestern winds in winter. The climate is warm and humid. It is heavily influenced by warm sea currents. There is a lot of rain throughout the year (annual average - 1324 mm), with occasional snowfall. Fog is a common sight. In the summer, southerly winds dominate. The water around the islets is about 10 degrees Celsius in spring, when the water is coolest. It warms to about 25 degrees Celsius in August.
Like Ulleung-do, the islets are volcanic rocks, with only a thin layer of soil and moss. About 80 species of plants, over 22 species of birds, and 37 species of insects have been recorded on the islets, in addition to the local maritime life.
Since the early 1970s, trees and some types of flowers were planted along with the indigenous flora and fauna. (Trees are required under international law for the islets to be recognized as natural islands rather than reefs.)
Liancourt Rocks was declared "Natural Monument #336" by South Korea in the 1990s. Some birds actually live on the islands, but most are just using them as a stopover to fly elsewhere. The fork-tailed petrel, streaked shearwater, and black-tailed gulls live on the islands. The population of breeding birds counted on the rocks, however, has been declining in recent years.
In 1999, the islets were designated a special environmental protected area by the South Korean government. They are older than any other Korean volcanic islands, including Ulleung-do.
It was announced in 2005 that three new genera and five new species of bacteria had been identified by ROK scientists in the waters off the islets. The genera are "Dokdonella koreensis", "Dokdonia donghaenensis", and "Donghae dokdoensis". The newly identified species are "Virgilbacillus dokdoensis", "Maribacter dokdoensis", "Marimonas dokdoensis", "Polaribacter dokdoensis", and "Porphyrobacter dokdoensis".
The islets are of importance not only for economic reasons, but also for military ones. They have occasionally served as a military base, most notably during the Russo-Japanese War. The South Korean government has built a radar station and helicopter landing pad on the islets, enabling it to track foreign naval forces. The 37 police on the islets serve as armed guards. The dispute between South Korea and Japan over the islands has gained heat in 2008 with new Japanese school books mentioning the islands, and a visit by the South Korean Prime Minister in July. Ten years ago, no people lived on the islands. But South Korea started to populate the island to make its claim stronger.

</doc>
<doc id="28527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28527" title="Pentagram">
Pentagram

A pentagram is a five-pointed star, with all lines the same length and all angles the same. A pentangle or star pentagon means the same thing.
A pentacle is a pentagram drawn in a circle so the points of the star touch the circle.
The pentagram means different things to different people. These meanings have changed over time.
In ancient times, the pentagram was used as a Christian symbol. It stood for the five wounds that Jesus Christ received during his crucifixion (the nails in each hand and foot, and the spear wound in his side).
In the past, the pentagram was commonly seen as a symbol for good and for protection against evil.
Today, the pentagram is the most commonly used symbol of Wicca. The pentagram or the pentacle in Wicca stands for fire, water, earth, air, and spirit.
Some Satanists, especially members of the Church of Satan, use an upside-down pentagram as a symbol for their religion. The Church of Satan's official symbol is an upside-down pentagram with a goat head inside, called the "Sigil of Baphomet." ("Sigil" means "symbol.")
In Taoism, a pentagram shows how the religious elements (earth, water, wood, fire, and metal) are related.
In "Sir Gawain and the Green Knight," a 14th century romance story, the pentagram is mentioned as a symbol for Gawain's good character and truth.
More recently, the meaning of the pentagram was discussed in "The Da Vinci Code" by Dan Brown. According to the book, the pentagram actually belonged to the ancient religion of Pagan Sun Worship, and was tied to the female planet Venus: every 8 years Venus traces a perfect pentagram across the sky. The book says that the pentagram was a symbol for the sacred female, but was later taken by Christianity and said to mean the devil in order to destroy beliefs that females were sacred.
A pentacle is on the flag of Morocco.

</doc>
<doc id="28530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28530" title="Benzene">
Benzene

Benzene, also known as benzol, is an organic chemical compound with the formula CH. It is a colorless and flammable liquid with a sweet smell. Benzene molecules are a ring of six carbon atoms that are each bonded to one hydrogen atom. It is an "aromatic" compound, meaning the ring has alternating double bonds. 
Benzene is carcinogenic, which means it can cause cancer. It has many real-world uses. It is used as an additive in gasoline, plastics, synthetic rubber, dyes and it is an industrial solvent, which means it can dissolve many other chemical molecules. Benzene is also a natural part of crude oil and is therefore present in gasoline. Many medicines contain parts made from benzene.
Benzene has special properties called aromaticity. All six carbon atoms in the ring are on the same flat plane. To account for all the bonds on a six carbon ring, there must be alternating double carbon bonds (Conjugated system):
If benzene had three double bonds, three sides of its ring would be shorter than the other three sides. X-ray diffraction shows that all of six carbon-carbon bonds in benzene are of the same length of 140 picometres (pm). The C–C bond lengths are greater than a double bond (135 pm) but shorter than a single bond (147 pm). This intermediate distance is consistent with electron delocalization: the electrons for C–C bonding are distributed equally between each of the six carbon atoms. The molecule is planar. One representation is that the structure exists as a superposition of so-called resonance structures, rather than either form individually. (In other words, the molecule's double bonds switch quickly between pairs of carbon atoms.) The delocalization of electrons is one explanation for the thermodynamic stability of benzene and related aromatic compounds. It is likely that this stability contributes to the peculiar molecular and chemical properties known as aromaticity. To indicate the delocalized nature of the bonding, benzene is often depicted with a circle inside a hexagonal arrangement of carbon atoms.
As is common in organic chemistry, the carbon atoms in the diagram above have been left unlabeled. Realizing each carbon has 2p electrons, each carbon donates an electron into the delocalized ring above and below the benzene ring. It is the overlap of p-orbitals both above and below the ring that produces the pi clouds.
In 1986, some chemists disputed the delocalized view of benzene in an article published in the journal "Nature". They showed that the electrons in benzene are almost certainly localized to particular carbon atoms. They showed the aromatic properties of benzene come from spin coupling rather than electron delocalization. Other scientists wrote articles to support this view in "Nature" in 1987. But, chemists are slow to switch from the delocalized electrons view.
Derivatives of benzene occur sufficiently often as a component of organic molecules that there is a Unicode symbol in the Miscellaneous Technical block with the code U+232C (⌬) to represent it with three double bonds, and U+23E3 (⏣) for a delocalized version.

</doc>
<doc id="28536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28536" title="Tasmanian devil">
Tasmanian devil

The Tasmanian devil ("Sarcophilus harrisii") is a meat eating mammal. It is also a marsupial, which means they have a small pouch to carry their babies. It is the largest meat eating marsupial in the world. They are nocturnal which means they sleep during the day and are awake during the night. They now live only in Tasmania, an island state of Australia.
The devil is the same size as a small dog with a wide head and a short tail. Male devils can weigh 12 kg and be 30 cm tall. It has black fur and makes a loud and very scary screeching noise. It will hunt other animals and also feed on dead animals. The devil has strong teeth and jaws and will eat all its prey even bones and fur.
The Tasmanian devil became extinct on the Australian mainland about 400 years before European settlement in 1788. They were hunted in Tasmania; in the 1930's the Van Dieman's Land Company offered 25 cents for each male and 35 cents for each female killed. In 1941 they became officially protected.
In 1996 the devils began to get very sick and then die with large tumours on their faces. Devil facial tumour disease has greatly reduced the number of devils and now threatens their survival. In some areas 85% of devils have been found with the disease. In the places where the tumours were seen first, devil numbers have dropped by 95%. The tumour is spread by biting. Because the devils are all closely related (not enough genetic diversity), the tumour cells are not seen as new; so the devil's immune system does not fight it. In May 2008 the Tasmanian devil was listed as endangered. Programs are being tried by the Tasmanian government to reduce the impact of the disease. About 60 devils without the disease have been captured and are to be kept as a tumour free group for rebreeding. Scientists have been looking at ways to give the devils immunity but so far this has not worked.
New research is showing the devils are having babies earlier, they use to breed at two years, but now are breeding at one year old. Devils used to have babies every year for three years, but they are now dying before they can produce a second litter (family).
The devils have a low genetic diversity which is consistent with a 'founder effect'. What this means is: a small number colonised Tasmania from Australia at some stage. So their genetic variety was much less than the parent population. Disease like the present may have happened before, and reduced the population to a small number. These events are called 'population bottlenecks'. A small population which carries less variation is always vulnerable to extinction, because none of the animals may be resistant to the infection.
Its genome was sequenced in 2010 by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. There is some hope for their survival because, since 2005, three females have been found that are partially resistant to the disease.

</doc>
<doc id="28543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28543" title="Joseph Haydn">
Joseph Haydn

Joseph Haydn (also known as Franz Joseph Haydn) was an Austrian composer. He was born on March 31 or April 1, 1732 and died on May 31, 1809. He was one of the most famous composers in the Classical music period. He is often called the "Father of the Symphony".
He wrote many brilliant operas. He inspired many great composers after him. 
Some of Haydn's most famous works were 'the seasons' and 'the creation'. The house that he lived in, in Vienna, where he wrote these works, has been turned into a museum called 'haydnhaus'.

</doc>
<doc id="28550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28550" title="Scale (music)">
Scale (music)

In music, a scale is a set of notes in order of their pitch. If the pitch is becoming higher, it is called an ascending scale. If the pitch is becoming lower, it is called a descending scale. In some scales, for example a melodic minor scale, the pitches in the ascending scale are different to the pitches in the descending scale. The steps between the pitches, measured in tones (also called a "whole step") and semitones (also called a "half step"), are different in different types of scales. 
On a piano, there are white keys and black keys. If we start on the note "C" and play each white key going up until we come to the next "C", we have played the "C Major" scale. There were eight notes. In order going up, they are "C" (middle), "D", "E", "F", "G", "A", "B" and "C" (high), or can be octaves higher or lower. Scales can also go up, then down, like "C" (middle), "D", "E", "F", "G", "A", "B", "C" (high), "B", "A", "G", "F", "E", "D", "C" (middle).
Click below to listen to a "C major" scale.
Sometimes the major scale is sung to the words "doh, reh, mih, fah, soh, lah, tih, doh". In the film The Sound of Music, Maria teaches the children to sing by teaching them a song called "Doe, a deer, a female deer". Each line starts on the next note of the scale.
One can start a major scale on any note. There are twelve possible starting notes:
However, the distances between the notes must be the same as they were for the scale on C. For example: from C to D was a tone (or "whole step") because there was a note between (C#). From E to F is a half-tone (or "half-step"; semitone in British English), as there was no note in between. The pattern for a major scale has this set of steps:
Note 1-2: tone, Note 2-3: tone, Note 3-4: semitone, Note 4-5: tone, Note 5-6: tone, Note 6-7: tone, Note 7-8: semitone.
For example: a major scale starting on D would go: D (T) E(T) F♯ (ST) G (T) A(T) B(T) C♯(ST) D and a major scale starting on E♭: E♭ (T) F (T) G (ST) A♭ (T) B♭ (T) C (T) D (ST) E♭.
A minor scale sounds rather sad. The pattern of tones and semitones is different. There are two main sorts of minor scales, harmonic and melodic.
There are also chromatic scales (all semitone steps) and whole-tone scales (all tone steps).
Practising scales is important for people who play instruments or sing. It helps fingers to be strong and energetic (or warms up the singer's voice). It also helps get used to lots of fingering patterns which will help to play pieces.

</doc>
<doc id="28552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28552" title="Orthology (language)">
Orthology (language)

Orthology is the study of the right use of words in language. The word comes from Greek "ortho"- ("correct") and -"logy" ("science of"). This science is a place where psychology, philosophy, linguistics, and many other fields of learning come together. The most noted use of "Orthology" is for the selection of words 
for the language of Basic English by the Orthological Institute.
The book, "The Meaning of Meaning", by C.K. Ogden and I.A. Richards, is an important book dealing with orthology. The term "Orthology" comes from the book "The Grammar of Science" by Karl Pearson.

</doc>
<doc id="28560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28560" title="1712">
1712


</doc>
<doc id="28568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28568" title="Toei Company">
Toei Company

Toei is a Japanese company that makes cartoons and movies (films). Some of their cartoons, for example Sailor Moon, are watched in many countries.

</doc>
<doc id="28569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28569" title="Naoko Takeuchi">
Naoko Takeuchi

Naoko Takeuchi (武内直子 Takeuchi Naoko), born March 15, 1967, is a manga artist from Japan. She lives in Tokyo. She wrote the manga Sailor Moon, which was so popular it was made into an anime, musicals, video games and more. Her husband, Yoshihiro Togashi, is the creator of "YuYu Hakusho" and "Hunter × Hunter".

</doc>
<doc id="28570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28570" title="Kimi Ga Yo">
Kimi Ga Yo

Kimi Ga Yo is the national anthem of Japan. The name of the song roughly means 'Imperial Reign' in English. The anthem is based on a poem written by an unknown poet from Japan about one thousand years ago. The music was written more recently (about two hundred years ago) and was then rewritten shortly afterwards because the original tune was unpopular.
Although popular for a long period and sung in situations where people from other countries would usually sing their country's national anthem, Kimi Ga Yo was only considered as Japan's official national anthem in 1999. The law that stated this also defined the Flag of Japan in a similar way.
"Kimi Ga Yo" is one of the shortest known national anthems of any country. It is only 56 seconds long.

</doc>
<doc id="28592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28592" title="April Fools' Day">
April Fools' Day

April Fool's Day is celebrated in many countries on April 1st every year. On this day, practical jokes (or "April Fools") are played on friends and family. The jokes are done to embarrass them. In some countries, April Fool's only last until noon, and if someone plays a joke after, they are an April Fool.
People have set aside a special day for playing jokes for centuries. The ancient Romans had a holiday called Hilaria.
In the Middle Ages, New Year's Day was celebrated on March 25 in most European towns. In some areas of France, New Year's was a week-long holiday ending on April 1. Some people think that April Fools' started because those who celebrated on January 1 made fun of those who celebrated on other dates.
In the U.K., a person playing a joke would yell "April Fool!" at the recipient. According to tradition, the joking was supposed to stop at midday.
In the Nordic countries, many news outlets would publish or broadcast a fake news story on April 1.
Sometimes a large media corporation would broadcast or publish a fake news story on April 1. For example, in 1957 the BBC broadcast a story about spaghetti trees. According to the story, people in Switzerland grew spaghetti on trees. Later, many people called the BBC asking how they could get a spaghetti tree.

</doc>
<doc id="28602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28602" title="Baroque music">
Baroque music

Baroque music is an era and a set of styles of European classical music which were in use between about 1600 and 1750.
The word "Baroque" is used in other art forms besides music and Ducks: we talk about Baroque architecture, painting, sculpture, dance and literature. The Baroque period comes between the Renaissance and the period of Classicism (the Classical Period).
Musicians think of the Baroque period as starting around 1600. The famous Renaissance composers Palestrina and Lassus had died a few years earlier. Claudio Monteverdi wrote some music in Renaissance style, and other music in Baroque style. Opera was being invented. It was a time of musical change.
The change from writing music in the Baroque style to the Classical style was much more gradual. 1750 is the year that Bach died, so it is an easy date to choose for the end of the Baroque period.
The Baroque was a time when people liked large spaces and a lot of ornamentation. This can be seen in the architecture of famous buildings such as St. Peter's Basilica, Rome, or St. Paul’s Cathedral, London. They were built at this time. In Venice there were churches with galleries on either side of the church. Composers liked to write music for two groups of musicians placed in opposite galleries. Giovanni Gabrieli wrote a lot of music like this.
The idea of two contrasting groups was used a lot in Baroque music. Composers wrote concertos. These were pieces for orchestra and a solo instrument. Sometimes a concerto contrasted a group of soloists with the rest of the orchestra. These are called by the Italian name "Concerti Grossi. Bach's Brandenburg Concertos are good examples.
Organs, and some harpsichords, had at least two manuals (keyboards). The player could change from one manual to the other, contrasting two different sounds.
Baroque music was often a melody with a bass line at the bottom. This could be, for example, a singer and a cello. There was also a harpsichord or organ that played the bass line as well, and made up chords in between. Often the composer did not bother to write out all the chords (harmonies) but just showed some of the chords by figures, leaving it to the performer to decide exactly which notes to play. This is called “figured bass” or “basso continuo”. The soloist, who played or sang the melody on top, often put in lots of ornamental notes. Again: the composer did not write this all down but left it to the performer to improvise something nice around the notes he had written.
Because composers were now writing opera it was important for the audience to hear the words clearly. In the Renaissance the groups of a choir were often singing several different words using different melodies all at once. This was called “polyphony”. Polyphony was widely used in instrumental music, but was not used in opera, which needed to tell a story without being confusing.
When a soloist in an opera sings a song (an aria) the aria is in a particular mood. They called this “affection”. There were several “affections” or moods: there were arias about revenge, jealousy, anger, love, despair, peaceful happiness etc. Each movement in a concerto also had one particular mood. Music from later periods is different. For example: Haydn in the Classical Period would often change its mood during a piece.
The Baroque suite is a collection of dance movements written in the style of Baroque music. There is an accepted standard order in which the dances are performed. The five primary dances are the Overture, Allemande, Courante, Sarabande and Gigue. Many times a composer would add a Prelude before all the dances. Sometimes a composer would add another piece in between the Sarabande and the Gigue.
There are many exceptions to the standard order, but the order of Prelude, Allemande, Courante, Sarabande, Other, and Gigue is most common. This can be easily remembered by the acronym PACSOG.
Here are a few of the most important composers of the Baroque period:

</doc>
<doc id="28660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28660" title="Canyon">
Canyon

A canyon (or gorge) is a big crack in the ground, or a very deep valley. Most canyons are made by rivers. A few are made by earthquakes. They can be big, like the Grand Canyon, or small.
Canyons can be formed by erosion by running water which will take rocks and soil away.

</doc>
<doc id="28669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28669" title="Pattern language">
Pattern language

Pattern language is used to mean a system of patterns that have a certain meaning other than just the pattern.
The pattern can be a pattern which has a hidden meaning shown through any sense like sight, sound, touch, taste and smell.
The most obvious form of sight-based pattern language comes in the form of writing. Nearly every language has a unique written form, which grammatically follows the spoken form.

</doc>
<doc id="28676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28676" title="National Maritime Day">
National Maritime Day

In the United States, National Maritime Day is held every May 22 to honor people who have served in the United States Merchant Marine service.
The first National Maritime Day was May 22, 1933, based on a joint resolution passed by the United States Congress on May 20, 1933. Franklin D. Roosevelt was the first President to issue a proclamation about the day.
The biggest National Maritime Day celebration was in 1946, the first National Maritime Day after the Allied Powers won World War II. That year, governors of many U.S. states also officially named the day National Maritime Day or "Maritime Day" for their state. The first National Maritime Day after the end of the Korean War, in 1954, was also more widely celebrated than most.
In the 2006 annual proclamation by president George W. Bush, he made special mention of the Merchant Marine service's hurricane aid work following Hurricane Katrina and the other hurricanes of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.

</doc>
<doc id="28688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28688" title="Classical music period">
Classical music period

The Classical music period is the time from about 1750 to 1820 when Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert were the most famous living composers.
We often talk about “classical music” meaning European music which is not pop music or jazz or folk music. It is music which has been written by composers who have studied the art of composition. The article Classical music talks about classical music in this sense.
This article is about “Classical music” in the late 18th century and the early 19th century. The word “classical” is often used to refer to the arts of Ancient Greece and Rome. It has also come to mean any art form which has become very famous and is remembered for centuries afterwards. In music the Classical period comes between the Baroque and the period of Romanticism.
In some ways Classical music is often simpler than the music of the Baroque composers. There is often a tune with a simple accompaniment using broken chords called an “Alberti bass”. For classical composers the form of the piece was very important. Composers started their work with a tune (theme) and this tune would be developed in different ways: put in different keys, changed from a fast to a slow tune, changed from major to minor or from minor to major.
Some of the most famous composers of the Classical period in music are:

</doc>
<doc id="28694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28694" title="Spotlight">
Spotlight

Spotlight is a magazine in German and English. It is published by the Spotlight publishing company. The first issue was made in 1981. It comes out monthly and has themes like politics and travelling in the English language. The articles are in simple English and should help people to understand the language. The magazine is written for Germans. Translations of difficult English words into German are found in the magazine.

</doc>
<doc id="28699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28699" title="Nuclear fusion">
Nuclear fusion

Nuclear fusion is the process of making a single heavy nucleus (part of an atom) from two lighter nuclei. This process is called a nuclear reaction. It releases a large amount of energy. 
The nucleus made by fusion is heavier than either of the starting nuclei. However, it is not as heavy as the combination of the original mass of the starting nuclei (atoms). This lost mass is changed into lots of energy. This is shown in Einstein's famous "E=mc" equation.
Fusion happens in the middle of stars, like the Sun. Hydrogen atoms are fused together to make helium. This releases lots of energy. This energy powers the heat and light of the star.
Not all elements can be joined. Heavier elements are less easily joined than lighter ones. Iron (a metal) cannot fuse with other atoms. This is what causes stars to die. Stars join all of their atoms together to make heavier atoms of different types, until they start to make iron. The iron nucleus cannot fuse with other nuclei. The reactions stop. The star eventually will cool down and die. 
On Earth it is very difficult to start nuclear fusion reactions that release more energy than is needed to start the reaction. The only successful approach so far has been in nuclear weapons. The hydrogen bomb uses an atomic (fission) bomb in order to start fusion reactions. Scientists and engineers have been trying to find a safe and working way of controlling and containing fusion reactions that can generate electricity. They still have many challenges to overcome before fusion power can be used as a clean source of energy.

</doc>
<doc id="28701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28701" title="Concertmaster">
Concertmaster

The Concertmaster (American English) or leader (British English) is the most important violinist in an orchestra. He or she will sit in the front seat, by the conductor's left. The word "concertmaster" comes from the German "Konzertmeister".
The leader will be the highest paid member of the orchestra. He has to decide how the violins will play the music and write in the bowing. He will decide where each member of the violins should sit. He will probably also interview them and offer them the job in the orchestra. He will talk to the conductor about anything the orchestra are not happy about (he may have to remind the conductor when it is time to stop the rehearsal!). If part of the music is marked "solo" then he will play it as a solo while the other violins stop playing.
In the United States it is usual for the concertmaster to be on the platform before the concert and to tell the orchestra to tune their instruments, playing on his A string to give them the correct pitch. In European orchestras it is usually the oboe that gives an A for tuning. In Britain the leader usually comes on stage after the orchestra have tuned, and gets an applause.
"of the past:"
"of today":

</doc>
<doc id="28716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28716" title="Mutual assured destruction">
Mutual assured destruction

Mutual assured destruction (MAD) is a military strategy in which two opposing military forces are powerful enough to completely destroy each other. It should help to avoid a nuclear war. This usually happens when both forces have nuclear weapons. If a state attacks another with nuclear weapons, the state attacked will potentially be able to attack back. The attacker must think that he will be destroyed with his victim if he attacks. The theory is that no state would start an attack if attacking its enemy means its own destruction.
The concept was discussed by Herman Kahn. It was part of the background to the film "Dr. Strangelove".

</doc>
<doc id="28719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28719" title="Stairway to Heaven">
Stairway to Heaven

Stairway to Heaven was a 1971 song by Led Zeppelin. It was on the album Led Zeppelin IV.
Some listeners claim that by reversing the song, a hidden Satanic message is revealed. The message is:
Oh, here's to my sweet Satan<br>
The one whose little path would make me sad whose power is Satan<br>
He'll give, he'll give you 666<br>
There was a little toolshed where he made us suffer, sad Satan

</doc>
<doc id="28723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28723" title="Thin Lizzy">
Thin Lizzy

Thin Lizzy are an Irish hard rock band that started in Dublin in 1969. Up to 1984 the band were led by bassist, songwriter and singer Phil Lynott (1949-1986). The band's famous song "The Boys Are Back in Town" is still played a lot on classic rock radio stations. Since Lynott's death, other former members have carried on using the band name.
Phil Lynott wrote most of the band's songs. The band's music showed many musical styles including: country music, psychedelic rock, Celtic music and folk music which Lynott mixed with hard rock and heavy metal styles.
Thin Lizzy were listed at number 51 on VH1's "100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock".

</doc>
<doc id="28759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28759" title="Aziz al-Abub">
Aziz al-Abub

Aziz al-Abub (a.k.a. Ibrahim al-Nadhir or al-Nahdhir) was a Lebanese Hezbollah psychiatrist and mind control expert.
Aziz was a disciple of Ewen Cameron and a graduate of the Soviet Union's that specialized in mind control techniques.
Aziz al-Abub used mind-control, drugs and physical torture in the infamous 444-day (1984-1985) torture and mental derangement of American in Beirut.

</doc>
<doc id="28760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28760" title="Hobbit">
Hobbit

Hobbits are a fictional race in the Middle-earth world invented by J. R. R. Tolkien, also often called "halflings".
They appeared in the books "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". Several important main characters in those books are hobbits, such as Bilbo Baggins and Frodo Baggins. 
Hobbits (or similar beings) have become very popular and are now often used in fantasy fiction and (video) games.
Hobbits are like small humans between two and four foot tall. They have hair/fur on the top side of their feet, leathery foot-soles, and slightly pointed ears. They tend to be stout and often have brown and curly hair. Male hobbits do not have beards. Hobbits live longer compared to humans, and many hobbits reach the age of 100.
Hobbits are a peaceful people and live a simple, pre-industrial life in the land which they call The Shire, and also in Bree-land.
A typical hobbit-house has a long hallway with rooms on both sides, and round doors and windows. Originally these were underground in hills, then the house was called a "smial"; but this architecture(style of building) is also used for 'normal' houses above ground.

</doc>
<doc id="28766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28766" title="Middle-earth">
Middle-earth

Middle-earth is a fictional fantasy world invented by J. R. R. Tolkien. Several of his books take place there, such as "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". It is supposed to be a long gone mythological time of our earth.
Although Middle-earth is only one continent in Tolkien's world, it is often used for the whole fictional world and all stories Tolkien invented for it. Tolkien created and worked on Middle-earth through most of his life, and it is this creation for which he is most famous.
Middle-earth has its own geography, several different species and peoples (elves, dwarves, humans, hobbits), their languages, and a history that spans thousands of years. The stories of Middle-earth are also a kind of 'artificial myth'.
"Middle-earth" is called "Endor" (or "Endóre") and "Ennor" in the fictional Elvish languages Quenya and Sindarin.
The oldest people of Middle-earth are the immortal Elves. Second were the Dwarves. After them came mortal Men. In the Third Age, there appeared another people, the Hobbits. There are also the tree-like Ents.
The history of the Middle-earth world is thousands of years long. Sometimes, when big historical events happen, a new "Age" is begun, which starts counting again with the year 1.

</doc>
<doc id="28775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28775" title="Arnold Rosé">
Arnold Rosé

Arnold Josef Rosé (October 24, 1863–August 25, 1946) was a famous violinist. He was the leader (concertmaster) of the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra for 50 years.
Arnold Rosé was born in Iaşi (Jassy) in what is now Romania. His family was Jewish. Their name at that time was Rosenblum. He had three brothers. All four boys were musical and so his parents decided to move to Vienna which was a big city in Austria where there was lots of music. Arnold’s father was a carriage builder. In those days people often travelled by horse and cart. His father made good quality carriages and he made plenty of money from his business.
When Arnold was seven he started music lessons. When he was ten he was good enough to study the violin at the Vienna Conservatorium which was a special school for musical pupils. 
In 1881 he played a violin solo with a famous orchestra and famous conductor: the Vienna Philharmonic under Hans Richter. The piece he played was the Violin Concerto by Otto Goldmark. Soon he was offered the job of orchestral leader. This was a very important position for such a young man. He stayed in that job for 50 years!
Rosé did other things as well as playing with the orchestra. He gave violin lessons to talented pupils. He like to play string quartets and he got together with three other players to make up the Rosé Quartet. They were very good and for more than half a century people said they were the best string quartet in Europe. Arnold’s brother Eduard was the cellist in the quartet. They played works by lots of composers, especially Haydn, Mozart and Ludwig van Beethoven. Rosé knew the composer Johannes Brahms and they played some of Brahms’s compositions when they had only just been written, e.g. the clarinet quintet (for clarinet and string quartet). The Rosé Quartet also knew the composer Schoenberg and helped him to get well known by playing his music.
Another composer Rosé knew very well was Gustav Mahler. Mahler had two sisters. Arnold Rosé married one of them, and his brother Eduard married the other. 
Arnold was kept very busy at his job as leader of the orchestra. The orchestra played in the concert hall as well as for the opera. At one special concert lots of flowers and plants had been brought in to the concert hall. The orchestra were busy playing when Arnold noticed people were looking at his shoes. He thought maybe he had an odd pair of shoes on. When he looked down at his feet he saw a mouse sitting there.
Arnold and his wife Justine had a son and a daughter who both became musicians. They had plenty of money to live quite comfortably. He was given the title of Royal and Imperial Court Musician, and he had a special court carriage to take him to the opera. He also had a carriage of his own with a footman in livery (uniform) to drive him about.
However, things changed in 1938. The Nazis took over Austria and made life very difficult for Jewish people. They were in great danger. In the autumn his wife died and Arnold had to save his life by going to England. He stayed there for most of his remaining years. He died in London.

</doc>
<doc id="28781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28781" title="10s">
10s


</doc>
<doc id="28782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28782" title="10s BC">
10s BC


</doc>
<doc id="28783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28783" title="40s">
40s


</doc>
<doc id="28784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28784" title="Pontiac Silverdome">
Pontiac Silverdome

The Pontiac Silverdome is a domed stadium in the town of Pontiac, Michigan, near Detroit. It opened in 1975 and closed in 2007. The largest crowds to come to the stadium were for WrestleMania III on March 29, 1987, where the main event was a match between Hulk Hogan and André the Giant. The crowd attendance for that night reached 93,173, which is also the record for indoor attendance. The Detroit Lions NFL team played at the stadium from 1975 until 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="28785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28785" title="List of decades">
List of decades


</doc>
<doc id="28786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28786" title="80s">
80s


</doc>
<doc id="28797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28797" title="Estonian language">
Estonian language

The Estonian language ("eesti keel") is a Finno-Ugric language. It is mainly spoken in Estonia. The Estonian language is similar to Finnish. Estonian is one of the national languages of Europe that is not an Indo-European language. 
Estonian uses the Latin alphabet. It has many vowels, including Ö, Ä, Õ and Ü.
It has been influenced by and has got many words from German and Swedish. Estonian language also has different dialects. 

</doc>
<doc id="28804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28804" title="Chromosome">
Chromosome

The chromosomes of a cell are in the cell nucleus. They carry the genetic information. Chromosomes are made up of DNA and protein combined as chromatin. Each chromosome contains many genes. Chromosomes come in pairs: one set from the mother; the other set from the father. Cytologists label chromosomes with numbers.
Chromosomes are present in every cell nucleus with very few and special exceptions. This means they are found in all eukaryotes, since only eukaryotes have cell nuclei. When eukaryote cells divide, the chromosomes also divide. 
When a somatic (body) cell (such as a muscle cell) divides, the process is called mitosis. Before mitosis, the cell copies all the chromosomes and then it can divide. When they duplicate, chromosomes look like the letter "X". When they are doubled, the two halves are called chromatids (see diagram). The chromatids are joined at the centromere.
There are 46 chromosomes in a human, 23 pairs. Everyone has a set of chromosomes from their father and a matching set from their mother. They include a pair of sex chromosomes. The mother's eggs always contain an X chromosome, while the father's sperm contains either a Y chromosome or an X chromosome. That determines the sex of the child. To produce sex cells (gametes), the stem cells go through a different division process called meiosis. This reduces the 23 pairs (diploid) to 23 singles (haploid). These, when combined by fertilisation, produce the new set of 23 pairs.
Different animals have different numbers of chromosomes. If a person does not have the usual number of chromosomes, they may die or have one or more peculiarities. For example, they might get a genetic disorder like Down syndrome (extra chromosome 21) and Klinefelter syndrome (a male with two X chromosomes). Some genetic disorders are more common than others.
Polytene chromosomes are over-sized chromosomes which have developed from standard chromosomes. Specialized cells undergo repeated rounds of DNA replication without cell division (endomitosis). This increases cell volume, forming a giant polytene chromosome. Polytene chromosomes form when multiple rounds of replication produce many sister chromatids that remain stuck together in parallel.
Polytene chromosomes are found in "Drosophila" species and in nonbiting midges of the Chironomidae family.
Polytene cells have a metabolic function. Multiple copies of genes allows a high level of gene expression. In "Drosophila melanogaster", for example, the chromosomes of the larval salivary glands undergo many rounds of endoreduplication. This produces large amounts of glue before pupation.
Chromosome puffs (seen in diagram) are diffused uncoiled regions of the polytene chromosome. They are sites of active transcription.

</doc>
<doc id="28806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28806" title="Giovanni Gabrieli">
Giovanni Gabrieli

Giovanni Gabrieli (probably born Venice date unknown, about 1553-57; died Venice 21 August 1612) was an Italian organist and composer. 
He was very famous in his day and composed a great deal of church music; motets and madrigals. He lived at the end of the Renaissance period and beginning of the Baroque.
About 1575, Giovanni began working for Orlando di Lasso at the Bavarian court, as his uncle Andres Gabrieli had before him. Little is known of his time in Munich, and he left in 1579 after the death of his patron, Duke Albrecht. There is no record of Gabrieli's activities until 1584 when he'd returned to Venice. That year he replaced organist Claudio Merulo at Basilica di San Marco, church of Venice's patron saint. Due to Merulo's resignation, a contest was eventually held January 1, 1585 to fill his post, which Gabrieli won, having already occupied the position anyway. Giovanni and his uncle, who had raised him and taught him music, worked together only a short time at the church before Andres died in August 1585. Giovanni held his post until he died in 1612.
Also in 1585 Giovanni had been appointed as organist of Scuola Grande di San Rocco, where he composed ceremonial music.
During all this, he was also a music teacher. Heinrich Schutz was one of his students.
Giovanni is well known for being one of the first composers who specified volume markings and instrumentation in music.

</doc>
<doc id="28807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28807" title="Arcangelo Corelli">
Arcangelo Corelli

Arcangelo Corelli (b.Fusignano, Imola, 17 Feb.1653; d.Rome, 8 Jan.1713) was an Italian violinist and composer. He composed some of the most important Italian music of the Baroque period. He was also very famous as a player. Other violinists learned from his style of playing and developed the art of playing the violin. His works include sonatas and concerti grossi. Perhaps his most famous is the La Folia sonata for Violin.

</doc>
<doc id="28808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28808" title="Henry Purcell">
Henry Purcell

Henry Purcell (born Westminster, London, 1659; died Westminster, November 21, 1695) was an English composer. Most musicians think he is the greatest English composer of all times. Although he only lived until he was 36 he wrote a very large amount of music. His compositions include church music, instrumental music, music for the theatre, even popular drinking songs. He wrote the first English opera. He lived in the time called the Baroque period. He liked Italian and French music, and combined those styles to make something that was typically English.
We do not know very much about Purcell’s childhood. In 1664 his father died and Henry went to live with his uncle, Thomas Purcell, who was very kind to him. Thomas Purcell was a gentleman of the Chapel Royal which meant that he sang in the king’s choir. Soon Henry was singing in the Chapel Royal. This was the best musical training a boy could have in England. His teachers were Captain Henry Cooke, and then Pelham Humfrey. Henry sang in the choir until his voice broke in 1673. He was then given the job of looking after the king’s musical instruments. 
Purcell may have been composing already when he was nine. We know that he wrote an ode for the King's birthday in 1670. When Humfrey died Purcell studied with the famous composer John Blow. He went to Westminster School. In 1676 he was made organist at Westminster Abbey. He started writing music for the theatre. He also wrote church music, including an anthem for a singer called John Gostling who had a very good, deep bass voice. Purcell wrote several anthems for him during his life. One is called "They that go down to the sea in ships". It goes down to a low D.
In 1680, Blow, who had been made organist of Westminster Abbey in 1669, resigned so that the 22-years-old Purcell could have his job. Purcell then spent the next six years just writing sacred (religious) music. Later he went back to writing music for the theatre, including the first English opera "Dido and Aeneas".
In 1682 Purcell became organist of the Chapel Royal. He did this job as well as being organist at Westminster Abbey. His first printed composition, "Twelve Sonatas", was published in 1683. Music printing was expensive in those days, so it was unusual to have something printed. He continued to write music including odes to the king and royal family. In 1685, he wrote two of his finest anthems, "I was glad" and "My heart is inditing", for the coronation of King James II.
In 1687 he wrote more "theatre music." Sometimes this music was for masques (a kind of ballet with some singing as well), sometimes it was music for tragedies, e.g. plays by Dryden. In 1691, he wrote "King Arthur", also written by Dryden. In 1692, he composed songs and music for "The Fairy-Queen" (an adaptation of Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream"). Purcell’s music for this was lost for many years, and was rediscovered and published in 1901. In these works the characters in the plays do not sing, they speak their lines.
Purcell's "Te Deum and Jubilate" was written for Saint Cecilia's Day, 1693, the first English "Te Deum" ever composed with orchestral accompaniment. He composed an anthem and two elegies for Queen Mary II's funeral.
He was very famous when he died in 1695, possibly from tuberculosis. His wife and two of his six children survived him. 
Purcell is buried next to the organ in Westminster Abbey. His epitaph reads, "Here lyes Henry Purcell Esq., who left this life and is gone to that blessed place where only his harmony can be exceeded."
Purcell wrote a lot of music for the theatre. He was born one year before the time known in England as the “Restoration”. Before the Restoration Oliver Cromwell had been ruling England for nearly 20 years. Most music had been banned. People were therefore very glad to be able to make music again, and they wanted lots of songs and instrumental music in their plays. Opera, however, was not wanted. In Europe opera was very popular in countries such as Italy, Germany and France, but it did not become popular in England until Handel came to England in 1709 and introduced Italian opera.
"Dido and Aeneas" is an exception because it is a real opera: everything is sung, and the words are in English. It was written for a performance at a girls’ school. It is quite short, lasting just one hour. It contains the famous lament "When I am laid in earth" sung by Dido.
Purcell wrote a very large amount of music for the church. This includes anthems and service settings. Although he was an organist he wrote very little for organ. He wrote chamber music, including some very beautiful fantasias for viols.
Although Purcell was recognized as a great composer at the time he did not have much influence on other composers after his death. He was the last in a line of great English musicians in the 16th and 17th centuries. After his death English music was not as important as it had been. In the 18th century the music heard in England was largely imported from the continent, e.g. Italian opera. 
Much later, in the 20th century, English composers were often inspired by Purcell’s music. Benjamin Britten wrote a piece called "The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra" which is based on a tune from Purcell's "Abdelazar". The aria "I know a bank" from Britten's opera "A Midsummer Night's Dream" is inspired by Purcell's aria "Sweeter than Roses". Sir Michael Tippett loved Purcell’s harmonies and rhythms and they influenced him in his compositions.

</doc>
<doc id="28810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28810" title="François Couperin">
François Couperin

François Couperin (born in Paris on 10 November 1668; died in Paris, on 12 September 1733) was a French composer who lived in the Baroque period. Many of his relatives were composers. He is often called "François Couperin le Grand" (The Great) because he was the most famous of the Couperin family. He is best known today for his harpsichord music. He wrote several pieces which he called "Ordres" meaning the same as the word "suite" i.e. a collection of dance movements. Sometimes these movements have strange titles and we cannot always be sure what they mean. Some of them may have been nicknames of people he knew. He also wrote important organ music. He never had a family of his own before he died.

</doc>
<doc id="28811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28811" title="Christoph Willibald von Gluck">
Christoph Willibald von Gluck

Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck (b.Erasbach nr. Berching, July 2, 1714; d.Vienna, November 15, 1787) was a German composer. He is famous for his operas which were written in a new and exciting way. He was not interested in writing operas which were just a series of songs for singers to show off. He wanted to make his operas into good pieces of drama. His operas had a big influence on later composers like Mozart, Weber and Wagner. He wrote Italian operas and French operas. "Orfeo ed Euridice" includes song “Che farò senza Euridice” which is one of the best-known opera songs ever written.

</doc>
<doc id="28812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28812" title="Jan Ladislav Dussek">
Jan Ladislav Dussek

Jan Ladislav Dussek (b. Ĉáslav, Bohemia, 12 Feb.1760; d.Saint-Germain-en-Laye, 20 March 1812) was a Bohemian composer of the Classical period. He travelled a lot, living in Holland, Lithuania, Italy, France and England. He lived nearly twelve years in London where he was a fashionable teacher and famous composer. He is best remembered now for his piano music.

</doc>
<doc id="28816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28816" title="Johannes Brahms">
Johannes Brahms

Johannes Brahms (7 May 1833 - 3 April 1897) was a famous German composer. He started his career as a pianist. He was always very self-critical and destroyed any composition he thought was not really good. He thought that people were expecting him to be the “next Beethoven”, and spent many years on his first symphony before he allowed it to be performed. He wrote four symphonies, four concertos, a requiem, piano music, chamber music and songs. Perhaps his best known tune is his "Wiegenlied" ("cradle song"), often called "Brahms' Lullaby," used in many a child’s musical box.
Brahms was born in Germany. His father was a double bass player in the Hamburg city orchestra. He probably gave the young boy his first music lessons. He soon was learning the piano with a teacher named Otto Cossel. When Brahms played in a public concert in 1843 an American agent asked him to tour America, but his teacher realized he was too young. He said that Johannes should study with Eduard Marxsen, a well-known teacher in Hamburg. By 1848 he was playing piano recitals. He also started to compose, and he sent some of his compositions to Robert Schumann to ask for his advice. Schumann sent the parcel back unopened.
At this time there were many Hungarian musicians in Hamburg. Brahms liked their folk music with its unusual rhythms, little triplet figures and sense of rubato. It was to influence his own style of composition. One of the Hungarians was called Remenyi. He played the violin and Brahms often accompanied him at concerts. They went on tour together and met famous people such as the composer Franz Liszt and the violinist Joseph Joachim who became a close friend of Brahms for many years. Joachim told Brahms to go and see Schumann and his wife Clara in Düsseldorf. Schumann liked Brahms and could see that he was going to be a great composer, so he wrote an article in his music journal about him. The article had the title: "Neue Bahnen" ("New Paths"). Schumann turned out to be correct: Brahms did become a famous composer and found “new paths” (new ways of composing). 
Brahms remained a very close friend of Schumann. When Schumann had a nervous breakdown, Brahms went all the way to Düsseldorf to see him. Brahms soon fell in love with Clara who was 14 years older than himself. He continued to be in love with her after Robert Schumann’s death, and they had a close relationship, though Brahms became interested in other women and was briefly engaged. However, he never married.
In 1859 Brahms settled in Hamburg. He founded a women’s chorus and wrote and arranged a lot of music for them. His "First Piano Concerto" was a great success in Hanover and Hamburg, but not in Leipzig, where a lot of people preferred the wildly Romantic music of Liszt which was quite different from Brahms’s style based on the Classical music style. Brahms decided to go to Vienna. He was to stay there for the rest of his life.
In Vienna he soon made many friends who liked his music. For a short time he was director of a choir called the Vienna Singakademie, who sang some of his compositions. He met Wagner. Wagner was afraid that Brahms would start to write operas which would be more famous than his own. So Wagner wrote an article saying that Brahms was a very bad conductor. Wagner had made himself an enemy of Brahms, who never did write any operas anyway. 
In 1870 Brahms became director of a concert series called Vienna Gesellschaftskonzerte. He became more and more famous as a composer, but he was never very good at conducting, and in 1875 a conductor called Hans Richter took over conducting the concerts. During these years he finished one of his greatest works: "Ein deutsches Requiem" ("A German Requiem"), as well as one of his most popular works: the "Variations on the St Anthony chorale" (sometimes wrongly known as "Variations on a Theme by Haydn)".
At last, in 1876, he allowed his "First Symphony" to be performed. It was not very successful at first, but in Vienna the audience liked it. He started to compose a lot of his greatest works and received many honours from universities. In the winter he gave concerts and in the summer he spent his time composing. He wrote his last symphony ("Fourth Symphony") in 1885 and conducted it, going on tour with the orchestra through Germany and the Netherlands.
From 1889 Brahms spent each summer in Ischl where he had many friends. By 1890 he had decided to stop composing, although he did still write four beautiful works for clarinet after meeting the clarinettist Richard Mühlfeld. In 1896 he wrote "Four Serious Songs" which were probably inspired by the sad death of Clara Schumann. The next year Brahms died from cancer in Vienna. His father had died of the same illness.
Brahms wrote a great deal of vocal music. The greatest of these works is the "German Requiem". There were many works for choirs, and a large collection of songs with piano accompaniment (Lieder). He wrote a lot of piano music which includes sonatas and many shorter pieces such as fantasias, rhapsodies, ballades, intermezzos, capriccios and romances. His chamber music includes string quartets, quintets and sextets and piano trios, quartets and a piano quintet. He wrote four symphonies and four concertos: two for piano, one for the violin and one for violin and cello (the "Double Concerto"). The "German Requiem" is his greatest vocal work.
Brahms was also very interested in old music and helped to edit music by François Couperin as well as the music of his friend Robert Schumann.

</doc>
<doc id="28817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28817" title="Frederick Delius">
Frederick Delius

Frederick Delius (b.Bradford, 29 Jan.1862; d.Grez-sur-Loing, 10 June 1934) was an English composer. At first his parents did not let him study music, so he went off to Florida to work on an orange plantation. He later returned, studied music, and settled in France for the rest of his life. His music is often quite gentle and atmospheric, with chords that shift about in unusual ways. One of his best known orchestral works is "On Hearing the First Cuckoo in Spring". In his last years he was very ill, but he still wanted to compose, so he dictated the music he heard in his head to a man called Eric Fenby.

</doc>
<doc id="28819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28819" title="Béla Bartók">
Béla Bartók

Béla Bartók (b. Nagyszentimiklós, Hungary, 25 March 1881; d. New York City 26 September 1945) was a famous Hungarian composer and pianist. He was one of the most important and original composers of the 20th century. He showed great talent as a pianist at an early age. He became very interested in folk music and travelled a lot in Hungary and other countries, including Romania, listening to the folk songs which the country people sang. He often used the style of these songs in his music. He is famous for his piano music, string quartets and several pieces for orchestra including one called "Concerto for Orchestra". Bartók’s harmonies and lively rhythms were sometimes quite new to classical music and some audiences found them difficult to understand at first.
Béla Bartók was born in the small town of Nagyszentmiklós. In those days it was in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, but today it is in Romania. When he was very small he showed great musical talent, and his mother taught him to play the piano.
Béla was often ill when he was a child. When he was seven his father died, and his mother took him and his sister to live in Nagyszőlős (today it is called Vinogradiv and is in the Ukraine), and then to Pozsony (today it is Bratislava in Slovakia). There he gave his first public recital when he was eleven. He included some music which he had composed himself.
Soon he was studying the piano with István Thoman who had studied with the famous Franz Liszt. He had lessons in composition from János Koessler at the Royal Academy of Music in Budapest. There he met the composer Zoltán Kodály, who was a great influence on him and who became a lifelong friend. 
He soon started to compose longer pieces of music. He liked the music of Richard Strauss and Claude Debussy and these influenced his style of music. He started to be interested in folk music. This can be heard in the first of his six string quartets.
Bartók and Kodály travelled together into the countryside to collect and study old Hungarian folk melodies. People in those days thought that real Magyar (old Hungarian) folk music was Gypsy music. Bartók and Kodály showed that there were other traditions beside these. They found music which used pentatonic scales similar to those used in some parts of Asia. The two composers started to use these folk ideas in their own compositions. Kodály often quoted (copied) actual folk songs in his own music, while Bartók preferred to compose music which sounded like folksong without actually copying it.
In 1909, Bartók married Márta Ziegler. Their son, also named Béla, was born in 1910.
In 1911, Bartók wrote his only opera, "Bluebeard's Castle". There are only two singers in the opera: Bluebeard and his wife Judith. He also wrote a ballet called "The Wooden Prince". This started to make him famous abroad. Another ballet, "The Miraculous Mandarin", is even more famous today. It shows the influence of Igor Stravinsky, Arnold Schoenberg, as well as Richard Strauss. He wrote a lot of chamber music including a total of 6 string quartets, 2 violin sonatas and a "Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion". He wrote some pieces for smaller orchestras: "Divertimento for strings" and "Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta".
Bartók divorced Márta in 1923, and married a piano student, Ditta Pásztory. His second son, Péter, was born in 1924.
When World War II broke out Bartók criticized the Nazis. After they came into power in Germany, he refused to give concerts there and did not use his German publisher. His political ideas gave him a great deal of trouble in Hungary.
Having first sent his manuscripts out of the country, Bartók felt he had to emigrate to the USA with Ditta Pásztory. They lived in New York City. Their son Péter joined them in 1942 and later joined the United States Navy. Bartók ‘s older son Béla stayed in Hungary. 
Bartók did not feel comfortable in the USA, and found it very difficult to compose. He was also not very well known in America, and not many people were interested in his music. He and his wife Ditta gave concerts, and for a while, they were given some money to work on a collection of Yugoslav folk songs. They did not have very much money, although he had some friends who gave them enough to live on. Serge Koussevitsky asked him to write the " Concerto for Orchestra ". This soon became Bartók's most popular work, and brought him some money. He was also asked by Yehudi Menuhin to write a "Sonata for Solo Violin". This seemed to make him interested again in composing, and he went on to write his "Piano Concerto No. 3" and began work on his " Viola Concerto".
Bartók died in New York City from leukemia on 26 September 1945, aged 64. He left the Viola Concerto unfinished at his death; it was later finished by his pupil Tibor Serly.
Bartók’s music has many modern techniques such atonality, bitonality and modern harmonies. He often uses different kinds of scales (not just major and minor ones), and very complicated rhythms. A lot of these are inspired by the folk music he heard. He wrote a lot of piano music, including some easy pieces for people who are learning the piano. This includes a collection of pieces in six volumes called "Mikrokosmos" which are very popular with young musicians today.

</doc>
<doc id="28820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28820" title="Benjamin Britten">
Benjamin Britten

Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten of Aldeburgh, OM CH (born Lowestoft, 22 November 1913; died Aldeburgh, 4 December 1976) was probably the greatest English composer of his time. He came from East Anglia (a region in the East of England) and he often thought about the East Anglian landscape and the sea when writing his music. He wrote a lot of music for his long-term partner, the tenor Peter Pears. His operas include "Peter Grimes", "Billy Budd", "A Midsummer Night’s Dream", and "Death in Venice". His "War Requiem" was performed in Coventry Cathedral in 1962 after it had been rebuilt because the old cathedral had been destroyed in the war. He wrote music for children which sounds like proper, adult music. Britten started the Aldeburgh Festival. He was an excellent pianist and conductor.
Benjamin Britten started composing music at the age of five although he had no one to help him. When he was ten years old he took part in an amateur music festival in Norwich. A composer called Frank Bridge heard him and was so impressed that he offered to teach him composition. He helped Britten to compose using proper musical techniques. Britten started to get to know music by a lot of important modern composers including Schoenberg and Bartók. In 1930 he went to the Royal College of Music. He had excellent piano teachers but he did not learn much from his composition teacher John Ireland and most of the music he wrote was never performed. Britten was more interested in music from abroad than in English music. In 1934 he heard the opera "Wozzeck" by Alban Berg. He wanted to go to Austria to study with Berg but he was not allowed to. Meanwhile, some of his first proper compositions started to be performed. He wrote some music for movies that were being made by the General Post Office, including one about a train delivering mail. The music describes the rhythm of the train rushing along.
While working on the movie music he met the writer W. H. Auden. He started to be interested in political ideas. These can be heard in some works he wrote at this time such as "Our Hunting Fathers" (1936) and "Ballad of Heroes" (1939). When Auden emigrated to the United States Britten followed him. With him was the tenor Peter Pears who was to become a lifelong friend and partner, and who was to be the inspiration for many songs and operas.
Britten wrote several compositions in the USA including "Sinfonia da Requiem" (1940) and his "First String Quartet" (1941). The following year he was reading about the poet George Crabbe who came from Suffolk, the same part of England where Britten had grown up. Britten suddenly became homesick. He realized that he could not work and be himself in a foreign country. So he returned with Pears to England.
As soon as he was on the boat sailing back to England he started work on "Ceremony of Carols". Back in England, Britten and Pears gave concerts to audiences of all kinds and took part in opera productions of Sadler's Wells Opera Company, which was having a new theatre built. On the 7 June 1945 the new theatre was opened with a performance of Britten’s opera "Peter Grimes". This opera was to make Britten into the most famous English composer of his time. It was soon being performed abroad as well as in England.
Britten was now composing lots of music: songs, chamber music and a very popular piece called "Young Person’s Guide to the Orchestra" (also known as "Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell"). This piece shows off each instrument of the orchestra in turn so that young people can get to know the sound of the musical instruments. It is based on a tune written by Henry Purcell 300 years ago. There were more popular works: St Nicolas and the Spring Symphony. There were not many opportunities for big operas to be performed, so he wrote some “chamber operas” which only needed small orchestras and a small number of singers. These were performed in places such as local churches by a group which called themselves English Opera Group. He wrote "The Rape of Lucretia" (1946) and "Albert Herring" (1947). In 1948 the group helped to start a music festival in Aldeburgh. Benjamin Britten spent the rest of his life mainly working on music which was to be performed at the Aldeburgh Festival. He composed some of his greatest works for the festival, and he took part in the performances as conductor and pianist.
One of Britten’s most popular pieces of music for amateurs including children was "Noye’s Fludde" (1957). He wrote three “church parables”. His large operas include "Billy Budd" (1951) which was soon produced in Covent Garden. In June 1953 he wrote "Gloriana", an opera about Queen Elizabeth I, written for the coronation celebrations of Elizabeth II. When he travelled with Peter Pears to the Far East he was influenced by the music of Bali and he composed a ballet called "The Prince of the Pagodas", performed in Covent Garden in 1957. Another great work inspired by the East was the parable "Curlew River" (1964). The opera "A Midsummer Night’s Dream" was written for the Aldeburgh Festival in 1960. In 1962 he wrote the "War Requiem" to celebrate the new Coventry Cathedral. This is one of the greatest musical works of the 20th century.
In 1961 he became friends with the great Russian cellist Mstislav Rostropovich. He composed a "Cello Sonata" and a "Cello Symphony" (1963) (a kind of cello concerto), as well as three suites for solo cello. He travelled with Pears to the Soviet Union.
In 1967 the Aldeburgh Festival had a new concert hall, the Maltings at Snape. His next opera was "Owen Wingrave" (1970), written for television but soon produced in Covent Garden. In June 1973 Britten produced another great opera "Death in Venice". The main character, called Aschenbach, was perhaps the best music he ever wrote for Peter Pears. It was performed at the Aldeburgh Festival, but Britten was ill by this time and unable to be at the performance. His heart condition made it impossible to work on any more large works, but he still wrote some harp music for the harpist Ossian Ellis, a song called "Phaedra" for Janet Baker, and a "Third String Quartet". He died in Aldeburgh on 4 December 1976.
Britten received many honours both in Britain and in other countries. He became a Companion of Honour in 1952 a member of the Order of Merit in 1965 and, in the year he died, he was the first musician ever to receive a life peer (the title Lord Britten).
Britten’s early works were often written for instruments. His "Variations on a Theme of Frank Bridge" (1937) for string orchestra is a very popular work today. He often borrowed and reinvented themes by other composers (this is called “parody” technique). During his last years he again gave much attention to instrumental music, mainly chamber music.
After he met Peter Pears much of his music was vocal. This includes more than 100 songs, a number of operas, chamber operas as well as three works for tenor solo and orchestra: "Les Illuminations", the "Serenade for Tenor, Horn and Strings" and the "Nocturne". His songs are often grouped in cycles. He also wrote many folksong settings. These were very popular as encore pieces when he accompanied Peter Pears in song recitals.
Britten wrote music for choirs, including "Hymn to St Cecilia" (Britten was proud of having been born on St Cecilia’s day: 22 November). The "War Requiem" is his greatest work which combines writing for choir and orchestra. It describes the horrors of war (Britten had refused to fight in World War II).
He wrote a lot of work for children. There are even parts for children in some of his operas, e.g. "Peter Grimes", "The Turn of the Screw" and "Owen Wingrave". He even wrote an opera in which all the main parts are sung by children: "The Little Sweep" (1949).
Many of his great operatic roles, from Peter Grimes to Aschenbach in "Death in Venice", deal with the theme of the outsider, the person who does not quite fit into society, or who is misunderstood. Britten’s homosexuality (which was something that was never discussed in his lifetime) may have something to do with this. He also knew what it was like to be an outsider when he tried to live in the United States, and his refusal to fight in the war may have distanced him from some people.
The Aldeburgh Festival at the Maltings in Snape (a village near Aldeburgh) continue to be a focus for Britten’s music. Every year the Brittens-Pears School of Music organizes lessons and performance opportunities for young musicians. A series of “Prom” concerts is held there every year in August.

</doc>
<doc id="28822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822" title="Claudio Monteverdi">
Claudio Monteverdi

Claudio Monteverdi (b.Cremona, 1567; d.Venice 25 November 1643) was the most important composer of the early Baroque period. He lived at a time of great change in musical style. The first opera ever written was composed in 1597 by a composer named Jacopo Peri. Just eleven years later Monteverdi wrote an opera "Orfeo" which was a really great work. Other important operas of his are "Il combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda" and "Il ritorno d’Ulisse in patria". He wrote 9 books of madrigals. He also wrote a lot of church music including the "1610 Vespers". He was director of music at St Mark’s, Venice, which was the most important musical job in Italy.
Monteverdi was the son of an apothecary and a doctor. He was very talented as a young boy and was only 15 when he published his first pieces of music. In the introduction to this music he says that his music teacher was Marc’ Antonio Ingegneri, the maestro di cappella of Cremona cathedral. We cannot find anything that shows that he sang in the cathedral choir. He probably had private music lessons. He learned composition, singing and how to play string instruments such as the viol and viola da braccio. He got several compositions published in Venice. By the time he got his first job he had already published two books of madrigals.
His first job was working at the court of the Duke of Mantua. In Mantua there was a small band of excellent musicians. The musical director was the famous Giaches de Wert. Monteverdi got to know many famous poets, and there were famous singers at Ferrara which was not far away. 
At first Monteverdi had a low-paid job. He married the daughter of one of the court musicians in the string band. Monteverdi soon became well-known. He sent several of his compositions to be performed at Ferrara, and he went with the duke to when his army was fighting the Turks.
The young Monteverdi was developing a new musical style. The old style was known as "prima pratica" (“first practice”) and the new style was called the "seconda pratica" (“second practice”). The "prima pratica" continued to be used for church music. In this style of writing the music was thought to be more important than the words. This meant that the music could be very contrapuntal, with several things going on at once so that the words could not be clearly heard. However, in the "seconda pratica" the words were more important than the music, i.e. it was important to be able to hear all the words clearly, and the music had to be simple enough for this to happen. This was particularly important in opera and in madrigals.
There were a lot of arguments among musicians about these two styles of composition, and this is perhaps the reason why there was a gap of 11 years between Monteverdi’s 3rd and his 4th book of madrigals. His opera "Orfeo" (1608) was performed at least twice at court, and several times at Salzburg. Monteverdi was becoming famous all over Europe.
Monteverdi went back to Cremona. His wife died, leaving him with their three small children. It was a terrible tragedy for Monteverdi, and he did not want to go back to Mantua, but the Duke wrote to him telling him he must come back to provide music for the wedding of Prince Francesco Gonzaga and Margharita of Savoy.
Monteverdi returned to Mantua, where he composed his opera "Arianna". The performance was a great success, and the audience were moved to tears by the music Arianna’s lament. This song is the only part of the opera that has not been lost.
Although Monteverdi’s fame was increasing, there were a lot of arguments with his employer. Eventually he found another job, this time as a church musician, in the biggest church in Venice. Monteverdi had a difficult journey from Mantua to Venice. The passengers were robbed by highwaymen on the way. He arrived in Venice in October 1613.
The job of maestro (director of music) at San Marco (Saint Mark’s church) in Venice was perhaps the most important job for a church musician in the whole of Europe. However, the music was in a bad state because previous directors of music had not been very good. Monteverdi started to reorganize the music there: he bought new music for the library and got some new musicians. He had to compose music for many special feast days during the year. He was doing a good job, and in 1616 his salary was increased to 400 ducats (about 44.28 ounces of gold, worth about $73,500USD today). The duke of Mantua was probably cross that he had lost such a good musician. He still asked Monteverdi to write music for him. Monteverdi probably had to obey, as he was still a Mantuan citizen (Italy did not become one country until more than two centuries later). He wrote music for important events such as weddings and carnivals at Mantua.
By 1619 Monteverdi had published his seventh book of madrigals. However, he then started to publish less music. Perhaps it was because he was so busy, or perhaps because he no longer needed to look for fame. He probably wrote a lot of church music which is now lost.
During the 1620s continued his work in Venice, although he may have tried to get other jobs. His hobbies include alchemy. He welcomed the composer Heinrich Schütz who visited Venice for a second time. After the Duke of Mantua died in 1626 Monteverdi wrote less music for Mantua. He was supposed to receive an annual salary from them, but he often did not get it. There was a war in Mantua, a lot of buildings were destroyed and the invading armies brought the plague. Monteverdi became a priest in 1632. It is not clear whether he did this because he really was religious or whether he thought it would help his career.
In 1637 public opera was started in Venice. Monteverdi, who was now in his 70s, wrote operas for Venice. "Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria" (1640) and "L'incoronazione di Poppea" (1642) form a brilliant end to his career. After the performance of this opera he made a six-month trip to Lombard and Mantua, where again he had to argue at the court about not being paid his pension. After he returned to Venice he was ill for nine days and then died.

</doc>
<doc id="28835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28835" title="Charlie Kaufman">
Charlie Kaufman

Charles Stuart "Charlie" Kaufman (born November 1, 1958) is an American screenwriter. Some of the movies he wrote screenplays for are "Being John Malkovich", "Adaptation", "Human Nature", and "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind". Charlie Kaufman is known for writing very surreal movies - that is, movies where the plot has things in it that could never happen in real life, or that make the audience notice that they are watching a movie.

</doc>
<doc id="28841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28841" title="Oxbow lake">
Oxbow lake

An oxbow lake is a lake, or area of water, in a U-shape. It is made by special bends in a river, called meanders, getting farther away from the river until they become separate. The river becomes straight and the bend becomes a lake.
Water flows at different speeds at different parts of the river. In the middle, farthest away from the sides (or banks), the water flows fastest. At the banks, the water flows slowest. When the river bends, water flows faster on the outside of the bend than the inside. The fast water on the outside 'erodes' the outside of the bend. This means it breaks bits of the bank off. At the same time, the slow water on the inside of the bend leaves behind mud, sand and parts of plants (deposition). Together, these make the bend move in the direction of the outside of the bend. 
The bend moves farther and farther along until it leaves the river. The river becomes straight and the bend is left as an oxbow lake.

</doc>
<doc id="28846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28846" title="Sequel">
Sequel

A sequel is a story, book, or movie that comes after another story, book, or movie. The opposite is a prequel. A combination of the two makes a midquel. When there are many sequels, this is called a series.
A sequel has important parts of the first story like characters and places. Audiences like sequels because they have more of the characters and places they like. Storytellers and publishers like sequels because they are popular and people buy them. 
Sequel names are often similar to the name of a first story or other stories in a series. They often have a second title or a number to show that they are alike or different from a first story or other stories in a series. Sometimes sequels have different names in different countries because they mean different things to different audiences. 

</doc>
<doc id="28858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28858" title="Major League Soccer">
Major League Soccer

Major League Soccer (MLS) is an American soccer league that started in 1996. As of the next season in 2016, there are 20 teams in the league. At least three teams will join the league in the near future. Two are set to join in 2017, a third is planning to join in 2018, and a fourth will join once it builds a new stadium, which will not happen until at least 2018. The commissioner of the league (the person in charge) is Don Garber.
MLS, founded in the United States, is a fully professional league with 20 teams, three of which are based in Canada, and is the top soccer league in both countries. Referees are approved by the United States Soccer Federation and Canadian Soccer Association, which run the sport in the two countries. In turn, U.S. Soccer and the CSA are members of FIFA, which governs all play between national teams and sets the rules for the sport along with the national governing bodies of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales.
MLS was formed in 1993 as a professional league, with play starting with 10 teams in 1996. The MLS regular season starts in late March and ends in October, with each team playing 34 games. The regular season is followed by a 12-team playoff tournament to decide the league champion.

</doc>
<doc id="28859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28859" title="Chicago Fire Soccer Club">
Chicago Fire Soccer Club

The Chicago Fire Soccer Club is a soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in Bridgeview, Illinois. They started in 1998 and won an MLS Cup in that year. The club is named after the Great Chicago Fire of 1871.

</doc>
<doc id="28860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28860" title="Columbus Crew SC">
Columbus Crew SC

Columbus Crew SC (known before 2015 as simply "Columbus Crew") are an American soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in Columbus, Ohio. They started play in 1996, and have played in their own stadium, Mapfre Stadium (known before 2015 as Columbus Crew Stadium), since 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="28861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28861" title="Sporting Kansas City">
Sporting Kansas City

Sporting Kansas City are an American football (soccer) team that plays in Major League Soccer in Kansas City, Kansas.
They started out as the Kansas City Wiz, before changing their name to the Kansas City Wizards in 1997. Later, in November 2010, they changed their name again to Sporting Kansas City, as the team was moving into a new stadium in the 2011 season. The stadium has been known by several names, first Livestrong Sporting Park, then Sporting Park, and now Children's Mercy Park. 

</doc>
<doc id="28862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28862" title="New England Revolution">
New England Revolution

The New England Revolution are a United States football (soccer) team that plays in Major League Soccer in Foxborough, Massachusetts. They share a stadium (place where games are played) with the New England Patriots, a "gridiron" football team. Some of their most famous players are Jay Heaps, Clint Dempsey and Taylor Twellman. The team won the U.S. Open Cup in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="28863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28863" title="New York Red Bulls">
New York Red Bulls

The New York Red Bulls are an American soccer team. They play in Major League Soccer in Harrison, New Jersey. Until 2006, they were known as the MetroStars. Their homeground is the Red Bull Arena in Harrison.
The club was founded in 1995 by John Werner Kluge and Stuart Subotnick, two managers for MetroMedia, under the name MetroStars. The club was a founding member of Major League Soccer. In 2006 the team was sold to the Austrian company Red Bull and renamed the New York Red Bulls. The team is the only one in the MLS which never reached a major title. There were a lot of well-known soccer players on the team from all over the world such as Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus (FIFA World Cup 1990, UEFA Champion 1980), Adolfo Valencia, Youri Djorkaeff, Amado Guevara, Juan Pablo Angel,Daniel Rodriguez, Thierry Henry, and Rafael Márquez.
Former players Tony Meola, Tab Ramos, Tim Howard, Alexi Lalas, Clint Mathis, Jozy Altidore, Michael Bradley, Claudio Reyna, Eddie Pope, and Tim Ream have all played for the U.S. national team. Current players Juan Agudelo,Daniel Rodriguez, Dax McCarty, and Kenny Cooper have also played for the USMNT.

</doc>
<doc id="28865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28865" title="Colorado Rapids">
Colorado Rapids

The Colorado Rapids are an American soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer. They are one of the founding clubs of the MLS. The hometown of Rapids is Denver, Colorado. The club was formed in 1996.
"As of September 9th, 2011."
"This list shows players who have played for the team in official 2011 MLS Reserve Division games, but are not part of the senior roster."
The Rapids play their home games at Dick's Sporting Goods Park in Commerce City, Colorado (ca. 8 miles north of the center of Denver). The stadium capacity is 19,680 and cost $131 million to construct. It is a stadium for football only. The soccer stadium opened on April 7, 2007. Before moving to DSG Park in 2007, Colorado Rapids shared Mile High Stadium and then Invesco Field at Mile High with the Denver Broncos an American football team.

</doc>
<doc id="28866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28866" title="F.C. Dallas">
F.C. Dallas

FC Dallas is an American soccer team. They play in Major League Soccer in Frisco, Texas, a suburb of Dallas, Texas. The team is a founding member of the MLS. Before 2005, they were known as the Dallas Burn. The team is owned by Clark Hunt, who also owns the Columbus Crew and the National Football League team Kansas City Chiefs.
"As of January 24, 2015."
From 1996–2002 the team played in the 92,100-capacity Cotton Bowl in Dallas. To save money the club played its 2003 home games at Dragon Stadium, a high school stadium in Southlake, a Fort Worth suburb. The soccer team moved back to the Cotton Bowl for the 2004 season. The club lost money in the high school stadium because Texas law does not allow sale of alcohol on a public high school campus. In August 2005, the club moved into Pizza Hut Park, a soccer stadium in the northern suburb of Frisco. The contract that allowed Pizza Hut to put its name on the stadium ended in January 2012, and the stadium was renamed FC Dallas Stadium. In September 2013, a new sponsorship contract was signed with Toyota, and the stadium was renamed Toyota Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="28867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28867" title="Houston Dynamo">
Houston Dynamo

The Houston Dynamo are an American soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in Houston, Texas. In late 2005, the San Jose Earthquakes moved to the city because of financial problems in San Jose, California.
The Dynamo opened a new stadium, known as BBVA Compass Stadium, in downtown Houston in May 2012, after playing their first seven games of the season on the road.

</doc>
<doc id="28868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28868" title="San Jose Earthquakes">
San Jose Earthquakes

The San Jose Earthquakes are an American soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in San Jose, California. In December 2005, they moved to Houston, Texas to become the Houston Dynamo. Failure to secure funding for a new stadium caused the team to move. In July 2007, they were granted an expansion team, which would bring them back in 2008. From 1996 to 1999 they were known as the San Jose Clash. By agreement between MLS, the Dynamo, and the Earthquakes, the history of the original San Joise franchise belongs to the current Earthquakes.

</doc>
<doc id="28869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28869" title="Los Angeles Galaxy">
Los Angeles Galaxy

The Los Angeles Galaxy, branded as the LA Galaxy, are an American soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in Carson, California. They shared their home field, StubHub Center, with Chivas USA before that team folded at the end of the 2014 season.
Until he left when his contract ended after the 2012 season, the team's best-known player was English icon David Beckham, signed from Real Madrid in 2007. Landon Donovan, the all-time leading goal scorer for the US national team, has been with the Galaxy since 2005, except for a retirement of nearly two years from the end of the 2014 season until late in the 2016 season. Robbie Keane, the Republic of Ireland's captain, leading scorer, and most-capped (most games) player, is the Galaxy's current captain. The team also includes longtime Liverpool and England star Steven Gerrard.

</doc>
<doc id="28870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28870" title="Real Salt Lake">
Real Salt Lake

Real Salt Lake is an American soccer team. They play in Major League Soccer in Salt Lake City, Utah. They began playing in 2005. Their head coach is Jason Kreis. They play at Rio Tinto Stadium in Sandy, Utah. Their rival is the Colorado Rapids.
"As of January 15, 2009." 
"MLS regular season only, through 2006 season"
"regular season/playoffs"

</doc>
<doc id="28871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28871" title="Toronto F.C.">
Toronto F.C.

Toronto FC was introduced as a new team for Major League Soccer in May 2006. They began play in 2007 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="28872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28872" title="President of Germany">
President of Germany

The President of Germany (German: "Bundespräsident", literally: "federal president") is the head of state of the Federal Republic of Germany. His functions are mostly supervising and representative.
The president is elected every five years by the Bundesversammlung.
The 10th president was Christian Wulff (CDU). He resigned on 17 February 2012. The current President Joachim Gauck succeeded him on 18 March 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="28873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28873" title="Miami Fusion F.C.">
Miami Fusion F.C.

The Miami Fusion were an American soccer team that played in Major League Soccer from 1998 to 2001. They played in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="28874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28874" title="Tampa Bay Mutiny">
Tampa Bay Mutiny

Tampa Bay Mutiny was an American soccer team that played in Major League Soccer from 1996 to 2001. They played in Tampa, Florida. Their stadium was the Raymond James Stadium.

</doc>
<doc id="28881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28881" title="The Gillette Company">
The Gillette Company

Global Gillette (formerly The Gillette Company) is an American company famous for making shaving products. It has been merged recently into Procter & Gamble's operations.

</doc>
<doc id="28890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28890" title="Abkhazia">
Abkhazia

Abkhazia (/Apkhazeti) is a partially recognized republic in the Caucasus. As of 2009, about 215,000 people lived there. The capital is Sukhumi. Most countries consider Abkhazia to be part of Georgia. It is recognized only by Russia, Nauru, Nicaragua and Venezuela.
Abkhazia covers an area of about at the northwest part of Greater Caucasus. The Caucasus Mountains to the north and the northeast divide Abkhazia from the Russian Federation. 

</doc>
<doc id="28891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28891" title="Heinrich Schütz">
Heinrich Schütz

Heinrich Schütz (born Köstritz, Saxony, 8 October 1585; died Dresden, Germany, 6 November 1672) was the greatest German composer of his time. As a young man he travelled to Italy to learn the art of composition from the great Italian composers. He had lessons from Giovanni Gabrieli. When Gabrieli died in 1612 Schütz returned to Germany. He visited Italy a second time in 1628 to learn from the music of Claudio Monteverdi. He also visited Copenhagen. For much of his life he was a court composer at the Electoral Chapel in Dresden. Most of his work consists of choral works especially motets and madrigals. He was very good at writing counterpoint and his music has some very striking effects. His "Christmas Oratorio " is particularly famous.

</doc>
<doc id="28894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28894" title="Domenico Scarlatti">
Domenico Scarlatti

Giuseppe Domenico Scarlatti (born Naples, Italy, 26 October 1685; died Madrid, Spain 23 July 1757) was an Italian composer and harpsichordist. He was the son of the famous composer Alessandro Scarlatti. Part of his life he spent in Venice and Rome. His father Alessandro was a famous composer who wrote many operas. Domenico became famous for his sonatas for harpsichord. He wrote over 550 of them. They are mostly quite short pieces in one movement, most written in an early Classical style, which influenced many future Classical composers. He had some unusual effects in his music such as the crossing of hands as they leap wildly from one end of the keyboard to another. He also liked crunchy chords which sound like the strumming of Spanish guitars. He gave harpsichord lessons to the Infanta Maria Barbara at the Royal Court in Lisbon in Portugal. When she married she took Scarlatti, her harpsichord teacher, with her to Madrid in Spain where he spent the rest of his life.

</doc>
<doc id="28896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28896" title="Wilhelm Friedemann Bach">
Wilhelm Friedemann Bach

Wilhelm Friedemann Bach (born Weimar 22 November 1710–Berlin 1 July 1784) was a famous German composer and organist.
He was the son of Johann Sebastian Bach, who taught him to play the harpsichord and organ. Johann Sebastian wrote some pieces and put them in a book called "Notebook for Wilhelm Friedemann Bach". Although they are in order of increasing difficulty, it is not known if these were used to teach him to play, or how to write music. The book does contain two allemandes and four preludes written by Wilhelm Friedemann. He also learned to play the violin.
Wilhelm Friedemann was an excellent organist, and took over teaching some of his father's students. In 1733 he was appointed as the organist at the Dresden Sophienkirche (St. Sophia's Church). While living in Dresden he continued to write music including harpsichord concertos, sinfonias, trio sonatas, harpsichord sonatas, and other smaller works for keyboard. He published his first music in 1745.
In 1746 became organist of the Liebfrauenkirche at Halle. This was an important position and he was paid twice as much as he had earned at Dresden. He was expected to provide music for feast days, and so he began to compose cantatas which could be reused each year. He still visited his father, and often used parts of his music. After his father's death in 1750, Wilhelm Friedemann inherited as lot of his father's music, and tried to make people think they were his compositions. He was in trouble with the church when he went to Leipzig to sort out his father's estate. They felt that he was away for too long and was not fulfilling his proper duties.
In 1764, after arguing with a lot of people, he left the job in Halle, remaining unemployed and living a life of poverty until his death.
He had a lot of talent which he did not use. He was a very good improviser, but was careless when playing music by other composers, including his father's.

</doc>
<doc id="28898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28898" title="Indiana Jones">
Indiana Jones

Dr. Henry "Indiana" Jones, Jr. is a fictional American professor, archaeologist, and adventurer. 
He originally appeared in a series of movies produced by George Lucas and directed by Steven Spielberg in the 1980s, in which he was played by actor Harrison Ford.
Indiana Jones is noted for his trademark bullwhip, his fedora hat, and his great fear of snakes.
"Indiana Jones" is also the general name given to the series as a whole, which has four movies, a TV series, novels, comics, video games, and other media.

</doc>
<doc id="28902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28902" title="Lord Protector">
Lord Protector

A Lord Protector is a British title for heads of state. It has two different meanings at different times in history.
The title of "Lord Protector" was first used by royal princes or other nobles who ruled while the English monarch was still too young to rule or was not able to rule for some other reason.
The Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland was the title of the head of state during the Interregnum, following the first period of the Commonwealth under Council of State government. It was held by Oliver Cromwell (December 1653–September 1658) and his son Richard Cromwell (September 1658–May 1659) during what is now known as the Protectorate. 

</doc>
<doc id="28906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28906" title="Fantasy">
Fantasy

Fantasy is a genre of fiction (make believe) that shows some form of magic, or supernatural force.
Often fantasy also means that the story takes place in another world different from our own (e.g. Middle-earth or Narnia). Although the word fantasy is most often applied to low-tech worlds, it also can depict high tech worlds, overlapping with science fiction (e.g. Star Wars). Or it is used for historical fiction, if it is magical in some way.

</doc>
<doc id="28910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28910" title="Materialism">
Materialism

Materialism is the philosophical belief that the world is made of material, and that there are no other types of entity (things). Everything is composed of material. Things that are not made of material, such as consciousness, are the result of actions by material. In other words, matter is the only real substance. "Physicalism" is a related term.
Especially, a materialist does not believe in gods or other supernatural entities. The materialist thinks the idea of a spirit is either meaningless, or not scientifically proven. Therefore, by definition, materialists are also atheists, though not all atheists are materialists.
Modern philosophical materialists extend the definition to include other basic entities proven by science. such as energy, forces, and the curvature of space. Matter and energy are known to be interchangeable, and much else, such as gravity, is caused by matter. However, the concept of matter is itself not entirely clear.
Other types of philosophy share some of the aims of materialism. Examples would include reductionism, logical positivism and empiricism.

</doc>
<doc id="28917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28917" title="Northern Cyprus">
Northern Cyprus

The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) (Turkish: "") is a "de facto" state in the northern third of the island of Cyprus. Three hundred thousand people live in its 3,335 km². Turkey is the only country which recognizes the territory as an independent republic.
The present situation came about because Cyprus, historically Greek, was conquered and became part of the Ottoman Empire from 1570–1914. Many Turks became settlers. As the Ottoman Empire sided against the British empire in World War I, the British annexed Cyprus. In 1923 by the treaty of Lausanne Turkey gave up the island to the British Empire which in 1925 converted it to a crown colony. The British administered it from 1878 until 1960.
In 1974 some of the Greek Army supported a coup against the Archbishop and President Makarios. The Turkish army invaded Cyprus. This had the effect that over two hundred thousand Greek and Turkish Cypriots abandoned their homes and become refugees in the other part of their own country. Many settlers from mainland Turkey came from Turkey into the occupied part of the island. Some native Turkish Cypriots left the occupied part to find a better life in the U.K and other countries.
As the Turkish army stayed the possibility of a negotiated settlement became nearly impossible. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was formed in 1983. Negotiations for a unified island have been held several times without success. The standard of living in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is lower than in the Republic of Cyprus. The European Union accepted the sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus, and does not accept the so-called " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus".

</doc>
<doc id="28929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28929" title="New Caledonia">
New Caledonia

New Caledonia (; popular name: "Le caillou") is a ""sui generis" collectivity" (in practice an overseas territory) of France, made up of a main island ("Grande Terre") and several smaller islands. It is in the region of Melanesia in the southwest Pacific. At about half the size of Taiwan, it has a land area of 18,575.5 square kilometres (7,172 sq mi). At the 2004 census, 230,789 people lived there. It has an internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) of .nc. The capital and largest city of the territory is Nouméa. The currency is the CFP franc. The inflation rate is -0.6%. The unemployment rate is 17.1%

</doc>
<doc id="28944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28944" title="Dam">
Dam

A dam is a large wall or barrier that obstructs or stops the flow of water, forming a reservoir or a lake. Most dams have a section called a spillway or weir over which, or through which, water flows, either sometimes or always.
Dams generally serve the primary purpose of retaining water. The tallest dam in the world is the 300 meter high Nurek Dam in Tajikistan.
Some of the first dams were built in Mesopotamia up to 7,000 years ago. Modern dams are built with arched walls of steel rod-reinforced concrete. The arched wall is a very strong shape which helps the wall to withstand the huge weight of the water.
There are a number of reasons that people build dams. Some countries build dams to control the flow of water in the downstream river systems, and prevent flooding. Other countries build dams to generate electricity using hydroelectric turbine generators. Other countries use dams to store water for use in irrigation (for farming).

</doc>
<doc id="28945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28945" title="David Beckham">
David Beckham

David Beckham (born 2 May 1975) is an English retired association football player. The teams he played for were Manchester United, Real Madrid, Los Angeles Galaxy, Preston North End, AC Milan, Paris Saint-Germain, and the England national team.
Beckham's parents insisted that he finish his secondary school education before he could join a professional team.
He grew up in the Manchester football youth system along with Ryan Giggs, Nicky Butt, Phil Neville,Gary Neville and Paul Scholes who all turned out to be famous footballers. Since his move from Manchester United to Real Madrid, Spain in 2003, he has been the highest paid footballer in the world. In June 2003, Queen Elizabeth II gave Beckham an OBE. In January 2005, Beckham became a UNICEF ambassador. He retired from playing football at the end of the 2012/13 season. His most recent club was Paris Saint-Germain.
He played for England for 13 years. He was dropped from the England team after giving up his England captaincy. But regained his place in the England squad when Fabio Capello became the England manager.
From 1993 through 2003, he played for Manchester United in England.
After leaving Manchester United, he signed a four-year contract with Real Madrid which ended in June, 2007.
He played for Paris Saint-Germain in Ligue 1 until the end of the 2012/13 season.
Beckham's wife is singer Victoria Beckham. Some people call her Posh Spice because she was a member of the Spice Girls. The couple have three sons: Brooklyn Joseph Beckham (born 4 March 1999 in London), Romeo James Beckham (born 1 September 2002 in London), and Cruz David Beckham (born 20 February 2005 in Madrid, Spain), and a daughter Harper Beckham (born 2 July 2011). 
!Total||115||17

</doc>
<doc id="28946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28946" title="Sonata">
Sonata

A sonata is a piece of music for one instrument or one instrument with another instrument accompanying. The word comes from the Italian “sonare” which means “to sound”.
A composer could call any solo instrumental piece “sonata” if he or she wants to, but usually a sonata is quite a long piece with several movements. A sonatina is a simple and short sonata.
The term "sonata" was used in the 16th century to mean anything that was not sung.
In the Baroque period (17th and early 18th centuries) many composers like Arcangelo Corelli wrote sonatas with several movements. There were two types: “sonata da camera” (“room sonata” i.e. “chamber sonata”) which were for playing in people’s homes, and “sonata da chiesa” (“church sonata”) which were for being played in churches. The first type would have harpsichord accompaniment and the second type organ accompaniment. There would also be a cello playing the bass line. The solo instrument might be a violin, flute, recorder or oboe.
At the end of the Baroque period Domenico Scarlatti wrote over 500 sonatas for harpsichord. These are all short pieces in binary form (two sections).
By the time we come to the Classical period sonatas have become longer pieces with three or four movements. They would usually start with a fast movement, then a slow one, and then a fast one at the end. If there were four movements the extra one would be a minuet and trio or a scherzo, either before or after the slow movement. The first movement would be in sonata form. The most important composers of sonatas at this time were Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven
Many composers in the Romantic period wrote sonatas, for example: Brahms wrote piano sonatas as well as sonatas for violin and piano, cello and piano, and clarinet and piano.
In the 20th century composers who have written sonatas include Bartok, Tippett and William Walton.

</doc>
<doc id="28949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28949" title="Sonata form">
Sonata form

Sonata form is a way of organizing a piece of music. It has been used a great deal since the Classical period (from the middle of the 18th century onwards). Listening to some pieces of music in sonata form will help to understand it fully. It is helpful to know something about the different keys.
Sonata form is not just used in sonatas. It can be the form for movements from symphonies, concertos, overtures etc.
In the Baroque period composers like Bach and Handel wrote a lot of dance movements such as minuets. These were in “binary form”. This meant that there were two sections. The two sections were often the same length, and were separated by a double bar line which meant that each section was repeated. The music would not be in the same key all the time. The first section would modulate (change key) and then the second section would gradually modulate back again so that it sounded finished at the end.
Domenico Scarlatti wrote lots of sonatas for harpsichord which are in binary form, but they started to get longer and more complicated. The first section would start with a theme (tune) in the main key, and then modulate to another key for a contrasting tune. The second section might be longer than the first second, starting off by modulating to strange keys before arriving back to repeat the main tunes. This kind of piece is the beginning of sonata form.
Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven developed the idea of sonata form. A movement in sonata form has three sections called: “exposition”, “development” and “recapitulation”.
This way of building a piece of music was used by almost every composer from the mid 18th century onwards – well into the 20th century. It gives scope for a very dramatic piece. Of course, composers sometime use it differently. There is often a sense of development during the whole piece, not just during the so-called “development section”. The first movement of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony spends all the time developing the famous idea heard at the beginning: the first four notes (DA-DA-DA-DAAAA). Even the other three movements carry on developing this idea.

</doc>
<doc id="28951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28951" title="The Lord of the Rings (disambiguation)">
The Lord of the Rings (disambiguation)

The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel by J. R. R. Tolkien.
The Lord of the Rings may also refer to:
There have been several movies based on the book by J. R. R. Tolkien:

</doc>
<doc id="28956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28956" title="Aria">
Aria

An aria is a long song accompanying a solo voice. An aria is usually in an opera. It is an Italian word of the 18th century meaning “air” (i.e. a tune).
A small amount of text is used in an aria. Characteristics include the use of melismas, repetition and sequences. Typically there would be full accompaniment to the solo voice in the aria although this is not the case in Purcell's Dido and Aeneas where the majority of its arias are only accompanied by the continuo part.
In operas of the Baroque period most of the music was either “recitative” or “aria”. Recitative (from a word meaning: “to recite” i.e. “to tell”) was sung quickly, almost as if it were being spoken. The singer was accompanied just by a few supporting chords, usually on a harpsichord. The story was being told in the recitative.
Once the situation in the story had changed there would be an aria. The singer would sing a song which expressed his or her feelings. The aria had more musical interest than the recitative. Arias were usually in what we call “ABA” form or “Da Capo” form. There was a main section, then a middle part, then the main section was repeated (“Da Capo” means: “back to the beginning”). In the Da Capo section the singer usually improvised, adding many embellishments and ornaments. The aria gave performers the opportunity to show off their virtuosity. 
The word “aria” is not just used in opera. Arias can be found in cantatas or just by themselves. Sometimes pieces for instruments are called “aria”. These are often a tune with variations, such as Handel's famous "Air with Variations" for harpsichord, also known as .
In the 19th century the difference between recitative and aria in opera started to disappear. Composers like Richard Wagner made the music much more continuous. He did not want audiences clapping in the middle of his operas. He wanted the music to develop dramatically and continuously.

</doc>
<doc id="28957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28957" title="Elijah Wood">
Elijah Wood

Elijah Jordan Wood (born January 28, 1981, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa) is an American actor.
A professional actor since the age of nine, Wood is best known for his role of Frodo Baggins in the "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy.

</doc>
<doc id="28961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28961" title="Ian McKellen">
Ian McKellen

Sir Ian Murray McKellen, CBE, CH (born 25 May 1939) is an English actor in theatre and movies. He got a Tony Award and two Oscar nominations.
He was born in Burnley, Lancashire. In 1939, he moved to Wigan. In 1951, he moved to Bolton.
His work has spanned genres from serious Shakespearean and modern theatre to popular fantasy and science fiction movies.
Best known for his roles as Gandalf in the 2001-2003 "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy, as Sir Leigh Teabing in "The Da Vinci Code", and as Magneto in the "X-Men" series of movies. He is openly gay and is a prominent activist for the rights of LGBT people.
He was made a CBE in 1979 and knighted in 1990 for his outstanding work and contributions to the theatre. In 2008 he was made a Companion of Honour.
McKellen said in 2012 that he was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2006.
McKellen once signed an autograph to a fan stating “F*** off, I’m gay.” The person given the autograph was politician Michael Howard.

</doc>
<doc id="28964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28964" title="Viggo Mortensen">
Viggo Mortensen

Viggo Peter Mortensen, Jr. (born October 20, 1958, in New York City) is an American theater and movie actor, poet, musician, photographer and painter. He is best known for his role as Aragorn in Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="28965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28965" title="Sean Astin">
Sean Astin

Sean Astin (born February 25, 1971 in Santa Monica, California, U.S.) is an American movie actor. Astin is also a director and Oscar nominated producer. He is the son of Patty Duke and John Astin.
Astin married Christine Harrell on July 11, 1992. They have three daughters, Alexandra (born November 27, 1996), Elizabeth (born August 6, 2002) and Isabella (born July 22, 2005), all with the same middle name of Louise.

</doc>
<doc id="28966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28966" title="Ian Holm">
Ian Holm

Sir Ian Holm CBE (born 12 September 1931, in Goodmayes, Essex, as Ian Holm Cuthbert), is an English actor.

</doc>
<doc id="28973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28973" title="Luigi Boccherini">
Luigi Boccherini

Luigi Boccherini (born in Lucca, 19 February 1743; died Madrid, 28 May 1805) is an Italian cellist and composer. As a boy he showed great talent and was sent to Rome to study music. When he returned to Lucca he entered the theatre orchestra and the town band. He travelled a lot, visiting France, Spain, and Germany. In Berlin he was offered the job of chamber composer to the King of Prussia. He took the job, but had to promise only to work for the king, and no one else. When the king died he found himself without a job, so he went back to Madrid. There he found work at times, but a lot of the time he was very poor.
Boccherini is famous for his chamber music. He wrote more than 100 quintets for 2 violins, viola and 2 cellos. He also wrote 4 cello concertos.
Boccherini is sometimes nicknamed "Haydn’s wife" because his music sounds similar to that of Haydn. They may have known one another, but we cannot be sure.

</doc>
<doc id="28976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28976" title="George Frideric Handel">
George Frideric Handel

George Fredrick Handel (German : Georg Friedrich Händel) (23 February 1685 – 14 April 1759) was a German composer who went to live in England when he was a young man and later became a naturalised Briton. Johann Sebastian Bach and Handel were born in the same year. They were the greatest composers of their time, but they never met. Handel changed his name to George Frideric Handel when he became British; he removed the dots above the "a" and changed the spelling of Georg and Friedrich. The German spelling of his name (Georg Friedrich Händel) is still used by German writers.
Although they both lived in the late Baroque period, Bach and Handel’s music developed differently. Handel wrote many operas and oratorios and by them became very famous. He took many trips, including to Italy where he learned a lot about composition. Bach never left central Germany, and most of the time he was a church musician who was not well known by the general public.
Handel wrote over 42 operas. Later he wrote oratorios. His most famous oratorio is the "Messiah". He wrote anthems, chamber music and orchestral music including "the Water Music" and "Music for the Royal Fireworks".
Handel was born in Halle in the northeast of Germany, in today's Saxony-Anhalt. His father was a barber and a surgeon. He started playing the harpsichord and the organ when he was very young. He was given a clavichord when he was seven and he used to practice it in the attic where his father could not hear him. At the age of nine he was already composing. He had a teacher called Friedrich Wilhelm Zachow who was the organist of the big church, the Marienkirche, in Halle. He learned the organ, harpsichord and violin as well as composition, harmony.
Handel’s father did not want him to study music; he wanted him to be a lawyer. Although Handel's father died in 1697, Handel enrolled at the University of Halle in 1703. He studied law for a year because his father wanted him to do so. After that year, Handel was unhappy studying law. He decided to stop studying law and become a musician. He became organist at the Protestant Cathedral in Halle. The next year he moved to Hamburg where he got a job as violinist and harpsichordist in the orchestra of the opera-house. Here his first two operas, "Almira" and "Nero", were produced early in 1705. Two other early operas, "Daphne" and "Florindo", were produced at Hamburg in 1708.
Handel was becoming a good opera composer, but he wanted to learn more, so he went to Italy in 1707. He spent four years there. His opera "Rodrigo" was produced in Florence in 1707, and his "Agrippina" at Venice in 1709. "Agrippina" was very popular and had 26 performances. It made Handel famous. He also had three oratorios produced in Rome. He wrote sacred music (church music) and other pieces in an operatic style, e.g. "Dixit Dominus" (1707).
In 1710 Handel became "Kapellmeister" (music director) to George, Elector of Hanover, who would soon be King George I of Great Britain. The Elector agreed that Handel could have an immediate leave of 12 months so that he could go to London. He visited London for eight months. His opera "Rinaldo" was performed in 1711. It was the first time an Italian opera had been performed in England. It was an immediate success. Handel returned to Hanover in the summer of 1711 and spent a year writing chamber and orchestral music because there was no opera in Hanover. He was also trying to learn English. In 1712 the Elector allowed him to make another visit to England. In England he had patrons (rich people who gave him money). He had a yearly income of £200 from Queen Anne (while Bach earned as little as eighty pounds in a year). He was having a lot of success, and so stayed in England instead of returning to his job in the Hanover Court.
In 1712 Queen Anne died and the Elector of Hanover became King of Great Britain. Handel might have been in trouble for staying in Britain. According to one story the King forgave Handel because he wrote some lovely music called "Water Music" which was performed on a boat on the Thames at a royal water party. This story about the king forgiving Handel is probably not true. George would have known that Queen Anne was about to die and he would become King of Great Britain and therefore Handel's master again. In fact, the new king doubled Handel’s salary. A few years later his salary increased again when he taught music to Queen Caroline’s daughter.
In 1724 Handel moved into a newly built house in 25 Brook Street, London, which he rented until his death in 1759, 35 years later. The house is now called Handel House Museum and is open to the public. It was here that Handel composed some of his most famous music such as "Messiah", "Zadok the Priest", and "Fireworks Music".
In 1729 Handel's opera "Scipio" (Scipio) was performed for the first time. The march from this work is now the regimental slow march of the British Grenadier Guards. In the next year he took on British nationality.
In 1731 Handel was commissioned to write four anthems for the coronation ceremony of King George II. One of these, "Zadok the Priest", has been sung at every coronation ceremony since.
Handel spent most of his time working on operas. From 1722-1726 he was director of the Royal Academy of Music. This was an organisation that put on opera performances. It had nothing to do with the academy which is called the Royal Academy of Music today where young students study music. Handel also worked in the management of the King's Theatres and many of his operas were performed in the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden. He sometimes travelled to Italy to find new Italian singers and persuade them to come to London. London became world famous for operas. In spite of everything Handel was doing for opera he had many enemies as well as friends. There was a lot of rivalry, especially with a composer called Bononcini whose music is forgotten today. Handel gave up operatic management in 1740, after he had lost a lot of money in the business.
In April 1739, age 54, he had a stroke. It was probably this which left his right arm paralysed for a while so that he could not perform, but he made an excellent recovery after six weeks at a health spa in Aix-la-Chapelle. At this time he started to write oratorios instead of operas. In 1742 his oratorio "Messiah" was first performed in Dublin. Surprisingly, it was not successful in London until 1750 when it was performed in aid of the Foundling Hospital Chapel. Handel performed it every year there, which brought the hospital about £600 for each performance. Handel spent most of his time in these later years composing and producing oratorios. "Judas Maccabaeus" was particularly popular. The singers for these oratorios were English and Italian. They were not world-famous virtuosos but singers whom Handel had trained himself.
In August, 1750, on a journey back from Germany to London, Handel was seriously injured when his carriage overturned. In 1751 he started to lose his eyesight. He died, in 1759, in London. The last concert he went to was his own "Messiah". More than 3,000 mourners went to his funeral. He was buried with full state honours in Westminster Abbey. Handel never married, and kept his personal life very private. He left £20,000 which was a lot of money for those days (Approximately 2800000 pounds today) His niece inherited most of his money. He also left some of it to friends, servants, relations and charities. His autographs (the original copies of the music that he wrote) are now mostly in the British Museum.
Handel adopted the spelling "George Frideric Handel" on his naturalization as a British subject, and this spelling is generally used in English speaking countries. The original form of his name (Georg Friedrich Händel) is usually used in Germany, but he is known as "Haendel" in France. There was another composer with a similar name, Handl, who was a Slovene and is more commonly known as . This can be very hard for cataloguers (people trying to make a list of his music)

</doc>
<doc id="28980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28980" title="Richard Wagner">
Richard Wagner

Richard Wagner (22 May 1813 in Leipzig – 13 February 1883 in Venice) was a German opera composer. He was one of the most important opera composers in Germany during the Romantic period. Apart from some music that he wrote as a student he wrote ten operas which are all performed regularly in opera houses today. Most of his operas are about stories from German mythology. He always wrote the words himself. He changed people’s ideas of what operas should be like. He thought that the drama (the story that is being told with all its tensions) was very important, and he chose the singers for his operas himself, so that he could train them into his way of thinking. The music in his operas did not give the audience a chance to applaud after big solos as it had done in the 18th century: it continues throughout the whole act. He made his music tell the story by using what he called “leitmotifs”. These were melodies or short musical phrases which belonged to particular characters in the opera, or to particular ideas. He had more influence on other composers than anybody else in his time, largely because of his harmonies which became more and more chromatic (using lots of sharps and flats), changing key a lot of the time. He built an opera house to his own design in the German town of Bayreuth. Nearly all musicians in Europe tried to make a journey to Bayreuth to hear Wagner’s music. The Wagner festival still takes place every year there.
He studied at the University of Leipzig, although he was not allowed to be a full student because he did not have proper school qualifications. Although he lived a wild life he worked hard at his music. He studied the scores of Beethoven’s string quartets and symphonies and he wrote his own symphony which was performed in 1833 at the famous Leipzig Gewandhaus. He wrote his first opera, "Die Feen" ("The Fairies") in Würzburg. He became the conductor of a travelling opera group and fell in love with one of the singers called Minna Planer and he married her in 1836. His second opera, "Das Liebesverbot", based on Shakespeare’s play "Measure for Measure" was a failure.
Wagner always liked spending money, and he soon found he owed money to a lot of people, so he went away to Paris where he lived for three years. He was not successful at all there, none of the French musicians showed any interest in him and he was very poor. He still managed to write an opera "Rienzi" in 1841, and this was soon followed by "Der fliegende Holländer", ("The Flying Dutchman"), which still remains a favourite to opera lovers today. It was first performed in Dresden in 1843. The audience did not like it much because they were used to operas like "Rienzi" which were written in the old way. Wagner was given the job of court opera composer in Dresden. He stayed there until 1849. During that time he worked very hard to make opera performances better, improve the orchestra and train the singers. In 1845 he wrote another great opera, "Tannhäuser". People gradually started to understand the way that Wagner’s music was telling the drama of the story. After this all his operas were great successes, although there always remained some people who hated his music, e.g. the music critic Eduard Hanslick.
In 1848 he finished working on "Lohengrin" but it was not performed because he was supporting the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states, joining in the demonstrations. Although he did join the fighting he was going to be arrested, so Franz Liszt helped him to escape to Switzerland. He lived in Zürich until 1858. There he wrote about music, conducted, and read stories from Norse mythology. He was starting to think about writing operas about these stories. It was something that would take him over 25 years to complete. They were to become the four operas known as "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung") which, together, tell one long story. The four operas which make up this famous Ring cycle are "Das Rheingold" (The Rhinegold), "Die Walküre" ("The Valkyrie"), "Siegfried" and "Götterdämmerung" ("Twilight of the Gods"). Because of the political situation in Germany at the time, Wagner expected the rise of a socialist state. The operas in the Ring cycle were a new kind of music drama (which Wagner simply called “drama”). These operas can be seen as describing a new kind of world in which humans are free. The music used the idea of leitmotif (in English: “leading motive”), where musical ideas represent characters or emotions, and help the development and understanding of the story.
By 1857 Wagner had written the first two operas as well as Acts One and Two of "Siegfried". However, the third Act of "Siegfried" was not written until many years later, because he could see that at that time there was no suitable opera house to have these operas performed. He fell in love with a woman called Mathilde Wesendonk, whose husband was very rich. This affair led to a separation with his wife, Minna. He wrote an opera about an unhappy love affair: "Tristan und Isolde" ("Tristan and Isolde").
Meanwhile he wrote another opera: "Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg" ("The Mastersinger of Nűrnberg"). It is the only comedy Wagner wrote. 
It is set in medieval Germany and is about a song contest. 
By 1864 Wagner was in debt once more. He fled to Stuttgart to avoid being put into prison (Germany at that time was still made up of lots of small countries, each with their own laws). Then he had a big stroke of luck. The new king of Bavaria, Ludwig II, who was only 18 years old, adored the music of Wagner. He had read the poem about the Ring of the Nibelungs (Wagner had written the words, but had not finished the music). King Ludwig invited Wagner to finish the Ring cycle for performances in Munich. He gave him somewhere to live, and his new operas were performed in Munich: "Tristan und Isolde" in 1865, "Die Meistersinger von Nűrnberg" in 1868, "Das Rheingold" in 1869 and "Die Walkűre" in 1870 There were plans for a new opera house in Munich, but it was never built because a lot of people were angry with Wagner for being in debt in spite of having lots of money from the king. Another thing people did not like was that he fell in love with the wife of the man who had conducted his operas, Hans von Bülow. Her name was Cosima. Her father was the composer Franz Liszt who had not been married to Cosima’s mother. Wagner had already left Munich in 1865, but the king still supported him, making it possible for him to live in a large house called Triebschen on Lake Lucerne. Cosima divorced von Bülow in 1870 and married Wagner in the same year.
By now Wagner was working hard at the Ring cycle again. He had promised the king that the four operas would be performed in Munich when they were ready, but he realized that they would need a special kind of opera house. So he designed his own opera house and had it built in the town of Bayreuth. He spent a lot of time travelling and conducting in order to raise money for this huge project. The King Ludwig also gave him a lot of money, and a lovely new house in Bayreuth which Wagner called "Wahnfried" (the name of the house means something like: "Peace from the mad world"). Finally, the complete cycle of four operas was performed in August 1876 in the new opera house, the (Bayreuth Festspielhaus). The third and fourth operas of the cycle, "Siegfried" and "Götterdämmerung " were being performed for the first time.
Wagner spent the rest of his life living in "Wahnfried". Sometimes he travelled. He went to London and made several trips to Italy. He wrote his last opera, "Parsifal", which almost has a religious feeling to it. The story is related to the legends about King Arthur and the Holy Grail. Wagner dictated his memoirs to his wife. His autobiography is called "Mein Leben" ("My Life"). He died of a heart attack when he was staying in Venice. He was buried in the grounds of "Wahnfried".
Wagner had enormous influence on the development of music. Many composers imitated his harmonies, or let themselves be influenced by them. By the early 20th century some composers like Arnold Schoenberg had gone even farther in making more and more complicated harmonies, and composers had to find new ways of composing.
Wagner made his orchestras much bigger than usual. The woodwind, for example, need four of each instrument (four flutes, four oboes etc.), and there are extra instruments like the bass clarinet and Wagner tubas. His ideas about music drama were very important. His music helps the drama to be told because it develops all the time, like the music in a symphony.
Wagner was an anti-semite. When Hitler came to power in the 1930s he liked Wagner’s music and thought that it was something typically German. Wagner’s ideas in "Die Meistersinger von Nűrnberg" about German art suited Hitler’s thoughts. After the war, the music was thought of as being something of the Nazis. Wagner wrote some things that were anti-Jewish. Wagner's music is therefore played very rarely in Israel. Daniel Barenboim recently made people in Israel angry by conducting Wagner’s music at a Jerusalem festival.

</doc>
<doc id="28981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28981" title="A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court">
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court

A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court is a novel. It was written by Mark Twain. It was published in 1889. It is one of the first stories about time travel. 
Hank Morgan is an American from late 19th-century Connecticut. He travels back in time to King Arthur's Camelot. He has a lot of knowledge of science and technology. He becomes very powerful. People call him "The Boss". He tries to improve medieval society according to the morals and technologies of his time. In the end, Merlin puts Hank in a magic sleep. Hank wakes in his own time.

</doc>
<doc id="28988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28988" title="Juno (mythology)">
Juno (mythology)

Juno, in Roman mythology, is the wife of Jupiter and the queen of the gods. She was later identified as the equivalent of Hera, the wife of Zeus in Greek mythology. She was the goddess of marriage and childbirth. With Jupiter and Minerva, she was part of the Capitoline triad of gods.

</doc>
<doc id="28991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28991" title="Excalibur">
Excalibur

Excalibur is a legendary sword, in the mythology of Great Britain. It was owned by King Arthur. The sword and its name have become very widespread in popular culture, and are used in fiction and films.
The sword was obtained by the king with the advice of his wizard-adviser Merlin. But it was considered that there existed two Excalibur swords. The first was the one Merlin put into the stone and said that the throne will be taken by the one who will take the sword out of the stone. Young Arthur was the one to do it. The second Excalibur was the one to which Merlin took the King. The sword was located at a magical lake where the Lady of the Lake gave it to Arthur. The Excalibur was made by an Avalonian elf. Later the sword was stolen by his sister and it was the time when the scabbard (sword coverage) was lost. In the battle of Camlann, Arthur was hurt, and he told Bedwyzr (Griflet) to return the Excalibur to the lake.
One of the earliest names of King Arthur's sword was Caladfwlch. It is a Welsh word that comes from Calad-Bolg (Hard Lightning). Later it was changed to Caliburn by Geoffrey of Monmouth. And today we know it as Excalibur, due to French. 
The legend of Excalibur is similar to the Irish hero, Cú Chulainn who had a sword named Caladbolg; or to Norse Legend of Sigurd. All these swords were made by an elf. Sometimes he is named Wayland (Saxon myth); and Gofannon (Celtic myth).
Clarent is one of King Arthur's two mythic swords. The first is Excalibur – the sword of war, and the second Clarent – the sword of peace. Clarent sword is less known because it was used for peaceful acts, whereas the Excalibur was well known for it was used to defend Camelot. But by the legend the Clarent Sword play a very important role. It was stolen by the traitor Mordred, who later used it against Arthur and cut him to death.
In some versions of the story of Excalibur, it is said that the sword was forged in dragon fire, though it is not commonly told of. 
A movie named "Excalibur" was made in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="28992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28992" title="Georg Philipp Telemann">
Georg Philipp Telemann

Georg Philipp Telemann (born March 14, 1681 in Magdeburg; died June 25, 1767, Hamburg) was a German baroque composer. He wrote over 601 pieces of music, many of which were published. As publishing cost much money at that time, this was quite unusual. He mostly taught himself musically and knew how to play 10 instruments. During his life people thought he was one of the greatest composers. He also wrote lots of church music, most of which is not common today.

</doc>
<doc id="28995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28995" title="Giovanni da Palestrina">
Giovanni da Palestrina

Giovanni da Palestrina (born Palestrina, (c.1525 – February 2, 1594 in Rome) was a very important Italian composer of church music of his time. He lived in the period called the Renaissance. Most of his music was choral (written for choirs). It is very polyphonic. This means that the different voices (sopranos, altos, tenors or basses) are often singing different words and different parts of the tune at the same time. Many composers since have studied the way that Palestrina wrote, because this is an excellent way to learn to write contrapuntal music.
Palestrina took his name from the town where he was born. We are not sure of the exact date of his birth. Any records of his birth were destroyed when the town burned in 1577. He was probably a choirboy in Palestrina. When he was grown up he got a job as organist and choir director at the Roman basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore. He was not earning much money, but he married a lady who came from a very rich family, so he was comfortably off. Pope Julius III heard about how good this young composer was. He asked him to come and meet him. He was given the job of master of the Capella Juliana, the choir that sang at the services in St Peter’s, Rome. This was the top job in Italy and he was only 26. Of course, Palestrina composed a mass in the pope’s honour.
Palestrina composed 93 masses (these are musical settings of the words of the communion service). He also wrote motets and madrigals. Palestrina and Lassus were the two greatest composers of the late Renaissance.

</doc>
<doc id="28996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28996" title="The Prince and the Pauper">
The Prince and the Pauper

The Prince and the Pauper is a book by Mark Twain. It was published in 1882. The story has been adapted to stage, television, and movies.
The story takes place in England, in the year 1547 when the King has a glorious and much rejoiced birth of the son he awaited, Edward the fourth, after many sisters (Mary and Elizabeth)and still births. By chance, Prince Edward, son of King Henry VIII of England and Jane Seymor, and Tom Canty, a pauper (poor boy), find out that they look exactly the same, like identical twins. After they put on each other's clothes for fun, the prince is thrown out of the palace, while people think that Tom is the prince. Now both Edward and Tom have to live in a world where they are treated different and which they do not understand. 
Tom lives the life of a prince. On the streets of London, Edward is saved by the nobleman Miles Hendon. Edward travels with Miles around England. There Edward sees and has to live with the poverty and cruel treatment in the life of the poor people. 
Then King Henry VIII dies. People prepare to make Tom the next King. At the crowning ceremony, Edward arrives and says that he is the real Prince. In the end, Tom and Edward can clear everything up. Edward becomes King of England. Tom Canty becomes "The King's Ward", a position in which he can live comfortably for the rest of his life. Miles Hendon is made an Earl. King Edward's rule is very good to the common and poor people, because he has lived that way for a while and knows how hard it is. But Edward dies when he is still very young.

</doc>
<doc id="29007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29007" title="The Adventures of Tom Sawyer">
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer is a book written by Mark Twain, published in 1876. There is also a sequel, the "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn".
It is the story about the boy Tom Sawyer, who lives in America in the first half of the 19th century, and his everyday life and the mischief he makes.
Tom Sawyer is 12 years old and lives with his Aunt Polly, his half-brother Sid and his cousin Mary in St.Petersburg, a small town along the Mississippi River.
Because Tom went to school and made his clothes dirty in a fight, he gets punished and he had to whitewash the fence. Because he does not want to do this, he tells some boys what a “pleasure” it is to do the work. His plan works and the boys even pay him for this.
As the story goes on, Tom falls in love with Becky Thatcher, the Judge’s daughter. He convinces her to get “engaged” to him but when she finds out that she is not the first girl he is engaged to, she breaks up with him.
One night, Tom goes with Huckleberry Finn, the town drunk’s son, to the graveyard to try out a “cure” for warts. When they arrive there at midnight, they see Injun Joe murdering Dr. Robinson. The murderer blames his drunken companion Muff Potter for committing the crime and in addition to that, Injun Joe’s accomplice gets arrested the next day. Because Tom and Huck are afraid of him, they swear not to tell anybody about what they have seen.
Some days later, Tom, Huck and their friend Joe Harper run away to an uninhabited island on the Mississippi. They want to become pirates there. The boys are having a great time there and do not care about their families and friends. After some days, their families search their bodies in the river because they think the boys are drowned. Because Tom wants more information, he returns home without being seen and overhears his aunt and some other people from town talk about the boys’ funeral. Afterwards he goes back to the island to tell his friends about his idea to return home at their funeral. Huck and Joe are convinced that this will be a big surprise and agree. As they expect, everybody is surprised and happy that they are back. After their return all classmates admire them.
After this incident, Becky is interested in Tom again and they continue where their relationship first ended.
Then the trial of Cheyenne Frazier started. At this moment, Tom feels guilty for not telling the truth. So he tells that Injun Joe is the real murderer but he does not mention that Huck also saw the crime. After this, Muff Potter comes free and Injun Joe flees through a window. Now, Tom is afraid that Injun Joe could kill him.
Sometime later, Tom and Huck see Injun Joe and his companion when they find a box full of gold coins in the “haunted house”. The boys follow him to see where they hide the treasure but it does not work. When they find out that Injun Joe hangs out in a room in the “Temperance Tavern”, Huck shadows the murderer each night.
One night, Tom and Becky go on a picnic with their classmates to McDougal’s cave. Both told their families that they spend the night at a friend’s house because they want to stay the night together. Later that night, they separate from the others and get lost in the cave. Nobody notices that they are gone, so their families miss them just the next morning.
The same night, Huck follows Injun Joe who hides the box of gold. Huck hears him and his companion talking that they want to kill the widow Douglas. Afterwards, he goes to the Welshman who helps to chase the criminals away.
In the meantime, Tom sees a person in the cave and first thinks of help, but it turns out that it is Injun Joe. He does not tell Becky about that and after a long time Tom finds a small hole where they can escape.
After some days, Tom wants to visit Becky and her father tells him that the hole has been closed. The boy tells the Judge that he saw Injun Joe inside the cave. So the townspeople go to the cave where they find the dead body of Injun Joe.
Tom shows Huck the hole where he got out of the cave and both search and finally really find the treasure inside.
In the end, the Widow Douglas adopts Huck Finn. First Huck does not like it but Tom tells him that he can just join his robber band if he stays. Finally, Huck agrees.

</doc>
<doc id="29009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29009" title="Billy Boyd">
Billy Boyd

Billy Boyd (born August 28, 1968, in Glasgow) is a Scottish actor. He is best known for playing Peregrin Took in the "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy (2001-2003) and Barrett Bonden in Peter Weir's movie "" (2003).
As well as being an actor, he can sing, and play the guitar, bass, and drums. He wrote and sang a song in Peter Jackson's "".
He worked as a book-binder for 6 years before becoming an actor. One of the books he bound was "The Lord of the Rings".
He lives in a house in Lesmahagow with his girlfriend, Alison McKinnon. On April 26, 2006, he and McKinnon had their first child: Jack William Boyd.

</doc>
<doc id="29010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29010" title="Turing machine">
Turing machine

Turing machine is a term from computer science. A Turing machine is a system of rules, states and transitions rather than a "real" machine. It was first described by Alan Turing. There are two purposes of a Turing machine. Either it can be used to decide a formal language or it solves mathematical functions. Turing machines are one of the most important formal models in the study of computer science.
A Turing machine consists of the following components (simplified):
Also, a working-alphabet (set of characters) has to be defined. 
When a Turing machine is started, a word (out of the working-alphabet) must be present on the infinite tape of the machine. The read/write-device on the first character now reads the first character and depending on the current state of Turing machine the read/write-device overwrites the character with a new one or moves one cell to the left or to the right. Furthermore the current state of the machine can be switched.
A Turing machine is said to "decide a language" if it is always able to determine whether a given word is contained in a certain language or not. Therefore the machine usually has two special states marked as "Accept" and "Reject". After a while one of the two states will be reached (depending on the input word) and the machine is halted. If only one of the two states will ever be reached, the Turing machine is said to "semi-decide" a language.
If a Turing machine is used for the computation of functions it only has one "end state". When the machine comes to that state it is halted and the result of the function (depending on the input) can be found on the tape.
Turing machines were not invented to be built in reality, but they are very important for theoretical computer science as they are one of the simplest models for computers. The Church-Turing thesis states that all computers are only as powerful as Turing machines. This can be used to prove if a problem is solvable by a computer or not.

</doc>
<doc id="29017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29017" title="Canadian football">
Canadian football

Canadian football is football generally played in Canada and follows much the same general rules as American Football. Compared to American football, the field is slightly longer and wider, 110 by 65 yards (101 by 59 m) rather than 100 by 53 1/3 yards (91 by 49 m), and the endzones are 10 to 15 yards deeper. There are also only 3 downs instead of 4, and the field goal posts are at the front of the endzone instead of the back. There are 12 players per team on the field during play. More than one player may be in motion before the snap of the ball and the rules are less strict about players position relative to the line of scrimmage.

</doc>
<doc id="29022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29022" title="John Rhys-Davies">
John Rhys-Davies

John Rhys-Davies (born May 5, 1944, in Ammanford, Carmarthenshire, Wales) is a British actor. Although he has played in many movies, Rhys-Davies is probably best known for his characters in two blockbuster movie series: Sallah in the "Indiana Jones" movies and the dwarf Gimli in the "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy.

</doc>
<doc id="29023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29023" title="Sean Bean">
Sean Bean

Sean Bean (born as Shaun Mark Bean on April 17, 1959) is an English actor. As an actor, he adopted the Irish/Scottish spelling "Sean" of his first name. He was born in Handsworth, Sheffield, West Riding of Yorkshire.

</doc>
<doc id="29024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29024" title="Tripoli, Greece">
Tripoli, Greece

Tripoli (Greek: "Τρίπολη") is a city in Greece. It is in the center of the Peloponnese. It is built at an altitude of about 600 meters, at the bottom of Mainalo mountain. It had 28,876 people according to the 2001 census. Tripoli is the capital of Arcadia prefecture. 
Tripoli is connected to the capital city Athens by a motorway between Corinth-Tripoli-Kalamata, which is a part of the E65. 

</doc>
<doc id="29026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29026" title="2006 FIFA World Cup">
2006 FIFA World Cup

The 2006 FIFA World Cup was a football (soccer) sporting event that was held in Germany from June 9 to July 9, 2006. 32 teams took part from many countries. Italy won the trophy after beating France in the final on penalties. Germany got third place at home.
Schedule

</doc>
<doc id="29028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29028" title="Polynesia">
Polynesia

Polynesia is a group of over 1,000 islands in the Pacific Ocean.
Polynesia is the islands in a triangle in the Pacific Ocean. The top of the triangle is Hawai'i, the bottom left is New Zealand and the bottom right is Easter Island. All the islands inside the triangle are Polynesia.

</doc>
<doc id="29029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29029" title="Cocaine">
Cocaine

Cocaine (also cocaine) is a drug that is made from coca leaves. Cocaine is usually a white powder. Most cocaine is used as an illegal drug. Because it is a stimulant, cocaine gives people energy. It also makes people feel very happy when it is taken. When used this way, cocaine is very addictive. However, cocaine can also be used as a local anesthetic if it is applied topically (onto the skin or gums).
Cocaine is taken from the leaves of the coca plant. Coca plants are mostly grown in South America, in countries like Brazil or Argentina. When Spanish conquistadors (explorers) discovered coca plants, they sent them back to Europe. People started using cocaine as a medicine, as well as in drinks and food. This was because they did not know how damaging and addictive the drug could be when used.
In America, cocaine was used during surgery, or to treat toothaches. It was also put into drinks. When Coca-Cola was first made in 1885, it got the first part of its name from the "handful of coca leaves" added to the drink for energy. (The caffeine in the drink came from the kola nut, so the name "Coca Cola" was chosen.) Cocaine was taken out of Coca Cola completely by the 1920s because of pressure from groups in the United States.
When cocaine is applied topically (onto the skin or gums), it causes numbness.
When cocaine is chewed or eaten, inhaled into the nose ("snorted"), or injected into the veins, it causes people to feel euphoric (very happy), alert, very confident, and full of energy. This feeling is called being "high." Some people who take cocaine also have unpleasant feelings. They may feel worried, anxious, or even paranoid. They may also have physical symptoms, like shaking, a high heart rate, and high body temperature.
Cocaine cannot be smoked in its normal form. It must react with another chemical to form crack cocaine, which can be smoked. This is because burning normal cocaine destroys it, so the user does not get the effect they want.
In most countries, it is illegal to make, sell, or use cocaine (unless it is being used for approved medical reasons).
As an illegal drug, cocaine can be used in its powder form, or it can be made into crack cocaine. Usually, crack is made by adding baking soda and water to cocaine and then heating the mixture. Crack is usually less expensive than the normal form of cocaine. Crack is usually smoked. It gives users a high that is very strong, but does not last as long as the high from regular cocaine. Both forms of cocaine are addictive, although crack cocaine is thought to be more addictive as it is usually smoked. 
If people use cocaine, they may take too much and get sick or even die. This is called an "overdose". When people take cocaine, they get intoxicated as well. When a person is intoxicated, they may do dangerous things, such as having unsafe sex with a person they do not know, or getting into a violent fight with a person.
If a person uses cocaine for a long time, they can start to get strange feelings, like there are bugs crawling under their skin, or they can get paranoia (a feeling that there are people that want to hurt them).
Cocaine is a very addictive drug. It can lead to psychological and/or physical dependence. When a person is addicted to a drug, they might do bad or criminal acts in order to get money for more drugs, such as crimes (for example theft, robbery, fraud, or prostitution). If the person tries to stop using cocaine, they will go through cocaine withdrawal.
Another danger from using cocaine is the risk of infection when using unsafe ways of taking cocaine (like using dirty needles when injecting cocaine). A person can get infectious diseases like HIV or Hepatitis C when they use cocaine in these ways.
Cocaine is also occasionally used as a legal medicine in Australia and some parts of Europe, if a person has a prescription from a doctor. Doctors sometimes prescribe cocaine for people who want to lose weight, because cocaine decreases the appetite. 
Dentists in countries like Australia sometimes use forms of cocaine in dental operations, as an anaesthetic. Anaesthetics are medicines or drugs which stop a person from feeling pain. Doctors, surgeons, and dentists use anaesthetics when they are doing operations, so that the patient will not feel pain. Dentists put the cocaine on the patient's mouth so that the patient will not feel pain in their mouth during the operation.

</doc>
<doc id="29032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29032" title="Viola">
Viola

A viola (pronounced vee-Oh-la) is a musical instrument which is similar to the violin and cello. The viola sounds lower than a violin, but higher than a cello. It has four strings, called the C, G, D, and A strings. The highest string is the A. The viola is played with a bow in the right hand. Playing with the bow is called arco. Sometimes the strings may be plucked (pizzicato).
When people see the viola, sometimes they think it is a violin. This is because the viola is only a little larger than a violin, and like the violin, the viola is held on the player's left shoulder. It is also because the sound of the viola is only five notes lower than the sound of the violin. The biggest difference between the viola and the violin is the different sound. The viola's lowest string is the "C" string and its highest string is the "A" string. So, to see whether a violin-like instrument is a violin or viola, one will need to pluck the thinnest string. The violin's lowest string is the "G" string and its highest string is the "E" string. Even though the viola and violin can play many of the same notes, they each have a special sound quality. Sometimes people describe the viola's sound as more "dark", "earthy", or "mellow" than the violin's sound.
The person that makes and repairs violas is called a luthier.The Viola is also known as the Cinderella of the orchestra.
People who write music often use the viola for harmony notes. It is one of the main instruments in a string quartet, along with two violins and a cello. The viola is found in chamber ensembles of string instruments only, and also in full symphony orchestras where strings, woodwinds, brass, and percussion instruments play together. The viola can also be a solo instrument, but is mostly used in an orchestra. The viola comes in many sizes. The sizes are measured in inches, such as a 14-inch viola. The size of the viola is measured from the bottom to the neck of it (its body's length).
The Viola is easily mistaken as the Violin, a larger and similar instrument. You can mostly tell the difference by size, comparison and col'our. The Viola is usually a darker colour, such as 'Acorn Attack' or 'Dark Dreaming'.

</doc>
<doc id="29033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29033" title="String">
String

Generally, string is a thin piece of rope or twine which is used to tie, bind, or hang other objects. String can be made from a variety of fibres.
String may also mean:
In science, computers or mathematics:
In music:
Other meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="29035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29035" title="Windsor, Berkshire">
Windsor, Berkshire

Windsor is a town in Berkshire, England. It is near the River Thames. The Queen has a castle in Windsor called Windsor Castle.

</doc>
<doc id="29036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29036" title="Windsor Castle">
Windsor Castle

Windsor Castle is the largest inhabited castle in the world. It is in Windsor, Berkshire, England. Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom lives there for part of the year. The castle was built by William the Conqueror. In 1992, there was a fire at the castle.
Windsor Castle is near the River Thames.

</doc>
<doc id="29037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29037" title="Peugeot 206">
Peugeot 206

The Peugeot 206 is a small car made by the French company Peugeot. The car can have 3 or 5 doors and has petrol or diesel engines.

</doc>
<doc id="29038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29038" title="Renault Clio">
Renault Clio

The Renault Clio is a small car made by Renault since 1990. There are four generations of the Renault Clio. The Renault Clio was a replacement for the Renault 5. The car was intended to compete against established rivals in the European supermini market such as the Ford Fiesta, Vauxhall/Opel Corsa, Volkswagen Polo, Rover Metro and the Fiat Uno.
The first Clio was produced from 1990 until 1998. The design was facelifted twice. It was 3700 millimeters long, 1670 millimeters wide and 1410 millimeters high. This Clio was voted European Car of the Year in 1991. The car went on sale somewhat cheaper than most of its rivals but had a basic interior. The previous Renault 5 continued to sell up until 1996 as a cheaper alternative to the Clio, being badged as the 'Renault 5 Campus'. 
A sports version of the Renault Clio I with a 2.0l petrol engine was launched in 1992. This was called the 'Clio Williams' and was designed to compete with other 'hot'hatches' such as the Peugeot 205 GTI. 
Sales of the Renault Clio I were strong throughout Europe, and it is often credited as the first Renault car to break into the British market as many previous models had sold poorly in the United Kingdom. The Clio did not have to compete with the smaller Renault Twingo in the United Kingdom as this was only made available in continental Europe.
The second Clio was produced from 1998 until 2012. Its design was facelifted three times, the first in 2001, the second in 2006 and the third in 2009. The latter two being called the 'Renault Clio Campus and marketed along side the Clio III. The rounded design of the Clio II contrasted with the 'square' Clio I. Certain issues with the previous design were addressed, for instance, the front wings were made of plastic, following problems with corrosion on the previous model.
In 1999, the "Renault Sport" or "Clio RS" was launched as a 'hot-hatch' and as a replacement for the previous "Renault Clio Williams". This was entirely based on the Clio II.
A saloon version of the Renault Clio II was launched in South America and Eastern Europe, however was unavailable to customers in Western Europe.
The third generation of the Clio has been produced since 2005. In 2007 the Clio Sportourer, the station wagon version was launched. The design was facelifted in 2009. The Clio III achieved a 5-star NCAP safety rating, leaving only the Twingo and the Kangoo in the range without one. It's replacement arrived in late 2012. 
The Clio entered its fourth generation in late 2012. There's no longer a 3 door model in the range but it's available as a 5 door and a wagon, the latter isn't sold in the UK. 
The Clio 'Papa and Nicole' adverts featuring a young promiscuous woman and her slow witted father ran throughout the cars early years and were voted one of the favourite adverts on television in the United Kingdom.
A safety issue where the bonnet of the Clio II could come open whilst driving was highlighted by BBC consumer affairs programme, Watchdog. Some of these models were recalled by Renault. Problems were also highlighed where hazard warning light could come on without notice being unable to be switched off.

</doc>
<doc id="29040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29040" title="Trojan Horse">
Trojan Horse

The Trojan Horse is a large wooden horse from the Trojan War in Greek mythology. In the Trojan War, the Greeks were fighting against the city of Troy. The war started when Helen, the queen of Sparta, was kidnapped by Paris, prince of Troy. The Greeks waged war on Troy to win Helen of Troy back. 
The Greeks could not enter the city or win the war. Because of this, Odysseus, one of the Grecian leaders, thought of a way to trick the Trojans. The Greeks built a large wooden horse out of a ship and left it outside the gates of the city as a present for the Trojans, then sailed away. The Greek ships hid behind a nearby land mass. The Trojans took the horse and put it inside their city, thinking it was a victory gift from the Greeks. The Trojans had a festival to celebrate their victory. Odysseus chose a horse so that Poseidon (God of the sea and creator of horses) would ensure them a safe trip back to Greece. After the Trojan victory festival ended, the Greeks, who were hiding inside the horse, came out. They opened the city gates to let the other Greeks enter Troy. The Greeks easily overpowered the unsuspecting Trojans and took control of the city. Because of the Trojan Horse, the Greeks won the Trojan War. 
Today the word "Trojan horse" is used for things that are similar to that story: something that looks good, but in truth has another purpose, usually bad. An example for this is a type of computer virus called a Trojan horse.

</doc>
<doc id="29041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29041" title="Tesco">
Tesco

Tesco is a supermarket chain. It started in the United Kingdom, and are currently based there. It now has supermarkets in other countries around the world. Tesco sells thousands of products. Tesco originally only sold food, but it now sells other things like mobile phones, DVDs and videos, clothing, and books. It is also an Internet Service Provider in the United Kingdom. Tesco is the biggest supermarket in the UK and Ireland and also is the third largest retailer in the world. Tesco is also a PLC, a public limited company. Tesco has mostly everything in it.

</doc>
<doc id="29044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29044" title="Fiat Panda">
Fiat Panda

The Fiat Panda is a small car made by Fiat from 1980 until 2003. It has four seats and two doors.
Normally it is bought by small families or young adults because the car is quite cheap and also the tax is not very high.
The second series of the car has sold since 2003 and was the European Car Of The Year in 2004. It entered its third generation in 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="29045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29045" title="Fiat Croma">
Fiat Croma

Fiat Croma is the name of two different large cars made by Fiat. The first was made between 1985 and 1996, and the design of it was changed in 1991. The second generation has been built between 2005 and 2010. Both have five seats and four doors.

</doc>
<doc id="29046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29046" title="Fiat Ulysse">
Fiat Ulysse

The Fiat Ulysse is a large car with seven seats made by Fiat in two generations between 1994 and 2010. It is the only Eurovan in the PSA/Fiat joint vesture to have retained the same name in the second generation.

</doc>
<doc id="29047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29047" title="Fiat Punto">
Fiat Punto

The Fiat Punto is a automobile produced by Fiat in three generations since 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="29048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29048" title="Volkswagen Polo">
Volkswagen Polo

The Volkswagen Polo is a small car made by the German company Volkswagen since 1974. It has five seats and can have two to five doors, and entered its fifth generation in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="29049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29049" title="Volkswagen Fox">
Volkswagen Fox

The Volkswagen Fox is a small car made by the German company Volkswagen. It has four seats, four wheels and two doors. The car is similar in size to the Ford Ka.

</doc>
<doc id="29050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29050" title="Proton Savvy">
Proton Savvy

The Proton Savvy is a small car made by the Malaysian company Proton. It has five seats and five doors.

</doc>
<doc id="29051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29051" title="Peugeot 107">
Peugeot 107

The Peugeot 107 is a small car made by the French company Peugeot in the Czech Republic since 2005. It has four seats and either two or four doors. The car is similar to the Toyota Aygo and the Citroën C1. It was replaced in 2014 with the 108. 

</doc>
<doc id="29052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29052" title="Toyota Aygo">
Toyota Aygo

The Toyota Aygo is a small car made by the Japanese company Toyota in the Czech Republic since 2005. It has four seats and either two or four doors. The car has a 1-litre petrol or 1,4-litre diesel engine. The car is similar to the Peugeot 107 and Citroën C1. It entered its second generation in 2014. 

</doc>
<doc id="29053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29053" title="Airbus A380">
Airbus A380

The Airbus A380 (also called "Super-jumbo-jet") is a four-engined, double-decked airplane manufactured by Airbus. It is the world's biggest passenger airplane; larger than the Boeing 747 Jumbo Jet. However, it is not the biggest airplane in the world; the Antonov An-225 super-freighter is the biggest in the world.
The Airbus A380 can carry up to 850 passengers (but it usually carries about 525), and weighs over 550 tonnes. It has four Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines or four Engine Alliance GP7000 engines. The companies General Electric and Pratt & Whitney make alliance engines.
A total of 259 A380-800 airplanes have been ordered by 20 airlines. One has been ordered by a Saudi Arabian Prince, Al-Walid bin Talal and 10 by a company called ILFC (who give other airlines airplanes for rent).
Emirates Airlines (an airline from the United Arab Emirates) will have the most A380 aircraft, because they have ordered 140 aircraft, and now they have 42. Singapore Airlines took delivery of the first A380, which flew to Sydney in Australia on October 25, 2007. Singapore Airlines now have 19 A380s and are still waiting for 5 more.
Other airlines whom have ordered the A380 are Qantas (from Australia, currently operating 7), Air France (who have four), China Southern Airlines, Lufthansa (from Germany, who have four), Kingfisher Airlines (from India), Korean Air (from South Korea), Thai Airways, Malaysia Airlines, British Airways, Qatar Airways, Etihad Airways (from the United Arab Emirates), Virgin Atlantic (from the United Kingdom) and Air Austral (France).
Airbus was going to make a version of the A380 which carried lots of cargo instead of lots of people. This would look almost the same as the normal passenger version, but it would have no windows and much bigger doors. Some cargo companies ordered the plane, like FedEx and UPS, But, because Airbus took too long to make the A380, orders for the plane have been cancelled. Because Airbus has not got any orders for the plane anymore, they decided to not make the freighter version for a while and focus on making the passenger version of the A380.
The Airbus A380 had 1 incident, with no deaths.

</doc>
<doc id="29054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29054" title="Paris (mythology)">
Paris (mythology)

Paris, also called Alexandros, is a person in Greek mythology. He is an important person in the Trojan War, and Homer's "Iliad".
Alexandros (Paris) was the son of King Priam of Troy and his wife Hecuba. Because it was prophesied that he would bring the end and destruction of Troy, he was left to die in the wilderness. But Alexandros was found by another man, who took him as a son and named him Paris.
Aphrodite promised him the most beautiful woman, Helen, who was already married to Menelaus. Paris used a trick to take her with him to Troy, which was the reason for the Trojan War.
Paris killed Achilles by shooting his heel with a poisoned arrow. Late in the Trojan War, Paris was killed by Philoctetes.

</doc>
<doc id="29056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29056" title="Helen">
Helen

Helen is a person in Greek mythology. She is said to be the most beautiful woman in the world and is an important person in the Trojan War, and Homer's "Iliad".
Helen was the daughter of the god Zeus and Leda, the wife of King Tyndareos of Sparta. Her brothers were Castor and Polydeukes, and her sister was Klytaimnestra.
Helen was married to Menelaus, and was queen of Sparta. With Menelaus she had a daughter, Hermione.
Later she was taken away by Paris to Troy. This was one of the main causes of the Trojan War.
Was influenced by Atalanta, the huntress.
Half Brothers: Heracles, Apollo, Ares, Hephaestus, Hermes, and Dionysus.
Half Sisters: Artemis, Athena, Aphrodite, Discord, Eileithyia, Hebe, and Pandia.

</doc>
<doc id="29060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29060" title="RSA (algorithm)">
RSA (algorithm)

RSA is the algorithm used by modern computers to encrypt and decrypt messages. It is an asymmetric cryptographic algorithm. Asymmetric means that there are two different keys. This is also called "", because one of them can be given to everyone. The other key must be kept private. It is based on the fact that finding the factors of an integer is hard (the factoring problem). RSA stands for , and , who first publicly described it in 1978. A user of RSA creates and then publishes the product of two large prime numbers, along with an auxiliary value, as their public key. The prime factors must be kept secret. Anyone can use the public key to encrypt a message, but with currently published methods, if the public key is large enough, only someone with knowledge of the prime factors can feasibly decode the message.
RSA involves a public key and private key. The public key can be known to everyone, it is used to encrypt messages. Messages encrypted using the public key can only be decrypted with the private key. The keys for the RSA algorithm are generated the following way:
Notes on the above steps:
<br>
The public key is made of the modulus formula_4 and the public (or encryption) exponent formula_6.<br>
The private key is made of the modulus formula_4 and the private (or decryption) exponent formula_16 which must be kept secret.
Alice gives her public key (formula_4 & formula_6) to Bob and keeps her private key secret. Bob wants to send message M to Alice.
First he turns M into a number formula_50 smaller than formula_51 by using an agreed-upon reversible protocol known as a padding scheme. He then computes the ciphertext formula_52 corresponding to:
This can be done quickly using the method of exponentiation by squaring. Bob then sends formula_52 to Alice.
Alice can recover formula_55 from formula_52 by using her private key formula_16 in the following procedure:
Given formula_55, she can recover the original message M.
The decryption procedure works because first
Now, since
Fermat's little theorem yields
Since formula_29 and formula_30 are distinct prime numbers, applying the Chinese remainder theorem to these two congruences yields
Thus,
Here is an example of RSA encryption and decryption. The parameters used here are artificially small, but you can also .
<br>
The public key is (formula_80, formula_76). For a padded message formula_55 the encryption function is:
The private key is (formula_80, formula_79). The decryption function is:
<br>
For example, to encrypt formula_87, we calculate
To decrypt formula_89, we calculate
Both of these calculations can be computed efficiently using the square-and-multiply algorithm for .
When used in practice, RSA must be combined with some form of padding scheme, so that no values of "M" result in insecure ciphertexts. RSA used without padding may have some problems:
In practice, the first two problems can arise when short ASCII messages are sent. In such messages, "m" might be the concatenation of one or more ASCII-encoded character(s). A message consisting of a single ASCII codice_1 character (whose numeric value is 0) would be encoded as "m" = 0, which produces a ciphertext of 0 no matter which values of "e" and "N" are used. Likewise, a single ASCII codice_2 (whose numeric value is 1) would always produce a ciphertext of 1. For systems which conventionally use small values of "e", such as 3, all single character ASCII messages encoded using this scheme would be insecure, since the largest "m" would have a value of 255, and 255 is less than any reasonable modulus. Such plaintexts could be recovered by simply taking the cube root of the ciphertext.
To avoid these problems, practical RSA implementations typically embed some form of structured, randomized padding into the value "m" before encrypting it. This padding ensures that "m" does not fall into the range of insecure plaintexts, and that a given message, once padded, will encrypt to one of a large number of different possible ciphertexts. The latter property can increase the cost of a dictionary attack beyond the capabilities of a reasonable attacker.
Standards such as PKCS have been carefully designed to securely pad messages prior to RSA encryption. Because these schemes pad the plaintext "m" with some number of additional bits, the size of the un-padded message "M" must be somewhat smaller. RSA padding schemes must be carefully designed so as to prevent sophisticated attacks. This may be made easier by a predictable message structure. Early versions of the PKCS standard used constructions, which were later found vulnerable to a practical adaptive chosen ciphertext attack. Modern constructions use secure techniques such as (OAEP) to protect messages while preventing these attacks. The PKCS standard also has processing schemes designed to provide additional security for RSA signatures, e.g., the Probabilistic Signature Scheme for RSA (RSA-PSS).
Suppose Alice uses Bob's public key to send him an encrypted message. In the message, she can claim to be Alice but Bob has no way of verifying that the message was actually from Alice since anyone can use Bob's public key to send him encrypted messages. So, in order to verify the origin of a message, RSA can also be used to sign a message.
Suppose Alice wishes to send a signed message to Bob. She produces a hash value of the message, raises it to the power of "d" mod "n" (just like when decrypting a message), and attaches it as a "signature" to the message. When Bob receives the signed message, he raises the signature to the power of "e" mod "n" (just like encrypting a message), and compares the resulting hash value with the message's actual hash value. If the two agree, he knows that the author of the message was in possession of Alice's secret key, and that the message has not been tampered with since.
Note that secure padding schemes such as RSA-PSS are as essential for the security of message signing as they are for message encryption, and that the same key should never be used for both encryption and signing purposes.

</doc>
<doc id="29061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29061" title="Hector">
Hector

Hector is a person in Greek mythology. He is an important person in the Trojan War, and Homer's "Iliad".
Hector was the favourite son of King Priam of Troy and his wife Hecuba. He was married to Andromache, and had a son named Astyanax.
In the Trojan War he was the leader of the Trojans in battle and their hero. Hector was killed by Achilles.
Also he was wounded badly by Ajax a Greek hero because Ajax threw a rock at him.

</doc>
<doc id="29064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29064" title="Hecuba">
Hecuba

Hecuba (also Hekuba or Hekabe) was a person in Greek mythology. She was the wife of King Priam of Troy.
Her children with Priam were: Sons: Hector, Paris, Deiphobos, Helenos, Pammon, Polites, Antiphus, Hipponous, Polydoros. And daughters: Ilione, Creusa, Laodice, Polyxena, and Kassandra.
After the Trojan War she became a slave of Odysseus.

</doc>
<doc id="29069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29069" title="Priam">
Priam

Priamos (Latin Priamus, or Priam) is a person in Greek mythology. He was the King of Troy during the Trojan War.
Priam had several wives, but his principal wife was Hecuba. With her he had his favourite son Hector; and Paris the cause of the trojan war .
He was killed during the destruction of Troy by Achilles' son Neoptolemus.

</doc>
<doc id="29070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29070" title="Mix">
Mix

To mix is the action of putting things together.
A mixture is something made by mixing.

</doc>
<doc id="29072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29072" title="Achilles">
Achilles

Achilles (or Achilleus; Ancient Greek: Ἀχιλλεύς) was a hero in Greek mythology. In Homer's "Iliad", Achilles was the son of Peleus and the nereid Thetis. He was the greatest warrior of the Achaean Greeks in their struggle against the Trojans in the Trojan War. His story is at the centre of the Iliad, which starts with the dispute between Achilles and Agamemnon, the Greek king. 
Achilles, believing that Agamemnon had dishonoured him, did not wish to bow to the king's leadership. He sat out the battle until the Trojans had almost won the war. Then he entered the battle. He killed the great Hektor, the son of Priam, and the Trojans' greatest hero. The tide of battle turned against the Trojans, and many were slaughtered. 
It is believed that Achilles was killed at the end of the war, but this is not said in the Iliad. The Iliad ends with the funeral of Hektor.
Achilles could not be hurt. In some versions of the myths, Thetis, his mother, dipped him into the river Styx, holding the baby by his left heel. Because of that, his heel was still vulnerable. However, the "Iliad" does not say this.
According to the legend, Achilles was killed by Paris, who shot his heel with a poisoned arrow. He was very angry. He cursed at Paris but Paris fled. Achilles was alive over 2000 years ago. Achilles was born to defeat the Trojans. Achilles was shot many times by the arrows of Paris' but the only arrow found on his body was through his heel.

</doc>
<doc id="29080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29080" title="Nymph">
Nymph

A nymph is a kind of female nature entity/spirit in Greek mythology. They are often companions of Greek gods and goddesses. Nymphs can be divided into different kinds, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="29082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29082" title="Romantic music">
Romantic music

Romantic music is music written in the 19th century. This was the period called the “Romantic period” by musicians. In literature and some other arts the “Romantic period” is often said to begin and finish earlier: around mid 18th to mid 19th century. 
In the Classical period artists liked to see clear forms. 18th century architecture nearly always shows a lot of symmetry. The gardens of the palace at Versailles are a good example of this with their very tidy patterns of straight paths, circular ponds and neatly clipped hedges.
In music the Classical composers such as Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert liked to compose music which had a clear plan like sonata form.
In the Romantic period artists thought that feeling and passions were more important than formal plans. This can be seen in the gardens designed by Capability Brown, e.g. in at Blenheim Palace, Oxford. The gardens are made to blend into nature.
In music the Romantic composers may still use plans like sonata form, but feelings and passions are important. They often write what is called programme music which means: music that describes something or tells a story. Beethoven’s Sixth Symphony is called the “Pastoral” which means that it is about the countryside. Although Beethoven is usually called a composer of the Classical period he is also an early Romantic. Later composers such as Felix Mendelssohn wrote pieces like "Hebrides Overture" which describes the sea coming into Fingal’s Cave in the Hebrides Islands in Scotland. Hector Berlioz (1803-1869) wrote a lot of music which tells a story. His "Symphonie Fantastique" is about an artist madly in love. Berlioz’s whole way of life was wild and romantic. He fell in love with an actress he saw on stage playing the part of Juliet in Shakespeare’s "Romeo and Juliet" and he actually married her! Other composers who wrote a lot of programme music include Franz Liszt (1811-1886) and Richard Strauss (1864-1949). Strauss always wrote in a late-Romantic style even although he lived well into the 20th century.
The Romantic period was also the period of Nationalism. "Nationalism" means being proud of one's country. In the 19th century a lot of European countries as we know them were being formed. In music a lot of composers were writing music which was typical of their country. They often did this by using folk music. Antonín Dvořák (1841-1904) and Bedřich Smetana (1824-1884) wrote music which sounds very Czech. Pyotr Tchaikovsky (1840-1893) wrote music with Russian folk songs in them. Gustav Mahler (1860-1911) used German folk songs in his symphonies, and Ralph Vaughan Williams (1872-1958) collected English folk songs and put them in his music. One of those pieces was a Fantasy on the famous tune "Greensleeves".

</doc>
<doc id="29083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29083" title="Nereid">
Nereid

The Nereids are the fifty daughters of the god Nereus and the Okeanid Doris in Greek mythology. They are sea nymphs of the Mediterranean Sea.
Among them are:

</doc>
<doc id="29087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29087" title="Romance">
Romance

Romance or romantic might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29089" title="Romanticism">
Romanticism

Romanticism (also called the Romantic era or the Romantic period) is a style of art, literature and music in the late 18th and early 19th century in Europe. This movement said that feelings, imagination, nature, and old folk traditions such as legends and fairy tales were important. In part, it was a reaction to the aristocratic social and political ideas of the Age of Enlightenment and the Industrial Revolution. It was also a reaction against turning nature into a mere science. It showed itself most strongly in arts like music, and literature. However, it also had an important influence on historiography, education and natural history.

</doc>
<doc id="29090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29090" title="Seveso disaster">
Seveso disaster

The Seveso disaster was a chemical accident on 10 July 1976, at the small Italian town of Meda, 20 km from Milan in Lombardy. There was an explosion at a chemical factory which released a lot of the toxic poison dioxin, "TCDD", into the air. The cloud of poison gas covered an area 6 km long and 1 km wide. It was named after the municipality of Seveso. It resulted in the highest known exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in residential populations There were many studies and new regulations after the accident. The European Union directive covering the protection against such accidents is known as Seveso-II-directive today. 
The company where the accident happened was called Icmesa. It was owned by Givaudan, who is owned by Roche. Icmesa produced Trichlorophenol, which is used to produce the disinfectant Hexachlorophene. The company was located in four communes; one of them Seveso. 
None of the 20,000 people who lived in Seveso died, but the poison killed 3,000 farm animals and pets. Another 70,000 animals had to be killed to stop the dioxin from getting into the food chain.
Thirty years after the accident, scientists reported that babies born in the area affected by the dioxin were six times more likely to have thyroid problems. The affected children are being studied to see if this has stopped them growing properly, or having problems with intellectual development (IQ).

</doc>
<doc id="29091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29091" title="Junichiro Koizumi">
Junichiro Koizumi

Junichiro Koizumi is the former Prime Minister of Japan. He was born on January 8, 1942 in Japan. He stepped down in 2006.
Born in Yokosuka, Kanagawa on 8 January, 1942, Koizumi was taught at Yokosuka High School and Keio University, where he studied economics. He went to University College London before returning to Japan in August 1969 when his father died.
While he was prime minister of Japan, he made China and South Korea very angry by continuing to visit the Yasukuni Shrine. He was succeeded by Shinzo Abe.

</doc>
<doc id="29099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29099" title="Majulah Singapura">
Majulah Singapura

"Majulah Singapura" (Malay for "Onward Singapore") is the national anthem of Singapore. It was composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a song to be sung at official events arranged by the City Council of Singapore. In 1959, the song was chosen as Singapore's anthem when it got the right to rule itself. When Singapore became a fully independent nation in 1965, ""Majulah Singapura"" was formally taken on as Singapore's national anthem.
Singapore law says that the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay lyrics. However, there are government-approved translations of the lyrics in Singapore's three other official languages: English, Mandarin and Tamil.
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and military camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day. At these ceremonies, the national flag is also raised and lowered, and the national pledge is said.
Singaporeans are encouraged to sing the national anthem during times of national celebration or at important national events such as at the National Day Parade, at National Day observance ceremonies held by government departments and educational institutions such as schools and universities, and at sports events that Singapore teams take part in.
The national anthem of Singapore:

</doc>
<doc id="29101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29101" title="Abruzzo">
Abruzzo

Abruzzo is one of the 20 regions of Italy. Its in the center of Italy on the Adriatic Sea.
It is divided into four provinces:

</doc>
<doc id="29103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29103" title="Aegean Sea">
Aegean Sea

The Aegean Sea is part of the Mediterranean Sea. It is between the Greece and Anatolia. It is connected (attached) to the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea by the Dardanelles and Bosporus. It is not known how the sea got its name.
In ancient times two groups of people lived near the sea the Minoans of Crete, and the Myceneans of the Peloponnese. The city-states of Athens and Sparta came later and were part of Ancient Greece. Persians, Romans, the Byzantine Empire, the Venetians (people from Venice, the Seljuk Turks, and the Ottoman Empire later started around the Aegean Sea. The people near the Aegean were very advanced (powerful and clever) in Ancient history and they sailed across it to talk to each other.
There are seven groups of Aegean islands: the Thracian Sea group, the East Aegean group, the Northern Sporades, the Cyclades, the Saronic Islands (or Argo-Saronic Islands), the Dodecanese and Crete. The word archipelago used to mean these islands. Many of the Aegean islands, or chains of islands, are part of the mountain ranges on the mainland. One chain goes across the sea to Chios, another one goes across Euboea to Samos, and a third one goes across the Peloponnese and Crete to Rhodes. This one divides (splits, cuts) the Aegean from the Mediterranean. Many of the islands have safe harbours and bays, but sailing in the sea is difficult. Many of the islands are volcanos, and marble and iron are mined on other islands. The bigger islands have some green valleys and plains. Two big islands on the Aegean Sea are part of Turkey: Bozcaada () and Gökçeada ().

</doc>
<doc id="29105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29105" title="William de Wiveleslie Abney">
William de Wiveleslie Abney

William de Wiveleslie Abney (24 July 1843 – 3 December 1920) was an English astronomer, chemist, and photographer. Abney was a member of many scientific organizations.
He was best known for his discovering and measuring the effect of adding white to a hue, in 1910. The effect is generally known as the Abney effect. For example, adding white to red makes it slightly bluish (bluish red is known as pink), and adding white to yellowish green hues makes them less yellowish and thus greener.

</doc>
<doc id="29116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29116" title="Giacomo Casanova">
Giacomo Casanova

Giacomo Girolamo Casanova (2 April 1725—4 June 1798) was a famous Venetian adventurer and writer. He was born in Venice. He is best known for having had many affairs with women. He died in Dux, Bohemia, (now Duchcov, Czech Republic).

</doc>
<doc id="29119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29119" title="Colima, Colima">
Colima, Colima

Colima is the capital city of the Mexican state Colima. About 240,000 people live in this town.

</doc>
<doc id="29122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29122" title="Given name">
Given name

A given name is a name given to a person at birth or baptism. Given names are referred as first names. It is different from a surname. A surname is the last name or family name.
In most Western countries the given name comes first (before the last name or family name). However, in many Eastern countries such as Japan and China it comes after the last name or family name, and occasionally also in Europe, e.g. in Hungarian.
Christians often call their first name their "Christian name".

</doc>
<doc id="29123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29123" title="Family name">
Family name

A family name is a name shared by people in the same family. Different cultures have different orders for a person's family name and given name. In English, the family name is always at the end, so it is also called a last name or surname. Children usually have the same family name as their father. A married woman often changes her family name to be the same as her husband.
Many languages put the family name first. Some give a child the mother's family name. Some use more complex names that list the family name of both parents, and sometimes additional family relations. Some, such as Javanese, do not very often give anyone a family name. 

</doc>
<doc id="29129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29129" title="John the Baptist">
John the Baptist

John the Baptist (also called John the Baptizer or Yahya the Baptizer) is viewed as a prophet by at least three religions: Christianity, Islam, and Mandaeanism. According to the New Testament, he was a preacher who baptized people. 
John called people to turn to God and to prepare for the coming of the messiah (Jesus). He baptized Jesus in the Jordan River.
People would go to him so that he would put them in the water to show that they have turned away from their sins, so that they could get into heaven.
John was the son of Zechariah and Elizabeth, and a relative of Jesus. He was known for living in the wild, wearing clothes made from camel's hair, and eating locusts and honey. In Catholicism, his birthday is celebrated on June 24.

</doc>
<doc id="29131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29131" title="John">
John

John is a name, originating from Hebrew.
People, things and meanings named "John":
There are over 20 popes with the name "John":
People with the first and the last name "John":

</doc>
<doc id="29134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29134" title="List of English monarchs">
List of English monarchs

This is a list of the Kings and Queens of the Kingdom of England from 924 until England and Scotland joined together in 1707.
In 1066, William, Duke of Normandy invaded England. He defeated King Harold II and became King.
The Tudors were from Wales. In 1536, Wales became part of England. England had controlled Wales since 1284.
The Stuarts were also Kings of Scotland, with which kingdom England was in personal, but not Legal union until 1707.
There was a civil war in England from 1642 until 1652. In 1649, King Charles I was executed and England became a Commonwealth. In 1653 Oliver Cromwell made himself Lord Protector and so England became a protectorate. Cromwell died in 1658 and his son, Richard, became Lord Protector. In 1660 power was given back to the Monarchy.

</doc>
<doc id="29137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29137" title="Scottish monarchs">
Scottish monarchs

This is a list of the Kings and Queens of Scotland. This list goes from 843 until when England and Scotland joined together in 1707.
Guardians of Scotland 
Guardians of Scotland

</doc>
<doc id="29143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29143" title="Dandelion">
Dandelion

A dandelion is a flower. Its scientific name is Taraxacum, a large genus of flowering plants in the family Asteraceae. They are native to Eurasia and North and South America. Two species, "T. officinale" and "T. erythrospermum", are found as weeds worldwide. All parts of both species are edible. 
Their sharp leaves look a bit like lion's teeth. Its seeds are like little parachutes that fly away with the wind, spreading and growing more dandelions. They are used in China as medicine. Dandelion pollen can often make people have allergies.
Like other members of the Asteraceae family, they have very small flowers collected together into a composite flower head. Each single flower in a head is called a floret. Many "Taraxacum" species produce seeds asexually by apomixis, where the seeds are produced without pollination. This results in offspring that are genetically identical to the parent plant.
Al Razi around 900 (A.D.) wrote "the tarashaquq is like chicory". The Persian scientist and philosopher Ibn Sīnā around 1000 (A.D.) wrote a book chapter on "Taraxacum". Gerard of Cremona, in translating Arabic to Latin around 1170, spelled it "tarasacon". 

</doc>
<doc id="29149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29149" title="Motet">
Motet

The word Motet is a piece of music for a church service sung by a choir without using any instruments. The words are usually in Latin. If the words are written in English for the Anglican church, it is called an anthem.
Motets have been written since the Middle Ages. Medieval motets often had very tricky rhythms. The tenor often had the tune, which might be a folk tune, and two voices would put quite complicated accompaniments on top. The most famous medieval composer who wrote motets was Guillaume de Machaut (1300-1377)
In the Renaissance, motets were usually polyphonic. That means that the different voices (soprano, alto, tenor, bass) would be singing different parts of the melody at the same time, making it very beautiful, but quite complicated to listen to. Many composers of this time wrote motets. The most famous was Giovanni da Palestrina (1525-1594).
In the Baroque period, one of the most famous composers was Heinrich Schütz(1585-1672), who wrote motets which he called “Cantiones Sacrae” (meaning: “sacred songs”). Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) wrote six wonderful motets with German texts. Some people think that Bach may have used a few instruments to accompany these motets. In three of them the choir divide into eight parts.
The most famous motet from the Classical period is Mozart’s "Ave Verum Corpus".
In the Romantic period (19th century), Anton Bruckner (1824-1896) wrote several motets which are still very popular with choirs, both in services and at concerts.

</doc>
<doc id="29150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29150" title="John Carmack">
John Carmack

John D. Carmack II (born August 20 1970) is a well known video game creator. He was one of the creators of id Software, a video game company, in 1991. Carmack was the main programmer of the first-person shooter games "Wolfenstein 3D", "Doom", "Quake", and their sequels.
In 1999, Carmack appeared as number 10 in TIME's list of the "50 most influential people in technology".
Carmack is married to Katherine Anna Kang since January 2000 and their son, Christopher Ryan, was born on August 13 2004. In March of 2006, Carmack was added to the "Walk of Game", an event that names the most important people in video games.

</doc>
<doc id="29151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29151" title="Anthem">
Anthem

An anthem is a piece of music written for a choir to sing at an Anglican church service. The difference between an anthem and a motet is that an anthem is sung in English. Also most anthems are accompanied by an organ.
The word “anthem” has come to mean “a song of celebration”. This is why we also talk about National Anthems.
Anthems for the church have been composed ever since King Henry VIII argued with the Pope and did not want to be Roman Catholic any more. He founded (started) the English Anglican church. Church composers were told to write music in English. The words usually come from the Bible. We know that as early as 1502 the composer Fayrfax was paid 20 shillings for composing an anthem. After the Reformation many anthems were composed. At first they were like motets, but in English. Soon the English anthem developed differently from the continental motet. Two kinds of anthem developed: the “Full Anthem” in which the whole anthem was sung by the full choir, and the “Verse Anthem” which was usually longer and had several verses which would be sung by soloists, with choruses for the full choir in between.
Almost every music director of cathedrals or large churches has written anthems. A few of the most famous composers of anthems are:
Thomas Tallis (1505-1585)
William Byrd (1543-1623)
Orlando Gibbons (1583-1625)
Henry Purcell (1659-1695)
George Frideric Handel (1685-1759)
William Boyce (1710-1779)
Samuel Sebastian Wesley (1810-1876)
Edward Bairstow (1874-1946)
William H.Harris (1883-1973)
Herbert Howells (1892-1983)
William Mathias (1934-1992)
John Tavener (b.1944)
John Rutter (b.1945)

</doc>
<doc id="29156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29156" title="Chinese character">
Chinese character

Chinese characters are symbols used to write the Chinese and Japanese languages. In the past, other languages like Korean and Vietnamese also used them. The beginning of these characters was at least 3000 years ago, making them one of the oldest continuously-used (meaning it has not fallen out of use) writing systems in the world. In Chinese they are called "hanzi" (), which means "Han character". In Japanese they are called "kanji" and in Korean "hanja".
Chinese characters are an important part of East Asian culture. Chinese characters may be considered to be abstract art, because of how the characters are made up of lines and dots. The art of writing Chinese characters is called calligraphy.
Chinese characters are a type of logogram; they mainly represent words instead of sounds. Most earlier Chinese characters were pictographs, which are simple pictures used to mean some kind of thing or idea. Today, very few modern Chinese characters are pictographs, but are a combination of two or more simple characters. There are tens of thousands of Chinese characters, though most of them are only a bit different from each other and only seen in very old texts. Studies in China show that normally three to four thousand characters are used on a daily basis.
Characters are a kind of graphic language, much different from languages that use a alphabet such as English. The correct way tell between them is to remember the structure and meaning of every character, not pronunciation because there is very close relationship between meaning and structure of characters. Example: 房(house)=户+方. 房 is a shape-pronunciation character. 户 is for shape and 方 is for pronunciation. 户 means 'door'. 房 means 'A person lives behind a door'. 方 pronunciation is Fang and tone is 1. 房 pronunciation is also Fang, but tone is 2.
There are still many Chinese characters that are used in Japanese and Korean. Generally the education level of a Japanese person is evaluated by the amount of Chinese characters understood by this person. In Korean, when people found some meanings cannot be expressed clearly by Korean, people need to use Chinese characters as a note with a bracket. Before 1446, Korean people only used Chinese characters. 

</doc>
<doc id="29158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29158" title="Improvisation">
Improvisation

Improvisation is the art of performing without a script or rehearsal.
In music, improvisation is the art of playing an instrument (or singing) in which the musician or musicians make up the music as they play. Improvising is inventing at the same time as one does something. Some musicians only play music when they have written music in front of them, but it can be great fun to improvise music. It is a way of composing. Improvisation is common during a jam session.
In Baroque times all musicians were taught to improvise because composers often did not bother to write all the notes down. Musicians would have improvised lots of ornaments, and even whole sections.
Many great composers such as Johann Sebastian Bach, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven and Franz Liszt were famous for their keyboard improvisations.
Organists are often expected to improvise during a service. In this way they can fill in gaps in the service when there would otherwise be silence, they can make a smooth link between one piece of music and the next, and they can create the right atmosphere. In Baroque times in the Lutheran church organists would improvise a chorale prelude. This was a piece of music which uses the melody of the chorale (hymn) that the congregation sang. Bach was one of many composers who wrote many of his chorale preludes down. In more recent times some famous concert organists often finish an organ recital by playing an improvisation. This might be quite a long piece with several linked movements, finishing with a fugue. Somebody may give them the theme written on a piece of paper, so that it is quite unprepared.
A lot of people who play folk music improvise. Traditional folk music would not have been written down.
In traditional jazz the musicians usually improvise. It is quite tricky when a group of people are improvising together. They have to listen to one another and get ideas from one another. It can be a very exciting way of making music.
Improvisation also refers to a type of performance. Improvisation (or improv for short) is often used in comedy. Actors or "Improvisers" will create an entire show that they make up as they go along. They will often ask the audience for an idea or suggestion. They will then do a short performance based on the suggestion. This lets them do many different short performances during each night's show. This is called "Short-form improv".

</doc>
<doc id="29162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29162" title="Reichstag">
Reichstag

It was building used by the parliament of the German Empire until 1918. The parliament of the Weimar Republic, also called the Reichstag sat there until 1933, when it was burned down. The Third Reich had no parliament, so the building remained empty and derelict until after German reunification.
Then it became the seat of the German parliament again in 1999 after a reconstruction led by British architect Lord Norman Foster.
Today's parliament of Germany is called the "Bundestag." The "Reichstag" as a parliament dates back to the Holy Roman Empire and ceased to act as a true parliament in the years of Nazi Germany (1933-1945). In today's usage, the German term "Reichstag" refers to the building, while the term "Bundestag" refers to the institution.
The Reichstag dome is the large glass dome at the very top of the building. The dome has a 360-degree view of the surrounding Berlin cityscape. The main hall of the parliament below can also be seen from inside the dome, and natural light from above emits down to the parliament floor. A large sun shield tracks the movement of the sun electronically and blocks direct sunlight which would not only cause large solar gain, but impress those below. Construction work was finished in 1999 and the seat of parliament was transferred to the Bundestag in April of that year. The dome is no longer open to anyone without prior registration.

</doc>
<doc id="29165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29165" title="Siren">
Siren

A siren is a creature in Greek mythology. The sirens were living on an island surrounded by rocks. Sailors would try to go to them because of their singing, and their ships would get destroyed on the rocks, and they would drown.
Originally they looked like bird-women, but in modern time they are often shown to look like fish-women or mermaids. Many people said they were Naiads (spirits of the sea).
They also appear in Homer's "Odyssey". There Odysseus and his ship have to pass the siren's island. Odysseus tells his men to put wax in their ears, so they will not hear the song of the sirens. He also tells his men to bind him to the ship's mast, so he cannot go to the sirens when he hears their song. When Odysseus and his men pass the Sirens, Odysseus wants to go towards them, but his men pull the rope tighter to hold him down. His men can then look at Odysseus and see when he cannot hear the sirens anymore, because he is calm again. Then they can take the wax out of their ears, and free Odysseus.

</doc>
<doc id="29166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29166" title="Sirens (movie)">
Sirens (movie)

Sirens is a 1994 movie that had many famous models in it. The famous models were Elle Macpherson, Portia de Rossi and Kate Fischer. The three models are in the movie without clothing. Some of them do sex scenes. The models had to gain weight do the movie.
"Sirens" is based on the true story of the life of Norman Lindsay. He was an artist who made many beautiful pictures that were very rude and sexy. Many people thought that his pictures were wrong.
The movie stars Sam Neill as Norman Lindsay. Hugh Grant is the main character who comes with his wife Tara Fitzgerald to see what Norman Lindsay is like.

</doc>
<doc id="29167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29167" title="Aqua">
Aqua

Aqua is the Latin word for water. It is sometimes as a prefix (such as aquaculture). It can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29168" title="Lavender">
Lavender

Lavender is a type of plant found on almost all continents. It has a purplish colour. It has a colour named after it, called lavendar. Its Latin and scientific name is "Lavandula".
Lavenders are very popular among gardeners. Sometimes their petals are dried and sealed in pouches for good scent, and sometimes put inside clothes to prevent moths, who can damage the clothes.
Lavenders are also used in cake decorating, because the flowers can become candied. Sometimes they are used in flavoring baked goods and chocolate desserts, and sometimes they use it to make a very delicious "lavender sugar". Lavender flowers are also used to make tea. The French make lavender syrup, which is used to make lavender scones and lavender marshmallows.
Lavenders are sometimes put in medicine, too, and sometimes to prevent infection - such as lavender oil, that was used in World War 1 to disinfect walls and floors of the hospital. As the folk wisdom says, lavender oil is also helpful to headaches when rubbed on your temple, and lavender tea helps you relax before bed time. Lavender also is very helpful when applied to insect bites.
Sometimes, dried petals of lavender are used to throw confetti at a wedding.

</doc>
<doc id="29169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29169" title="St. Gallen">
St. Gallen

St. Gallen is a city in the eastern part of Switzerland. It is near Lake Constance. St. Gallen is the capital of the canton of St. Gallen. The city was founded as a monastery by the Irish monk Gallus in the 7th century. In the Middle Ages a city grew around the monastery. The role of the monastery (and the city) was very important in the Middle Ages. One of the three remaining manuscripts of the "Nibelungenlied" are from the monastery of St.Gallen. Today, the monastery, with its library, and parts of the old town are classed as an UNESCO World Heritage site.
The city is about 675 meters above sea level and is in a part of Switzerland with many hills. As of 2004, about 70.000 people lived in the city. The urban area has about 100.000 to 120.000 people.
In the 18th and 19th century the city became known for its embroideries, which are still very well-known. Every four years, there is the "St.Galler Kinderfest" (Children's festival). This is a large representation of the primary (and some secondary) schools in the city. It's usually in early summer. 
The city also has an university, which is known for its courses in economics, and (to a lesser extent), law.
In Switzerland, the city is also known for "St.Galler Bratwurst", and a fair centered around agriculture, held once a year, in autumn. That fair is called OLMA ("Ostschweizerische Land- und Milchwirtschaftsausstellung", roughly translates to "Exhibition of agriculture and milk economics of eastern Switzerland").
In early summer there is also an open-air rock festival. Its called Open-Air St.Gallen, and held in a valley, near the river. Since the weather is not always as good, in many years it's a battle with the mud.

</doc>
<doc id="29171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29171" title="Jones">
Jones

Jones may refer to:
"Jones" is a common family name:

</doc>
<doc id="29172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29172" title="Hollyoaks">
Hollyoaks

Hollyoaks is a British television teen soap opera. It was first broadcast on 23 October 1995, on Channel 4. There is a new episode every weekday. It is set in Chester and is mostly filmed in Liverpool on Abbey Road.
Since 1995, the cast has expanded from just seven major characters to approximately 50 cast members. It was originally devised by Phil Redmond, who has also devised shows including "Brookside" and "Grange Hill". It is the only British soap that uses incidental music.
Hollyoaks was the first British television programme to tackle the issue of gay domestic violence. Its first character with gender identity disorder, a trans man called Jason Costello, was in the show August 2010 to December 2011. In 2014 Hollyoaks introduced a new transgender] character called Blessing Chambers.

</doc>
<doc id="29176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29176" title="Muse (band)">
Muse (band)

Muse are an English alternative rock band. They began in Teignmouth in 1994. There are three members of the band: Matthew Bellamy (guitar, piano, vocals), Chris Wolstenholme (bass and background vocals) and Dominic Howard (drums). They are sub-classified as mainly progressive rock, and play music with melody and fast tempo. However, they also play a great number of other styles of music, especially on their older albums like "Showbiz". Their albums, "Black Holes and Revelations", "Absolution" and "The Resistance", have been successful in the United States, the United Kingdom and most western countries of the world.
Matthew Bellamy, Chris Wolstenholme, and Dominic Howard grew up in a small town called Teignmouth in Devon. They were bored there, so they started playing music together. When they were 13 years old, they made a band called Gothic Plague. The band was later called Fixed Penalty. After that, it was called Rocket Baby Dolls. In 1994, while they were called Rocket Baby Dolls, they won a Battle of the Bands competition. During this competition, they broke their instruments, but still won. In 1997, they chose the name Muse. Muse's members did not like Teignmouth. In an interview in 1999, Bellamy said that it was full of people who took drugs, and that it was like a "living hell".
Muse left Teignmouth and met Sawmills Studio owner, Dennis Smith. He liked their work and offered them a contract with his record label, Dangerous Records and put them in the studio with producer Paul Reeve. Muse released their first EP called "Muse" in 1997. The band went to more band competitions and won several. In 1998, they released their second EP, "Muscle Museum". The EP was popular, and Muse toured around Europe and Australia.
"Museum" was popular enough to get Muse a record contract with Maverick Records in the United States. The band started to work on a new album. They wrote new ones, though, for their next album. The other songs they used were already on their EPs. Muse worked with producers Paul Reeve and John Leckie, who produced Radiohead's album,"The Bends".
Muse's first album, "Showbiz", came out in 1999. In the United States, Maverick used a large advertising campaign to make Muse more popular. Muse were already popular in the UK, and "NME" said they were "the first great British guitar band of the 21st century". US magazine "Rolling Stone" said "Showbiz" sounded a lot like Radiohead. Matthew Bellamy did not like that comparison, but people would still compare Muse and Radiohead in the future. Other reviewers said the band had a lot of potential after listening to "Showbiz".
In the year 2000, Muse traveled a lot to help sell "Showbiz". The highlight of the tour was touring with Red Hot Chili Peppers and Foo Fighters. The band played at over 50 music festivals in Europe, and several in Japan. While they were traveling, the band recorded some songs for their next album. In January 2001, they started working on the rest with producer John Leckie, in Peter Gabriel's studio.
Muse began touring again in May 2005, after finishing the album. They had not released it, but Bellamy told BBC he thought the best way to promote it was to play live music. The band's second album, "Origin of Symmetry", was released in June 2001 in the UK. However, it was only released in North America in 2005. The album did not do well on charts, but was popular with critics. "NME" praised the album for the songs on it being very loud and angry. Allmusic said the album was very loud and sometimes ridiculous because of the instruments and riffs used on it, but that it was still very good.
Nescafé used the song "Feeling Good" from "Origin of Symmetry" (which was a cover of a Nina Simone song) in an advertisement once. Muse sued Nescafé because they did not agree with how the company did business. They received money from Nescafé after suing. They donated it to Oxfam. Muse almost sued Celine Dion when she tried to use the name Muse as the title of a performance in Las Vegas.
Muse's third album was recorded in lots of studios in places like London and Los Angeles. The band were very committed and focused on making quality music, given the fact that they had taken more time to properly record the album. Muse started work in September 2003 with producers Paul Reeve and John Cornfield, and recorded Butterflies and Hurricanes and Blackout. They took a break for Christmas, and then changed their producer to Rich Costey. Most of the album was recorded in 2004. The album's themes included politics, death, and the Apocalypse. The guitar performances on the new album were simpler than on "Origin of Symmetry". Bellamy used one brand of guitar for the whole album, and this gave an "immense" sound according to "Total Guitar" magazine.
To promote "Absolution", Muse toured around the UK and North America. During their first show in the United States, in Atlanta, Bellamy hurt his mouth. He had accidentally hit himself with his guitar. Because of this, he needed stitches. The band had to cancel several shows, but kept going with the tour. Muse played at the Glastonbury Festival in June 2004. After the concert, they said it was "the best gig of our lives". Shortly after the show, however, Howard's father died. While they were very sad that he died, Bellamy said they were happy that Howard's father had been at the concert and had seen the band's "finest moment". In 2005, Muse played four songs at Live 8.
In January 2005 Muse finished their world tour with two big concerts in London. Bellamy said they wanted to make new music after this. However, they also wanted to tour the US again. This was because they became popular there for the first time. Costey produced the band's new album, like he did for "Absolution". The band recorded their fourth album, "Black Holes & Revelations", in a château in the countryside of France, because they did not want to be distracted.
By February 2 2009, Muse had started recording songs for their new album. In an interview, Bellamy said that the album is "all very orchestral". He said it would sound like classical music.
On March 24 2009, Muse's website said that the band would be going on tour after the album is released. They said that they would go to France on this tour, and have two concerts in London. On July 2 2009, the band said that the tour was to start in Finland on October 22 2009. They also said that the tour would end on December 4 2009, in Italy. The 95,000 tickets went on sale at 9:00 am on June 5. They were sold out in under 45 minutes.
On May 22 2009, the website said that the album would be called "The Resistance". It also said that one of the songs would be called "United States of Eurasia".
The band's fifth studio album "The Resistance" was released in September 2009. It is the first Muse album that was produced by the band itself. The album was engineered by Adrian Bushby and mixed by Mark Stent. When it was released, it went to the top of the album charts in 19 countries. It became the band's third number one album in the UK. It reached number 3 on the "Billboard" 200. Critics praised the album. Most of them praised the ambition, classical music influences and the thirteen-minute, three-part song "". It also beat its predecessor "Black Holes and Revelations" in relative album sales in its debut week in the UK with approximately 148,000 copies sold. The first single "Uprising" was released seven days earlier.
The Resistance Tour started with in Teignmouth, Devon in September 2009. There were two performances in the Wembley Stadium in September 2010. The band also supported U2 for their U2 360° Tour. In the "Breakfast with Muse Concert" held by KROQ, Muse was asked how long they would be on tour. They said that they "will probably be touring until the end of next year." They also said that they would support U2. Then, they would go to a European tour, and afterwards Australia and Asia and return for an long US tour. Muse said it would be the longest US tour to date and would start at about the end of February or March."
Muse's won the O2 Silver Clef Award in London on 2 July 2010 because of their live performance. The award was presented by Roger Taylor and Brian May of Queen. Taylor described the band as "probably the greatest live act in the world today," while May said that "this is a magnificent, incredible group." 
On 12 July 2010 bassist Chris Wolstenholme told NME magazine that the band would be taking a break after their world tour supporting The Resistance ended. He also stated that the band would begin working for a new album. He said the new album would be released in 2011. On 8 September, frontman Matthew Bellamy, in an interview with NME, said that the music for the band's next studio album would be more "personal". He said it would be better to use smaller venues to perform those songs live.
On 12 September 2010, Muse won an MTV Video Music Award for Best Special Effects. It was for the promo for "Uprising". On 21 November, Muse won American Music Award for Favorite Artist in the Alternative Rock Music Category. On 2 December, it was announced that Muse had been nominated for three awards for the 53rd Grammy Awards. It was nominated for Best Rock Performance By a Duo or Group with Vocals - ("Resistance"); Best Rock Song - ("Resistance"), and Best Rock Album: ("The Resistance"). Muse was named the Billboard Alternative and Rock artist for 2010. This was because its songs, "Uprising", "Resistance" and "Undisclosed Desires" reached first, sixth and 49th on the year end Alternative Song chart respectively. At the 53rd Grammy Awards on 13 February 2011, Muse won the Grammy Award for Best Rock Album for "The Resistance".
Muse are an alternative rock band. They are often called space rock and progressive rock bands. Their music also mixes elements from different genres. These genres are electronic music, hard rock, classical music and rock opera. The band was described as a "trashy three-piece" by Matthew Bellamy on the BBC during 2002.
Dominic Howard said that he was a little confused by the progressive rock label that muse fell under, because "[He would] associate (the progressive rock label) it with 10-minute guitar solos." He added: "A lot of bands are quite ambitious with their music, mixing lots of different styles — and when I see that I think it's great."

</doc>
<doc id="29179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29179" title="Astrology">
Astrology

An astrologer looks at the planets' positions and tries to understand a person's character or tries to predict the future. Modern astrologers see astrology as a symbolic language. It is also seen as an art, or a kind of divination. Astrologers often say that the position of the stars help them know the future, but they can not really do it.
Astrology and astronomy started out as the same thing, but today they are very different.
Newspapers will often print horoscopes trying to guess persons future based on their birth sign.
A person's astrological sign (usually referring to Sun sign) is based on their birthday. A list of astrological signs is below.

</doc>
<doc id="29180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29180" title="Theatre of ancient Greece">
Theatre of ancient Greece

The theatre of ancient Greece was at its best from 550 BC to 220 BC. It was the beginning of modern western theatre, and some ancient Greek plays are still performed today. They invented the genres of tragedy (late 6th century ), comedy (486 ) and satyr plays.
The city-state of Athens was a great cultural, political and military power during this period. Drama was at its centre. Theatre was part of a festival called the Dionysia, which honoured the god Dionysus. In the Dionysia, the playwrights presented their work to an audience. It was a competition, with a winner and prizes. These two main genres were never mixed: they each had their own typical structure. Athens exported the festival to its numerous colonies and allies in order to promote their way of life.
Only men were allowed as actors. The chorus were men, as were the actors and the audience. Technically, they had to be citizens of Athens, which only applied to free-born men plus a few special cases. The actors wore masks, so that the people would know which persona (character) the actor played.
The best known writers of plays are Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides for tragedies, and Aristophanes for comedies.
Some think early Greek religion and theatre were influenced by Central Asian shamanistic practices. A large number of Orphic graffiti discovered in Olbia seems to show that the colony was a major point of contact. Eli Rozik points out that the shaman can be seen as an early type of actor influencing the rituals of early Greek theatre.
Greek tragedy as we know it was made in Athens some years before 532 BC, when Thespis was the earliest recorded playwright. He won the first theatrical contest held at Athens, so he was the leader of the dithyrambs performed in and around Attica. Dithyrambs were ancient hymns sung in praise of the god of wine and fertility, Dionysus. They had a wild and ecstatic nature.
By Thespis' time the dithyramb had evolved far away from its cult roots. It had become a narrative, ballad-like genre. Because of this Thespis is often called the "Father of Tragedy". The statesman Solon is said to have created poems in which characters speak with their own voice. Spoken recitations, known as "rhapsodes", of Homer's epics were popular in festivals before 534 BC. Thespis's contribution to drama is unclear, but his name is remembered in the common term for performer—a 'thespian'.
The dramatic performances were important to the Athenians – this is made clear by the Dionysian festival. This was organized perhaps to foster loyalty among the tribes of Attica. These had been recently created by Cleisthenes, who founded Greek democracy. The festival was created roughly around 508 BC.
Phrynichus was the first poet known to use a historical subject – his "Fall of Miletus", 493, told the fate of the town of Miletus after it was conquered by the Persians. He is also thought to be the first to use female characters (though not female performers).
Until the Hellenistic period, all tragedies were unique pieces written in honour of Dionysus and played only once, so that today we only have the pieces that were still remembered well enough to have been repeated when repetition of old tragedies became fashion.
After the Great Destruction of Athens by the Persian Empire in 480 BC, the town and acropolis were rebuilt, and theatre became an even more major part of Athenian culture and civic pride. The centre-piece was the competition between three tragic playwrights at the Theatre of Dionysus, twice a year. Each submitted three tragedies, plus a satyr play (a comic, burlesque version of a mythological subject). From 486 BC, each playwright also submitted a comedy. Aristotle claimed that Aeschylus added the second actor, and that Sophocles introduced the third. Apparently the Greek playwrights never used more than three actors.
Tragedy and comedy were viewed as completely separate genres, and no plays ever merged aspects of the two. Satyr plays dealt with the mythological subject matter of the tragedies, but in a purely comedic manner. However, as they were written over a century after the Athenian Golden Age, it is not known whether dramatists such as Sophocles and Euripides would have thought about their plays in the same terms.
The power of Athens declined following its defeat in the Peloponnesian War against the Spartans. From that time on, the theatre started performing old tragedies again. Although its theatrical traditions seem to have lost their vitality, Greek theatre continued into the Hellenistic period (the period following Alexander the Great's conquests in the fourth century BC). The main Hellenistic theatrical form was not tragedy but 'New Comedy', comic episodes about the lives of ordinary citizens. The only playwright from the period whose work has survived is Menander. One of New Comedy's most important contributions was its influence on Roman comedy, an influence that can be seen in the surviving works of Plautus and Terence.
The plays originally had a chorus of up to 50 people, who performed the plays in verse accompanied by music, beginning in the morning and lasting until the evening.
The performance space was a simple semi-circular space, the "orchestra", where the chorus danced and sang. The orchestra was on a flattened terrace at the foot of a hill, the slope of which produced a natural "theatron", (watching place). Later, the term "theatre" came to be applied to the whole area of theatron, orchestra, and skené (scene).
The theatres were made very large. Audiences might have up to fourteen thousand people. Actors' voices needed to be heard throughout the theatre, including the very top row of seats. The Greeks' understanding of acoustics compares well with the current state of the art.
In 465 BC, the playwrights began using a backdrop or scenic wall, which hung or stood behind the orchestra, which also served as an area where actors could change their costumes. It was known as the "skênê" (scene). In 425 BC a stone scene wall, called a "paraskenia", became a common supplement to "skênê" in the theatres. The proskenion ("in front of the scene") was columned, and was similar to the modern day proscenium.
Greek theatres also had entrances for the actors and chorus members called "parodoi". They were tall arches that opened onto the orchestra, through which the performers entered. By the end of the 5th century BC, around the time of the Peloponnesian War, the "skênê", the back wall, was two stories high. Some theatres also had a raised speaking place on the orchestra called the "logeion".
There were several scenic elements commonly used in Greek theatre:
Although in the early days the chorus was much larger, the numbers settled down to 12 or 15 in tragedies and 24 in comedies. They usually play a group character, such as 'the old men of Argos'. The chorus offers background information, summaries and comments. In many of these plays, the chorus expresses to the audience what the main characters cannot say, such as their hidden fears or secrets.
The chorus might sing, or might speak in unison (say the same thing together). The chorus made up for the fact that there were only one, two or three actors, who played several parts each (changing masks).
Before the introduction of several actors by Aeschylus, the Greek chorus was the main performer opposite a solitary actor. The importance of the chorus declined after the 5th century BC, when the chorus began to be separated from the dramatic action. Later dramatists depended less on the chorus.
The mask is known to have been used since the time of Aeschylus in the 6th century AD. It is one of the typical things they did in classical Greek theatre. Masks were also used in the worship of Dionysius, and that is probably how the tradition started.
Most of the evidence comes from a few vase paintings of the 5th century BC which depict actors preparing for a Satyr play. No physical evidence survived: the masks were made of organic materials. They were not considered permanent objects, and were dedicated to the altar of Dionysus after performances. There are, however, examples of statues of actors carrying a mask in hand.
Masks were made for the actors and for the chorus, who help the audience know what a character is thinking. The chorus all wear the same mask, because they represent the same character.
In a large open-air theatre, like the Theatre of Dionysus in Athens, the masks brought the characters' face closer to the audience, as they had exaggerated features and expressions. An actor could appear and reappear in different roles, since the audience did not identify the actor with one character. Their variations help the audience to distinguish sex, age, and social status. Also, they could show a change in a character’s appearance, for example, Oedipus after blinding himself. Unique masks were also created for specific characters and events in a play, such as The Furies in Aeschylus’ "Eumenides" and Pentheus and Cadmus in Euripides’ "The Bacchae". Worn by the chorus, the masks created a sense of unity and uniformity, a sort of multi-voiced persona or single organism.

</doc>
<doc id="29183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29183" title="Sophocles">
Sophocles

Sophocles (497 BC, 496 BC, or 495 BC – 406 BC) was an Ancient Greek writer who wrote 123 plays, according to the Suda. Only 7 of his tragedies have survived complete. Sophocles was the second of the three greatest Ancient Greek writers of tragedies, the others were Aeschylus and Euripides.
The most famous of Sophocles' tragedies are those concerning (relating to, being about) Oedipus and Antigone: these are often known as the Theban plays, although each play was actually a part of different tetralogy, the other members of which are now lost.
Sophocles, the son of Sophillus, was a rich member of the rural community of Colonus Hippius in Attica, which would later become a setting for his plays, and was probably born there. His birth took place a few years before the Battle of Marathon in 490 BC: the exact year is unclear, although 497/6 is perhaps most likely. Sophocles' first great play was in 468 BC when he took first prize in the Dionysia theatre competition over the reigning master of Athenian drama, Aeschylus. According to Plutarch the victory came under unusual circumstances.
In "Oedipus the King", Oedipus is the main character. 
Oedipus' death as a child is planned by his parents, Laius and Jocasta, to stop him fulfilling a prophecy. A servant passes the infant on to a childless couple, who adopt him not knowing his history. 
Oedipus eventually learns of the Delphic Oracle's prophecy of him, that he would kill his father and marry his mother. Then he thought this meant his adopted parents. He flees to avoid his fate. Oedipus meets a man at a crossroads accompanied by servants; Oedipus and the man fight, and Oedipus kills the man. This man was his father, Laius, not that anyone apart from the gods knew this at the time. 
Oedipus becomes the ruler of Thebes after solving the riddle of the sphinx and in the process, marries the widowed Queen, his mother Jocasta. Thus the stage is set for horrors. When the truth comes out, Jocasta commits suicide, Oedipus blinds himself and leaves Thebes, and the children are left to sort out the consequences themselves (see the later parts of the cycle of plays).
In "Oedipus at Colonus", the banished Oedipus and his daughters Antigone and Ismene arrive at the town of Colonus where they encounter Theseus, King of Athens. Oedipus dies and strife begins between his sons Polyneices and Eteocles.
In "Antigone" the protagonist is Oedipus' daughter. Antigone is faced with the choice of allowing her brother Polyneices' body to remain unburied, outside the city walls, exposed to the ravages of wild animals, or to bury him and face death. 
The king of the land, Creon, has forbidden the burial of Polyneices for he was a traitor to the city. Antigone decides to bury his body and face the consequences of her actions. Creon sentences her to death. Eventually, Creon is convinced to free Antigone from her punishment, but his decision comes too late and Antigone commits suicide. Her suicide triggers the suicide of two others close to King Creon: his son, Haemon, who was to wed Antigone, and his wife who commits suicide after losing her only surviving son.
Running through such tragedies is the theme of fate, which cannot be avoided. A forbidden act is committed in innocence, and the consequences follow remorselessly.

</doc>
<doc id="29185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29185" title="Black pepper">
Black pepper

Black pepper is a plant that grows in the tropics, especially in India. The plant is a perennial vine that bears flowers. People cultivate the plant for its fruit, the peppercorn. The peppercorn can be used as a spice or condiment. Usually, it makes things hot.
There are several different plants called "Pepper", all are in the "Piper" genus of "Piperaceae".
From the 16th century onwards, people used the word "pepper" to also refer to the Chile peppers, which come from a completely unrelated plant.
Pepper is one of the most common spices used around the world. It is very common in European cuisine, and has been known and traded for a very long time. Very often, the peppercorns are ground, and the powder is used to make things taste hot.
Like all eastern spices, pepper was historically both a seasoning and a medicine. Long pepper, being stronger, was often the preferred medication, but both were used.
Black peppercorns are mentioned in Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani medicine in India. The 5th century "Syriac Book of Medicines" prescribes pepper (or perhaps long pepper) for illnesses such as constipation, diarrhea, earache, gangrene, heart disease, hernia, hoarseness, indigestion, insect bites, insomnia, joint pain, liver problems, lung disease, oral abscesses, sunburn, tooth decay, and toothaches. Various sources from the 5th century onward also say pepper is good to treat eye problems. Often special ointments made with pepper have to be applied directly to the eye. There is no current medical evidence that any of these treatments has any benefit; pepper applied directly to the eye would be quite uncomfortable and possibly damaging.
For a long time, people believed pepper is the cause for sneezing; this is still believed true today. Some sources say that piperine irritates the nostrils, which will cause the sneezing; some say that it is just the effect of the fine dust in ground pepper, and some say that pepper is not in fact a very effective sneeze-producer at all. Few if any controlled studies have been carried out to answer the question. 
Pepper can irritate the intestines. It is therefore eliminated from the diet of patients having abdominal surgery and ulcers. The replacement is usually called a "bland diet".
Pepper contains small amounts of safrole, a carcinogenic compound.

</doc>
<doc id="29187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29187" title="Chili pepper">
Chili pepper

Chile pepper (also spelled Chili pepper, Chilli pepper; often shortened to chile, which is not to be confused with the country called Chile) is the fruit of a series of plants called Capsicum (nightshade family). Those plants are now grown all over the world, but originally, they came from Jamaica. They are used as spices or as vegetables, and also have some use in medicine.
Chile peppers are completely unrelated to the "Piperaceae" genus, which Black pepper is from.

</doc>
<doc id="29192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29192" title="Aeschylus">
Aeschylus

Aeschylus (525 BC – 456 BC) was an Ancient Greek poet and writer. He wrote about 70–90 plays. Only six of his tragedies have survived complete. Aeschylus was the earliest of the three greatest Greek writers of tragedians. The two others were Sophocles and Euripides. 
Aristotle said that Aeschylus added more characters into his plays. His characters spoke to each other and not just to the chorus. This made it easier to create drama between the characters.
One of his plays, "The Persians", was about the Persian invasion of Greece. Aeschylus had fought in this war. People studying Greek history use his play as an important source of information. The war was so important to the Greeks and to Aeschylus, that the writing on his grave only talks about his part in the Greek victory at the Battle of Marathon. There is nothing about the plays he wrote.
Aeschylus was born about the year 525 BC in a small town called Eleusis, which is about 27 kilometers northwest of Athens. The date is based on counting back forty years from his first victory in the Great Dionysia. His family was rich, and his father, Euphorion, was a member of the Eupatridae, the ancient nobility of Attica. Pausanias wrote that Aeschylus worked in a vineyard until the god Dionysus visited him in his sleep. The god ordered him to write the first tragedies. His first play was performed in 499 BC, when he was only 26 years old.
In 490 BC the Persian army, led by Darius, landed in Greece and tried to take it over. Aeschylus, and his brother Cynegeirus, joined the army from Athens and fought against the Persians at the Battle of Marathon. The Athenians were able to defeat the much bigger Persian army. This battle, which stopped Darius, was celebrated across the city-states of Greece. Cynegeirus died in the battle. In 480 BC, Xerxes I of Persia tried to capture Greece. Aeschylus fought against them at the Battle of Salamis and at the Battle of Plataea in 479 BC. His oldest surviving play "The Persians", performed in 472 BC, is set during the Battle of Salamis. This play won first prize at the Dionysia.
Aeschylus was one of many Greeks who joined the Eleusinian Mysteries. This was the religious cult of Demeter, and based in his home town of Eleusis. Members of the group learned mystical and secret knowledge. Members were sworn under the penalty of death not to say anything about the Mysteries to anyone. Aristotle wrote that some people thought that Aeschylus had shown some of the cult's secrets on stage. Other writers said that an angry mob tried to kill Aeschylus on the spot, but he ran away. Later, Aeschylus said he did not know that he had shown any of the secrets. He was saved from death only because of his brave service in the Persian Wars.
Aeschylus made two trips to Sicily in the 470s BC. He was invited by Hieron, tyrant of Syracuse, a big Greek city on the east side of the island. On one of these trips he wrote "The Women of Aetna", in honor of the city founded by Hieron. He also restaged his "Persians". By 473 BC, Aeschylus was the yearly favorite in the Dionysia, winning first prize in nearly every competition. In 458 BC, he returned to Sicily for the last time, visiting the city of Gela where he died in 456 or 455 BC. It is said that he was killed by a tortoise which fell out of the sky after it was dropped by an eagle. This story is probably only a legend. Aeschylus' work was so respected by the Athenians that after his death, his were the only tragedies allowed to be restaged in future competitions. His sons Euphorion and Euæon, and his nephew Philocles, all wrote plays as well.
Greek drama began with festivals for the gods, mainly Dionysus, the god of wine. During Aeschylus' lifetime, dramatic competitions became part of the city's Dionysia in the spring. The festival began with an opening procession, then a competition of boys singing dithyrambs, and finally two dramatic competitions. The first competition was for three playwrights each presenting three tragic plays, followed by a shorter comedy. A second competition of five comedic playwrights followed, and the winners of both competitions were chosen by a group of judges.
Aeschylus took part in many of these competitions in his lifetime. Only six tragedies have survived intact: "The Persians", "Seven against Thebes", "The Suppliants", and the trilogy known as "The Oresteia", consisting of the three tragedies "Agamemnon", "The Libation Bearers" and "The Eumenides". There is also the play "Prometheus Bound", but this was probably written by someone else. All of the surviving plays won first prize at the City Dionysia. One book, the Alexandrian "Life of Aeschylus", said that he won the first prize at the City Dionysia 13 times. Sophocles' won 18 times out of his 120 plays, and Euripides only had five wins out of about 90 plays.
When Aeschylus first began writing, the theatre was new. Some playwrights like Thespis had made the cast bigger to include an actor who was able to talk with the chorus. Aeschylus added a second actor, allowing for more drama; and the chorus became less important. He is said to have been the first to use "skenographia", or scene-decoration, though Aristotle said the first person was Sophocles. Aeschylus also added more details to the costumes, and had his actors wear platform boots, called "cothurni", to help the audience see them better. When they walked on stage in the first performance of the "Eumenides", the chorus of Furies were so frightening in looks that they made young children faint, old men urinate, and pregnant women go into labor.
His plays were written in the strict style of Greek drama. They were in verse and no violence could be performed on stage. The plays had to be set away from normal life in Athens, either by telling stories about the gods or by being set, like "The Persians", in a far-away place. Aeschylus' work has a strong moral and religious emphasis. The "Oresteia" plays were about man's position in the universe in relation to the gods, the laws of the gods, and punishment from the gods. 
Fifty years after Aeschylus' death, the comic playwright Aristophanes praised him in "The Frogs". Aeschylus is a character in the play and says that his "Seven against Thebes" "made everyone watching it to love being warlike" (line 1022); with his "Persians", he says he "taught the Athenians to desire always to defeat their enemies" (line 1026–7). He says that his plays helped the Athenians to be brave and virtuous (line 1039ff).

</doc>
<doc id="29194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29194" title="Euripides">
Euripides

Euripides (c. 480 BC–406 BC) was an Ancient Greek writer from Athens who wrote about 90 plays. Only 18 of his tragedies have survived complete, more than all other surviving ancient Greek tragedies put together. A nineteenth play, "Rhesus" is sometimes thought to be by Euripides, but not all classicists agree on this.
Euripides was the last of the three greatest Ancient Greek writers of tragedies, the others being Aeschylus and Sophocles.

</doc>
<doc id="29196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29196" title="Chard">
Chard

Chard (also known as Swiss chard, Silverbeet, Perpetual spinach, or Mangold) is a vegetable. It is in the same family as Spinach, "Amaranthaceae".

</doc>
<doc id="29203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29203" title="Half-life (element)">
Half-life (element)

The half-life of a substance is the time it takes for half of the substance to decay. The word "half-life" was first used when talking about radioactive elements where the number of atoms get smaller over time. It is now used in many other situations. A Geiger-Muller detector can be used to measure the half-life; it is the time when the activity is half of the original.
Note that half-life is defined as a probability. Half-life is the expected value when half the number of atoms have decayed. Carbon-14 has a half-life of 5730 years. Taking one atom of C-14, this will either have decayed after 5730 years, or it will not. But if this experiment is repeated again and again, it will be seen that the atom decays within the half life 50% of the time.
Radioactive atoms have unstable nuclei. Their nuclei are unstable because the arrangement of protons and neutrons in them are unsteady, making them shake until that they begin to decay and change into completely different types of atoms by releasing certain types of radioactive particles, such as alpha particles, beta particles or gamma rays, and possibly by fissioning into smaller nuclei. This is known as radioactive decay. For example, a radioactive carbon-14 atom releases a beta particle to become nitrogen-14. As an example of fission decay, a Fermium-256 atom can split into Xenon-140 and Palladium-112 atoms, releasing 4 neutrons in the process.
As an example, U has a half-life of about 69 years. Pu has a half-life of 88 years. C, which is used to find the age of fossils, has a half-life of 5730 years.

</doc>
<doc id="29206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29206" title="Cyclops">
Cyclops

A Kyklops, or Cyclops is a kind of giant in Greek mythology, which has only one eye on its forehead. They originally were children of Gaia and Uranos, and were called Brontes, Steropes, and Arges.
The most known is probably the cyclops Polyphemos in Homer's "Odyssey".

</doc>
<doc id="29209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29209" title="Magnetic field">
Magnetic field

In physics, the magnetic field is a field that passes through space and which makes a magnetic force move electric charges and magnetic dipoles. Magnetic fields are around electric currents, magnetic dipoles, and changing electric fields.
When placed in a magnetic field, magnetic dipoles are in one line with their axes to be parallel with the field lines, as can be seen when iron filings are in the presence of a magnet. Magnetic fields also have their own energy and momentum, with an energy density proportional to the square of the field intensity. The magnetic field is measured in the units of teslas (SI units) or gauss (cgs units).
There are some notable specific kinds of the magnetic field. For the physics of magnetic materials, see magnetism and magnet, and more specifically diamagnetism. For magnetic fields made by changing electric fields, see electromagnetism.
The electric field and the magnetic field are components of the electromagnetic field.
The law of electromagnetism was founded by Michael Faraday. 
Physicists can say that the force and torques between two magnets are caused by magnetic poles repelling or attracting each other. This is like the Coulomb force repelling the same electric charges or attracting opposite electric charges. In this model, a magnetic "H-field" is produced by "magnetic charges" that are 'smeared' around each pole. So, the H-field is like the electric field E which starts at a positive electric charge and ends at a negative electric charge. Near the north pole, all H-field lines point away from the north pole (whether inside the magnet or out) while near the south pole (whether inside the magnet or out) all H-field lines point toward the south pole. A north pole, then, feels a force in the direction of the H-field while the force on the south pole is opposite to the H-field.
In the magnetic pole model, the elementary magnetic dipole m is formed by two opposite magnetic poles of pole strength "q" separated by a very small distance d, such that m = "q" d. 
Unfortunately, magnetic poles cannot exist apart from each other. All magnets have north/south pairs which cannot be separated without creating two magnets each having a north/south pair. Also, magnetic poles do not account for magnetism that is produced by electric currents nor the force that a magnetic field applies to moving electric charges.
The -field is defined as:
With this definition, Ampere's law becomes:
where represents the 'free current' enclosed by the loop so that the line integral of does not depend at all on the bound currents. For the differential equivalent of this equation see Maxwell's equations. Ampere's law leads to the boundary condition:
where is the surface free current density.
Similarly, a surface integral of over any closed surface is independent of the free currents and picks out the 'magnetic charges' within that closed surface:
which does not depend on the free currents.
The -field, therefore, can be separated into two independent parts:
where is the applied magnetic field due only to the free currents and is the demagnetizing field due only to the bound currents.
The magnetic -field, therefore, re-factors the bound current in terms of 'magnetic charges'. The field lines loop only around 'free current' and, unlike the magnetic field, begins and ends at near magnetic poles as well.

</doc>
<doc id="29210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29210" title="Forehead">
Forehead

The forehead of humans is the flat space of skin above the eyes, between the eyebrows and where your hair starts to grow. It exists to make room for the brain inside the skull.
A doctor or nurse will often touch someone's forehead to check whether or not they have a fever. This is because of the many blood vessels in the head and face.
In ancient Greece individuals with large foreheads were classified as intellectual because of their incredibly large "brain". Nowadays this is not the case.
According to the OED Forehead can be pronounced either 'forhed' or 'forrid'.

</doc>
<doc id="29213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29213" title="James Prescott Joule">
James Prescott Joule

James Prescott Joule (24 December 1818–11 October 1889) was an English physicist, born in Salford, near Manchester. In his time he had great contribution to the world of electricity and thermodynamics. He was best known for discovering Joule's law, which described electric heating by saying the amount of heat produced each second in a conductor by a current of Electricity is proportional to the resistance of a conductor and to the square of the current. The unit for this is joule, equal to one watt-second. Later Joule worked with William Thomson to find out that the temperature of gas falls, as gas expands. This principle was then known as the Joule-Thomson effect.
The son of Benjamin Joule (1784–1858), a wealthy brewer, James Prescott Joule was born in the house next to the Joule Brewery in New Bailey Street, Salford on 24 December 1818. James was tutored at the family home 'Broomhill', Pendlebury, near Salford, until 1834 when he was sent, with his elder brother Benjamin, to study with John Dalton at the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society. They only received two years of education in arithmetic and geometry before Dalton was forced to retire because of a stroke.
Kinetics is the science of motion. Joule was a pupil of Dalton and it is no surprise that he had learned a firm belief in the atomic theory, even though there were many scientists of his time who were still skeptical. He had also been one of the few people receptive to the work of John Herapath on the kinetic theory of gases. He was further greatly influenced by Peter Ewart's 1813 paper "On the measure of moving force".

</doc>
<doc id="29215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29215" title="Andromache">
Andromache

Andromache is a person in Greek mythology. She is the wife of Hector of Troy and mother of Astyanax.
After the Trojan War, Neoptolemus took her and Helenus as slaves. Of Neoptolemus she had a child named Molossus. After Neoptolemus died, Andromache married Helenus, and became Queen of Epirus.

</doc>
<doc id="29216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29216" title="Astyanax">
Astyanax

Astyanax is a person in Greek mythology. He is the son of Hector of Troy and Andromache. He is killed at the end of the Trojan War by Neoptolemus, so he could not be a new king of Troy, or want revenge.

</doc>
<doc id="29217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29217" title="Neoptolemus">
Neoptolemus

Neoptolemos (or Latin Neoptolemus) is a person in Greek mythology. He is an important person in the Trojan War.
Neoptolemus was the son of Achilles and Deidamea. He was needed to win the Trojan War. He killed King Priam and Astyanax, sacrificed Polyxena to his dead father Achilles, and took Helenus and Andromache with him as slaves.
He was later killed by Orestes because he was going to marry Hermione, who Orestes wanted for himself.

</doc>
<doc id="29218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29218" title="Earth's orbit">
Earth's orbit

All planets in our solar system follow an elliptical path. This path is known as an orbit. Earth's orbit is not a perfect circle. If you were to draw the Earth's orbit on a sheet of paper as a perfect circle, the width of the line would be larger than the elliptical path of the Earth.
The Earth's orbit takes about 365 days, this is also called a year. This means that in 365 days (a year) the Earth has gone completely around the Sun. From this we can find that the Earth is actually moving at about 67,000 miles per hour through space.
The closest distance Earth is to the sun, or perihelion, is 146 million km (91 million miles) and the farthest or aphelion is 152 million km (94.5 million miles). It takes light (or any other electromagnetic radiation) just over eight minutes to travel from Sun to Earth.
The seasonal changes on Earth are because of the 23.4 degree axial tilt of its rotation and slightly elliptical path around the Sun.
The orbit varies over long periods of time according to the Milankovitch cycles. These cycles are one of the main causes of climate change.

</doc>
<doc id="29219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29219" title="Penelope">
Penelope

Penelope is a person in Greek mythology. She is the wife of Odysseus of Ithaca and mother of Telemachos. She became a symbol for the faithful wife.
When her husband Odysseus was on his long journey home, many people thought he was dead. Because of this many suitors came who wanted to marry Penelope, because then they would own her land and wealth, and become king of Ithaca.
Penelope thinks of several tricks so that she does not have to marry one of the suitors. One trick is that she tells the suitors that she will first weave a cloth for the funeral of Odysseus' father, and when she was finished she would marry one of the suitors. But every night she undoes her weaving again, so that she never finishes it.
When Odysseus finally comes back after twenty years, he and his son Telemachos kill the suitors.

</doc>
<doc id="29223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29223" title="Anemia">
Anemia

Anemia (U.S. spelling) or anaemia means not having enough red blood cells or hemoglobin in the blood.
"Dimorphic anemia" means two types of anemia at the same time. For example, macrocytic hypochromic, due to hookworm infestation leading to not enough of both iron and vitamin B12 or folic acid or following a blood transfusion.

</doc>
<doc id="29239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29239" title="Memphis, Tennessee">
Memphis, Tennessee

Memphis is the largest city in the state of Tennessee. The city has a large port on the Mississippi River. It is also well known for blues music and barbecue. The city is also home to FedEx, a leading company that ships packages around the world. Memphis is also known for being the home of rock and roll legend Elvis Presley. 
Memphis is named for Memphis, Egypt, an ancient capital city of Egypt.
A C Wharton is the Mayor of Memphis.

</doc>
<doc id="29240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29240" title="Dari (Eastern Persian)">
Dari (Eastern Persian)

Dari ("Fārsī-ye Darī") is a dialect of the Persian language. It is the Persian language as spoken in Afghanistan. It is the second official language of Afghanistan, and is widely used by the government and most media agencies. It is mainly spoken by the Tajiks and other minority groups. A small minority also exists in parts of Pakistan closest to these named regions It is the same as Persian or Farsi. The name Dari was given to the Persian language at a very early date. 
Historically, Dari was the court language of the Sassanids.

</doc>
<doc id="29242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29242" title="Halo (series)">
Halo (series)

Halo is a shooting video game series. The games are published by Microsoft and developed by Bungie Studios.

</doc>
<doc id="29243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29243" title="Counterpoint">
Counterpoint

Counterpoint is the art of composing music by combining different parts (voices) in a way that sounds nice. Music composed like this is called contrapuntal.
If the tune of "Twinkle, twinkle little star" is played on the piano and then some chords are added, this is harmony, not counterpoint. Instead, if the tune of "Twinkle, twinkle little star" was played while another melody was played, this would be considered counterpoint.
A different way of playing it would be to start the tune with the right hand. Then, in the second bar (measure), as the fifth note is played, the left hand starts to play the tune an octave lower. This works well for a time, but in the fifth bar (on the word “Up” in the right hand part) it starts to get dissonant (sounding unpleasant), so changes need to made to the left hand to make it sound nicer. This way of writing with a particular number of parts (in this case: two) is called "contrapuntal music".
In that example the left hand imitated the right hand at first. This is called imitation.
If the second part had continued to imitate all the way through the piece it would have been a canon. But “Twinkle, twinkle” does not work well as a canon. One famous canon is by Thomas Tallis. A canon that can be repeated is called a round. This is all contrapuntal music.
Counterpoint does not have to have imitation, although it often does. The important thing is that each part (i.e. each voice) is equally important. It is not one part singing the tune and the rest just accompanying.
Counterpoint does not have to be one note against one note. There can be two or more notes in one part against one in the other e.g. crotchets (quarter notes) in one part and quavers (eighth notes) in another. There is a whole system for this called “species”.
Counterpoint can be varied by inverting it, i.e. putting the top part at the bottom. When music is written so that the parts can be swapped round it is called "invertible counterpoint".
The word “counterpoint” comes from the Latin “punctus contra punctum” meaning “point against point”. The word “point” meant “note”. Several hundred years ago composers found how to write contrapuntal music. They often took a main tune (called a “Cantus Firmus”) and then added one or two or more parts to it. The more parts there were the harder it was to compose because it all had to fit so that it sounded good. Music for several voices written in this way is called polyphonic music. Polyphony was used in all church music in the Renaissance. The greatest composer of polyphony was Giovanni da Palestrina (1525-1594). Students learning the art of composition today still learn counterpoint by taking Palestrina’s music as their model.

</doc>
<doc id="29251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29251" title="Guided by Voices">
Guided by Voices

Guided by Voices (often called GBV) was an American indie band. Guided by Voices was very famous for making many albums. They were active between 1986 and 2004. The band reunited in 2010 but broke up again in 2014.
The band had many members who only stayed for a while. Robert Pollard was the most important member. Before becoming a full time musical artist, he was a teacher at an elementary school. While he was teaching, he created lots of music for the band. Robert is a solo artist today. He is a great fan of rock music. His music, and the music of Guided by Voices, is inspired by the famous British band The Beatles and different music styles like post-British Invasion garage rock, psychedelic, prog-rock, as well as punk and post-punk.
In 2004, during the band's last concert tour, many cities around the United States picked a day to be "Guided by Voices Day" in that city. Some of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="29255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29255" title="Eugenics">
Eugenics

Eugenics is a social and political philosophy. It tries to influence the way people choose to mate and raise children, with the aim of improving the human species. 
Eugenics rests on some basic ideas. The first is that, in genetics, what is true of animals is also true of man. The characteristics of animals are passed on from one generation to the next in heredity, including mental characteristics. For example, the behaviour and mental characteristics of different breeds of dog differ, and all modern breeds are greatly changed from wolves. The breeding and genetics of farm animals show that if the parents of the next generation are chosen, then that affects what offspring are born. 
"Negative eugenics" aims to cut out traits that lead to suffering, by limiting people with the traits from reproducing. "Positive eugenics" aims to produce more healthy and intelligent humans, by persuading people with those traits to have more children. In the past, many ways were proposed for doing this, and even today eugenics means different things to different people. The idea of eugenics is controversial, because in the past it was sometimes used to justify discrimination and injustice against people who were thought to be genetically unhealthy or inferior.
Modern eugenics was first invented in 1865 by Sir Francis Galton, a British scientist who was the cousin of Charles Darwin. Galton believed that intelligence and talent were hereditary and were passed from parent to their children. Based on this, he thought that people could be bred to be smarter, just like animals were bred to be larger or smaller. Galton thought the best way to do this was to learn more about heredity, and also to tell people that they should only marry people who were smart and strong. Galton chose the name "Eugenics" because it was very similar to the Greek for "well born". 
Galton developed the idea of eugenics throughout his life. He understood the two types of eugenics, positive and negative eugenics. One problem, which critics brought up, is the difficulty of agreeing on who is a healthy person, genetically speaking, and who is an inferior person. Obviously, opinions might differ.
The rediscovery of the scientific work of Gregor Mendel in 1900 led to modern genetics, and an understanding of how heredity worked. Mendel himself experimented on peas, and found that many characteristics of the pea plants, such as their colour or their height, could be turned on and off through heredity like a switch. For example, his peas could be either yellow or green, one or the other. 
When applied to humans, people thought this meant that human characteristics, like being smart or not, could be influenced by heredity. 
Another line of thought goes like this. During their evolution, humans were subject to natural selection like any other form of life. On average, healthy and intelligent people had a better chance of reproducing. In modern civilisation, however, it often seems that this process does not apply. Alfred Russel Wallace and Charles Darwin had discussed this very point, with concern. In countries where statistics were collected, those statistics showed that in many cases the poor had more children than the rich. Also, statistics showed that the total population of some great nations was declining. One startling piece of information was produced by research directed by Karl Pearson, the Galton Professor of Eugenics at University College London, and the founder of the Department of Applied Statistics. The finding was that half of each succeeding generation was produced by no more than a quarter of the previous generation, and that quarter was "disproportionately located amongst the dregs of society". 
The evolutionary biologist Julian Huxley was also a supporter of eugenics. He used this argument several times: 
The American historian of science Garland Allen commented :
"The agricultural analogy appears over and over again as it did in the writings of many American eugenicists". 
Similarly, the American geneticist Charles Davenport was a lifelong promoter of eugenics, and wrote one of its first textbooks. There is no doubt of the support given to eugenics by professional scientists of undoubted repute. 
In the United States, eugenics became a very popular idea in the early 20th century. People thought it would cure society of all of its problems at the time, like crime and poverty, because they thought that all aspects of human behavior were probably hereditary. Very important scientists and politicians supported eugenics, and most thought it was a very progressive and scientific philosophy. 
But some of those who led the eugenics movement used it to justify racism and prejudice. They used eugenics as an excuse to pass laws which to restrict immigration from countries that they did not like, saying that the people in them were genetically "unfit". They also passed laws which said that people of different races could not get married to one another. Most importantly, they passed laws which said that people who were thought to have mental illness or mental disability could be sterilised against their will. Under these laws over 60,000 people were sterilised in the United States between 1907 and the 1970s.
Today we know that interpreting statistics of this type is a complex business, and that many of the studies published early in the 20th century have serious flaws. Nevertheless, what stopped the eugenics movement was not better science. It was the realization, after World War II, of the effects of Nazi policies on race in Germany and other countries occupied during the war. Such war crimes were not, of course, advocated by any eugenicist. All the same, there was a common theme. This theme was the growing interest in the rights of individuals as against the rights of the state.
With the end of the Second World War, forced sterilisation ended in Germany. It was continued in the United States until 1974. The main targets were at first those that were ill or that had some physical or mental disabilities. Later on, the focus shifted towards convicted criminals, as well as black people. 
Only in 1985 was a law of the Swiss canton of Vaud abolished. This law allowed for the forced sterilisation of a certain group of people. It was replaced by a law on the national level, that tells under which circumstances people who are unable to consent, may be sterilised.
Though there are few people who openly advocate eugenics today, many people wonder what improvements in genetic technologies will mean in the future. 
Genetic counselling exists, where parents can get information about their heredity and even prevent the birth of a child if it has a risk of hereditary illness. Some people do not think the issue is so clear, though, and wonder if genetic screening, genetic counselling, and birth control, are all just another type of eugenics. Some people wonder if it is bad because it infringes human dignity. Some people oppose eugenics and genetic counselling for religious reasons. The idea of eugenics is controversial today for these reasons.
Much of this concern is misplaced. Genetic counselling is not going to change the genetic composition of the human population to any noticeable extent. More relevant is the developing power to identify, and then to change directly, elements of the human genome (genetic engineering). This does have the potential to change the genetic structure of human populations.

</doc>
<doc id="29256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29256" title="Sterilisation">
Sterilisation

Sterilisation (which some people spell Sterilization) is a process that makes animals or humans that are able to bear offspring unable to do so.
Sterilisation often is done for a way of birth control. But it have been often done against the will of the person, this is called "compulsory sterilisation." 

</doc>
<doc id="29259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29259" title="Cerberus">
Cerberus

Kerberos (Latin Cerberus) is a creature in Greek mythology, like a hound (dog) with three heads. It belongs to Hades, and it guards the gate of the Greek underworld. Cerberus is a Hellhound and is related to another mythical animal, the Chimera (part goat, part lion, part snake).
Cerberus makes sure the dead stay within the gates and the living stay away from them. However, the Greeks did note in their myths that Cerberus was a fan of sweet things like honey cakes (The myth of Eros and Psyche) and music (The myth of Orpheus in the Underworld).
Another way to become friends with the animal was to talk to his owner, Hades, the Lord of the Underworld (The labours of Hercules).Cerbus is the son of Typhon and echidna.

</doc>
<doc id="29260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29260" title="Yerevan">
Yerevan

Yerevan () is the capital and largest city of Armenia. In 2004 about 1,088,300 people lived in Yerevan. Some people write Yerevan as Erevan. In past, Yerevan was called Erebuni or Erivan.
It is on the Hrazdan River, and is the administrative, cultural, and industrial center of the country. 
The history of Yerevan dates back to the 8th century BC, with the founding of the Urartian fortress of Erebuni in 782 BC. Eventually, the letter "b" in the name "Erebuni" changed in the 5th or 4th century BC, becoming "v".
The climate of Yerevan is relatively continental, with dry, hot summers and cold and short winters. The temperature in August can reach 40°C (104°F), while January may be as cold as -15 °C (5 °F). The amount of precipitation is small, amounting annually to about 350 mm (14 in).
As a centre of Armenian culture, Yerevan is the site of Yerevan State University (1919), the Armenian Academy of Sciences, a historical museum, an opera house, a music conservatory and several technical institutes. The Matenadaran archives hold a rich collection of valuable ancient Armenian, Greek, Assyrian, Hebrew, Roman and Persian manuscripts. Yerevan has several large public libraries, a number of museums and theaters, botanical gardens and zoos. It is also at the heart of an extensive rail network and is a major trading centre for agricultural products. In addition, industries in the city produce metals, machine tools, electrical equipment, chemicals, textiles and food products. 
Two major tourist attractions are the Opera House, the ruins of an Urartu fortress and a Roman fortress. The Armenia Marriott Hotel is in the heart of the city at Republic Square (also known as Hraparak).
The Yerevan Metro is a rapid transit system that serves the capital city.
Its interior resembles that of western former Soviet nations with chandeliers hanging 
from the corridors. The metro stations had most of their names changed after the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Independence of the Republic of Armenia.
Yerevan is Armenia's industrial, transportation, and cultural center. Manufactures include chemicals, primary metals, machinery, rubber products, plastics, textiles, and processed food. Not only is Yerevan the headquarters of major Armenian companies, but of international ones as well, as it's seen as an attractive outsourcing location for Western European, Russian and American multinationals. 
Recently, Yerevan has been undergoing an ambitious redevelopment process in which old Soviet-style apartments and buildings are being demolished and replaced with modern buildings. However, this urban renewal plan has been met with opposition and () criticism from some residents. Jermaine Jackson has planned to build an entertainment complex in a new 5-star hotel which is being built in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="29261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29261" title="Smallpox">
Smallpox

Smallpox was a very bad disease with a high mortality rate. It is caused by a virus. There are two different species of viruses that can cause the disease. They are "Variola major" and "Variola minor". Some people also call smallpox Variola, named after the viruses' scientific name.
Only humans can get this disease. "Variola major" kills between 20% and 40% of those who get it. "Variola minor" kills only about 1%. Many people who survive become blind because of the damage the virus does to the eyes.
During the first half of the 20th century, between 300 million and 500 million people died of this disease. Even in 1967, about 15 million people caught the disease, and about two million people died of it, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
The first vaccine for smallpox used the results of cowpox infections. It was invented by Edward Jenner. It was used to stop people from getting smallpox. The word "vaccine" came from "vaccina", the Latin word for cow, because cowpox was used. The WHO (World Health Organisation) said that they were trying to eradicate (completely destroy) smallpox in 1963. They vaccinated people all over the world. In 1980, the WHO said the disease no longer existed, and no one would ever get sick from it again. However, live copies of smallpox are kept in different maximum-security laboratories around the world.
Some people believe that smallpox could be used as an agent for purposely infecting enemies in a war. Today, most people no longer receive a smallpox shot; but a few very, very old people still need it.
If somebody has smallpox, their entire body is covered in bumps infiltrated by blood that are worse than chicken pox.

</doc>
<doc id="29263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29263" title="Ancient China">
Ancient China

Ancient China is a very old civilization. There are written records of the history of China which date from 1500 BC in the Shang dynasty (c. 1600–1046 BC).
China is one of the world's oldest continuous (still alive) civilizations. Turtle shells with writing like ancient Chinese writing from the Shang Dynasty () have been carbon dated to about 1500 BC. They say that China began as city-states in the Yellow River valley. Many people say that China became a big Kingdom or Empire in 221 BC. The Qin () emperor Qin Shi Huang made everyone write the same way. He also had ideas about the state which he based on legalism and fought Confucianism. This began what we call the Chinese civilization. Ancient China fought wars and Civil wars and was also sometimes conquered by other people.
Chinese civilization originated in various regional centers along both the Yellow River and the Yangtze River valleys in the Neolithic era, but the Yellow River is said to be the cradle of Chinese civilization. With thousands of years of continuous history, China is one of the world's oldest civilizations. The written history of China can be found as early as the Shang Dynasty (c. 1600 – 1046 BC) although ancient historical texts such as the Records of the Grand Historian (ca. 100 BC) and Bamboo Annals say that a Xia Dynasty existed before the Shang. Much of Chinese culture, literature and philosophy further developed during the Zhou Dynasty (1045 – 256 BC).
The Zhou Dynasty began to bow to external and internal pressures in the 8th century BC, and the kingdom eventually broke apart into smaller states, beginning in the Spring and Autumn Period and reaching full expression in the Warring States period. This is one of multiple periods of failed statehood in Chinese history (the most recent of which was the Chinese Civil War).
In between eras of multiple kingdoms and warlordism, Chinese dynasties have ruled parts or all of China; in some eras, including the present, control has stretched as far as Xinjiang and/or Tibet. This practice began with the Qin Dynasty: in 221 BC, Qin Shi Huang united the various warring kingdoms and created the first Chinese empire. Successive dynasties in Chinese history developed bureaucratic systems that enabled the Emperor of China to directly control vast territories.
The conventional view of Chinese history is that of alternating periods of political unity and disunity, with China occasionally being dominated by steppe peoples, most of whom were in turn assimilated into the Han Chinese population. Cultural and political influences from many parts of Asia, carried by successive waves of immigration, expansion, and cultural assimilation, are part of the modern culture of China.
The countries below are not included in the sixteen kingdoms:

</doc>
<doc id="29267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29267" title="Shaka">
Shaka

Shaka (sometimes spelled Tshaka, Tchaka or Chaka; ca. 1787 – ca. 22 September 1828) was the most important leader of the Zulu Empire. He joined the Zulu tribal groups together into the beginnings of a nation. This Zulu nation ruled over a large area of southern Africa, between the Phongolo and Mzimkhulu rivers. His leadership and his energy make him one of the greatest Zulu chieftains. He has been called a military genius for his changes and new ideas. However, there were also brutal and cruel things that happened when he was in charge. 
Shaka maintained a good relationship with the Europeans in Africa, including the Colonial leaders. He was disliked by other Africans, including his own people, who hated his constant wars. 
Ten years of warfare placed incredible strains on the Zulu nation. Shaka, unstable and worried about being replaced by an heir, finally snapped into madness after the death of his mother in 1828. He imposed a year of celibacy on his people. He killed anyone who did not show enough sadness at the death of his mother. He was killed within the year by his half-brother, Dingane, who succeeded him as ruler. 
Even though he created brutal conditions for his subjects, he created the powerful Zulu Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="29268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29268" title="Halo">
Halo

A halo is a ring of light that surrounds an object. Also, in much religious art, it may be seen surrounding the heads of saintly people such as Jesus.
It is believed by some Hindus that the halo shown around the heads of holy people is a depiction of their "activated" crown chakra.
Halos are visual phenomena that appear near or around the Sun or Moon, and sometimes near other strong light sources such as street lights. There are many types of optical halos, but they are mostly caused by ice crystals in certain types of clouds. The shape of the crystals changes the type of halo seen. Light is reflected by the ice and may split into colors, similar to the rainbow.

</doc>
<doc id="29269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29269" title="Greek underworld">
Greek underworld

The underworld is the place in Greek mythology where people go when they die. It is also called Hades after the god who rules there. Its gates are guarded by the three-headed dog, Cerberus. There are five places you end up, one is Tartarus. Not all people though end up in there. People that lived normal lives would go to The Fields of Asphodel, heroes would go to The Fields of Elysium and very bad people would go the Fields of Punishment. If you were put into Elysium, you could choose to be reborn and if you made it to Elysium three times then you went to the Isle of the Blessed. This was like the ultimate heaven. 
There are several special places/areas:

</doc>
<doc id="29270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29270" title="Mughal Empire">
Mughal Empire

The Mughal Empire, (, ) was an empire in Asia which existed from 1526 to 1858. The Mughal rule over India is called an Empire because it stretched over a large area. When it was biggest it ruled most of the Indian subcontinent, then known as Hindustan, and parts of what is now Afghanistan and modern Pakistan, between 1526 and 1707. 
The Mughal emperors were Turkish Mongols originally. Babur of the Timurid dynasty founded the Mughal Empire (and Mughal dynasty) in 1526 and ruled until 1530. He was followed by Humayun (1530-1540) and (1555-1556), Akbar (1556-1605), Jahangir (1605-1627), Shah Jahan (1627-1658), Aurangzeb (1658-1707) and several other minor rulers until Bahadur Shah Zafar II(1837-1857). After the death of Aurangzeb, the Mughal Empire became weak. It continued until 1857-58. By that time, India came under the British Raj.
The Mughal Empire was established by able Muslim rulers who came from the present-day Uzbekistan. The Mughal rule in India saw the country being united as one single unit and being administered under one single powerful ruler. During the Mughal period, art and architecture flourished and many beautiful monuments were constructed. The rulers were skillful warriors and admirers of art as well.
The Mughals left a permanent mark on the society, culture, art and architecture of India. Their monuments, artifacts and literature show a period of great wealth and culture. Paintings in miniature style teach us about the clothing and lifestyle of the people. 

</doc>
<doc id="29271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29271" title="British Raj">
British Raj

The British Raj is a term of history. "Raj" is a word of Indian languages which means "rule", so "British Raj" means rule by the British in India. This rule was before 1947 and was over parts of what are now four countries, the Republic of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Burma. At that time, these four countries were all part of the British Indian Empire, known at the time as the Indian Empire and sometimes now spoken of as the "British Raj". 
The "British Raj" is used to talk of the direct British rule over areas which had been conquered by the British, known as British India, and also the British influence over hundreds of independent "princely states" ruled by their own Indian rulers, under the overall authority of the British crown.
Undivided India is another term which is used to mean the whole area of British rule, but it does not take in Burma, which from 1937 was a British colony on its own. The colony of Aden came under the same government in India from 1858 to 1937, and so did British Somaliland (now part of Somalia) from 1884 to 1898 and Singapore from 1858 to 1867. 
British rule in Pakistan and the East Bengal region ended on 14 August 1947, while British rule in the rest of what had been British India ended on 15 August 1947, however the boundaries came into effect on the 18th of that month as two countries. 
Jammu and Kashmir, like the other princely states, had not been under direct British rule. India and Pakistan have gone to war over this area, and it is now divided between them.

</doc>
<doc id="29272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29272" title="Lever">
Lever

A lever is a simple machine. It is something that can be used in a lot of ways. One way is by measuring things, or by seeing which weighs more. A lever is supported by a fulcrum which it uses to lifts weights. It is one of six simple machines. There are three types of levers: first-class, second-class and third-class.
The earliest remaining writings about levers are from the 3rd century BC. They were written by Archimedes. ""Give me a place to stand, and I shall move the earth."" is a famous quote from Archimedes who stated the correct mathematical principle of levers (quoted by Pappus of Alexandria).
There are three kinds of levers. The difference between them is where the is and where the forces are.
A first-class lever is a lever where the fulcrum is in between the effort and resistance (the load). Seesaws and crowbars are examples of first class levers.
A second-class lever is where the resistance is between the effort and the fulcrum. Wheel barrows and wrenches are examples of second class levers.
A third class lever is where the effort is between the resistance and the fulcrum. Staplers and your forearm are examples of third class levers.

</doc>
<doc id="29273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29273" title="Pulley">
Pulley

A pulley is a simple machine that is used to lift heavy objects. It is sometimes called a block and tackle. Pulleys are usually used in sets designed to make the amount of force needed to lift something smaller.
Pulleys are useful in construction sites.

</doc>
<doc id="29274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29274" title="Józef Piłsudski">
Józef Piłsudski

Józef Klemens Piłsudski (December 5, 1867 – May 12, 1935) was an important leader of Poland.
From 1795 to 1918, Poland was not an independent country. It was divided into three parts between Russia, Prussia (Germany) and Austria-Hungary. Piłsudski was born in the Russian part. The government tried to make Poles become Russian but Piłsudski was born in family of patriots. In 1887 he got into trouble, because he helped people who tried to kill the Tsar. He was sent to Siberia. When he came back from there he got more and more involved in politics.
Later Piłsudski became a soldier and wanted to make Poland independent again. At the beginning of World War I, most people, who agreed with Pilsudski, helped Austria-Hungary, because they preferred it to Russia. When they stopped helping Austria-Hungary and Germany, Piłsudski was arrested. When the War was over, he was freed. He came to Warsaw in November 1918 and helped to organize Poland. Then, for a short time, he became its leader (not president). Gabriel Narutowicz became Poland's first president, but he was shot by his enemy a few days later and Stanisław Wojciechowski became the next president. Poland's situation was not good and the politicians argued a lot. Many people, especially the soldiers, wanted Piłsudski back, so he told Wojciechowski to resign. When Wojciechowski said no, Piłsudki took over with the help of the Army. Parliament elected Ignacy Mościcki to be the new president, but he had to do what Piłsudski wanted him to do. Together, they changed the Polish constitution and made a lot of other changes.
Joseph Piłsudski, was born in 5 December 1867 in Zułowo in Lithuania, into a patriotic family. His father, Joseph Wincenty (1833-1902), had fought in the January 1863 Uprising against the Russian rule of Poland-Lithuania. His mother - Maria (1842-1884) - came from a famous family. He had a daughter, Jadwiga Piłsudska (1920-2014).

</doc>
<doc id="29276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29276" title="1526">
1526


</doc>
<doc id="29277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29277" title="Isaiah Berlin">
Isaiah Berlin

Sir Isaiah Berlin OM, FBA (6 June 1909 – 5 November 1997) was a Russian and British philosopher. He was born in Riga, Latvia, which at the time was a part of the Russian Empire. He was Jewish, and was the first Jew to win the prize of a fellowship at All Souls College, Oxford University. 
Isaiah Berlin was an important person of the 20th century. People see him as an important thinker of Liberalist ideas. He was made a member of the Order of Merit and was a professor at the University of Oxford. He made a distinction between positive liberty and negative liberty. His most famous work is probably "Two Concepts of Liberty" (where he introduced this distinction.) He died 5 November 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="29278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29278" title="Guru Granth Sahib">
Guru Granth Sahib

The Guru Granth Sahib , also called Adi Granth, is the holy book of the religion Sikhism. It contains prayers, hymns and songs of Sikh religion. Sikhs believe the Guru Granth Sahib to be a living Guru, hence the Guru Granth Sahib has its own place to sleep also commonly known as 'Sach Khand' (the pure Heaven).
The name of the book is made up of three words. The first word is Guru, and a Guru in Sanskrit language means a teacher. Granth is a word of Hindi, and this means a book. The third word Sahib is a word of Urdu language and it means master. Thus, the Guru Granth Sahib means "a Master Book by the Teacher". The Guru Granth Sahib, is a collection of hymns of the first five "Sikh Gurus", the "Ninth Guru", and various saints, or "bhagats" Sikhs and others such as Baba Farid.
The book is usually placed at the end of the temple, high up under a canopy. 

</doc>
<doc id="29280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29280" title="Zeno of Elea">
Zeno of Elea

Zeno of Elea was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher of southern Italy. He was born about 490 BC and died about 430 BC: the exact dates are not known.
Zeno a member of the Eleatic School founded by Parmenides. Aristotle called him the inventor of dialectic. He is best known for his paradoxes, which Bertrand Russell has described as "immeasurably subtle and profound".
Although many ancient writers refer to the writings of Zeno, none of his writings survive intact.
Plato says that Zeno's writings were "brought to Athens for the first time on the occasion of" the visit of Zeno and Parmenides 
According to Proclus in his "Commentary on Plato's Parmenides", Zeno produced "not less than forty arguments revealing contradictions", but only nine are now known.
Zeno's arguments are perhaps the first examples of a method of proof called "reductio ad absurdum", literally meaning "to reduce to the absurd". This destructive method of argument was used by him to such an extent that he became famous for it.

</doc>
<doc id="29281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29281" title="Zeno of Citium">
Zeno of Citium

Zeno of Citium (sometimes called Zeno Apathea) (333 BC264 BC) was a philosopher. He was the student of Carates of Thebes, who was the most famous cynic at that time. He started the Stoic school of philosophy.

</doc>
<doc id="29282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29282" title="Iron Curtain">
Iron Curtain

The Iron Curtain is a term related to the Cold War. It means the border between the states that were members of the Warsaw Pact (in Eastern Europe), and those that were not (then called "The West").
This border was between East Germany and West Germany, between Czechoslovakia and Austria, and between Hungary and Austria. 
At the end of World War II Austria, Germany and Berlin were divided into four zones. In 1955, a treaty was signed. The treaty said that the Allied forces must leave Austria. In return, the Austrian government promised to do certain things, like not form a territorial union with Germany, recognise certain minorities, amongst others. The whole of Europe was separated into a Soviet Union zone in the East and a US-dominated zone in the West. The splitting of Europe, Germany and especially Berlin into two political blocks was part of the Cold War between the United States of America and other western countries on one side and the Soviet Union and its allies on the other. The wartime Allied Forces split after their common enemy, Nazi Germany, (which was led by the dictator Adolf Hitler) was defeated in May 1945.
The idea of the Iron Curtain was referring to the separation of the communist Europe compared to the democratic west, it was the idea that what was happening the "satellite states" and in Russia was secret to the rest of the world. Satellite state refers to a country being controlled by another, in this case Russia was controlling countries such as Hungary, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and others which were previously controlled by Germany in WW2.
The idea of the Iron Curtain was first made public by Winston Churchill, a famous Prime Minister of the United Kingdom during WW2, invited to speak at American University by Harry S. Truman (the American president at the time). Churchill's speech was seen by Nikita Khrushchev; leader of the USSR from 1958 till 1964 as a declaration of war, as Churchill urged a struggle against the Soviet Union.

</doc>
<doc id="29286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29286" title="Indus Valley civilization">
Indus Valley civilization

The Indus Valley civilization was an ancient civilization in the Indian subcontinent. It was discovered by archaeologists in the 1920s.
It developed along the Indus River and the Ghaggar-Hakra River, in the area of modern Pakistan and north-west India and Afghanistan. It started during the Bronze Age. The height of its development was between 2600 and 1900 BC. Including the civilizations directly before and directly afterward, it may have lasted from the 33rd to the 14th century BC.
The Indus Valley civilization covered a large area - from Balochistan (Pakistan) to Gujarat (Republic of India). The first city to be discovered by excavation (digging up) was Harappa and therefore this civilization is also known as 'Harappan Civilization'. 
The bathrooms were attached to the rooms of the Harappa people. They were good builders. The ruins of the sight show that the harappa civilization people were skillful designers. Their buildings had two or sometimes more stories. One of the unique features of the city was its elaborate drainage system. A brick-lined drainage channel flowed along side every street. Removable bricks were placed at regular intervals for easy cleaning and inspection. 
The harappans played dice games. The harappan traders used seals on the knots of the sacks to be transported to make sure that they were not opened during the journey. Nobody knows how to read their writing.
In 1842 Charles Masson wrote a book that mentioned the sites of Indus Valley Civilisation. Few people paid attention. Later, in 1921-22, John Marshall organised the first archaeological dig at Harappa. His work was continued by Mortimer Wheeler after the Second World War. 

</doc>
<doc id="29287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29287" title="Sumer">
Sumer

Sumer was an ancient civilization in the southern part of Mesopotamia (modern day southeastern Iraq) that started around 3500 BC. It was one of the first civilizations in the world. The Sumerian civilization grew along the Tigris and Euphrates. This land was good for growing food. Sumerian culture is famous for its written cuneiform script - where letters were formed by pressing a triangle shaped reed into wet-clay tiles. They are also credited with creating the wheel, and dividing a day into 24 hours, and each hour into 60 minutes.
Sumerian communities were organized into city states, each ruled by a priest or king. One of the most famous Sumerian cities was Ur.
The Sumerians lost their identity with their language around 2000 BC, because a large group of different people, the Amorites, moved into their region.
The Sumerians made their clothing by using the natural resources that were available to them. Clothing was made from wool or flax which Sumerians could raise and harvest. How thick or how coarse the clothing was meant the season in which the clothes would be worn. Like us, heavier clothing would be worn in the winter and lighter clothing would be worn in the summer.
Men were barechested and wore skirt-like clothes that tied at the waist. Women usually wore dresses that covered them from their shoulders to their ankles. The right arm and shoulder were left uncovered. Men were either clean shaven or had long hair and beards. Women wore their hair long, but they usually braided it and wrapped it around their heads. When entertaining guests, women placed headdresses in their hair.
Although both rich and poor Sumerians wore the same style of clothing, the richer Sumerians wore clothing that was made out of expensive and luxurious materials. Rich women and princesses also wore clothing that was colorful and bright.
Both men and women wore earrings and necklaces. During celebrations, even more jewelry was worn. The wealthier Sumerians often wore beautiful gold and silver bracelets and earrings. Sumerians also wore necklaces with bright, precious stones. Some of these stones were lapis lazuli and carnelian.

</doc>
<doc id="29291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29291" title="Cingular Wireless">
Cingular Wireless

Cingular Wireless was a mobile phone company from United States. Cingular is now owned by AT&T. AT&T Mobility LLC (usually called AT&T) is fully owned by AT&T and provides wireless service to more than 120 million users in the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. AT&T Mobility is the second largest mobile phone company in the United States behind Verizon Wireless, which has more than 130 million users.

</doc>
<doc id="29298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29298" title="Zeno">
Zeno

Zeno may mean:
People:
Other uses:

</doc>
<doc id="29299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29299" title="Diogenes">
Diogenes

Diogenes (Διογένης) is a Greek name. It can refer to different people:

</doc>
<doc id="29311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29311" title="Mystery Science Theater 3000">
Mystery Science Theater 3000

Mystery Science Theater 3000 (MST3K) was a comedy television series. It was made in the U.S. state of Minnesota from 1988 to 1999. The series was at first made for a local station in Minnesota. It was later moved to Comedy Central, and then The Sci-Fi Channel. The series was about a man (originally Joel Robinson, played by Joel Hodgson, the show's creator, and later Mike Nelson, played by Michael J. Nelson, the show's head writer), who is put in a spaceship by an evil scientist. He was forced to watch some of the worst movies ever made. Joel makes some robots to keep him company. Two of the robots, named Crow T. Robot (played by Trace Beaulieu and, later Bill Corbett) and Tom Servo (played by Josh Weinstein and later Kevin Murphy), watch the movies with him. While the movie is shown, the three make jokes and comments about the movie they watch.

</doc>
<doc id="29321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29321" title="Blaze Starr">
Blaze Starr

Blaze Starr (born Fannie Belle Fleming; 10 April 1932 – 15 June 2015) was an American stripper and burlesque star. In the 1950s, Blaze Starr, a stripper from West Virginia became well known in the United States. Besides her burlesque dancing, her affair with Governor Earl Long of the state of Louisiana got her more popularity.
Starr was born in rural Wayne County, West Virginia. He lived in Washington, D.C. and in Baltimore, Maryland during her youth.
When Blaze Starr first met Governor Long in 1958, her first feeling was fear. She was afraid she was going to jail when the Governor of Louisiana walked in with the police during a dance. When the Governor and the police gave Blaze a standing ovation, she was dumbfounded. Blaze had never known a politician who went to a show bar for any reason other than to cause the dancers trouble. After her show, the Governor asked for her to come to his table. They became friends. 
Their relationship quickly grew into a love affair. Soon coworkers, reporters, and voters all knew of the affair. Mrs. Blanche Long, the Governor's wife told hospital people that Earl was crazy and had him put away. She thought this would make Earl to end the affair with Blaze. The affair continued until the day Earl died in 1960. 
Her life was exciting and full of adventures. In the 1950s, stripping was more of an art form. It was not just women taking off their clothes to get men into bed. Blaze was close to her family. Blaze met her perfect match when she met Earl. He accepted her life style and she accepted his. They fulfilled each other's needs for companionship, compassion, and love.
Starr died on June 15, 2015 at her home in Wilsondale, West Virginia. She was 83 years old. She had been worried about the health of her dog, whom she adopted as a stray. Her sister, Cathy Fleming, believed this stress, along with a "severe heart condition", killed her. Her dog died hours later.

</doc>
<doc id="29330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29330" title="Zip drive">
Zip drive

The Zip drive is a data storage device. The company Iomega published it in late 1994.
Originally it only supported 100 MB disks, but later versions began to support 250 MB and 750 MB disks. Now capacities have reached 1GB and 2GB disks.
Higher capacity Zip disks must be used in a drive with at least the same capacity ability. Generally, higher capacity drives also handle all lower capacity media. However, it is slower to write data on a 100 MB disk with a 250 MB Zip drive than with a 100 MB Zip drive.
Zip drives can transmit data to the computer in various ways. Internal drives have been made with IDE and SCSI interfaces. External drives can use SCSI, parallel port or USB interface.
Zip disks are thicker than 3.5" (9 cm) floppy disks. Nevertheless, zip disks are quite similar in appearance to regular floppy disks. This means the Zip drive slot is large enough to accept such a floppy disk.

</doc>
<doc id="29335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29335" title="Cosmetics">
Cosmetics

Cosmetics (also called makeup, make up, or make-up) are products used to make the human body look different. Often cosmetics are used to make someone more attractive to one person, or to a culture or sub-culture. In Western culture, women are the main users of cosmetics. Their use by men is less frequent, except on stage, television and film. Cosmetics are widely used in the world of acting.
All cosmetics are temporary. They need to be renewed after a certain time. Cosmetics include lipstick, powders (e.g. blush, eyeshadow), and lotions as well as other things.
Most cosmetic products and methods are intended to improve the look of the face. There are two categories: those which improve the basic quality of the skin, and those which sit on the skin during active social life. 
The purpose here is to clean the skin, improve its basic quality, and prepare it for the application of make-up. Products are of these types:
These are the cosmetics which the viewer actually sees on the face (or other parts of the body). They are some or all of these:
The word "cosmetics" comes from the Greek κοσμητικός ("kosmētikos"), "skilled in ordering or arranging".
Archaeological confirms use of cosmetics in ancient Egypt and Greece. Cosmetics used included:
The Ancient Greeks also used cosmetics. Cosmetics are mentioned also in the Old Testament.

</doc>
<doc id="29336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29336" title="Napoleonic Wars">
Napoleonic Wars

The Napoleonic Wars were wars which were fought during the rule of Napoleon Bonaparte over France. They started after the French Revolution ended and Napoleon Bonaparte became powerful in France in November 1799. War began between the United Kingdom and France in 1803. This happened when the Treaty of Amiens ended in 1802. 
These wars changed European armies and artillery. They also changed military systems. They were very big and destructive, mainly because of conscription. The French became powerful very fast, and conquered most of Europe. The French then lost quickly. They invaded Russia, which failed. The Napoleonic Wars ended on 20 November 1815. This was just after the Battle of Waterloo, a big battle that Napoleon lost, and the Second Treaty of Paris in 1815. Napoleon's empire lost the wars. The Bourbon Dynasty ruled France again.
Some people call all the time between April 20 1792 and November 20 1815 "the Great French War".
On one side was the First Empire of France, Kingdom of Italy, and others. On the other side was Great Britain, Prussia, Austria, Russia, Sweden, Portugal, Spain, Sicily, and others.
On 18 May 1804, Napoleon Bonaparte was crowned Emperor of the French at Notre-Dame. The following year, the Third Coalition started. In response, Napoleon crowned himself King of Italy. The Austrian Emperor, Franz I, was thrown into a rage and declared war on Napoleon, beginning the War of the Third Coalition. Although the British destroyed the French navy at the Battle of Trafalgar, in December, the Austrians and the Russians allied and met with the French at the Battle of Austerlitz. The Russo-Austrian army suffered a devastating defeat and had to sign a treaty with Napoleon.
In 1806, the War of the Fourth Coalition started. The Kingdom of Prussia declared war on France first but was crushed by Napoleon's troops at the Battle of Jena. Napoleon captured Berlin before the Russians could help. In 1807, Napoleon defeated the Russian army at the Battle of Ferdinand, ending the Fourth Coalition.
In 1809, the War of the Fifth Coalition began when Austria declared war on Napoleon. In the early phases of the war, the Austrians had advantage of the war, but later the French captured Vienna, ending the Fifth Coalition. At the height of his power in 1810, Napoleon had controlled France, Spain, northern Italy, Germany, all the way to Russia. In 1808, the Peninsular War began when Napoleon crowned his brother Joseph Bonaparte as King of Spain and fought British, Spanish, and Portuguese troops. In 1809, the Finnish War began between Russia and Sweden when Sweden and Portugal did not make peace with France. This led to the annexation of Finland by Russia and decisive failure for Sweden. In 1811, France and Russia made disagreements again and Napoleon allied with Prussia and Austria and invaded Russia. However, the French decided to kill everyone.
Napoleon staged a French invasion of Russia in 1812 just as the United States and Britain started the War of 1812. It was in Russia that Napoleon was first checked in his conquest of Europe, at the huge Battle of Borodino. However, the Russians had to retreat and abandon the capital, Moscow, to the advancing French troops. Napoleon found Moscow empty and burning, because the Russian general Kutuzov had taken all the inhabitants out of Moscow. Then, Napoleon's weakened "Grande Armee" had to retreat to Paris through the Russian freezing winter, but was finally defeated by the Russians. Prussia and Austria later declared war after Napoleon's failure, beginning the War of the Sixth Coalition. In the latter 19th century, Leo Tolstoy's novel War and Peace and Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky's music piece 1812 Overture depicted the Patriotic war and celebrated the resistance and liberation of Russia.
The English, Spanish, and Portuguese had pushed Napoleon's forces out of Spain following the Battle of Viotoria. The Allies (consisting of Great Britain, Russia, Prussia, and Austria) defeated Napoleon at the Battle of Leipzig
and captured Paris in 1814. The brother of the formerly-executed Louis XVI and self-proclaimed French king, Louis XVIII, was sent by the Prussian forces to Paris and crowned Bourbon king. Napoleon was forced to abdicate.
Napoleon was later exiled to Elba and was nearly assassinated. But then he and 200 other men escaped back to Paris and forced Louis XVIII off the throne, beginning Hundred Days. The former Coalition members formed the Seventh Coalition and the Duke of Wellington of Great Britain defeated Napoleon again at the Battle of Waterloo in 1815. Louis XVIII was returned to the throne again, and the Second Restoration began.

</doc>
<doc id="29338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29338" title="Etruscan mythology">
Etruscan mythology

The Etruscans were people in Central Italy who became part of Rome. Many of the Gods below became part of the Roman pantheon.
Very little Etruscan writing has survived: Only two short, incomplete texts, and some grave inscriptions (writing on stone). No-one can read or write the Etruscan language very well now. Roman people wrote about the Etruscans but what they wrote is now lost.
The main three gods were Tinia, Uni and Menrva.

</doc>
<doc id="29340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29340" title="Cantata">
Cantata

A cantata is a type of singing which is done accompanied by an instrument(s). By contrast, a cappella specifically refers to unaccompanied singing. The word(cantata) etymologically comes from the Italian word “cantare” which meant “to sing”. The word “cantata” was used mainly in the 17th and 18th century to describe music with religious words that were sung by a choir or by soloists or both, accompanied by instruments. The most famous cantatas are those by Johann Sebastian Bach. Nearly all his cantatas are sacred(written for church services). Very often he used Lutheran hymn tunes (chorales) for the first and last movements. In between there are movements for solo singers: recitatives and arias. A famous example is Bach's cantata no 80 which is based on the chorale “Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott(“A safe stronghold our God is still”). The whole work is about being safe in the hands of God. This is what the sermon would have been about. The congregation would join in singing the chorale towards the end of the cantata.
Other composers, such as Alessandro Scarlatti (1660-1725) wrote cantatas which were secular(not religious). The word “cantata” has also been used in the 20th century by composers such as Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971) and Benjamin Britten (1913-1976).
Thus the term came to apply to any and all forms of accompanied songs.

</doc>
<doc id="29342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29342" title="Clavichord">
Clavichord

A clavichord is a musical instrument like a small keyboard. It was very popular for many years, especially in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries.
To play a note on the clavichord a key is pressed down. This makes the other end of the key (inside the instrument) comes up (like a see-saw). That end has a thin metal blade called a "tangent" which hits the string. The tangent stays on the string until the player takes his finger off the key.
On some clavichords many of the strings share more than one note. For example: a C and C sharp might share the same string. The tangent of the C sharp will be slightly nearer the bridge than that of the C. This is the part of the string that vibrates. So C and C sharp could not be played together. Clavichords like these were called “fretted”. If each string had its own note it was called “unfretted”. A fretted clavichord was smaller and cheaper to make as fewer strings were needed.
On a piano, once a note has been played, the sound cannot be changed any more. All the player can do is hold it down and allow the note to fade in sound. On a clavichord, the player can shake the key up and down and this will make the tangent push the string up and down a little, making it tighter or looser. This was called “Bebung” in German. It is like vibrato on a string instrument.
The clavichord is a very quiet instrument. It was not suitable for playing with other instruments because it was so quiet. But it sounds very beautiful in slow, expressive music. It was used as a practice instrument by harpsichord players, or by organists who wanted to practise at home instead of in a (often very cold) church. They were so small that they could be lifted up and put on a table. They could be put one on top of another so that an organist could practise music written for a two-manual organ. Sometimes they even had pedals for organists to practise this skill.
Many German composers like Johann Sebastian Bach wrote music for the “Clavier”. This meant any keyboard instrument: harpsichord, clavichord or organ. The player could choose which they wanted to use.
When the piano suddenly became popular – in the 1760s and 1770s – people started to forget about harpsichords and clavichords. Today a few people make harpsichords and clavichords again so that people can play Renaissance and Baroque music - the music from when the clavichord was popular.

</doc>
<doc id="29346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29346" title="Harmony">
Harmony

Harmony means playing several notes together to make “chords”. The word comes from the Greek "harmonia" meaning "to join things up" . A tune by itself can sound nice, but it can be “harmonized” by adding an accompaniment of chords. Studying how to do this is called harmonization. Music students learn which chords sound nice after one another. These are called “chord progressions”. Many music theorists have written books about harmony.
Music which is made of a tune with harmony underneath is called “homophonic”. In a way it is the opposite of polyphonic which means that each part (each voice) is a tune in itself. However, even polyphony needs to make pleasant harmony. Harmony as we know it in European music had become fully developed by the Baroque period (17th century).
One can play a chord with three notes using the 1st, 3rd and 5th notes of the scale of the whatever key the music is in. This gives a chord which sounds like the “home chord”. This means that at least three notes are needed for harmony. In most homophonic music there are four: for example a choir will normally divide into soprano, alto, tenor and bass, or a string quartet will divide into violin 1, violin 2, viola and cello.
Harmony which uses just the notes of the key (e.g. just using white notes for C major) is called “tonal harmony”.
Harmony which adds lots of extra sharps and flats is called “chromatic harmony”.
If music is not in any key at all, like in some music by Arnold Schoenberg, it is “atonal”. Harmony can be atonal.

</doc>
<doc id="29347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29347" title="Bow (weapon)">
Bow (weapon)

A bow is a weapon used to shoot arrows. It is used in hunting, sport, and a long time ago, war.
The use of a bow is called archery. A person who uses a bow is an archer, someone who makes arrows is a fletcher and a person who makes bows is a bowyer.
A bow is made up of a long curved stick and a string which is tied to both ends. Ancient bows were made of natural materials like wood or bone and sinew, but today they are often made of plastic and similar materials.
To shoot a bow, the arrow is put on the bow, with one end to the string, which is pulled back. When the string is let loose, it throws the arrow forwards.
There are many different types of bows, for example the longbow or the automatic crossbow
and the compound bow

</doc>
<doc id="29348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29348" title="Nuclear physics">
Nuclear physics

Nuclear physics is the part of physics that studies the nucleus of the atom. Everything on the earth is made up of atoms; they are the smallest part of a chemical element that still has the properties of that specific element. When two or more atoms combine they create what we know as the molecule, which is the smallest part of a chemical compound which still has the properties of that specific compound. Understanding the structure of atoms is key in studies such as physics, chemistry, biology, etc. 
Atoms are made up of electrons, neutrons, and protons. The protons and neutrons are in the center of the atom, which is called the nucleus. The protons and neutrons are the heaviest part of the atom and make up most of its mass. The electrons move around the nucleus very quickly, making what is called an electron cloud. The electron cloud has a very small mass, but it makes up most of the space of the atom. The electrons have a negative charge, and the protons have a positive charge. Due to the charges in the atom, that is how the atom stays together, by attraction of the electric charges present in the atom.
Atoms have different features that single out one atom from another, and show how each atom can change in different conditions. These properties include atomic number, mass number, atomic mass and weight, and isotopes.
In an atom there are three fundamental forces that keep atoms together. electromagnetic force, strong force, and weak force. The electromagnetic force keeps the electrons attached to the atom. The strong force keeps the protons and neutrons together in the atom. The weak force controls how the atom decays. 
In the early 20th century, scientists had trouble explaining the behavior of atoms using their current knowledge of matter. So to deal with this they made a brand new way to view matter and energy, and they called it quantum theory. Quantum theory explains how matter acts both as a particle and a wave.
Atoms emit radiation when their electrons lose energy and drop down to lower orbitals. The difference in energy between the orbitals determines the wavelength of the given radiation. This radiation can be shown by visible light or shorter wavelengths.

</doc>
<doc id="29349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29349" title="Seljuk Empire">
Seljuk Empire

The Seljuk Empire was an empire of the Seljuk Turks, a Muslim dynasty, that ruled parts of Central Asia and the Middle East from the 11th to the 14th centuries. It was founded by Tughril Beg (1016–63) in 1037. The Seljuk Empire stretched from Anatolia to Pakistan. It was replaced by the Khwarezmian Empire in 1194.

</doc>
<doc id="29350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29350" title="Central Asia">
Central Asia

Central Asia is a region in Asia. The countries in Central Asia are Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. The United Nations also includes Afghanistan as part of Central Asia.
People have lived in the region of Central Asia since prehistoric times. Most of the region was part of the Silk Road. It was a part of the Persian Empire until Alexander The Great captured it. When he died, the land was given to his general Seleucus. Seleucus slowly lost it to the Parthians. When the Parthians (the Parthians were Persians) lost power, the Sassanids added it to their own Persian empire. However, a couple years later, during about the 600's A.D, Arab armies spreading the faith of Islam quickly captured it. A while later, an Iranian dynasty got semi- autonomy under the Abbasid Caliphate of Baghdad. They were known as the Samanids. The Samanids controlled most of Central Asia and Northwestern Iran. They had power over this area during the 10th century. With them, Central Asian cities, such as Bukhara and Samarkand, grew in culture. 
However, Turkish armies from this area took the region away from them. They were known as the Seljuk Turks. At the same time, Timur captured it. After his death, the Timurids ( the name of the people of the dynasty Timur founded) could not hold unto their empire. They lost it to the Mongols. When the Mongols captured it, burned it to the ground. A while later, some rulers decided to make their own empires under that of the Mongols. These empires were known as Khanates. During the 19th century the Russian Empire conquered these lands. Many years later, in 1991, all of the countries of Central Asia declared independence.
Uzbekistan has much cotton. Kazakhstan is rich because it has sold oil, gas and metals to Europe and China. Turkmenistan has adjusted better to independence from the Soviet Union than the other Central Asian countries, but it has been run by a dictatorship. Other than Kazakhstan, most of Central Asia are mostly underdeveloped. 

</doc>
<doc id="29351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29351" title="Turkestan">
Turkestan

Turkestan (Turkish: Türkistan, Kazakh: Түркістан, Uzbek: Turkiston, Turkmen: Türküstan, Persian: ترکستان‎, Chinese: 突厥斯坦, literally « Land of Turks ») is a region of Central Asia around Caspian Sea and Aral Sea.
The main ethnic groups is are Turks, Chineses, Mongols and Persians.

</doc>
<doc id="29352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29352" title="Mesoamerica">
Mesoamerica

Mesoamerica (literally, "central America") is a geographical region. It begins from around the Tropic of Cancer in central Mexico and ends near Costa Rica. The term is especially used to mean the native peoples and cultures that were there before the Spanish took over that region.

</doc>
<doc id="29353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29353" title="Cathode ray tube">
Cathode ray tube

The cathode ray tube or CRT was invented by Karl Ferdinand Braun. It was the most common type of display for many years. It was used in almost all computer monitors and televisions until LCD and plasma screens started being used.
A cathode ray tube is an electron gun. The cathode is an electrode (a metal that can send out electrons when heated). The cathode is inside a glass tube. Also inside the glass tube is an anode that attracts electrons. This is used to pull the electrons toward the front of the glass tube, so the electrons shoot out in one direction, like a ray gun. To better control the direction of the electrons, the air is taken out of the tube, making a vacuum.
The electrons hit the front of the tube, where a phosphor screen is. The electrons make the phosphor light up. The electrons can be aimed by creating a magnetic field. By carefully controlling which bits of phosphor light up, a bright picture can be made on the front of the vacuum tube. Changing this picture 30 times every second will make it look like the picture is moving. Because there is a vacuum inside the tube (which has to be strong enough to hold out the air), and the tube must be glass for the phosphor to be visible, the tube must be made of thick glass. For a large television, this vacuum tube can be quite heavy.
The cathode ray tube was invented in 1897, and used as an oscilloscope (a machine to show waves). Later, along with other inventions and improvements, it was used for the first modern electronic television by Philo T. Farnsworth in the 1920s. The CRT was the main type of television screen until the liquid crystal display became popular in the early 2000s.

</doc>
<doc id="29354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29354" title="Recitative">
Recitative

Recitative (Italian: “recitativo”) is music which is telling a story quite quickly, as if it were being spoken, "talky". The word means: “to recite” i.e. to tell a story.
Recitative is used in opera, oratorio and cantatas. When opera was invented around 1600 the composers needed to tell the story in music. In recitative the story is sung quickly, with maybe just a harpsichord playing a few chords. After a while, the situation in the story has changed, and the singer can sing an aria which is more interesting musically.
When recitative is just accompanied by a keyboard instrument it is called “recitativo secco” (dry recitative). Sometimes the orchestra joins this. This is called “recitativo accompagnato” (accompanied recitative). There are no bar lines in recitative because there is no regular beat.
Recitative is simple musically, it can sometimes describe the words being sung in quite interesting or amusing ways. Sometimes this might be improvised by the harpsichordist.
In the 19th century the difference between aria and recitative gradually disappeared. Wagner wrote operas where everything had musical interest and the various sections flowed into one another.

</doc>
<doc id="29358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29358" title="Ancient India">
Ancient India

Gautam
Ancient India had a long-lived civilization and culture. It covered several countries including modern-day India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.
The Indus Valley Civilization flourished from about 2600 BCE to 1900 BCE. It marked the beginning of the urban civilization on the subcontinent. It was centred on the Indus River and its tributaries. The civilization is famous for its cities that were built of brick, had a road-side drainage system and multi-storied houses.
During the Maurya Empire, founded in 321 BCE, most of the Indian subcontinent was united under a single government for the first time. Ashoka the Great who in the beginning sought to expand his kingdom, then followed a policy of ahimsa (non-violence) after converting to Buddhism. The Edicts of Ashoka are the oldest preserved historical documents of India, and under Ashoka Buddhist ideals spread across the whole of East Asia and South-East Asia.
Gupta, an important ruler during the Gupta period, was known as a wise and noble person.

</doc>
<doc id="29359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29359" title="Partition of India">
Partition of India

The Partition of India split British India into the countries of India and Pakistan in 1947. This partition was part of the end of British rule over the Indian subcontinent, called British Raj. The partition was caused in part by the Two-nation theory presented by Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, due to religion issues. Pakistan became a Muslim country, and India became a mainly Hindu country. The main spokesperson for the partition was a Muslim called Muhammad Ali Jinnah. He became the first Governor-General of Pakistan. 
Huge numbers of people moved across the border between the two newly formed states. The population of undivided India in 1947 was about 390 million. After partition, there were 330 million people in India, 30 million in West Pakistan, and 30 million people in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).
Once the lines were established, about 14.5 million people crossed the borders to what they hoped was the safety of their religious majority. The 1951 Census of Pakistan showed the number of displaced persons in Pakistan at 7,226,600. They were presumably Muslims who had entered Pakistan from India. Similarly, the 1951 Census of India showed 7,295,870 displaced persons, apparently all Hindus and Sikhs who had moved to India from Pakistan. The two numbers add up to 14.5 million. 
The newly formed governments were unable to deal with migrations of such huge numbers of migrants. Massive violence and slaughter occurred on both sides of the border. Estimates of the number of deaths vary, with low estimates at 200,000 and high estimates at 2,000,000.

</doc>
<doc id="29360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29360" title="World Heritage Site">
World Heritage Site

World Heritage Sites are places in the world which are very important from the cultural or natural point of view. These places are selected by UNESCO, a part of the United Nations.
The World Heritage Convention ("Convention Concerning the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage") is a United Nations treaty. It governs the selection and protection of these sites. The nations that have agreed to the treaty elect 21 nations to the UNESCO World Heritage Committee. That committee sets the site list.
The sites are places (such as a forest, mountain, lake, desert, monument, building, complex, or city). , 1007 sites in 161 different countries are listed. There are 779 cultural sites, 197 natural sites, and 31 mixed properties. Italy has 50 sites on the list, which is the most for any country. 
Each World Heritage Site remains part of the legal territory of the nation where the site is located. UNESCO wants everyone in the world to work to protect each site. Sometimes UNESCO provides funds to help protect a site. Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant have destroyed some sites.
Until the end of 2004, there were six criteria for cultural heritage and four criteria for natural heritage. In 2005, this was modified so that there is only one set of ten criteria. Nominated sites must be of "outstanding universal value" and meet at least one of the ten criteria.
UNESCO designation as a World Heritage Site provides "prima facie" evidence that such culturally sensitive sites are legally protected pursuant to the Law of War, under the Geneva Convention, its articles, protocols and customs, together with other treaties including the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and international law.
Thus, the Geneva Convention treaty promulgates:
"Article 53. PROTECTION OF CULTURAL OBJECTS AND OF PLACES OF WORSHIP. Without prejudice to the provisions of the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict of 14 May 1954,' and of other relevant international instruments, it is prohibited:

</doc>
<doc id="29367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29367" title="Tail">
Tail

A tail is the section at the rear end of an animal's body. Most animals have tails, like cats, dogs, whales, fish, cheetahs, and monkeys. 

</doc>
<doc id="29368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29368" title="Ganesha">
Ganesha

Ganesha or (Ganesh) is the elephant-headed god in Hinduism. He is the son of Shiva and Parvati.
Ganesha is a very popular god of Hindus. Hindu tradition states that Ganesha is a god of wisdom, success and good luck. He is also giver of different types of favours. The Hindu tradition calls Ganesha as the Vighneshvara. "Vighneshvara" in Sanskrit language means one who is the lord of obstacles or difficulties. Thus, the Hindu tradition states that by worshiping Ganesha, one can remove all obstacle and difficulties.
There are not many temples (mandirs) of Ganesha, however in many Hindu temples there are statues and carvings. But, in most of the temples of Hindus, people worship Ganesha along with other gods and goddesses. Hindu Tradition gives Ganesha an important place. The tradition says that Hindus should worship their religious functions and ceremonies because he is the god of all obstacles. Generally, many Hindus also worship Ganesha before starting any new thing. Thus, for example, before occupying a new house, they may worship Ganesha. Likewise, before starting any new business, many Hindus may worship Ganesha for good luck.
There are two mythological stories about Ganesha.
A story says that Parvati had made a boy out of the dirt of her body, since she was cursed that she could not have a child again.The boy of dirt became alive. This boy was guarding the way while Parvati was taking a bath, as Parvati told the boy to guard the place and don't allow anyone to come in.Shiva wanted to meet his wife, Parvati. The boy did not allow him. Shiva became angry. He cut off the head of the boy. Then as Parvati came out and exclaimed that this was her son, and Shiva sent his men to look for a human head in the forest to replace Ganesha's. His men brought him a elephant head. Then, the head of an elephant was fixed to make the boy alive again. Therefore, Ganesha has a head of an elephant.
The other story is this. Parvati was very proud of her son Ganesha. She asked Shani (god of the planet Saturn) to look at her son. Shani looked at the face of Ganesha. Shani’s look burnt Ganesha’s face—he had the evil eye—and Ganesha became headless. Then Brahma (the creator god of Hindus) advised Parvati to fix Ganesha with the first head of anything she could find. Parvati found a head of an elephant. This head she fixed on the body of Ganesha. Thus, Ganesha got an elephant’s head.
Ganesha was having a race with his brother Kartikeya. The first one to go around the world would be the winner. Kartikeya raced off the next day, but Ganesha stayed and thought about how he could win. Eventually he sat on his mount, a rat, and went round his parents(who represent the whole world in Hindu scriptures) seven times. Thus, Ganesha was declared the winner due to his intelligence.
Any picture, image or portrayal in any form of Ganesha generally has the following characteristics or features:
He is often different in each picture, unlike most Hindu gods.
Ganesha has several other names. Some of his names are:

</doc>
<doc id="29382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29382" title="Indie (music)">
Indie (music)

Indie is a word that is short for independent. When people talk about indie in music, they mean music that is made by people independently from major record labels (mainly rock and roll groups and artists). Indie music could also be very experimental, meaning that people try out things like new or different sounds. The styles can range from rock music to house music to pop music.
Examples of what could be described as indie music include indie rock and indie pop.
The group of stereotypical teens who tend to listen to indie music are called indie kids.

</doc>
<doc id="29387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29387" title="Half-life">
Half-life

Half-life can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="29389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29389" title="C.D. Chivas USA">
C.D. Chivas USA

C.D. Chivas USA was an American football (soccer) team that played in Major League Soccer (MLS) in Carson, California. They began play in 2005, and played at the home of the Los Angeles Galaxy.
When the team was formed, it was planned to be a "little brother" to the very popular Mexican team C.D. Guadalajara. "Chivas", the Spanish word for "goats", is the nickname of C.D. Guadalajara. The team was originally owned by two Mexican businessmen, one of whom also owned C.D. Guadalajara. Due to falling attendance and ownership failures, MLS bought the team back in February 2014, with plans to sell it to new owners who would give the team a new name. In September of that year, the team was sold to a new group. As part of the sale, Chivas USA was folded at the end of the 2014 season. A new team, to be known as Los Angeles FC, will start play in 2017.

</doc>
<doc id="29396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29396" title="Cycle">
Cycle

Cycle might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29404" title="Abu Musab al-Zarqawi">
Abu Musab al-Zarqawi

Abu Musab al-Zarqawi (October 30, 1966 - June 7, 2006) was the leader of the Iraq branch of al-Qaeda, a terrorist group in the Middle East. He was born in Zarqa, Jordan. He was killed by a bomb that was fired by the USAF into the house he was in at the time in Hibhib, Iraq.

</doc>
<doc id="29433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29433" title="Salta Province">
Salta Province

Salta is a province in the north of Argentina. It has a population of 1,000,000.
It is famous for its wonderful natural views and the old architecture in the provincial capital, Salta City.

</doc>
<doc id="29437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29437" title="Fermat's primality test">
Fermat's primality test

Fermat's primality test is an algorithm. It can test if a given number "p" is probably prime. There is a flaw however: There are numbers that pass the test, and that are not prime. These numbers are called Carmichael numbers.
Fermat's little theorem states that if "p" is prime and formula_1, then 
If we want to test if "n" is prime, then we can pick random "a"'s in the interval and see if the equation above holds. If the equality does not hold for a value of "a", then "n" is composite (not prime). If the equality does hold for many values of "a", then we can say that "n" is probably prime, or a pseudoprime.
It may be in our tests that we do not pick any value for "a" such that the equality fails. Any "a" such that 
when "n" is composite is known as a "Fermat liar". If we do pick an "a" such that 
then "a" is known as a "Fermat witness" for the compositeness of "n".
"formula_5" is the modulo operation. Its result is what remains, if p is divided by n. As an example,
The RSA algorithm for public-key encryption can be done in such a way that it uses this test. This is useful in cryptography.

</doc>
<doc id="29438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29438" title="Hash function">
Hash function

The Hash function is a function. When a computer program is written, very often, large amounts of data need to be stored. These are normally stored in tables. In order to find the data again, some value is calculated. This is like when someone reads a book, and to remember, they put what they read into their own words. Hash values are much the same, except that care is taken that different sets of data do not get the same hash value (this is called a "hash collision").
Hash table

</doc>
<doc id="29460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29460" title="Trinity">
Trinity

In the Christian religion the Trinity is an idea, used to explain that three different "people" are called God in the Bible: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit (who is sometimes called the "Holy Ghost"). Trinity states that these three people all form the same God.
The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church describes the Trinity as "the central dogma of Christian theology".
Before the idea was made dogma, at the First Council of Nicaea, there were also other ideas on how to solve the problem. These included:
The English word "Trinity" comes from Latin "Trinitas", meaning "the number three". This abstract noun is formed from the adjective "trinus" (three each, threefold, triple), as the word "unitas" is the abstract noun formed from "unus" (one).
The corresponding word in Greek is "" ("Trias"), meaning "a set of three" or "the number three."
The first recorded use of this Greek word in Christian theology was by Theophilus of Antioch in about 170. He did not speak about the Trinity of god. He wrote: "In like manner also the three days which were before the luminaries, are types of the Trinity [], of God, and His Word, and His wisdom. And the fourth is the type of man, who needs light, that so there may be God, the Word, wisdom, man."
Tertullian, a Latin theologian who wrote in the early third century, was the first to use "Trinity" "person" and "substance" to explain that the Father, Son and Holy Spirit are "one in essence – not one in Person." 
About a century later, in 325, the First Council of Nicaea established the doctrine of the Trinity as orthodoxy and adopted the Nicene Creed that described Christ as "God of God, Light of Light, very God of very God, begotten, not made, being of one substance ("homoousios") with the Father."
Most Christians worship God in the form of the Trinity. In the Old Testament there are several places where there seems to be evidence for a Trinity. Genesis 1:26 states that God said "Let us make man in our image". Deuteronomy 6:4 states that “The Lord our God is one Lord”. The word that has been translated as "one" can also be translated as "united". 
The Trinity is also implied in the New Testament, though that term is not used. Jesus never explained it fully in his teaching to people, but made a number of claims to be God. The disciple John was one of Jesus' best friends on Earth, so understood Jesus better than many other people. He starts his gospel by saying "In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God." He calls Jesus 'the Word' because Jesus was how God told people about himself. In John 8:58, Jesus said "before Abraham was even born, I AM!" I AM is what God said his name was to Moses, meaning that he is always there anywhere in time or space. In John 10:30 and 10:38, he tells people "The Father and I are one." and "the Father is in me, and I am in the Father." Lastly, he forgave people for sins, which only God can do.
When Jesus came the early Christians had to make sense of the fact that God had come among them through the power of the Holy Spirit. Matthew wrote in his gospel: “Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit (Matthew 28:19). Several things in the gospel of John are often thought to point to a God who is more than just one being. The three persons of God are also mentioned in the second book of Corinthians.
It was several hundred years after the life of Jesus before many Christians accepted the idea that God was a Trinity. It was a difficult idea, because the Hebrew scriptures talk about God being One. The Greeks and the Romans could only understand Christ as a person who was bringing God’s Word. It was not until the 4th century that the three were recognised as being the three parts of one whole God. This was decided by the Council of Nicaea in 325. By the end of the century all Christians had come to believe in God as a Trinity.
In the 5th century Saint Patrick brought Christianity to Ireland. There is an old Irish legend which says that Patrick used the shamrock to explain the idea of the Trinity. The shamrock has three small leaves. Patrick told the people that the three leaves represented God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. He said that the whole plant represented God. 
In Christian churches the Sunday after Pentecost (the 50th day after Easter) is called the “Feast of the Holy Trinity”. This feast probably started in the 10th century. In 1334 Pope John XXII made it official for the whole church. In the Anglican and Lutheran Churches the weeks that follow The Feast of the Trinity are dated according to how many weeks after Trinity they are (e.g. the 20th Sunday after Trinity). In the Roman liturgy these Sundays are dated “after Pentecoste” (e.g. the 21st Sunday after Pentecoste).
Islam teaches that God is indivisible (can not be divided). For this reason, several verses of the Qur'an teach that the doctrine of Trinity is blasphemous (against God).

</doc>
<doc id="29467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29467" title="Mošovce">
Mošovce

"Mošovce" is one of the biggest villages in the Turiec Region of Slovakia.
Mošovce has existed for 770 years. In this time people built many old and beautiful buildings. King Andrew II wrote about the village for the first time in 1233.
At first, "Mošovce" had two parts: The first one, "Machyuch", was in the area of today’s "Starý Rad" Street. The village took its today's name from the second part, "Terra Moys", which was in the place of the present day "Vidrmoch" Street. Because of the name of the second part, which means "The Land of Mojš", we believe that all the village was the property of a certain Mr. "Mojš". His name could be a short form of a longer Slavic name "Mojtech", similar to the names "Vojtech" or "Mojmír". In the history the name of the village changed from "Mossovych", "Mosocz", "Mossowecz", "villa regia Mayos alio nomine Mossovych", "oppidioum Mayus sue Mosocz", "Mosocz olim Mayus" to the present-day "Mošovce".
The name of a separate very old part of "Mošovce", "Chornukov", chaged to the modern form of "Čerňakov".
Mošovce was at first a royal village, and in about 1350 changed into a privileged town, which belonged to the royal castle of Blatnica. In 1527 the Révay family became its owners, and they took away the town privileges of "Mošovce" for almost 400 years.
In the past, Mošovce was an important craft center of the Turiec region. Crafts were very successful, and there were around 15 guilds in the town; the bootmaker and the most famous furrier guild existed for the longest time. The present-day Mošovce is an important tourist area with many interesting places.
One of the most interesting buildings is a small Rococo-Classical Palace with a big English park. People built the palace in about 1750-1800 . Other places in the town are: The birthplace of Ján Kollár, a Neo-gothic Catholic church with a valuable altar built on the place of an older church, a Lutheran church built in 1784, a Mausoleum, an Art-Nouveau greenhouse and a pavilion from 1800. In the Mausoleum there is now a Museum of Crafts.
The nature around Mošovce is really beautiful. A system of old roads with trees and small forests create a nice landscape. This landscape looks nice with the forests of the Veľká Fatra Mountains. This mountain range is one of the nicest ones in Slovakia. People from all parts of the world come visit the beautiful Limestone and dolomite rocks, and the beautiful nature in the Blatnická and Gaderská Valleys, which are not far away.
Many important people were born in Mošovce. The greatest ones are Frico Kafenda (1883-1963), composer; Anna Lacková-Zora (1899-1988), writer; Štefan Krčméry (1892-1955), literary critic, historian, and poet; Júr Tesák Mošovský, Baroque playwright; and Miloslav Schmidt, the founder of the amateur fire brigades in Slovakia.
Probably the most important person born in Mošovce is the great Slavic poet, philosopher, and Lutheran priest, Ján Kollár (1793-1852), who was very active in the literature of at least two nations. He wrote a book of poems called Slávy Dcera. His work was very important for the patriots and national activists, who lived at the same time as Kollár. People translated the book into many Slavic and non-Slavic languages.

</doc>
<doc id="29488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29488" title="South Ossetia">
South Ossetia

South Ossetia (Ossetian: Хуссар Ирыстон, "Xussar Iryston"; Russian: Южная Осетия, "Yuzhnaya Osetiya"; Georgian: სამხრეთ ოსეთი, "Samkhret Oseti" ) is a "de facto" independent, disputed place in South Caucasus. It declared independence from Georgia in 1990.
South Ossetia was a Soviet oblast (region) with some self-rule and controlled big parts of the region. When it declared its independence in 1990, Georgia tried to take back the region by force and it led to the 1991-1992 South Ossetia War. Georgia tried to retake South Ossetia again in 2004 and in 2008. In 2008, Ossetia's fighters were backed by Russian troops and they gained full control of the region, but its separation from Georgia has only been recognized by three other countries (Russia, Nicaragua and Venezuela) and Abkhazia (a similar place), and it is de jure (officially) a part of the Georgian region (mkhare) of Shida Kartli. 
The rebels were supported by Russian and Cossack forces but, Georgia itself refuses to recognize rebel South Ossetia as an independent state; the government calls it by the medieval name of Samachablo or, more recently, Tskhinvali region (after the republic's capital). 

</doc>
<doc id="29493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29493" title="Soprano">
Soprano

A soprano is a female singer with a high voice. Young boys who sing, and also girls, are usually called trebles. The word “soprano” can also refer to the top line of choir music. This would be sung by sopranos or trebles. Soprano is also used as a name for high pitched instruments, such as a soprano saxophone.
In opera there are different kinds of soprano voices:

</doc>
<doc id="29495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29495" title="Alto">
Alto

The word alto can mean: someone who sings lower than a soprano. Usually females with lower voices are called contraltos. A male alto is a man who sings in a special way called falsetto. In England male altos sing in church and cathedral choirs. In some countries like Germany it is tradition to have boy altos in cathedral choirs. These will probably be boys whose voices will soon be breaking and are starting to get lower.
One of the most famous contraltos was Kathleen Ferrier. There are not so many female singers who call themselves contraltos these days. It has become more fashionable to be a mezzo-soprano. It is partly because it has become fashionable to use men for the alto parts in music by Bach and other Baroque composers, like it would have been performed in those days.
Operatic roles which need a contralto include Lucretia in Britten's "Rape of Lucretia" and Erda in Wagner's "Der Ring des Nibelungen.
The word "alto" can also mean: the second line down in 4 part choir music. In old music the alto line was written in a special clef called the “alto clef”, which is the same as the “viola clef” (a C clef in which the middle line is middle C).

</doc>
<doc id="29497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29497" title="Tenor">
Tenor

A tenor is a man with a high singing voice. In opera the role of the young male is usually sung by a tenor. Depending on characteristics such as: volume, color and style, the tenor voice is classified in following groups:
A “Heldentenor” (German for “hero tenor”) is someone with a big tenor voice. This is suitable for heroic parts like the heroes in most of Wagner's operas. Lauritz Melchior, Max Lorenz and Jonas Kaufmann are famous heroic tenors.
The Mozart tenor with characteristics including all of the previous mentioned must be able to perform within the strict borders which are laid out by the Mozart style. Anton Dermota, Fritz Wunderlich and Francisco Araiza are the three leading people as Mozart tenor.
When writing four-part choir music the tenor line will be the third line down, between alto and bass. It is usually written in the treble clef, but will sound an octave lower than written. Sometimes, it is written in the "C-clef", which is also called a tenor clef.
In barbershop singing, the tenor part is a harmony part sung predominantly higher than the melody.

</doc>
<doc id="29498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29498" title="Bass (music)">
Bass (music)

Bass is a low or deep tone (low end frequency) in music. Low or deep tones are also called "low-pitched" tones, because the pitch is low. It is usually made by a bass guitar or an acoustic bass (a double bass). It can also be a deep, rumbling electronic sound made by a synthesizer, a deep singing voice, a baritone sax, or a deep bass drum. Bass gives the well-rounded depth to music. Bass almost always is used with treble sounds made by instruments such as a guitar, piano, a high singing voice, trumpet, or harmonica.

</doc>
<doc id="29499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29499" title="Baritone">
Baritone

A baritone is a man with a voice range between that of a tenor (high male voice) and bass (low male voice).
Famous baritone roles in opera include: Papageno in Mozart's "The Magic Flute" and Figaro in Rossini's "The Barber of Seville".
Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau is often thought of as the greatest baritone of the later 20th century. He was famous as a Lieder singer as well as on the concert stage and in opera.

</doc>
<doc id="29521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29521" title="Sappho">
Sappho

Sappho was an Ancient Greek lyrical poet. She was probably born around 630 BC on the island of Lesbos. In the ancient world, Sappho's poetry was highly thought of. Today, most of it has been lost. Sappho probably wrote about 10,000 lines of poetry, but only around 650 lines survive today. Little is known for certain about Sappho's life.
Sappho's poetry centers on passion and love for both men and women. The narrators of her poems often speak of infatuations and love for various females. Descriptions of physical acts between women are few and open to debate. Whether these poems are meant to be autobiographical is not known, although elements of other parts of Sappho's life do make appearances in her work. It would be like her style to have these intimate encounters expressed poetically.
Little is known for certain about Sappho's life. What is known comes from three sources: Sappho's surviving poetry, other ancient writings about her, and evidence about archaic Greece in general. She was born on the Greek island of Lesbos around 630 BC, in either Eresos or Mytilene. Her parents' names are not known for certain, though her mother is often called Kleïs. Ancient tradition gave at least eight possible names for her father. One ancient story, which might be based on a now-lost poem by Sappho, says that her father died when Sappho was still a child. Sappho was said to have three brothers, called Charaxos, Larichos, and Eurygios. The "Brothers poem", discovered in 2014, talks about Charaxos and Larichos. 
Sappho might have had a daughter called Kleïs (the same as her mother). Two of Sappho's poems talk about her. Not all historians agree that the Kleïs in Sappho's poems was Sappho's daughter. Some have suggested that she was Sappho's lover instead. But ancient sources call Kleïs Sappho's daughter, and some modern historians have argued that she must have been Sappho's daughter, not her lover. Sappho's husband, the father of Kleïs, was said to be a rich trader named Kerkylas of Andros. If Sappho was married, however, this was definitely not her husband's name: it is a joke from a comedy about Sappho's life.
Sappho is best known for writing lyric poetry, a type of poetry which was sung and accompanied by the music of a lyre. Most of her poetry focusses on the lives of women. Much of this was love poetry, but she also wrote hymns, wedding songs, and poetry about her family. Some ancient sources say that Sappho wrote epigrams, elegiacs, and iambics (three other types of poetry with different metres to lyric poetry) as well as lyric poetry. However, none of these survive, and probably Sappho did not write in these styles. Three epigrams attributed to Sappho survive, but they were written much later, probably in the Hellenistic period.

</doc>
<doc id="29535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29535" title="Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix">
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the fifth book in the "Harry Potter" series by J.K. Rowling. The book was released July 21, 2003. It is about Harry's his fifth year at Hogwarts school of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Lord Voldemort has come back. Except for Albus Dumbledore, most people do not believe him. A movie based on the book was released in 2007.
The fifth book deals with Harry trying to make everyone else realise that Lord Voldemort has come back. Dumbledore, the Order, and Harry's friends are the only people that believe that he has returned. At the end of the book, Harry, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, and some of their friends go to the Ministry of Magic (the headquarters of the people who lead the magical world) because Harry thinks his godfather is in danger. It turns out it was a trick using mind magic, and his godfather (Sirius Black), is murdered by Bellatrix Lestrange. They are attacked by some of their enemies. At the end, Voldemort comes, but Dumbledore saves Harry from him, and all the other wizards see Voldemort and know Harry is telling the truth. Harry is then returned to Hogwarts where Dumbledore tells him everything that he needs to know about the prophecy and why Voldemort tried to murder him when he was a child.

</doc>
<doc id="29548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29548" title="Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed">
Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed

Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleased is the sequel to the movie "Scooby-Doo", released in 2004 by Warner Bros.

</doc>
<doc id="29553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29553" title="List of U.S. state songs">
List of U.S. state songs

48 states of the United States (except New Jersey and Virginia) have a state song, chosen by the state legislature as a symbol of the state. Some states have more than one official state song.

</doc>
<doc id="29557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29557" title="Pleiades">
Pleiades

The Pleiades (also known as M45 or the Seven Sisters) are a group of stars in the night sky. You can see them in the constellation Taurus, the bull. Charles Messier gave it the name M45. They are named after the Pleiades in Greek mythology.
This an open star cluster of middle-aged hot B-type stars in the constellation of Taurus. It is one of the nearest star clusters to Earth, and is the cluster most obvious to the naked eye in the night sky. The cluster is dominated by hot blue and extremely luminous stars that have formed within the last 100 million years. 

</doc>
<doc id="29559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29559" title="Nicomachus of Gerasa">
Nicomachus of Gerasa

Nicomachus (c. 60-c. 120, born in Gerasa, Roman Syria, now Jerash, Jordan). He was one of the most important mathematicians of the ancient world.
He was strongly influenced by Aristotle and is best known for his works "Introduction to Arithmetic" (Arithmetike eisagoge) and "The Manual of Harmonics" in Greek. He was a Pythagorean. In "Introduction to Arithmetic", Nicomachus writes extensively on number, especially on the significance of prime numbers and perfect numbers and argues that arithmetic is the starting point that makes it possible to do the other mathematical sciences: geometry, music, and astronomy.

</doc>
<doc id="29562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29562" title="Deimos (moon)">
Deimos (moon)

Deimos (or Mars II) comes from the Greek word for terror. It is the smaller moon of Mars. Phobos is the other moon of Mars, which is larger than Deimos.
Deimos is only 15 kilometers in diameter. It is covered with craters, as Earth's moon is.
It is named after the god Deimos in Greek mythology, who was one of Mars' sons, and means Panic.
The other moon, Phobos, is the larger of the two. its orbital period is 1.263 days

</doc>
<doc id="29563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29563" title="Phobos (moon)">
Phobos (moon)

Phobos (or Mars I) is one of Mars' moons. The other is Deimos.
Phobos is the larger of the two moons, and is only 27 kilometers in diameter. This is about as far as a car can travel on the highway in 15 minutes. It is covered with craters, as Earth's moon is.
It is named after the god Phobos in Greek mythology. Its name means "fear".
Phobos is trapped into tidal drag, and its lowering orbit roughly 1.8 meters per century. In about 50 million years, Phobos is likely to collide into Martian atmosphere, or get torn apart and form some ring systems around Mars.
The other moon, Deimos, is the smaller of the two.
The Russians have sent at least two space craft to this moon, Phobos 1 and Phobos 2. Both failed or lost contact with Earth, but Phobos 2 managed to take some pictures of the moon before dying.
There is one large crater on Phobos called Stickney. It is formula_1 the size of the moon itself.

</doc>
<doc id="29564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29564" title="Charon (moon)">
Charon (moon)

Charon is a moon of the dwarf planet Pluto. It is half the size as Pluto and is much like the dwarf planet itself. It was discovered much later after Pluto.
It is named after Charon in Greek mythology, a boatman who would carry the souls of dead people across the river Acheron to the underworld.
Charon was found by astronomer James Christy on June 22, 1978, when he was looking at highly blown up picture of Pluto on a photographic plate that taken a couple of months before. Christy noticed that a slight bulge was able to be seen every now and then. This finding was made public on July 7, 1978. Later, the bulge was confirmed on plates dating back to April 29, 1965.
Later observations of Pluto were able to figure out that the bulge was due to a smaller body. The orbit of the bulge fit in with Pluto's rotation period, which was already known from Pluto's light curve. 
Any final doubts were erased when Pluto and Charon entered a five-year period of mutual eclipses between 1985 and 1990. This happens when the Pluto-Charon orbital plane is edge-on as seen from Earth, which only happens at twice in Pluto's 248-year orbital period. It was very lucky that one of these intervals happened to occur so soon after Charon's discovery.
Pictures showing Pluto and Charon as separate disks were taken for the first time by the Hubble Space Telescope in the 1990s. Later, after a new technology called adaptive optics was discovered, it was possible to see Pluto and Charon as separate disks using ground-based telescopes.

</doc>
<doc id="29566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29566" title="Charon (mythology)">
Charon (mythology)

In mythology, Charon was the ferryman of Hades. He was the son of Erebos and Nyx. 
Charon took the newly dead people across the river Acheron to the Greek underworld, if they paid him three obolus (a Greek silver coin). Because of this, people in Ancient Greece were always buried with a coin under their tongue and one on each eye to pay Charon. Those who could not pay him had to wander the banks of the Acheron for one hundred years.
The largest moon of the planet Pluto is named Charon after this mythological person. 

</doc>
<doc id="29569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29569" title="Chaos (mythology)">
Chaos (mythology)

Chaos was the nothingness at the beginning of the world, described in the creation myths of Classical mythology. It was the state the universe (or cosmos) was in before it was created. Because early Christians did not understand how to use the word "chaos" properly, the word's meaning changed to "disorder" or random and not normal. It is the opposite of order.
Chaos is often identified as a god, who filled the gap between Heaven and Earth. Borne out of chaos were the first beings:

</doc>
<doc id="29570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29570" title="Eros">
Eros

Eros is the god of love, lust, and sex in Greek mythology.
According to Hesiod's "Theogony", Eros came from the Chaos. Later it was said that he was the son of Ares and Aphrodite.
His lover is Psyche.
Eros has a bow and golden arrows with whom he can shoot at people so they will fall in love, but he has also leaden arrows which make people hate.
There is a famous statue which many people think is to Eros, but is actually to Anteros in London in Piccadilly Circus.
From the name Eros we get the word erotic, meaning: to do with sexual love (passionate and physical). There is also a noun: eroticism.

</doc>
<doc id="29571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29571" title="Wheelwright">
Wheelwright

A wheelwright is someone who builds or repairs wheels. In the olden days there were lots of carts. The wheels were made of wood. It was a difficult job to make them, so the cartwright made the cart and the wheelwright did the specialized job of making the wheels. In ancient times some wheels were made of bone in order to look beautiful.
The word wheelwright is not often used for people who make wheels today. Wheels are made in factories and lots of people on the production line each have their bit to do.

</doc>
<doc id="29573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29573" title="Rotterdam">
Rotterdam

Rotterdam is the second largest city in the Netherlands. About 603,000 people live there. In the urban area, there are about 1.1 million people. Rotterdam also has one of the biggest, and busiest ports in the world. It is the biggest and busiest port in Europe. The city is on several rivers, most notably the Maas. Rotterdam, like all of the Netherlands, has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
A dam was built in 1260 across the river Rotte where the Hoogstraat is now. The name "Rotterdam" comes from this dam. The settlement was a regular fishing village at first, but became a thriving trading port pretty soon. The city got city rights in 1340 and city walls in 1360. Rotterdam became a important city in Holland in the middle of the 15th century when it won little wars against Delft and Gouda. From 1449 until 1525 a Gothic church ("Laurenskerk") was built. The city then hold about 10,000 people. The city revolted against Spanish occupation in 1573, becoming one of the main city's of the Eighty Years' War. The port of Rotterdam grew a lot in the late 16th century and early 17th century. In the end of the 17th century the city hold almost 50,000 people. But the city had not built outside of the city walls. The city became very crowded. The port of Rotterdam became bigger and bigger in the 19th century when several new canals were digged. These were: "Nieuwe Waterweg" (lit: New Waterway), and "Voornse Kanaal". The city is growing very fast due the enormous amount of work in the port. The city grows from 160,000 people in 1880 to 315,000 in 1900. Various new districts were build, including "Cool", "Crooswerk", and "Nieuwe Westen". Neighbouring places also became part of Rotterdam. In 1920, the city held more than 500,000 people for the first time in its history
When Nazi Germany attacked the Netherlands in May 1940 heavy fighting occurred in Rotterdam. When the Dutch were holding the city, the Germans bombarded Rotterdam on May 14, 1940. The damage was huge; 24,000 buildings were destroyed in only 15 minutes, and there was virtually nothing left of the old centre of Rotterdam. 800 people died instantly, and 80,000 were homeless. The bombardment also destroyed the Willemsbrigde, one of the two brigdes across the Maas at that time. The Germans repaired the bridge quickly, as it was of vital importance for the city. During the German occupation, the neighbouring places of Hillegersberg, Schiebroek, Overschie, Kralingseveer and Ijsselmonde are annexed (put by) by Rotterdam. On November 11th, 1944, a large razzia took place. About 50,000 men from 17–40 years old from Rotterdam were deported into working camps. The city also lost many people in the famine of 1944 ("hongerwinter" (lit: Winter of hunger)).
Rotterdam was quickly rebuild after the war, but modernization led to the fact that many old buildings were not repaired, but replaced by totally new ones. The has led to the fact that the centre of Rotterdam is composed of new buildings, a thing not common in European city's. The ports of Rotterdam grow even more during the latter part of the 20th century. New area's, build right in the sea are "Botlek", "Maasvlakte", and "Europoort". The Euromast (185 m high) becomes an icon of Rotterdam. De metro of Rotterdam is opened in 1968, which then is the first metro in the Netherlands. The 1990s saw an increase of skyscrapers. The "Delftse Poort" which was ready in 1991 was the highest skyscraper in the Netherlands, with 151 m high, until the "Maastoren" became the highest building in 2009 with 165 m. The new Erasmusbridge which was ready in 1996 gave Rotterdam a new symbol.
The city of Rotterdam is split up into 13 districts, each with a number of neigbhourhoods. The districts are: 

</doc>
<doc id="29575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29575" title="Throne">
Throne

A throne is the official chair or seat upon which a monarch (royal ruler) is seated on state or ceremonial occasions. The word "throne" can also refer to the monarchy itself.

</doc>
<doc id="29576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29576" title="Altar">
Altar

An altar is a place, often a table, where a religious event happens. Altars are used in Christianity and in other religions.
In some old religions, the event was a sacrifice, which means a holy work or act.

</doc>
<doc id="29577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29577" title="Donald Bradman">
Donald Bradman

Sir Donald 'Don' Bradman AC (27 August 1908 – 25 February 2001), often called The Don, was an Australian cricketer. He was a batsman. When he played his last Test match, he only needed to score four runs to have a batting average of 100 runs over the whole of his Test Match career. But he was "out for a duck" (out before he scored any runs) after facing only two balls so his average was 99.94, which was still much higher than any other batsman's average. Most cricket experts think he was the best batsman of all time. He was a great hero in Australia, and he was voted the greatest Australian of the 20th century.
The Don's command over the game showed as a batsman, as a captain, as a selector, as a writer and as an administrator. Jeff Thomson remarked that bowling to Don was one of his "greatest moments". This happened in 1977–78 in Adelaide during India's tour to Australia. In Thomson's words 
Before the first match of the tour, England had not told Australia what they were going to do, but when England named 5 fast bowlers (including Harold Larwood and Bill Voce). It was not usual to have so many fast bowlers in one team, so Bradman knew that England were about to try something new. The new way of bowling was first tried in a warm-up match which Bradman played in, and as expected Bradman struggled. Bradman did not play in the first Test Match of the tour, which led some people to think this was because his had suffered a nervous breakdown. England still tried their new way of bowling, and won the match but the Australian team were not happy.
Australian newspapers described this way of bowling as "bodyline", because the balls were often aimed fast at the body. They felt that this bowling was unfair and dangerous, as in 1930s batsman did not wear helmets. Despite this, the tour carried on and in the second Test Match Bradman returned. In the first Australian innings, Bradman was bowled first ball. Bradman guessed that the ball was going to be bounced high, so he moved to one side and swung the bat so he could score a boundary. The ball did not bounce as high as Bradman thought, and it hit the stumps. This was the first time he had been out on the first ball (called a duck) in his career at that point. The crowd were shocked, as they were used to seeing Bradman easily score hundreds. Bradman had a better second innings and scored 103 runs. With good bowling from Australian bowlers Bill O'Reilly and Bert Ironmonger, this score helped Australia win the second match. Australia were happy, as they thought that they had beaten what they felt was unfair bowling.
England won the last 3 test matches, still bowling "bodyline". Bradman changed the way he batted a lot to try to score runs. In bodyline, England put a lot of fielders on the leg side, so Bradman had the idea of moving backwards to hit the ball on the off side, where there were few fielders. This was not a normal way of playing but this helped him to get 56.57 runs on average per innings in the tour. Jack Fingleton (Australian batsman) thought that this tour changed Bradman's way of batting for the rest of his career.
Bradman was married to Jessie Martha Menzies for 65 years, until Jessie died in 1999. Bradman said on many occasions how important his wife was, once saying "I would never have achieved what I achieved without Jessie". Don and Jessie Bradman had 3 children, but family life was difficult. Their first child died young in 1936. Their second child (John, born in 1939) caught a serious virus disease called polio. and their third child (Shirley, born 1941) had cerebral palsy since birth.
Bradman died of pneumonia in Kensington Park, South Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="29581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29581" title="Ian Botham">
Ian Botham

Sir Ian Terence Botham (born 24 November 1955) is an English retired cricketer. He also played football. He was an all-rounder, being good at both batting and bowling. He was also very good at catching the ball when he was fielding. He played over 100 test matches for England. He is a very popular man in England. One reason for this is that he helped England to beat Australia in a series of test matches called "The Ashes" in 1981. This series is sometimes called "Botham's Ashes". Now he works on television. He has done some long walks to raise money for charity. He was knighted in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="29583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29583" title="Daphne (mythology)">
Daphne (mythology)

Daphne (Greek: Δάφνη, meaning "laurel") was a dryad in Greek mythology, daughter of the river god Peneus.
Once the god Apollo made fun of Eros, equivalent to cupid the god of love. Eros was angry, and shot a golden arrow at Apollo, making him fall in love with the nymph Daphne the virgin. But Eros shot Daphne with a leaden arrow so she could never love Apollo back. So Apollo followed her while she ran away, until she came to the river of her father Peneus. Apollo is jealous and puts it into the girl's mind to stop to bathe in the river Ladon; there, as all strip naked, the ruse is revealed, as in the myth of Callisto. There she wanted help from Peneus, who turned her into a laurel tree so she would be safe from Apollo. Apollo was sad, and made himself a laurel wreath (a circle made of laurel that you put on your head) from the tree, and the laurel tree became sacred to Apollo and is used by emperors within the culture. After the crown was used for all the winners at his games and great heroes in the years to come would be crowned with laurel leaves. He also vowed that she, like him, would have eternal youth where her leaves would never turn brown or fall but would always stay lush and green. Apollo loved that laurel with all his heart.
See Ovid. "Metamorphoses". Book I: 452-567.

</doc>
<doc id="29587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29587" title="Massively multiplayer online role-playing game">
Massively multiplayer online role-playing game

A massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) is a massively multiplayer online game (MMOG) that is a role-playing game (RPG). It is an RPG which is played online (on the internet) by a very large number of people at the same time.

</doc>
<doc id="29589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29589" title="Middle English">
Middle English

Middle English is an older type of the English language that was spoken after the Norman invasion in 1066 until the middle/late 1400s. It came from Old English after William the Conqueror came to England with his French nobles and stopped English from being taught in schools for a few hundred years. Over this time, English borrowed several French words. 
In the 1470s, the "Chancery Standard," a type of English spoken in London, started to become more common. This was partly because William Caxton brought the printing press to England in the 1470s. The type of English that people spoke in England between then and 1650 is called Early Modern English. There were many different dialects of Middle English. 
Geoffrey Chaucer wrote The Canterbury Tales in Middle English.

</doc>
<doc id="29590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29590" title="Patroclus">
Patroclus

Patroclus (or Patroklos) was a person in Greek mythology. He is an important person in the Trojan War, and in Homer's "Iliad".
Patroclus was the son of Menoetius. There are several women who could be his mother, because the different stories and writers are not sure. He was the best friend (or possibly lover)of Achilles.
In the Trojan War Achilles once stopped fighting because he was angry at Agamemnon. At this time Patroclus secretly took Achilles' armour and weapons and went into the fight. All people mistook him for Achilles and he was killed by Hector. This made Achilles angry at the Trojans so he started fighting again.

</doc>
<doc id="29592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29592" title="James I of England">
James I of England

James VI and I (19 June 1566 – 27 March 1625) was King of Scotland as James VI, and King of England and King of Ireland as James I. He was the first monarch to be called King of Great Britain. He ruled in Scotland as James VI from 24 July 1567 until his death. He ruled in England and Ireland from 24 March 1603 until his death. 
His reign was important because it was the first time England and Scotland agreed to have the same monarch. He was the first monarch of England from the House of Stuart. The previous English monarch had been Elizabeth I. She had died without any children, so the English agreed to have a Scottish monarch because James was the son of Mary, Queen of Scots, thus the closest relative Elizabeth had. By being king of both, he created a personal union.
James fought often with the Parliament of England. In addition, he did not use the kingdom’s money well. While James was ruling, the Scottish and English governments were quite stable. After James died, his son Charles tried to rule in the same way as James but caused the English Civil War. At the end of the war in 1649, Charles was executed.
James was very educated and good at learning. He helped people in England to study things such as science, literature, and art. James wrote "Daemonologie" in 1597, "The True Law of Free Monarchies" in 1598, "Basilikon Doron" in 1599, and "A Counterblaste to Tobacco" in 1604.
James believed in witchcraft. When he read "The Discoverie of Witchcraft", he ordered all copies of the book to be burnt.

</doc>
<doc id="29595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29595" title="Hesiod">
Hesiod

Hesiod ("Hesiodos", ) was an Ancient Greek poet. He is probably the second Greek poet whose work has survived; like Homer, his dates are not known for certain. As with Homer, there are numerous legends, none of which are supported by hard evidence. He may have lived around 700 BC in Askra in Boeotia, as a farmer. Today his writings are one of the main sources for Greek mythology, and everyday life in Ancient Greece, such as farming techniques, astronomy and ancient time-keeping. The complete surviving works were published in 1493, and by Aldus Manutius in 1495.

</doc>
<doc id="29596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29596" title="Fu Xiancai">
Fu Xiancai

Fu Xiancai is a Chinese farmer and civil rights activist. He started to be political in 1994, after his village was in danger, because the Three Gorges Dam was built. In 1997 he had to leave his home, after it was flooded by the water of the dam. Since that time he tries to get together with other people fair damages from the Peoples Republic of China. On 19 May 2006 he had an interview with the German television station ARD. After this one he was arrested by police and hit so he cannot move since that time and is crippled. He did not get any medical help, because he cannot pay it. The German government protested against this situation. In June 2006, the German embassy paid for the life-saving medical treatment. The Chinese government said they did not hit him, so he must have hit himself.

</doc>
<doc id="29597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29597" title="Phoebus">
Phoebus

Phoebus (means "shining-one") was originally a name of the Greek god Helios. But later, it also became a name of Apollo, because in later times, both gods were merged (became one).

</doc>
<doc id="29600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29600" title="Overture">
Overture

An overture is a piece of music for the orchestra to play at the beginning of an opera or ballet. The word comes from the French word for "opening" because it "opens" the show.
Overtures usually have tunes which are going to be heard during the opera or ballet. In this way it prepares the audience for what is to come.
Many overtures in the 18th century were simply background music to get the audience's attention (people used to chatter during performances). Some composers like Gioacchino Rossini (1792-1868) used the same overture again and again for his next operas, or just changed bits of it.
Composers like Christoph Willibald Gluck and later Richard Wagner (1813-1883) were very careful to make the overture a dramatic beginning which prepared the audience for the story. Wagner often called his overtures "Vorspiel" (Prelude).
Not all composers wrote overtures to their operas. Giuseppe Verdi (1813-1901) and Giacomo Puccini (1858-1924) often go straight into the first act or they just have a very short prelude.
In the 19th century many Romantic composers wrote concert overtures. These pieces did not belong to any opera or ballet, they were just written to be heard at concerts. They often had a descriptive title because they told some sort of story, e.g. Felix Mendelssohn (1809-1847) wrote an overture "Fingal's Cave" which describes the sea coming into the cave in the Hebrides islands. Sometimes these descriptive pieces were much longer than an overture (which is usually just a few minutes), so they were called tone poems.
Overtures are usually played in sonata form.

</doc>
<doc id="29602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29602" title="Luthier">
Luthier

A luthier is a person who repairs guitars, violins, violas, cellos, double basses, and other wooden stringed instruments. These instruments need regular adjustments and minor repairs, especially straightening the bridge. As well, sometimes instruments are damaged in accidents, and a luthier has to use wood glue, broken pieces, and clamps to repair the instrument. Luthiers also have the ability to create wooden stringed instruments, mostly classic string family instruments.
The French word lutherie is referred to the art to build wooden instruments. The word luthier comes from the French word luth, luth comes from the Arabian word al-`ūd (العود), this last word means lute, although its generic meaning is the wood. The German word for luthier is luther, that word has became also in a name (Martin Luther King) and in a last name (Martin Luther)

</doc>
<doc id="29603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29603" title="Moss, Norway">
Moss, Norway

Moss is a coastal town in the Norwegian county of Østfold. It served an important role in the declaration of independence from the union with Sweden. The city used to have a lot of heavy industries, like shipyards and paper mills. Today it has mostly service sector businesses (shops, banks etc.)
The city is also the centre of Moss Municipality which is 63 km² (square kilometers) large and has 28,000 people as of 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="29606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29606" title="Dorset">
Dorset

Dorset is a county in south England which is by the sea. The biggest towns in it are Bournemouth and Poole. There are other smaller towns, some by the sea, like Weymouth, Swanage, West Bay, the Isle of Portland, Dorchester, Wareham, Lyme Regis, Blandford and Wool.
Dorset is next to Devon, Somerset, Wiltshire and Hampshire.
There is a lot of countryside in Dorset, so there are quite a few farmers. Other people work in offices, shops or the holiday business. There are not many factories or industry in Dorset.
People come on holiday to Dorset because the countryside and sea is peaceful and pretty, and there are not many big towns and no cities at all. Bournemouth, Poole, Weymouth, Swanage and Lyme Regis are quite famous seaside towns, where most holidaymakers go when they come to Dorset.
The Dorset coast is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Jurassic Coast. This includes famous fossil sites where Mary Anning collected, and famous landforms such as Chesil Beach.

</doc>
<doc id="29607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29607" title="Poole">
Poole

Poole is a town in Dorset, England. It is the second biggest town in Dorset after Bournemouth. In 2001, 138,299 people lived there. Lots of tourists visit Poole because of its nice beaches and sunny weather. It has a very big natural harbour. Lots of people in Poole work for Barclays Bank, Hamworthy Engineering, Poole Packaging, Sunseeker, RNLI and Ryvita.
Poole's harbour is the second biggest natural harbour in the world after Sydney in Australia but the water in Poole is very shallow which means that very big ships cannot go into Poole Harbour. It was used in World War II for some ships to set off for France on D-Day. The harbour entrance is also the home to many millionaires being in the top 5 most expensive places to live in the world. 
People have lived in Poole for 2,000 years. There were lots of Celtic people there. Archaeologists found a boat in the harbour which they think was made in 295 BC. When the Romans invaded Britain in the 1st century, they landed in Poole. In the Norman Conquest in 1066, Poole was used mostly for fishing but then became a port for trading things like wool. In the 18th century, Poole was one of the biggest ports in England.
The harbour stopped being so useful because big boats could not get in, so they went to places like Liverpool, Southampton and Plymouth. Even though the harbour can not be used that well, due to the shallowness of the sea, it is very beautiful and peaceful for people.

</doc>
<doc id="29608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29608" title="Gorilla">
Gorilla

The gorilla is the largest member of the ape family. They may be aggressive when attacked or provoked, but they are naturally gentle. They are omnivorous, like chimpanzees and orangutans.
A gorilla's lifespan is between 35 and 40 years, although zoo gorillas may live for 50 years and more.
Gorillas are the biggest. They can become heavy, and are strong. A male gorilla can weigh up to 225 kilograms and stand 1.8 meters in height. Gorillas are peaceful that live in family groups called troops. They have a broad chest, wide shoulders, short legs, and long, powerful, strong arms. They have black skin and fur. Male gorillas' fur becomes silver/grey on their backs as they become older. Because of that older males are called silverbacks.
Gorillas live in the rainforests in central Africa. They mostly live on the ground, but they can also climb. When on the ground, they walk on their feet and finger knuckles. Troops of gorillas wander slowly through the forests of Central Africa. For about half of their day they search for leaves, vines, and bamboo shoots to eat. For the rest of the day, they lay in the sun and play with their children. If another gorilla threatens them, the troop's leader, the silverback, protects them by rearing up and beating his chest. Few animals can survive the attack of an angry gorilla.
Gorillas sleep in nests that they build on the ground. At the end of each day, each adult gorilla will spend a few minutes putting together a soft, flat bed made of leaves, branches, and moss. The young gorillas sleep with their mothers.
The gestation period (when a baby grows inside the mother) of a gorilla lasts between eight and ten months. Gorillas almost always produce one offspring - twins are rare. Gorilla babies begin to hang onto their mothers when they are only a few hours old and will continue to do so for the next three years. Gorillas live up to 50 years in the wild and up to 54 years in captivity.

</doc>
<doc id="29609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29609" title="Matthew Bellamy">
Matthew Bellamy

Matthew Bellamy (born 9 June 1978) is an English singer. He is the lead singer of the band Muse. He also plays the electric guitar and the piano. He writes most of the songs. Bellamy is known for his falsetto and the way he plays the guitar, which is very creative. Bellamy sings with a tenor voice when he is not singing in falsetto.
Matthew Bellamy was born on 9 June 1978 in Cambridge. He is the son of George Bellamy and Marilyn Bellamy and he has an older brother named Paul. His parents moved with him to Teignmouth in Devon in the mid 1980s.
George Bellamy was also a guitarist and was in a band called "The Tornados", who had a number-one hit in the United States with the song "Telstar". The talent of his father was part of what inspired Matthew to play guitar, sing and form a band. The Muse song "Knights of Cydonia" is sometimes called a tribute to "Telstar", since it has a similar space rock sound and futuristic video featuring cowboys like a spaghetti western. Marylin Bellamy was born in Belfast and went to live in England in the 1970s, meeting George for the first time on the day she did so.
When he was 6 years old, Matthew Bellamy began playing piano, and showed signs of having natural skill with the instrument. Bellamy's parents divorced before he reached fourteen years of age. He moved in with his grandmother, and around this time he considered playing guitar. His talent for quickly learning how to play instruments had made some people call him a virtuoso, which is someone musically talented in a unique way.
Matthew was heavily featured in the TV series "History of the Guitar" where his creativity with the instrument was demonstrated to the full. His father George was introduced on the programme as Matthew's father and was featured performing the hit instrumental "Telstar" with "The Tornados."
Bellamy is fascinated with conspiracy theories. A lot of songs of Muse are about conspiracies. He is also interested in the space and conspiracy theories about Extraterrestrial life or "aliens". This interest is probably caused by the death of his uncle, who was murdered of the Irish Republican Army. Matthew's uncle, murdered by the IRA, played lead guitar in the rock band "The Jokers" They played clubs mainly in the south of England during the late 1960s and early 1970s. At the time they where based in the Aldershot area of Hampshire UK. Other members of the band: Pete Crabbe, rhythm and base guitar, Denis Williams, drums, Brian Foster and Joey Graham, vocals. Pete Seddon played rhythm guitar occasionally. Matthew's father George Bellamy, was often mentioned and was a source of inspiration to all but particularly to Matt's uncle who modeled his style of play on him.
Matthew shows agnostic views, stating in a 2006 interview with the Rock Music channel that "I believe in the God of the universe, definitely" but does not believe in heaven or hell. It is also possible that Bellamy explores otherworldly theories, such as the origin of mankind from another universe, as reflected in the band's rock symphony, "Exogenesis". 

</doc>
<doc id="29610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29610" title="Chris Wolstenholme">
Chris Wolstenholme

Christopher Tony Wolstenholme (born December 2, 1978 in Rotherham, Yorkshire, England) is an English musician. He sings and plays a bass guitar in the band Muse. He also sometimes plays guitar or keyboard instead of bass.
Chris grew up in Rotherham before moving to Teignmouth where he had lived up until April 2010. While attending school there, he played for various different bands until he joined Muse when Matthew Bellamy and Dominic Howard invited him to their band. Today he is an acclaimed bass-player, receiving praise from many musicians.
Wolstenhome has six children with his wife Kelly: Alfie (born 1999), Ava-Jo (born 2001), Frankie (born 2003), Ernie (born 2008), Buster (born 2010) and Teddi, born 2012.
In April 2010, he moved with his family to Dublin, Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="29611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29611" title="Dominic Howard">
Dominic Howard

Dominic Howard (born December 7, 1977) is an English musician. He plays the drums for the band Muse. Howard was born in Stockport, England. He is left-handed. Howard is a huge fan of British cheesecake, and has his own secret recipe. He often wears brightly coloured trousers. 

</doc>
<doc id="29612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29612" title="Penlight">
Penlight

A penlight is a small flashlight in the shape of a pen. A penlight usually uses a small light known as an "LED" (Light Emitting Diode) but it can also use a small lightbulb made just for small flashlights.
The LED lights up when power is run through it. Making the penlight light up is as simple as pressing a button, or screwing the end on tighter so it makes contact with the batteries.
Most of the time, penlights use two or three AAA or AAAA batteries. AAAA are a newer, thinner type of battery, most commonly found in small electronics.
Penlights can be made out of plastic or metal, and can be any color. They most often have a little clip, to hold it on your shirt or something.

</doc>
<doc id="29613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29613" title="Rama">
Rama

Rama is the Seventh Avatar of Vishnu in Hinduism. He was a king of ancient India. His wife is Sita, who is the Avatar of Lakshmi.
He is the hero of the ancient Hindu epic poem, "The Ramayana" (from Sanskrit: "The Journey of Rama"). In this legend, Rama is born in Ayodhya. His father is King Dasharatha. His stepmother has him exiled from the kingdom, and Rama goes to live as an ascetic in the forests. He is also known as "Maryada Puroshottam", which means he teaches humanity how to live life without sacrificing the happiness and interest of others. He is the perfect human form of "prabhu" or God. Ram is a popular God and revered across India and Nepal.
He is said to have come to earth again to give Darshan to Sant Shiromani Shree Goswami Tulasidas.
"Ram naam" or the calling out Ram's name is said to purify one's very soul.
According to legend, Rama and Sita had two sons, Lava or Lav and Kashava or Kash.

</doc>
<doc id="29615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29615" title="Bournemouth">
Bournemouth

Bournemouth is a town in Dorset, in the country of England. It is the biggest town in Dorset. It is next to Poole and Christchurch.

</doc>
<doc id="29616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29616" title="Christchurch, Dorset">
Christchurch, Dorset

Christchurch is a town in Dorset, England. It is next to Bournemouth.
Christchurch is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="29627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29627" title="Symphony">
Symphony

A symphony is a piece of music written for an orchestra to play. It may be quite a long piece. Usually it is divided into parts, usually 3 or 4 parts, which are called movements. 
The first movement of a symphony can be a fast movement, often in sonata form. The second movement can be a slow movement. The third movement can be a minuet or scherzo and a trio. The fourth movement may be called “Finale”; it can be in Rondo form or sonata form or a combination of these. There are lots of different ways of writing a symphony, but this is the pattern that was used by Joseph Haydn who is known as the “Father of the Symphony”, and many composers since have used his pattern of movements for their symphonies.
The word “symphony” comes from the Greek words “sym” (together) and “phone” (sound).
“Symphonic” means “like a symphony”. It is often used to describe music which is quite long and develops tunes over a long period.
A large orchestra is often called a “symphony orchestra”. This is to distinguish it from a small orchestra called a “chamber orchestra”.
Some of the most famous composers of symphonies are Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven, Franz Schubert, Felix Mendelssohn, Robert Schumann, Anton Bruckner, Johannes Brahms, Pyotr Tchaikovsky, Gustav Mahler, Jean Sibelius and Dmitri Shostakovich.

</doc>
<doc id="29628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29628" title="Upper Franconia Government Region">
Upper Franconia Government Region

Upper Franconia ("Oberfranken") is a "regierungsbezirk" (administrative region) of the German state Bavaria. It has an area of 7,230 km² and about 1,200,000 people. It borders the German states of Sachsen and Thuringia, and also the Czech Republic. Bayreuth is its capital.

</doc>
<doc id="29629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29629" title="Weimar Republic">
Weimar Republic

The Weimar Republic (German: "Weimarer Republik") is the name now used for the republic that governed Germany from 1919 to 1933.
After the German Empire was defeated in World War I, Germany became a republic, but it was still called "Deutsches Reich" (German Empire). Today it is called the "Weimar Republic" and this period is called the "Weimar period", because the constitution was made in the city of Weimar.
On November 9, 1918, the Republic was proclaimed by Philipp Scheidemann at the "Reichstag" building in Berlin and two hours later a socialist republic was proclaimed around the corner at the Berlin Castle by Karl Liebknecht.
The Emperor, or "Kaiser," Wilhelm II, went into exile in the Netherlands. The new Republic was declared even before the end of World War I.
The Weimar Republic had a lot of problems. The Treaty of Versailles made things very difficult for the economy. Inflation got completely out of hand. There were political problems because governments ruled only for a very short time, not long enough to be able to make important decisions. There were a lot of radical right and left extremists, for example monarchists (people who wanted back the monarchy) and communists, who believed that all things, especially property, land and money, should be shared.
The Weimar period is also known for its culture. Artists tried out modern ideas and used new things like film. The Bauhaus began in the 1920s too.
What we now call The Weimar Republic came to an end on 23 March 1933, when Chancellor Adolf Hitler installed the Enabling Act, which established the Third Reich.

</doc>
<doc id="29630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29630" title="Lemma (mathematics)">
Lemma (mathematics)

In mathematics, a lemma is a "mini-proof"; a small hypothesis which is proved and then provides a part of a more important theorem.

</doc>
<doc id="29633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29633" title="Avatar">
Avatar

Avatar, a word in Hinduism, is a deity which comes down to earth in a human form, an animal form or a partly human and partly animal form. Rama was an avatar of Vishnu, one of the three main gods of the Hindus. Similarly, Gautama Buddha was also an avatar. Both of these avatars had human form, but avatars of the Hindu mythology have also appeared in animal form. For example, Matsya had the form of a fish and Varaha had the form of a boar.
The word is usually translated into English as "incarnation", but better as "appearance" or "manifestation". This is the sense in which the word 'avatar' is used in various media today.
According to Hindu mythology, the important avatars of god Vishnu are named below:
Several Hindu scriptures have details and stories about Vishnu's avatars. These texts also tell that Vishnu will appear again the Kalki avatar. The following stories are of the avatars that appeared in animal forms or partly animal and partly human forms.
Matsya is the first avatar of Vishnu, in the form of a big fish. Sometimes, it is said that he took the form of a half-man and half-fish. There is a story about this in Hindu mythology. The story tells about a very wicked demon (an "asura") who snatched the Vedas, the holy books of the Hindus, and went deep inside the sea. At this point, Vishnu came as the Matsya (fish) avatar, who went deep into the sea and brought back the Vedas. He gave the Vedas to Manu. The Hindu scriptures say that Manu was the first man in the world. He may also be compared with Noah. 
Kurma is the second avatar of Vishnu, in the form of a tortoise. Kurma is a word in the Sanskrit language that means a tortoise. This avatar of Vishnu is a symbol of strength and stability. 
Varaha was the third avatar of Vishnu, in the form of a black boar. Varaha is a word in the Sanskrit language that means a boar. The Hindu scriptures tell a story about this avatar. There was a demon (a "daitya") named Hiranyaksha. He threw the earth (called prithivi by the Hindus) into the waters of the ocean. The earth was about to sink in the ocean. At this point, Vishnu took the form of a black boar, entered the water and carried the earth on its body. Thus Vishnu, as Varaha, saved the earth from destruction.
Narashimha was the fourth avatar of Vishnu, in the form of a man with the head of a lion. This avatar of Vishnu is also a symbol of great strength. 
All other avatars of Vishnu after Narashimha avatar were in the form of human beings.
Although the avatars of Vishnu are the most important in the Hindu mythology, there are stories about avatars of other deities, like of Shiva, Ganesha and Devi.
Avatar is next birth of God in Hunduism.

</doc>
<doc id="29634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29634" title="Avatar (disambiguation)">
Avatar (disambiguation)

Avatar can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29644" title="Constantine the Great">
Constantine the Great

Constantine I (27 February 272 – 22 May 337 AD) was a powerful general who reigned over the Roman Empire as emperor, until his death. He made the previously named city Byzantium (now Istanbul, Turkey) capital of the whole Roman Empire. As emperor, he named the city "Constantinople", which means "City of Constantine" in Greek.
Before Constantine became Emperor, he was fighting for the throne at the Battle of Milvian Bridge. When he saw a cross in the sky with the words "in hoc signo vinces" (Latin for "in this sign you shall conquer"), he changed his deity from Apollo to Jesus and won the battle.
In pagan Rome before this, it had been against the law to believe in Christianity, and Christians had been tortured or killed, but Constantine protected them. He went on to organize the whole Catholic Church at the First Council of Nicea, even though he himself did not get baptized until near the end of his life.
Constantine was also a big part of the beginning of the Orthodox religion, after changing the point from which he ruled from Rome to Byzantium.
Constantine is perhaps best known for being the first Christian Roman emperor. His rule changed the Church greatly. In February 313, Constantine met with Licinius in Milan where they made the Edict of Milan. The edict said that Christians could believe what they wanted. This stopped people from punishing Christians, who had often been martyred. It also returned the property which had been taken away from them. The edict not only protected Christians, but gave freedom of religion to all, allowing anyone to worship whatever they wanted. In 311, Galerius had made a similar edict, though it did not return any property to them.
Constantine did not support Christianity alone. After winning the Battle of the Milvian Bridge, he built the Arch of Constantine) to celebrate, but the arch was decorated with pictures of sacrifices to gods like Apollo, Diana, or Hercules. It had no Christian symbolism. In 321, Constantine said that Christians and non-Christians should all join the "day of the sun" (the eastern sun-worship which Aurelian had helped him introduce). His coins also had symbols of the sun-cult until 324. Even after pagan gods disappeared from the coins, Christians symbols never appeared on the coin, either. Even when Constantine dedicated the new capital of Constantinople, he was wearing the Apollonian sun-rayed Diadem.

</doc>
<doc id="29651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29651" title="Cleopatra VII">
Cleopatra VII

Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, was one of the most famous women in history. Her name was "Cleopatra VII Philopator" (69 BC – 12 August 30 BC). She was the last of the Pharaohs set up in Egypt by Alexander the Great. By descent, she was a Macedonian Princess. After her death, Egypt became the Roman province of "Aegyptus".
The main historical source for her life is Plutarch's "Life of Antony", available in translations.
"Antony and Cleopatra" is the famous tragedy by William Shakespeare, believed to have been written sometime between 1603 and 1607. It was first printed in 1623. 
Cleopatra was born in Alexandria, then the capital of Egypt. When she was 18 years old, her father, who was king, died. She and her brother, Ptolemy XIII, became the leaders of Egypt. She was queen and her brother was king. Her brother was only 12 years old, so she was the real leader. 
Cleopatra made some enemies amongst the courtiers. The reign of Cleopatra was ended by a cabal of courtiers, led by the eunuch Pothinus. They removed Cleopatra from power, and made Ptolemy sole ruler, in about 51 to 48 BC. She had to leave the country. Ptolemy was king, but because he was still a boy, Pothinus and his friends were the real leaders of Egypt.
At that time, two Roman generals were fighting to be the leaders of the Roman Republic. They were Pompey and Julius Caesar. Julius Caesar defeated Pompey at the Battle of Pharsalus in Greece, 48 BC. Pompey fled to Egypt from Pharsalus, and was murdered by the orders of Ptolemy. 
Ptolemy and his supporters thought Caesar would be pleased, but that was a big mistake. Caesar had pardoned many of the senators who fought against him. His reason was to lay the ground for peace in Rome. The murder of Pompey cut right across Caesar's plans. Worse, Pompey was a Roman consul, and the widower of Caesar's only daughter, Julia. Worse still, Pompey was beheaded in front of his fifth wife and children, who were on the ship from which he had just disembarked. This made sure that Pompey's powerful family and supporters would never forget, and would always be enemies of Caesar.
Then Caesar came to Alexandria, the capital of Egypt. Economically, Egypt was a bread-basket which could feed the people of Rome. Cleopatra received Caesar in her own unique way. She lay down on a carpet. Then her servants rolled up the carpet with Cleopatra inside. Then the carpet was taken to the palace where Caesar was staying. The guards saw some people carrying a carpet and they did not stop them. They carried the carpet to Caesar. Then Cleopatra came out of the carpet. Caesar fell in love with her and they became lovers. At the time, Cleopatra was 21 years old and Caesar was 52 years old.
Caesar decided to make Cleopatra queen again. Ptolemy did not like that. There was a lot of fighting, but Caesar won. Ptolemy tried to leave, but he fell in the river Nile and drowned. Another younger brother became king, but Cleopatra was again the real leader of Egypt. Cleopatra did not marry Julius Caesar, but they did have a son. He was called Caesarion.
Soon after Caesarion was born, Caesar was murdered as he walked to the Senate in Rome. Cleopatra and her entourage were in Rome when Caesar was assassinated on 15 March 44 BC. Cleopatra fled back to Egypt.
Mark Antony, who was Caesar's military commander, and Octavian, Caesar's legal heir, defeated the group which had conspired against Caesar. This group was led by Brutus and Cassius, who took their army to the Eastern Mediterranean, and controlled much of that area. The issue was finally settled by the Battle of Philippi, fought in Macedonia.
Caesar's place was taken by three joint Consuls, the Second Triumvirate. Their names were Octavian, Mark Antony and Lepidus. Lepidus was a minor character, and the long-term fate of the Empire was decided by a conflict between Antony and Octavian. Mark Antony came to see Cleopatra, and they fell in love, though Antony already had a wife. Cleopatra had three more children. Two were twins, and the father of all three was Mark Antony. 
The conflict between Octavian and Antony became serious, and soon there was war. Cleopatra was wealthy, and she used her money to help Antony. But Octavian won the war. He became the ruler of the Roman Empire and was known as Augustus or Caesar Augustus. He took control of Egypt from Cleopatra. After her kingdom was conquered, she committed suicide by letting an asp (a poisonous snake) bite her. Antony also committed suicide. 
Ceasarion was murdered by Octavian, and her other children were taken as prisoners to Rome. Two of them died of illness, but her daughter, Cleopatra Selene II, married an African King Juba II of Numidia. The couple were sent to Mauritania to rule by Octavian. They lived a full life there, and had children.
There are many stories told of how rich Cleopatra was, but we cannot be sure if these are true. For example, one story says that she took baths in milk, to make her skin softer. Another story says that she made a bet with Antony that she could make the most expensive meal ever. To win the bet, she took a pearl earring, dissolved it in vinegar, and drank it.

</doc>
<doc id="29658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29658" title="CSS">
CSS

CSS is an abbreviation. It can stand for the following:

</doc>
<doc id="29659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29659" title="Kelly Clarkson">
Kelly Clarkson

Kelly Brianne Clarkson (born April 24, 1982) is an American singer and actress. Clarkson won the first season of the television series "American Idol".
Clarkson has recorded four albums. Clarkson has sold over 10.6 million albums in the United States, becoming the highest-selling American Idol winner. According to Nielsen SoundScan, Clarkson is also ranked on the top 200 album sellers of the Nielsen SoundScan era at number 187.
Clarkson was born in Fort Worth, Texas, and grew up in Burleson, a small city on the outside of Fort Worth. She is the third and youngest child of Jeanne Rose, a first grade teacher, and Stephen Michael Clarkson.
Clarkson's parents divorced when she was six years old, after having been married for seventeen years. The family then moved to Burleson, where her mother remarried. She is of Greek (from a maternal great-grandfather), English, Irish, German, and Scottish ancestry. Her mother is a descendant of Republican state senator Isaiah Rose, whose life story was discussed on Clarkson's episode of "Who Do You Think You Are?", in 2013.
Clarkson went to Pauline G Hughes Middle School and Burleson High School. She originally wanted to be a marine biologist, but changed her mind after she saw the movie "Jaws". In seventh grade, one of her teachers overheard her singing in a hallway and asked her to audition for the school choir.
In high school, Clarkson performed in musicals such as "Annie Get Your Gun", "Seven Brides for Seven Brothers" and "Brigadoon". She sang at her high school talent show, after which an audience member shared some inspiring words with her: "God has given you this gift. You've got to sing. You're destined to sing." Clarkson continued singing and soon started classical training, hoping that music would be her ticket to a college scholarship.
After finishing high school, Clarkson was offered full scholarships to The University of Texas at Austin, the University of North Texas, and the Berklee College of Music. However, she decided against college to pursue a career in music saying, "you're never too old to go to college."
On September 4, 2002, Clarkson won the first season of "American Idol", beating Justin Guarini by a margin of 58% to 42%. After the results were announced, Clarkson performed the song "A Moment Like This", which was written for the winner of "American Idol" and would be released on her first CD "Thankful". When it was released as a single in October of 2002, it set a record on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100 chart when it rose from number 52 to number one. "Thankful" sold 236,000 copies in its first week in the U.S.
On 19 November 2013, Clarkson said on her Twitter that she is pregnant.

</doc>
<doc id="29660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29660" title="Maurice Ravel">
Maurice Ravel

Maurice Ravel (born Ciboure, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, 7 March 1875; died Paris, 28 December 1937) was a French composer. His name is often thought of together with that of Claude Debussy, but their music is really very different. Ravel liked children and animals and his music is often about them. He liked to write about fairy tales and stories from far away lands. He wrote some lovely piano music, most of which is difficult to play. "Boléro" is a 17 minute piece for orchestra. A short version was used by ice-skaters Torvill and Dean for the dance that made them Olympic champions in 1984.
Maurice Ravel was born in Ciboure in France. His father was an engineer. Both parents were interested in culture. Soon after he was born the family moved to Paris and stayed there.
It soon became clear that Maurice was musically gifted, so his father arranged for him to have piano lessons with a well-known teacher. In 1889 he entered the Paris Conservatoire.
In 1889 there was a big international exhibition: the Paris World Exhibition. Ravel and Debussy both heard gamelan music from Java at this exhibition. They were both influenced by it, especially Debussy. Ravel also heard Russian music at concerts given by Rimsky-Korsakov. He also made friends with a very talented Spanish pianist Ricardo Viñes who was in the same class at the Conservatoire. He heard the music of Richard Wagner and got to know the composers Chabrier and Satie.
He left the Conservatoire in 1895, but went back in 1897 to study composition with Gabriel Fauré and counterpoint and orchestration with Andreé Gédalge. At this stage Ravel was not sure of himself as a composer. His first work that was to become very well-known was the short piece for orchestra called "Pavane pour une infante défunte". Fauré had been a very good teacher for Ravel, who dedicated his virtuoso piano piece "Jeux d’eau" (meaning “Play of water” or “Fountains”) and his "String Quartet" to Fauré. However, Ravel never got a prize for composition, so he left Fauré’s class in 1903.
Ravel was starting to live the life of a dandy. He always dressed very smartly, and got to know people with similar tastes. He tried to win the Prix de Rome in 1904 and again in 1905. However, the judges liked traditional music and did not understand Ravel’s style. There was a big argument at the Conservatoire which led to the director, Dubois, resigning and Fauré taking his place. Meanwhile Ravel left Paris for a time with some friends and started writing some of his best compositions. These included "Introduction and Allegro" for seven instruments including harp, the "Rapsodie espagnole" for orchestra, his first opera "L’heure espagnole" and "Gaspard de la Nuit", a virtuoso piece for the piano. In Paris the music critics continued to argue about Ravel’s music.
In 1909 the Ballets Russes visited Paris. They were the world’s most famous ballet group. Their director Diaghilev asked Ravel to write a ballet for them Ravel took about three years to compose the music for "Daphnis et Chloé". Other works he completed before the war broke out include "Shéhérazade" for soprano and orchestra (not to be confused with the work by Rimsky-Korsakov with the same title), and the "Piano Trio".
When World War I broke out Ravel felt very strongly that he wanted to do something for his country. However, he was not allowed to join the French army because he was 2 kg underweight. So he became a driver for the motor transport corps. In 1916 he became ill with dysentery. After a time in hospital he was taken back to Paris to get better, but then his mother died and this had a terrible effect on him. The war years had slowed him down as a composer. He had composed "Le Tombeau de Couperin" (well-known both as a piano solo piece and for orchestra) which looks back to the style of music in the Baroque period. It took him a long time to finish "La Valse" ("The Waltz"), one of his most popular pieces.
After the war had ended Debussy was dead and Ravel was seen to be the greatest living French composer. He was offered the award of Légion d’honneur but he would not accept it. He bought himself a house outside Paris. Here he could compose in peace and quiet. He wrote his opera "L’enfant et les sortileges" ("The child and magic") and the famous virtuoso piece for solo violin called "Tzigane". He toured in Europe and the United States and was welcomed everywhere as a great composer. He was given an honorary doctorate at Oxford University.
Ravel worked on several things: some ballet music which resulted in the orchestral piece "Boléro", a Piano Concerto in G, and the Piano Concerto for the Left Hand that could be played just with the left hand (written for the pianist Paul Wittgenstein who had lost his right arm in the war), and several other projects which were not finished.
In 1932 he started to become ill. For several years he had already been finding it difficult to sleep, and this may have been the beginning of the brain disease which would finally kill him. A road accident in 1932 made it worse. Soon he could no longer sign his own name, he could hardly move and hardly speak. He had a brain operation in 1937, but he died.
Ravel was a very private man. We know nothing about his sexual life. His music came to him during walks on his own, in the country or in Paris, often at night, and in any weather. Then he would come home and write them down. He worked at each composition until it was perfect and never showed it to anybody until it was ready. He liked to collect little things such as toys, and these objects often became part of the music. Baroque music forms, gamelan music, Spanish music, ancient modes and unusual harmonies were all important in his musical style. He only had a few pupils, including Vaughan Williams, but no one could imitate his music because it is always so personal, full of perfection and humour.

</doc>
<doc id="29661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29661" title="Jean-Philippe Rameau">
Jean-Philippe Rameau

Jean-Philippe Rameau (born Dijon, September ? 1683; died Paris, 12 September 1764) was a French composer. He is famous for his music for harpsichord and for his operas. His most well-known operas are: "Hippolyte et Aricie", "Castor et Pollux", and "Dardanus". He is also known for his one act opera "Pigmalion" which he is said to have composed in 8 days. He is also known as an important music theorist by writing many books on the matter.

</doc>
<doc id="29662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29662" title="Bedřich Smetana">
Bedřich Smetana

Bedřich Smetana (b. Litomyšl, Bohemia, March 2 1824; d. Prague May 12 1884) was a Czech composer. He was a Romantic composer. Smetana, Dvořák and Leoš Janáček are the three most famous composers who wrote Czech nationalist music. His music is typical of the Czech people. His eight operas are about Nationalist stories. He wrote six tone poems for orchestra called "Ma Vlast" which means “My Home Country”.
Bedřich was the 11th child in a German-speaking family, although he was only the first of the children not to die before they grew up. His father was a brewer and a keen amateur violinist. He learned the violin from his father and the piano from local teachers, but he soon played better than his teachers. Between the age of 12 and 20 he had no musical education. Then he went to Prague and heard Liszt playing. He wanted to leave school and study music but his father would not let him. He was sent to Plzeň where he finished his schooling. During this time he earned some money by playing the piano at the homes of rich people. He played for dancing, and he liked to dance himself. He often danced with a girl called Kateřina Kolářová and he also played piano duets with her. Later she married him.
He returned to Prague and arranged to have lessons in harmony, counterpoint and composition. He gave a piano recital, but nobody came to listen, so he decided to start a school of music, although he hardly had any money.
In 1848 revolutions were taking place in central Europe, including in Prague. A strong feeling of nationalism was growing. The Czechs (people who lived in Bohemia and Moravia) wanted to be able to express themselves in their own language instead of in German, which was still the official language in Bohemia. Smetana, who only spoke German, agreed with the nationalists’ ideas, but he still did not realize how important it would be for him in the future to be able to speak Czech. 
Smetana married Kateřina and they had four daughters, but three of them died. He still had very little money, so he went to Sweden where he was very successful as a piano teacher and conductor. He composed the first of his symphonic poems: "Richard III". After three years in Sweden he decided to return to his homeland because of his Kateřina’s health, but she died on the way. Smetana spent two more years in Sweden. He married again. After the Austrian defeat by Napoleon III in 1859 it became clear that there were going to be big changes in his native country. The Czechs were going to be allowed to have a national opera and put on plays in the Czech language instead of having to perform everything in German. Smetana realized that this was an exciting chance for him. After a big farewell concert in Stockholm to which the Swedish royal family came, Smetana returned to Prague.
Smetana now started to learn Czech, a language he did not speak. It was not easy for him in Prague because he was only known there as a pianist and teacher. He put on a concert of music by German composers but nobody came. He wanted to be director of the Provisional Theatre but the job was given to a man called Mayr who was not very good.
Gradually Smetana’s reputation grew and he started to write operas in Czech which became very popular. The first one was called "The Brandenburgers in Bohemia". Mayr made things very difficult for Smetana but the audience loved the opera and it was performed ten more times. His next opera is the one which has become his best-known opera internationally: "The Bartered Bride". Smetana got the job of director of the Provisional Theatre instead of Mayr. Smetana made lots of improvements, introducing well-known German, French and Italian operas to the audiences as well as new operas by young Czech composers. The operas "Dalibor" was first performed on the day that the first stone was laid for the building of the National Theatre. It was a great occasion, although the music critics were unkind and said that his music sounded too much like Wagner. His opera "Libuše" was written for the coronation of Franz Joseph in Prague, but that coronation never happened, so the opera was not performed for another ten years when the National Theatre was opened (1881). He spent several years composing a cycle of six symphonic poems called "Ma Vlast" ("My Fatherland"). These are very popular today, especially the second one, "Vltava", which describes the river Vltava flowing from its source all the way to the sea.
In his last years Smetana became totally deaf. He was suffering from syphilis. He heard horrible high squeaks in his ears a lot of the time. He showed this when composing his "String Quartet no 2": the first violin plays a very long high note for a long time in the last movement, showing the audience what he had to suffer. He became very depressed and his wife did not help by quarrelling a lot with him. It became painfully difficult for him to compose. In the end he was writing four bars a day. His mental state got worse. He was guarded all day in case he harmed himself. He did not recognize his own family. He was put in an asylum where he died shortly afterwards.
As soon as the Czech people were allowed to produce plays and operas in their own language Smetana thought it was his duty to write a series of nationalist operas. His operas were based on the nation’s history and legends. His symphonic cycle "Ma Vlast" was programme music, full of heroism, often describing nature and the countryside. Smetana also wrote a lot for piano. He was the most important Czech composer there had been at that time. Smetana and Dvořák were the founders of modern Czech music.

</doc>
<doc id="29664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29664" title="Light-emitting diode">
Light-emitting diode

A light-emitting diode (LED) is a semiconductor device that produces light from electricity. LEDs last a long time and do not break easily (compared to incandescent lightbulbs). They can produce many different colors. They are efficient - most of the energy makes light, not heat. 
An LED is a type of diode that makes one color of light when electricity is sent through it in the expected direction (electrically biased in the forward direction). This effect is a kind of electroluminescence. 
The color of the light depends on the chemical composition of the semiconducting material used, and can be near-ultraviolet, visible or infrared. The color affects how much electricity is used by the LED. A white LED has either two or three LEDs inside, of different colors. Some white LEDs have one single-color LED inside, combined with a phosphor that converts that single color to white.
LEDs are used in many places. They are the colored indicator lights on many electronic devices, they can be used to make bright advertising signs, brake lights on a car, in TVs and more recently, light bulbs for the home. White LEDs bright enough to illuminate rooms are usually more expensive than regular lightbulbs but they last longer and burn less electricity.
LEDs, which make their own light, should not be confused with LCDs, which block light.
Todays LEDs can also base on surface-mount technology and may be very small.
Nikolay Zheludev 2007. The life and times of the LED – a 100-year history. "Nature Photonics". 1, 189–192. . is a full-text version.

</doc>
<doc id="29665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29665" title="Antonín Dvořák">
Antonín Dvořák

Antonín Dvořák (b.Nelahozeves, nr Kralupy, September 8 1841; d. Prague May 1 1904) was a Czech composer. Along with Smetana and Janáček, Dvorak is one of three famous composers who wrote nationalist Czech music. He wrote chamber music including several string quartets, piano music, songs, operas, oratorios and nine symphonies. The last of his symphonies is known as the "New World" Symphony because he wrote it in the United States (the “New World”). The slow movement with its solo played on the cor anglais is especially famous.
Dvořák was born in a village near Prague, Czechoslovakia. Today Prague is the capital city of the Czech Republic, but in those days it was part of the Austrian Empire. His father was a butcher and innkeeper. He also played the zither and composed a few simple dances.
The young Antonín started to have violin lessons from the village schoolmaster. Soon he was playing the violin in his father’s inn, in local churches and in the village band. Just before his 12th birthday he left school and started to learn how to be a butcher. A year later he left home to go to school in Zlonice. He learned a lot about music there, and he also learned German. His teacher persuaded Dvořák's parents that he should have a musical career, so they sent him to study music in Prague at the Organ School. He continued to learn German, and he became a good viola player and played in concerts and in the Estates Theatre when they needed a big orchestra for Wagner’s operas "Lohengrin" and "Tannhäuser".
When Dvořák had finished his studies he got his first job playing in a band in restaurants and for balls. This was a time when there was suddenly a great interest in national culture in Bohemia. Plays and operas were allowed to be performed in the Czech language. The band he played with became part of the Bohemian Provisional Theater Orchestra, which from 1866 was conducted by Bedřich Smetana. Dvořák was principal viola player in the orchestra. He earned extra money by teaching, and he started to compose.
In 1871 he left the orchestra so that he could spend more time composing. For several years he still had to teach in order to earn enough money to live. He wrote a cantata "The heirs of the White Mountain" which was a great success. In 1874 he wrote an opera "King and Charcoal Burner", but the opera house did not want it. This made Dvořák realize that he had to be more self-critical. He destroyed a lot of his compositions which he thought were not his best works. He decided he must not compose like Wagner, but that he needed to find his own style of composing.
In 1873 he married. He got a job as church organist. His Third Symphony was performed at a concert conducted by Smetana. Dvořák rewrote his opera "King and Charcoal Burner", using completely different music. It was performed in 1874. He composed a lot more music.
In 1877 he had a letter from Hanslick to say that he had won a prize of 600 gulden and that the great composer Johannes Brahms was interested in his music. His music started to be published by Simrock, a well-known German music publisher, and his music was performed in many countries, even as far away as New York. His fame spread. Even his operas were performed abroad. "Dimitrij" was particularly successful. Brahms was a great friend and helped him a lot. Brahms and Hanslick tried to persuade him to move to Vienna because it was a great musical city, but Dvořák wanted to stay in his own country.
Dvořák's "Slavonic Dances" were published in 1878 and have always been very popular. The conductor Hans Richter conducted the Slavonic Rhapsody no 3 in Vienna. His "Stabat Mater" (1880) was performed abroad, and Dvořák was invited to visit England in 1884. He became very popular in England and went there many times. The English choirs liked to sing his choral works. His "Requiem Mass" was given its first performance in Birmingham at the Triennial Music Festival. He was given an honorary degree from Cambridge University. Tchaikovsky invited him to Russia in 1890.
From 1892 to 1895, Dvořák was the director of the National Conservatory of Music in New York City. He earned a lot of money: $15,000 a year. Dvořák was interested in the music of black Americans. He met the student Harry T. Burleigh, one of the earliest African-American composers, who introduced him to traditional American Spirituals.
In the winter and spring of 1893, while in New York, Dvořák wrote his most popular work, the "Symphony No.9, "From the New World"". He spent the summer of 1893 with his family in the Czech-speaking community of Spillville, Iowa, where some of his cousins lived. He also composed chamber music there, including a String Quartet in F which is known as the “American”, and a Sonatina for Violin and Piano.
In 1895, Dvořák wrote his "Cello Concerto in B minor", which was to become one of his most popular works. However, he wanted to go back to his own country. He was also not being paid all his salary. He heard that he had been made an honorary member of the "Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde" in Vienna. He decided to return to Bohemia and continue his job as professor of composition at the Prague Conservatory.
During his last years, Dvořák spent most of his time writing operas. "Rusalka" is particularly popular, especially the famous aria for soprano "To the Moon". The opera is about a fairy-tale and the story is based on Hans Anderson’s story of the "Little Mermaid". In 1896 he visited London for the last time to hear the first performance of his Cello Concerto. In 1897 his daughter married his pupil, the composer Josef Suk. 
He died in 1904 after a short illness.
Dvořák wrote lots of kinds of music. Although he based his style on the classical forms such as those of Beethoven, they also show the influence of Czech folksong. He lived at a time when Nationalistic feelings were felt very strongly by the Czech people. Smetana wrote music which was very Czech in character. Dvořák learned from Smetana’s music, but never imitated his style. Only five of his nine symphonies were known in his lifetime. When the other four were discovered and published in the 1960s the symphonies were all renumbered. The last three symphonies, numbers 7, 8 and 9 (which used to be called numbers 2, 4 and 5) are the most often performed. The Ninth Symphony: "From the New World" is one of the most popular symphonies ever written. The two sets of Slavonic Dances are extremely well-known. They are often played as a piano duet. He wrote concertos for the violin, cello and piano. Dvořák wrote many operas (the best known of which is "Rusalka"); chamber music (including a number of string quartets, and quintets); songs; choral music; and piano music.
Slavonic rhapsody: The life of Antonín Dvořák, by Barthold Fles

</doc>
<doc id="29668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29668" title="Leoš Janáček">
Leoš Janáček

Most of his greatest works were written towards the end of his life. At this time he was in love with a young woman called Kamila. She was the inspiration for many of his last compositions.
Janáček’s family were poor people who lived in the countryside in Moravia. His grandfather and his father were both musicians and school teachers. Leoš was the fifth of nine children. As the tiny house was so crowded he was sent to Brno when he was eleven. There he went to a choir school, but soon the choir had to stop. He continued his music education there. After his final exams he had an unpaid job as teacher for two years. He became conductor of a monastery choir as well as a male-voice choir called Svatopluk. He made them a better choir and wrote music for them. He studied at the Prague Organ School for a year, but he was very poor and could not afford to go to concerts. He continued to conduct choirs and became friends with Dvořák. He spent a short time in Leipzig and Vienna.
When he returned to Brno he became engaged to his piano pupil Zdenka Schulzová who was only 14. She was still under 16 when they married. Janáček founded (started) an organ school in Brno. He was the director of this school. He also taught music at the Old Brno Gymnasium. His marriage was unhappy and, although they remained married all his life, they spent a lot of time separated. He went on a journey to northern Moravia to collect folk songs which he used in some of his dances for orchestra.
Janáček’s spent several years writing his opera "Jenůfa". By the time he was finishing it his daughter had died. Some of his sadness can be felt in the opera. He also worked on a system of speech-melody (making his melodies sound like the rhythm of his language) which was to influence his operas for the rest of his life. "Jenůfa" was very successful when it was first performed in 1904. By this time Janáček was already 50.
Janáček was now doing less teaching and concentrating on organizing the Brno Organ School which had moved into a new building because it now had 70 students. His next opera was called "Osud" ("Fate"), but it was not performed during his lifetime. The music is very good but the libretto (words) were poor. This is also true of his next opera: "Mr Brouček’s excursion to the moon". He wrote chamber music during this period, as well as some very good choral music.
When World War I broke out Janáček was 60. He was well known in Moravia, but hardly known in other countries. His compositions from the war years include "Taras Bulba" which is a work for orchestra which describes a story by the Russian writer Gogol. He wrote a short, patriotic opera to follow Mr Brouček’s adventures. It was about a landlord from Prague who finds himself in the middle of the 15th century Hussite wars.
In his final years Janáček wrote most of the great works for which he is world-famous. His opera "Jenůfa" was performed in Prague. This made him internationally famous. He was very proud when his country became independent after the war. He was also very happy because he was in love with Kamila Stösslová, who was 38 years younger than himself. He wrote three of his finest operas: "Katya Kabanová", "The Cunning Little Vixen" and "The Makropulos Affair". These operas were performed in Brno and then in Prague, and they were also published. He wrote two string quartets and a wind sextet: "Mládi" ("Youth"). By the time he was 70 he had retired from the Brno Organ School. In 1926 he wrote an orchestral work: "Sinfonietta", followed by a piano concerto for the left hand (pianist just playing with the left hand) and chamber ensemble, and the "Glagolitic Mass". All these works had enormous success in Czechoslovakia as well as abroad, even as far away as New York.
In 1921 he had bought a cottage in his birthplace, Hukvaldy. He spent a lot of time composing there, away from the busy life in Brno. In the summer of 1928 he went there and was joined, for the first time in Hukvaldy, by Kamila, her 11-year old boy and her husband. He was working on the third act of his last opera "From the House of the Dead". One day Kamila’s son got lost in the forest. They spent some time looking for him. Janáček got cold, he caught pneumonia and died. His funeral in Brno was a large public event, at which some music from his opera "The Cunning Little Vixen" was performed.
Janáček grew up in the middle of the Romantic period, but most of his best music was written in 1920s, by which time musical styles had changed. Although he never wrote music which sounded as modern as that of Stravinsky or Schoenberg his music is Romantic, combined with Moravian folksong and sometimes with ideas from French impressionist composers such as Debussy. The music he wrote for choirs often continued in his operas. His music for instruments often started as programmatic, although a lot of it can be enjoyed without knowing the story it tells. He learned to write operas by learning from the operas of Smetana, but he made many changes such as shortening the duets and ensembles and using folksong in his melodies.
Janáček was not just important as a composer, but is remembered for his studies of folk music, and as a music theorist and teacher.

</doc>
<doc id="29669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29669" title="Arthur Sullivan">
Arthur Sullivan

Sir Arthur Sullivan (b.Lambeth, London, May 13 1842; d.London, November 22 1900) was an English composer. In his lifetime people thought he was the best British composer, but nowadays his serious works are rarely heard. He worked with an author and poet called W. S. Gilbert, and together they wrote fourteen comic operas. Their names are always mentioned together: "Gilbert and Sullivan". Their operas were very popular a hundred years ago, and most still are. The most popular are "The Mikado", "H.M.S. Pinafore" and "The Pirates of Penzance". The two men were very different. They argued sometimes, but they worked together for 25 years, from 1871 to 1896. 
Sullivan's serious works include one grand opera, two dozen orchestral and choral pieces, and many hymns and songs, including "Onward Christian Soldiers" and "The Lost Chord".

</doc>
<doc id="29670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29670" title="Psychosis">
Psychosis

Psychosis is the name used in psychiatry for a number of conditions. People who suffer from psychosis are said to be "psychotic". Usually, psychotic people "lose touch with reality", they have trouble telling what is real and what is not. It is an extreme kind of altered state of consciousness.
The word psychosis has two parts. The first part comes from psyche, which means soul in Ancient Greek. The second part is the ending '-osis', which means "illness or unnatural condition". So literally, psychosis means "unnatural condition of the soul".
People with psychosis may have hallucinations, which means they can experience things that are not really there. They may also have delusions, which are fixed beliefs and ideas that are usually false. Sometimes their personality changes, and they cannot think straight. Some of these thoughts may be paranoid. Not every psychotic person has all of these problems.
Because of these, psychotics often act in strange ways, which also makes it difficult for them to live a normal life as part of society. They often have trouble with making friends, as most people do not understand them.
Psychosis can affect people to different levels. Some people can continue with mostly normal lives, while other people will need medical help.
About 1 percent of people suffer from psychosis during their lives.
There are many things that can make someone seem psychotic. These include poisons, drugs, diseases of the nervous system, and other illnesses. For this reason, some people use the image of a "fever" of the central nervous system to talk about psychosis - a serious illness that may not have a very detailed explanation.
Many people have gone through unusual experiences that they believe are real. Hallucinations connected to religion or paranormal experiences seem to be quite common. Very often, these experiences cannot be called "psychosis" in a medical sense of the word. For this reason, some people have said that psychosis may simply be an extreme case of something that is experienced by most. People who have suffered from what could be called "psychosis" may simply have had experiences that were very strong or distressing.
In movies and the media in general, certain people who are shown as violent and antisocial are sometimes labelled "psychotic". This image of psychosis is wrong, the people shown are usually psychopaths or sociopaths, they usually do not have hallucinations or delusions.
Psychosis is most associated with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, drug addiction and brain damage but it can be caused by a wide range of conditions.
Psychosis is not a disease but rather a name for a number of symptoms, that can be caused by different diseases and conditions. Very broadly speaking there are two types of causes for psychosis:
Most psychoses can be treated, so that those suffering from them can lead a normal life. The treatment depends on the cause of the psychosis. In general, there are two different forms of treatment available:

</doc>
<doc id="29673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29673" title="Ramen">
Ramen

Ramen is a Japanese kind of noodle soup. The noodles are made of wheat. Ramen are typically Japanese, though they originally came from China. Ramen has become very popular in Japan and there are many shops that sell it. Japanese also make "instant ramen" to eat ramen quickly and easily at home. Outside Japan, people have also started to eat ramen.
On the model of Spaghetti Western, there are even movies based on Ramen.
There are various types of thickness, shapes and lengths. The noodle may be thin or thick, straight or wrinkled.
In Japan, there are unique local Ramen in various areas where local tastes are enjoyed. It is called "gotouchi ramen" in Japan. For example, Hakata ramen is known for its pork ramen soup. The noodles are very thin and does not need to be boiled for very long to become soft. Sapporo ramen is known for its miso ramen soup.
And Kitakata ramen is known for its Shoyu ramen soup. Shio (salty) ramen is also a popular flavor. These days, Gyokai-tonkotsu ramen is also popular.

</doc>
<doc id="29675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29675" title="Peter Paul Rubens">
Peter Paul Rubens

Pieter Pauwel (Peter Paul) Rubens (June 28, 1577 – May 30, 1640) was a painter. Many people think he is one of the most popular Flemish and European painters of the 17th century. He painted in Baroque style. His style was to emphasise movement and colour. Many of his paintings have a sensual touch. Some of them can be seen as erotic.

</doc>
<doc id="29685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29685" title="Adolf Frederick of Sweden">
Adolf Frederick of Sweden

Adolf Frederick, (14 May 1710 - 12 February 1771), was the King of Sweden between 1751 and 1771.

</doc>
<doc id="29687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29687" title="Gothenburg">
Gothenburg

Gothenburg () is the second largest Swedish city, after Stockholm. Around 550 000 people live there. The city was founded in 1621 by king Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="29700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29700" title="BBC One">
BBC One

BBC One is a television channel in the United Kingdom. It started on 1 October 1936, and was the first television channel in the United Kingdom. The channel is owned by the BBC. The channel shows lots of different programmes including famous ones such as "Only Fools and Horses" and "EastEnders".
BBC Television Service was the world's first regular public television service with a high level of image resolution.
The channel was later renamed BBC TV until the launch of sister channel BBC Two in 1964. The channel has an annual budget of £840 million., and makes an annual profit of £900 million. Along with the BBC's other UK television stations, it is funded completely by the television licence fee - this means it shows no adverts.

</doc>
<doc id="29704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29704" title="Bad Aibling">
Bad Aibling

Bad Aibling is a town in Bavaria (Germany). It is a former district seat. It is on the river Mangfall about 35 miles southeast of Munich. Bad Aibling is a health resort (peat pulp bath and mineral water).
In 804, Bad Aibling was mentioned for the first time. After the second World War Bad Aibling has evolved to a major centre for intelligence organizations and secret services. In 2004 the US American Bad Aibling Echelon station closed after decades of operation. In 2016, ten people were killed in a train crash.
In the town live about 18,000 people. It is 498 meters above sea level and covers an area of 41.55 km².

</doc>
<doc id="29705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29705" title="Gaya">
Gaya

Gaya is a town in the Indian state of Bihar. Gaya is a very old city, and one of the seven holy cities of the Hindus.

</doc>
<doc id="29708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29708" title="Patna">
Patna

Patna is the capital city of the Indian state of Bihar. About 1.7 million people live in Patna (census 2001). It is a very old city and has a history of at least 2,500 years. It was famous for its educational institutes, which during those days, attracted scholars from all over the world. Gautama Buddha who started Buddhism had also visited this city. Despite being a Hindu majority city Patna also has many Muslims and many Masjids. People in Patna speak Hindi, Bhojpuri, Maithli and Urdu. When founded Patna's old name was "Pataligrama", and later into "Pataliputra" which was the capital of Magadha Empire, before changing in to the current "Patna". 

</doc>
<doc id="29710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29710" title="Samuel Johnson">
Samuel Johnson

Samuel Johnson (born Lichfield, Staffordshire, England 18 September 1709; died London 13 December 1784) was a famous writer. After publishing a famous dictionary, he was given a doctorate, which is why he is often called "Dr Johnson". He wrote some of his own stories, but more often he wrote criticisms about what other people had written. He said a lot of witty, amusing things, which are still remembered today. We know about some of the funny things he said because his friend James Boswell wrote a book about him.
Samuel Johnson was born in Lichfield, Staffordshire. His father had a bookshop, but he was very poor. Samuel went to school in Lichfield. When he was nineteen he went to the University of Oxford, but he was so poor that he had to leave without taking a degree. A few years later he married a woman 21 years older than he was. They went to live in London, where he tried to make a living by writing but for many years he was very poor.
It was not until 1762 that he became famous and the government gave him a pension of three hundred pounds a year. He started a club (called "The Club") which included a lot of famous people like the painter Joshua Reynolds and the writer Oliver Goldsmith (see picture). Johnson was now so famous that he was given an honorary doctorate (the title of "Doctor") from Trinity College, Dublin in 1765, and an honorary doctorate from the University of Oxford in 1775.
Boswell and Johnson spent some time in Edinburgh and they travelled a lot to the Scottish islands. Johnson died in 1784 and is buried in Westminster Abbey.
Johnson spent several years writing his Dictionary of the English language. It was a big job. While he was writing it he could not be earning money, so he needed a patron (someone who would sponsor him by giving him money, and in return the dictionary would be dedicated to him). An important man called Lord Chesterfield said to Johnson that he would be his patron. But he never gave him any money, and Johnson never heard anything more from him, until the dictionary was ready. Then Lord Chesterfield wrote to Johnson saying that he hoped he would dedicate the dictionary to him. The letter that Johnson wrote back to Lord Chesterfield is very famous. It is very sarcastic (funny in an unkind way). Johnson said to him that it would have been nice to have had help when he was needing it. He said, sarcastically, that a patron was someone who stands on the river bank watching a man drowning and then, when then the drowning man is saved, asks him whether he can help. The letter made Lord Chesterfield look very silly.
There were very few dictionaries in Johnson's day, so it was a lot of work for him. Nowadays, a dictionary is made by a team of people. Dictionaries, like encyclopedias, should just give facts. But Johnson sometimes explained words in his dictionary in a way that showed his opinions (what he thought about things).
Examples:
Although it shows his personal likes and dislikes, the dictionary still deserves to be famous. Johnson defined 43,000 words. It was the first time a dictionary had been published that gave examples of how the words had been used by well-known writers.

</doc>
<doc id="29713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29713" title="Nozomi (Shinkansen)">
Nozomi (Shinkansen)

Nozomi trains are the fastest Shinkansen "bullet" trains in Japan. They can reach Osaka from Tokyo in 2 and a half hours. The trains are called "bullet" trains because they travel so fast, like a bullet from a gun. These trains have speeds of up to 300 km/h
The second fastest Shinkansen trains is the Hikari train. The third fastest Shinkansen train is the Kodama train. In the Japanese language, "Nozomi" means hope, "Hikari" means light and "Kodama" means "Echo."
"Shinkansen" means "New Trunk Line" in Japanese because it was built with all new bridges, tunnels through mountains and water, and special tracks for high speed trains so it could go directly (straight) from city to city. Before the Shinkansen, trains in Japan were slower because they were old and had to go around many mountains, or share the track with cars on road crossings.

</doc>
<doc id="29715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29715" title="Moravia">
Moravia

Moravia (Czech and Slovak: "Morava;" German":" "Mähren") is a historical region in the eastern part of the Czech Republic. It takes its name from the Morava River which flows from the north to the south of the land.
Together with Bohemia in the West and Silesia in the North, Moravia made historical-political region called Czech Lands. Today, Moravia, Bohemia and small part of Silesia make up the current Czech Republic.
Important cities today are Brno, Olomouc, Ostrava and Zlín.

</doc>
<doc id="29717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29717" title="Advanced Photo System">
Advanced Photo System

The Advanced Photo System was a technology for photographic film and cameras. People started using it in the year 1996.
This is what it did:
The system also had problems:
The system never became popular, and was stopped in 2004. Since then, most cameras have switched to digital (electronic) systems anyway.
One famous type of camera that used this system was the Canon IXUS, which then later changed and became a digital one.

</doc>
<doc id="29718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29718" title="Coral reef">
Coral reef

A coral reef is a large underwater structure made of dead and living corals. In most healthy reefs, stony corals are predominant. They are built from colonial polyps from the phylum Cnidaria which secrete an exoskeleton of calcium carbonate. The reefs are formed in tropical marine areas (30 degrees north and south of the equator). The reef acts as the home of many tropical fish and other animals. Coral reefs systems are a major tourism attraction because of their beauty and color of the corals and their many associated animals. 
People look at them while snorkeling and diving. One example of a coral reef is in Malaysia at Pulau Tioman, off the State of Pahang.
Most present-day coral reefs were formed after the last ice age when melting ice caused the sea level to rise and flood the continental shelves. This means they are less than 10,000 years old. As coral reef communities were established on the shelves, they built reefs that grew upwards, keeping pace with the rise in sea level. Reefs that did not keep pace became "drowned reefs", covered by so much water that there was insufficient light for further survival.
Coral reefs are also found in the deep sea away from the continental shelves, around oceanic islands and as atolls. The vast majority of these ocean coral islands are volcanic in origin. The few exceptions have tectonic origins where plate movements have lifted the deep ocean floor on the surface.
Coral reefs are fragile ecosystems. Because corals need warm, sunlit water to live, they often grow close to the top of the water. Being so close to land makes them often be damaged by poisons and dirt that can come from boats and the land nearby. Dirt makes the water more cloudy, which makes the sunlight less. Poisons can bleach and kill corals. Also, they are hard for ships to see, but easy to hit, which makes ships often run into the coral, damaging both the boats and coral. Because of this, many countries are trying to lessen the kinds of building that usually happen near beaches that have coral reefs nearby, and be more careful about the boats that go around reefs.

</doc>
<doc id="29721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29721" title="Laurel wreath">
Laurel wreath

A laurel wreath is a circular wreath made of interlocking branches and leaves of the bay laurel ("Laurus nobilis"). This is an evergreen whose leaves give off a pleasant scent.
The wreath is traditionally worn on the head. In Greek mythology, the god Apollo is shown wearing a laurel wreath because of the story of Apollo and Daphne. In Ancient Greece it was given to special people, such as winners in competitions in poetry or sports, such as the Ancient Olympic Games.
It was also used in Ancient Rome, and Roman Emperors are often shown wearing laurel wreaths. In the Summer Olympics 2004 in Athens, Greece gave laurel wreaths to the winners). The saying "resting on one's laurels" comes from this and means that someone relaxes now because he or she did something good in the past.
In some countries the laurel wreath is used as a symbol of the master's degree. The wreath is given to young masters in the graduation ceremony of the university. The word "Laureate" in 'poet laureate' refers to the laurel wreath.

</doc>
<doc id="29722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29722" title="Ranchi">
Ranchi

Ranchi is the capital city of Jharkhand state of India. About 847,093 people lived in Ranchi (census:2001). One of the oldest psychiatric hospitals of India was located there. 

</doc>
<doc id="29723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29723" title="Ujjain">
Ujjain

Ujjain is a city in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, India. Ujjain is a very old city, and one of the seven holy cities of the Hindus. It was an important city of Ancient India.

</doc>
<doc id="29727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29727" title="Ayodhya">
Ayodhya

Ayodhya is a town in Uttar Pradesh state of India. The Ramayana tells that Rama, a god of Hindus, was born in Ayodhya. Ayodhya is on the bank of the Sarayu River. The city is about five kilometers east of Faizabad, another important city of Uttar Pradesh.
The Ramayana tells that Ayodhya was the capital city of Rama’s kingdom. Rama was a form (an avatar) of Vishnu. Ayodhya is one of the seven most holy cities of Hindus.

</doc>
<doc id="29728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29728" title="Tulsidas">
Tulsidas

Tulasidas (1543-1623) was an Indian writer. He wrote many books. His most famous book is the "Ramacharitamanasa". This book was written in a language called Awadhi, a dialect of Hindi. The book tells the story of Lord Rama and his war and victory over Ravana, king of Lanka. Rama fought for his wife Sita and brought her back from Lanka to Ayodhya. 
Another book written by Tulsidas is "Kavitavali".
Tulsidas was born in Rajapur, in what is now Uttar Pradesh, in Samvat 1589 or 1532 A.D. He was a Sarayuparina Brahmin by birth and is regarded as an incarnation of Valmiki, the author of the "Ramayana". His father's name was Atmaram Shukla Dube and his mother's name Hulsi.

</doc>
<doc id="29732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29732" title="Mathura">
Mathura

Mathura is a city in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, India. Mathura is a very old city, and one of the seven holy cities of the Hindus. It was an important city of Ancient India.

</doc>
<doc id="29739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29739" title="Pulitzer Prize">
Pulitzer Prize

The Pulitzer Prize is an American prize given to journalism and literature. The prize is considered a very high prize. It is also given for musical composition of very high standard. Joseph Pulitzer started it. Columbia University in New York City awards the prize.
Prizes are given in twenty-one categories. The winner gets $10,000 cash award and a certificate. One of the twenty-one prizes is the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. 

</doc>
<doc id="29740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29740" title="Titan (mythology)">
Titan (mythology)

The Titans are the older kind of "gods" in Greek mythology. The original Twelve Titans were children of Gaia and Uranos.
Later they fought against the newer Olympians, but lost the war called the "titanomachy". Because of this the Olympians have the power and are more important, and many Titans were put into the Tartaros in the Greek underworld.
Children of Gaia and Uranos:
Children of Okeanos and Tethys:
Children of Koios and Phoebe:
Children of Hyperion and Theia:
Children of Rhea and Kronos:
Children of Iapetos and the Okeanid Asia/Klymene:
Children of Crius and the Eurybia:
Children of Cronus and the Phylira:

</doc>
<doc id="29741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29741" title="Turkish language">
Turkish language

Turkish ("Türkçe") is a language is spoken natively in Republic of Turkey, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Greece, and other countries of the former Ottoman Empire, as well as by several million emigrants in Europe.
Turkish is a Turkic language and in Altaic language family. Turkish has vowel harmony, like Finnish and Hungarian. Word order is usually Subject Object Verb (SOV).
Turkish used to be written with the Arabic alphabet from about 900 AD to 1928. However, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk changed it to the Latin alphabet. The Turkish government justified the move to the Latin script as being necessary to increase literacy, as the Arabic script was much more difficult to learn. The literacy rate did indeed increase greatly after the alphabet reform, from around 20% to over 90%.
The resulting Latin alphabet was designed to reflect the actual sounds of spoken Turkish, rather than simply transcribing the old Ottoman script into a new form. The Turkish alphabet is a Latin alphabet used for writing the Turkish language, consisting of 29 letters, seven of which (Ç, Ğ, I, İ, Ö, Ş, and Ü) have been modified from their Latin originals for the phonetic requirements of the language. This alphabet represents modern Turkish pronunciation with a high degree of accuracy and specificity. It is the current official alphabet and the latest in a series of distinct alphabets used in different eras.
This language is most closely related to other Turkic languages, including Uzbek, Turkmen, and Kazakh. There is another theory that Turkish is part of a larger Altaic family of languages, which also includes Japanese, Mongolian, and Korean.

</doc>
<doc id="29742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29742" title="Titan">
Titan

Titan can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29743" title="Phoebe (Titan)">
Phoebe (Titan)

Phoebe is a Titan in Greek mythology. She was associated with the moon. She is the daugher of Uranos and Gaia. She was married to her brother Coeus, and had two daughters: Leto and Asteria. Leto bore Artemis and Apollo, Asteria is the mother of Hecate.
The Olympians beat the Titans in the ten-year war. She and the Titans were summoned by Zeus to Tarturus, in the Underworld.

</doc>
<doc id="29744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29744" title="Phoebe">
Phoebe

Phoebe can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29745" title="Rhea (mythology)">
Rhea (mythology)

Rhea is a Titan in Greek mythology. Her parents are Gaia and Uranus or Ouranos. With her brother and husband Cronus her children are Demeter, Hades, Hera, Hestia, Poseidon, and Zeus.
Rhea is the Greek name and Cybele is the Roman name for mother of the Earth, and is the mother of gods. She is titan of the heavens. She is called "Mother of Gods" because she gave birth to the Olympians. Rhea’s name means “flow” or “ease”. Flow was referring to giving birth, water, and milk. Rhea’s symbol is the swan because it symbolized gentleness and peace. Rhea is seen between two lions or on a chariot pulled by lions. The holy day was Saturday, Rhea is associated with Saturday, and the holy tree was considered to be the Oak tree. Rhea is the daughter of the gods, Uranus and Gaia. She is the mother of Demeter, Hades, Hera, Hestia, Poseidon, and Zeus. Rhea was the wife and sister of Cronus. After Cronus had castrated Uranus with a Scythe , Cronus and Rhea, took the throne together, becoming King and Queen of the world. They ruled with the ways of peace and no violence. Cronus was shocked to hear the new that one of his children may grow up and over rule him, so he made it a practice to swallow his children. To avoid Cronus swallowing their last child, Rhea tricked Cronus into swallowing a rock with swaddling clothe, saving her son Zeus. Rhea hid Zeus in the Dictean Cave in Crete. When Zeus reached maturity, he overpowered and dethroned his father and made Cronus disgorge his siblings,which is why they name him "King of the Gods". In Roman mythology Rhea’s symbol is the Moon, in Greek mythology her symbol is “The Lunar.”

</doc>
<doc id="29748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29748" title="Magnus II of Sweden">
Magnus II of Sweden

Magnus II of Sweden, or Magnus Henriksson (died 1161) was a Danish lord. He was King of Sweden between 1160 and 1161. 
His mother was Ingrid Ragvaldsdotter, a granddaughter of Inge I. His father was the Danish lord Henrik Skatelår.
Magnus killed Eric the Saint as he left the church in Uppsala on May 18, 1160. He ruled as king of almost all of Sweden. Then he was murdered by the men of Charles Sverkerson, the rival king, the year after.

</doc>
<doc id="29749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29749" title="Karl Sverkersson">
Karl Sverkersson

Karl Sverkersson (c. 1130 – 12 April 1167) was the King of Sweden between 1160 and 1167.

</doc>
<doc id="29750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29750" title="Knut Eriksson">
Knut Eriksson

Knut Eriksson (born before 1150 – died 1195/96) was the King of Sweden between 1173 and 1195.

</doc>
<doc id="29751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29751" title="Sverker II of Sweden">
Sverker II of Sweden

Sverker II of Sweden was the King of Sweden between 1196 to 1208. He was killed July 17, 1210 in the Battle of Gestilren.

</doc>
<doc id="29752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752" title="Eric X of Sweden">
Eric X of Sweden

Eric X of Sweden (Erik Knutsson, c. 1180 - April 10, 1216) was the King of Sweden between 1208 and 1216.
Erik was the son of King Knut Eriksson of Sweden, but his mother is now unknown. In 1205 he escaped from the Battle of Älgarås, where his three brothers were killed. He stayed for three years with family in Norway. He returned to Sweden in 1208 and defeated Sverker II of Sweden in the battle of Lena. He was married in 1210 to Rikissa of Denmark, the daughter of Valdemar I of Denmark and Sophia of Novgorod.
Eric was elected king, but the coronation took place only in November 1210, after the Battle of Gestilren where he again defeated and killed Sverker II. Sverker had attempted to regain the throne. King Erik's coronation is the earliest known coronation in Sweden. It was carried out by the bishop Valerius, a former supporter of King Sverker II.
In 1216, Pope Innocent III agreed that King Erik was King of Sweden, and also any other pagan lands he captured, probably Finland. Previously, Innocent III had supported Sverker II. Very little is known about King Erik's reign, but it is said that the crops were good while he was king.
Erik had several children: 
Erik died of a fever in 1216 at Nas Castle in Visingsö. He is buried in the Varnhems Church. 

</doc>
<doc id="29753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29753" title="Johan Sverkersson">
Johan Sverkersson

Johan Sverkersson (c. 1201 – March 10, 1222) was the King of Sweden between 1216 and 1222.

</doc>
<doc id="29755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29755" title="Eric XI of Sweden">
Eric XI of Sweden

Eric XI of Sweden (Erik Eriksson) was the King of Sweden from 1222 to 1229, and from 1234 to 1250.

</doc>
<doc id="29759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29759" title="Westboro Baptist Church">
Westboro Baptist Church

The Westboro Baptist Church (WBC) is an American unaffiliated Baptist church known for its extreme opinions and protests, especially those against gay people. The church is widely described as a hate group. 
It is headed by Fred Phelps and consists mostly of members of his large family. In 2011, the church claimed it had about 40 members. The church is in a residential neighborhood on the west side of Topeka about three miles (5 km) west of the Kansas State Capitol. Its first public service was held on November 27, 1955.
The church has been involved in actions against gay people since at least 1991, when it sought a crackdown on homosexual activity at Gage Park six blocks northwest of the church. In addition to conducting anti-gay protests at military funerals, the organization pickets other celebrity funerals and public events that are likely to get it media attention. Protests have also been held against Jews and some protests have included WBC members stomping on the American flag.
The WBC is not affiliated with any Baptist denomination. The Baptist World Alliance and the Southern Baptist Convention (the two largest Baptist denominations) have each denounced the WBC over the years. The church describes itself as following "Primitive Baptist" and Calvinist principles.

</doc>
<doc id="29765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29765" title="University of Chicago">
University of Chicago

The University of Chicago is a university in Chicago, Illinois. It started when the American Baptist Education Society used money from John D. Rockefeller to build it. The university began in 1890. William Rainey Harper was the university's first president in 1891. The first classes were held in 1892.
Many people think it is one of the best universities in the world. Its students get a strong liberal arts education. The university also does important research work. Some of this research work is for the United States government.
The university is known for providing good education in economics (the study of the economy), linguistics (the study of language), social science (the study of society), and mathematics (the study of numbers). Physicists at the University of Chicago built the world's first man-made, self-sustaining nuclear reaction. The University spends $472 million on sponsored research each year.
The University of Chicago about 90 Nobel Prize winners. (The Nobel Prize is received for using one's intelligence to contribute meaningfully to society.)
The university has six graduate professional schools:

</doc>
<doc id="29766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29766" title="Shanghai Fugu Agreement">
Shanghai Fugu Agreement

The Shanghai Fugu Agreement was a successful political prank which was landed on the Social Democrats in the German state of Hesse in 1985.
In 1985 the new Green Party prepared to enter into a German state government for the first time in its history. The first green cabinet minister in German history was going to be Joschka Fischer who later became minister of Foreign Affairs in the German Federal Government under chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. The 1985 Hesse coalition was to be based on an official policy agreement negotiated by both parties.
During a final night session of the negotiations the Greens tabled a demand that Hesse join the "Shanghai Fugu Agreement". This was accepted by their tired Social Democratic counterparts and became official state policy.
The Greens argued that the fugu fish is well known to be a dangerous delicacy requiring specialised chefs who mostly come from Asia. Due to expanding restrictions on work permits restaurants have found it difficult to employ such specialists. The "Shanghai Fugu Agreement" provides special regulations for certified fugu chefs internationally. 
The agreement was absolutely fictional but was neither discovered to be a joke by the Social Democrats during the nightly negotiations nor later by civil servants or the press who went through the coalition contracts. It took years to be discovered as the joke it was.

</doc>
<doc id="29767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29767" title="Siren (noisemaker)">
Siren (noisemaker)

A siren is a device that is able to produce a loud noise. Sirens can be found on emergency vehicles, like ambulances. People also installed them on buildings, to warn of tornados, or air raids.
Sirens were used in Britain in WWII to warn citizens of Air Raids by the opposing countries. After WWII when the Atomic Bomb was dropped on Japan. Sirens were used to warn of the USSR dropped an A-Bomb or H-Bomb on the USA. "(these last two sentences do not make sense, decipher them if you can please since I can't- GWires)" Today they are used for tornadoes or hurricanes or other natural disasters.

</doc>
<doc id="29768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29768" title="Interval">
Interval

An interval is what comes between two things. 

</doc>
<doc id="29788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29788" title="Washington Capitals">
Washington Capitals

The Washington Capitals are an American ice hockey team in Washington, DC. They are a part of the National Hockey League (NHL).

</doc>
<doc id="29790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29790" title="Rhea Silvia">
Rhea Silvia

Rhea Silvia is the mother of the twin brothers Romulus and Remus in Roman mythology. She was the daughter of Numitor Silvius, king of Alba Longa.
When Numitor's brother Amulius became king by force, he made Rhea Silvia a Vestal Virgin, so she would not have children who could be kings instead of him. But the god Mars seduced her and she had the twins Romulus and Remus. Because of that she was buried alive (put in the earth so she died because she could not breathe), which was the common punishment for a Vestal Virgin who did not remain a virgin. Her sons were thrown into the Tiber by the servant, but were saved by the river god Tiberinus, who also saved Rhea Silvia and married her.
Tiberinus, whence the name of the river Tiber comes, married Rhea Silvia while the twins, Romulus and Remus, were raised by a she-wolf. A few months later a shepherd found them and raised them. When they where a bit older they decided to name a city after its ruler, the only problem is they both wanted to rule. So in the end they decided to fight and Romulus won, while his brother died, and named the city Rome.

</doc>
<doc id="29794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29794" title="Virginity">
Virginity

Virginity means a state of purity or inexperience. Traditionally a virgin is a person that had not had sexual intercourse. Usually, the idea of virginity is used for women, but it is also used for men who have not had sexual intercourse. Virginity has different meanings and importance in different religions and cultures.
Virgin women usually have an unbroken hymen. A hymen is human tissue that blocks the opening of the vagina about two inches deep. When a man inserts his penis or other object(s) are inserted into the vagina, it usually tears or breaks the hymen which results in bleeding. This blood from the hymen is important in many cultures, as it is a sign that the woman is a virgin. However, sometimes a hymen can be broken accidentally often by riding a horse; playing sports; even other recreational activities. Whether the woman has a hymen does not really indicate if she is a virgin or not.
In several polytheistic religions (religions with many gods), priestesses of certain gods have to be virgins, one notable exception is the Sumerian goddess Fauk'Stek, who was believed to have impregnated the sun god Loki and to have 'taught the Earth and its sons the glory of sacrifice'. In many cultures it is said that women should be virgins until marriage. In some cultures, women who are not virgins until marriage are hit or killed.
It is possible for a virgin to have a sexually transmitted disease, which was acquired by some other means: such as drug use, blood or plasma transfusions, close skin contact in the pubic area with infected people, oral sex, and other means.
It has been previously mentioned that in Islamic countries they show this blood to the relatives of bride and spouse after the wedding night so that they believe that the woman was a virgin before getting married. This is incorrect, as there is no such order, either practised or agreed amongst Islamic religion and countries.

</doc>
<doc id="29799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29799" title="Tethys (mythology)">
Tethys (mythology)

Tethys is a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the titan of fresh water. Her parents are Gaia and Uranos. With her brother Okeanos her children are the river gods, the sea and spring nymphs, the Okeanids.

</doc>
<doc id="29802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29802" title="Sarajevo">
Sarajevo

Sarajevo is the capital city of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has an estimated population of 436.000 people in the urban area including some municipalities from City of East Sarajevo which is the part of Republika Srpska entity. The city has people living in it from a large number of different cultures. It has mosques, synagogues, and churches. The 1984 Winter Olympics were held in Sarajavo.
During the Siege of Sarajevo, parts of the city were destroyed. Most of the city is now recovered and rebuilt.

</doc>
<doc id="29803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29803" title="Iapetos">
Iapetos

Iapetos, father of man kind and mountains, also known as Iaepetus or Japetus, is a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the son of Uranos and Gaia. With the Oceanid Klymene his children are Atlas, Prometheus, Epimetheus and Menoitios. 
After the war against the Olympians he was banned to the Tartarus with his brother, Kronos and all of the other Titans.

</doc>
<doc id="29806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29806" title="Kronos">
Kronos

Kronos (also Cronos or Cronus) is a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the Titan of time. His parents are Gaia (the Earth) and Uranus (the sky). Uranus was very vain and he cast the Cyclops and hundred handed ones into Tartarus (a deep pit), but Gaia wanted all her children to live in peace so she told the Titans to kill Uranus and she gave them a sharp scythe, which Kronos took. While Kronos's brothers held the sky he slashed it open with the scythe and he became lord of the universe, but he had too much of his father in him so he kept his brothers locked in Tartarus. 
With his sister and wife Rhea his children are Demeter, Hades, Hera, Hestia, Poseidon, and Zeus. Kronos became so angry about his children's power, and had been warned by Gaia, or mother earth, that one of his children would overthrow him. Because of this, he decided to eat them so he could obtain their power and stop the risk of the end of his reign. He ate all but Zeus because Rhea hid baby Zeus and gave Kronos a rock instead. Later, when Zeus was grown, he fed Kronos a mixture of mustard and wine and made him throw up his children. The reason they all survived in Kronos's stomach was because they were gods and goddesses, they were immortal. 
Zeus and his siblings were angry and Kronos was angry as well, they started the great war among the Titans and the gods. No one was winning the war and no one was losing, so Zeus asked Rhea for help. Rhea suggested they free the other Titans, whom Kronos locked away because they were too dangerous. The Titans were so happy to be freed from Tartarus, they helped Zeus win the war. Afterwards the other Titans thought they should have some power, but Zeus became head of the gods. The Titans refused to help Zeus further and planned revenge, only to fail against the all mighty Zeus. 
After the war against the Olympians Zeus stole Kronos's scythe and cut him in small pieces and spread him across Tartarus (the lowest place in the Greek underworld) to dwell forever, but since Kronos was also immortal he lay in the deepest part of Tartarus waiting to be freed and have revenge on his sons.
In some ways of telling he was later freed and became ruler of Elysian Islands.
Kronos is also mentioned in the series of the Percy Jackson books, depicted as the powerful titan human.

</doc>
<doc id="29808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29808" title="Okeanos">
Okeanos

Okeanos (Latin: Oceanus) is a Titan in Greek mythology. He is titan of the earth-encircling river Okeanos. His parents are Gaia and Uranos. With his sister Tethys his children are the river gods, the sea and spring nymphs, the Okeanids.

</doc>
<doc id="29809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29809" title="Okeanid">
Okeanid

The Okeanids are the daughters of the Titans Okeanos and Tethys in Greek mythology. They are water and ocean nymphs. Also Okeanid can mean all the children of Okeanos and Tethys, which includes the other water and river gods.
Many people also know these goddesses are sex/love inditents. 
Among them are:

</doc>
<doc id="29811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29811" title="Kreios">
Kreios

Kreios or Crius is a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the titan of the heavenly constellations. His parents are Gaia and Uranos. With Eurybia his children are Astraios, Pallas, and Perses.
After the war against the Olympians he was banned to Tartaros.

</doc>
<doc id="29812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29812" title="Koios">
Koios

Coeus is the Titan of intelligence in Greek mythology. With his sister Phoebe his children are Leto Artemis, Apollo, and Asteria. 
After the war against the Olympians he was banned to the Tartarus.

</doc>
<doc id="29813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29813" title="Uranos">
Uranos

Uranos, Uranus, or Ouranos is a Greek Titan of the sky and heavens. In Roman mythology his equivalent was Caelus, the husband of Terra or Tellus, Earth. A planet Uranus is named after this god. The radioactive chemical element, uranium, is also named after him.
There are many different stories that tell about the genealogy of Uranus. In some, he had no parents and was created from Chaos itself. In others, his mother was either the goddess Nyx (Night), Hemera (Daylight), or Mother Earth Gaia. His father is often said the have been Aether (Heavenly Light). The children of Uranus and Gaia are Titans, Cyclopes and Hecatonchires. Kronos, the youngest Titan, castrated his father with a sickle. When Uranus's castrated genitals were thrown into the ocean, there forms a great foam out of which was born Aphrodite, the goddess of love and beauty. Others of Uranus's children are giants, Gigantes, Erinyes and Meliae.

</doc>
<doc id="29814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29814" title="Gaia (mythology)">
Gaia (mythology)

Gaia/Gaea/Ge was the goddess of the earth in Greek mythology. She came out of Chaos. Many of the Greek gods were her descendants. 
Gaia is the titan of Earth and these are her offspring as related in various myths. Some are related consistently, some are mentioned only in minor variants of myths, and others are related in variants that are considered to reflect a confusion of the subject or association. 
In the book by Rick Riordan, Heroes of Olympus, Gaea is the main evil goddess directing the downfall of the Gods of Mt. Olympus. Gaea is seen torturing the main characters such as Leo Valdez, whose mother she killed, and Piper McLean whose father she took in ransom for the death of her friends. She enters the main character of Rick Riordan's second book of the series Heroes of Olympus: The Son of Neptune, Percy Jackson's dreams telling him to join her, but Percy refuses her urging. Gaea is revealed to be sleeping and the most powerful of all Greek gods, and in a dream Aphrodite warns Piper that should Gaea awaken they are all doomed, and in a short moment, Medea tells Piper that her patron (Medea's patron) is an enemy they can't "even begin to challenge" referring to Gaea. It is also revealed that Gaea needs the blood of a female and male demigod in The Mark of Athena to rise, which she does in The Blood of Olympus and then attempts to destroy the demigods, before being defeated by Leo and Jason Grace. 

</doc>
<doc id="29815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29815" title="Erebos">
Erebos

Erebus is the god of darkness in Greek mythology. He came out of Chaos. He was also known to be the god fire; and he was that until Hephaestus took his place along with the ability of metal works. He is the twin of Nyx, the Goddess of Night.
Mount Erebus and a small crater on Mars are named after the Greek God.

</doc>
<doc id="29816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29816" title="Kallisto">
Kallisto

Kallisto or Callisto was a nymph in Greek mythology, a companion of Artemis. Zeus came to her looking like Artemis, and with him she was the mother of Arkas. Hera in her jealousy made Kallisto a bear. Then her son was looked after by Maia, a nymph. 

</doc>
<doc id="29817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29817" title="Semele">
Semele

Semele is a person in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Cadmus and Harmonia. She has a child with Zeus called Dionysus, who grows up to be a god. Her family do not believe her that Zeus is the father. When Hera, Zeus's wife, finds out he has another woman pregnant, she tries to destroy a pregnant Semele. Zeus rescues Dionysus, but Semele is destroyed. Her family believe that Zeus has killed her as a punishment for lying about him being the father.

</doc>
<doc id="29818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29818" title="Robbie Williams">
Robbie Williams

Robert Peter "Robbie" Williams (born 13 February 1974) is an English singer and occasional actor. In the United Kingdom, he has sold more albums than any other British singer. He has sold more than 70 million records worldwide.
Williams performed his first songs in 1990, with the group Take That. In 1995, he left Take That to start playing and writing music on his own. On 15 July 2010, he rejoined Take That. The group released a new album in November 2010. It became the second fastest-selling album of all-time in UK chart history and the fastest-selling record of the century.
After he left Take That, Williams' first record was the song "Freedom", which was written by George Michael. His first album was called "Life Thru a Lens". It was first sold in September 1997. At this time, Williams had many problems with alcohol and depression. "Angels", a song from his first album, became his most famous song. Because "Angels" was so successful, the album "Life Thru a Lens" became much more popular, and he sold more than three million copies of it in Europe.
Williams wrote "Millennium", which was a song based on the music from the James Bond films, for his second album, "I've Been Expecting You". "Millennium" became his first Number One in the charts. Two more songs from the same album, "No Regrets" (which Williams wrote with Neil Tennant and Neil Hannon) and "Strong", were both successful in the United Kingdom. Another song from this album, "She's The One", also became a number One song.
Williams was not very successful outside Europe until he made the album "Sing When You're Winning", which was first sold in August 2000. The song "Rock DJ" won many awards: for example, it was called "Best Single (song) Of The Year" at the BRIT Awards, and MTV gave Robbie Williams an award for the special effects in the video. At this time, Robbie Williams recorded a duet, "Kids", with Kylie Minogue. Many of his songs, for example, "Supreme" and "Better Man", became popular in many different countries.
In 2001, Williams recorded covers (copies) of several songs that had been performed earlier by Frank Sinatra. One of these songs was a duet with Nicole Kidman, called "Somethin' Stupid". Later in 2001, he began to sell the album "Swing When You're Winning". The album became successful very quickly. Altogether he sold 7 million copies. A song from the album, "Beyond the Sea", was used at the end of the film "Finding Nemo". At this time, he also recorded a song he had written, "Eternity", which was not on any albums. It was very successful and became a Number One song.
In 2002, Williams signed a contract to say he would work for the company EMI. He worked on his next album, "Escapology", for a year. Many people think that "Escapology" was different from Williams' earlier music. The album was very successful in Europe, but it was not so successful in America. For the video for the song "Something Beautiful", Robbie ran a competition. The winner of the competition pretended to be Williams in the video. In the end, he chose three winners, so he made three different videos for the song.
In 2004, Williams put his most popular songs together. He called this collection "Greatest Hits". There were also some new songs on this album, for example, "Radio".
In February 2005, the BRIT Awards TV show asked people to vote to answer the question "What was the best song between 1980 and 2005?" The winner was "Angels" by Williams.
In October 2005, Williams' sixth album, "Intensive Care", was first sold. Williams and Steven Duffy wrote the songs for this album. At this time, four of the singers from Take That went to London for a TV show. They asked Williams to come, but he said he did not want to come to London with them. The newspaper "The Sunday Mirror" said that the other singers were "gutted" (very unhappy and disappointed) because Williams would not come.
In 2006, Williams started to perform at concerts all over the world. He recorded his new song, "Rudebox", which was very different from his other songs. Many people did not like it, and the newspaper "The Sun" said that "Rudebox" was "the worst song ever". The song was quite successful, but the album, which was also called "Rudebox", sold fewer copies than any of Williams' other albums.
Williams worked with Guy Chambers and Mark Ronson for his next album, "Reality Killed the Video Star". The album was released on 9 November 2009 in the United Kingdom.
On 11 October 2009 Williams published a 12-track compilation album, titled "Songbook". It was a free CD for the newspaper "The Mail on Sunday". The CD is a one-off album of some of his biggest hits - including several rare live performances.
In October 2010 Williams released his second greatest hits album, "", to celebrate 20 years as a performing artist.
In June 2011 Robbie Williams said he was working with Gary Barlow on a new solo album.
He was the opening act at the Diamond Jubilee concert held outside Buckingham Palace on 4 June 2012.
Williams' ninth album "Take the Crown" was released on 5 November 2012.
On 15 November 2013 Williams' tenth album "Swings Both Ways" was released.
Williams lives in Los Angeles, in California. He has often said that he likes Los Angeles because he can feel free and private. Williams moved back to the UK in 2009. He bought an £8.5 million mansion in Compton Bassett, Wiltshire. It was nearby to close friend Jonathan Wilkes who lives in Swindon. Williams sold the mansion a year later to move back to Los Angeles.
He often has problems with alcohol, drugs and mental illness. He has often visited special hospitals to cure his addiction to alcohol and drugs.
Some people have suggested that Williams might be gay, but he says he has "never slept with (had sexual intercourse with) a man". In 2005, when MGN wrote an article that said Williams was gay, his lawyer made the writers give him compensation (money) because they had written libel (lies). He has had relationships with many women, including TV presenter Rachel Hunter and singer Nicole Appleton.
On 7 August 2010, Williams and long time girlfriend, actress Ayda Field, married at his home in Los Angeles. On 30 March 2012 Williams said that he and his wife would become parents for the first time. Their daughter Theodora Rose was born on September 18, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="29819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29819" title="Hyperion (Titan)">
Hyperion (Titan)

Hyperion is a Titan of light in Greek mythology. His parents are Gaia and Uranos. With his sister Theia his children are Helios, Selene, and Eos.
The English Romantic poet John Keats used the story of Hyperion's defeat by Apollo in his poem "Hyperion".

</doc>
<doc id="29820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29820" title="Bharata">
Bharata

Bharata has several meanings. Some of the meanings are given below:

</doc>
<doc id="29822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29822" title="Durga">
Durga

Durga is one of the goddesses in Hinduism and is a form of Devi, the supreme goddess. In Bengal, she is said to be the mother of Ganesha and Kartikeya as well of Saraswati and Lakshmi. She is considered a divine mother, a guardian, and a warrior who protects divine law and righteousness, and these are her main roles.
Durga is most often seen as a warrior woman riding a lion or a tiger with eight or ten hands carrying weapons and assuming mudras, or symbolic hand gestures. This way, the Goddess is the embodiment of feminine and creative energy (Shakti).
According to the narrative from the Devi Mahatmya of the Markandeya Purana, Durga was made by the gods as a warrior goddess to fight a demon. The demon's father, Rambha, king of the demons, once fell in love with a water buffalo, and Mahishasur was born from this union. He is therefore able to change between human and buffalo form at will (mahisha means "buffalo"). Through intense prayers to Brahma, Mahishasura was given the boon that he could not be defeated by any man or god. He unleashed a reign of terror on earth, heaven and the nether worlds. The gods, realizing that only a woman or goddess could defeat the buffalo demon, gave forth all of their creative energy and created Durga. Durga, holding many weapons, went to battle with Mahishasur and won, saving the gods and men from destruction.

</doc>
<doc id="29823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29823" title="Theia">
Theia

Theia is a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the titan of sight. Her parents are Gaia and Uranos. With her brother Hyperion her children are Helios, Selene, and Eos.She was also considered the moons eyes because Selene was her daughter and Selene was the titan of the moon.

</doc>
<doc id="29824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29824" title="Themis">
Themis

Themis is a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the titan of law and order. Her parents are Gaia and Uranos. She is also featured in the game golden sun 2 as the famous and one of the weakest weapons around the game called the Themis Axe.

</doc>
<doc id="29825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29825" title="Adi Shankara">
Adi Shankara

Adi Shankara (also called Shankaracharya; 788–820) was an Indian religious philosopher. He was born in Kalady, in the Indian state of Kerala. He traveled to many parts of Ancient India. Shankara wrote many books in Sanskrit. He founded a branch of Hindu thoughts named Advaita. He wrote many books such as "Saundarya laharifor lauding Lakshmi". Shankara gave explanations for Brahma Sutra, Bhagavat Geeta, etc. His first guru was Gaudapada, who lived as a seer on the banks of river Narmada.

</doc>
<doc id="29826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29826" title="Lake Garda">
Lake Garda

Lake Garda is the largest lake in Italy. In Italian its name is Lago di Garda.
It lies in the north of Italy between Venice and Milan, in the regions of Veneto, Lombardy and Trentino.
The lake is 51.6 kilometres long and 17.2 kilometres wide. It covers an area of 369.98 square kilometres.

</doc>
<doc id="29827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29827" title="Award">
Award

An award is something given to a person or group of people to recongise that they have done something very good. Usual awards are medals, trophies or ribbons, for example. Sometimes awards are called prizes, such as the Nobel Prize.
Awards can be given by any person or institution. Governments and militaries often give awards to their citizens for contributions they have made to the nation. This recognition can be given during the person's lifetime or even after they have died. In the United States if a military member receives a posthumous award it is generally presented to their family members or next of kin. This can include medals like the Medal of Honor; promotions to the next higher grade or naming a building or ship after them.
Some entertainment awards are:

</doc>
<doc id="29828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29828" title="Thetis">
Thetis

Thetis (Greek Θέτις) is a nereid (sea nymph) in Greek mythology. She is a daughter of Nereus and Doris. She is married to Peleus and with him the mother of Achilles.
Some stories say that she dipped Archilles in the river Styx when he was a child to make him invulnerable.

</doc>
<doc id="29830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29830" title="Tirunelveli">
Tirunelveli

Tirunelveli is a city in the southern part of Tamil Nadu, India. It is also called Nellai. Thamirabarani River flows through Tirunelveli.
Tirunelveli is famous for a sweet that is generally referred to as 'Alwa' in Tamil. There are tiny villages in and around Tirunelveli like Alwarkurichi, Kalidaikurichi, Rangasamudram, Cheran Mahadevi.
Tirunelveli is a city in Tamil Nadu state of southern India. It is the headquarters of Tirunelveli District. Tirunelveli is about 2000 years old and is a town of old tradition. Tirunelveli was the capital of the Pandya Kingdom for some time, next to Madurai. 
Tirunelveli is on the banks of the river Thamiraparani; it is on the way to Kanniyakumari from Madurai. It is a twin town - Thirunelveli and Palayamkottai. The town is about 650kilometers away from Chennai. 
The temple of Nellaiappar and Kanthimathi is in the centre of Tirunelveli. The temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva and worshipped as Nellaiappar. Thiru-Nel-Veli (Thiru - Shri, Nel = Paddy, Veli = Fence). It is believed that food grains collected for worship at the temple were protected from the floods by the fence, hence the name Nel Veli came. 
The famous Courtallam Waterfalls are in Tirunelveli District. Tirunelveli is famous for Tirunelveli halwa.

</doc>
<doc id="29834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29834" title="Domestic worker">
Domestic worker

A domestic worker or, especially earlier, a domestic servant is someone who works for somebody to help them run their home. Many domestic workers live in their employers’ homes. Back in the 19th century many large households in Europe or the United States, as well as other countries, would have had domestic workers. 
A domestic worker is employed by somebody, and therefore domestic workers get paid. They are free to leave their employment if they wish. Many domestic workers are required by their employer to wear a uniform when in their employer's home.
Large households in Victorian Britain would have had a lot of domestic workers. The butler was the most important one. At meal times he would have been something like a head waiter. Other male domestic workers were often called "valets". A valet (sometimes said with a silent "t") may have been a personal servant who looked after his master’s clothes and comforts, and possibly looked after money matters as well. Female domestic worker were usually maids who cleaned the house, cooks who prepared the meals and nannies who looked after the children. Gardeners would have done the gardening.
In the early 20th century, new laws were made in Britain to protect domestic workers, and give them more rights. In the early 18th century, even some musicians were servants and had to wear livery (uniform). In 1717, when composer Johann Sebastian Bach said he wanted to leave his job, the duke he worked for put him in prison.
Today in many parts of the world domestic workers from poorer countries are often employed by people in the richer countries.
To ensure the right of decent work for all kind of domestic workers including migrant workers, International Labour Organization has made Convention No. 189 on domestic workers. 

</doc>
<doc id="29835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29835" title="Cassandra">
Cassandra

Cassandra or Kassandra (Greek: "Κασσάνδρα", also 'Alexandra') was a person in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of King Priam of Troy and Hecuba, and twin sister of Helen. She was famous for her prophesies of bad events.
The god Apollo gave her the gift of prophecy so that she would love him, but Kassandra did not want him. This made Apollo angry, but he could only change his gift and not take it away. So he made it that Kassandra could only foresee bad things, and that no one would ever believe her.
In the Trojan War Kassandra knew of the trick with the Trojan Horse, but no one believed her, and so Troy was destroyed. After the Trojan War she became a slave of Agamemnon. She warned him that his wife Klytaimnestra would kill him. But he would not believe her, and so Agamemnon was killed, and Kassandra shortly after him.
There is a work called "Alexandra" by Lykrophon. The poet is only known through this work which was done between 196 and 190 BC. The work has 1474 lines, which are done in jambic trimeters. This is what most Greek tragedies were written in.

</doc>
<doc id="29836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29836" title="Leda">
Leda

Leda is a person in Greek mythology. She was the wife of King Tyndareos of Sparta.
Zeus seduced her as a swan, and Leda laid two eggs. Out of one egg came Helen and Polydeukes, who were the children of Zeus. Out of othe other egg came Klytaimnestra and Kastor (see Castor and Pollux) who were the children of Leda's husband Tyndareos.

</doc>
<doc id="29841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29841" title="Tyndareus">
Tyndareus

Tyndareos (or Latin Tyndareus) was a character in Greek mythology. He was the king of Sparta, and husband of Leda.
He was the father of Klytaimnestra and Kastor. His wife Leda also had Helen and Polydeukes by the god Zeus.
Menelaos, husband of Helen, became the next king of Sparta after Tyndareos.

</doc>
<doc id="29842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29842" title="Telemachus">
Telemachus

Telemachos (or Latin Telemachus) is a person in Greek mythology. He is the son of Odysseus of Ithaca and Penelope. While Odysseus was trying return home, many believed him to be dead. Suitors surrounded his home, trying to claim Penelope as their wife. Athena came to Telemachus in diguise and gave him advice. She told him to search for evidence that his father was still alive. If he was alive he could force the suitors away. However, if he believed his father to be dead, he would let one of the suitors claim her. He gathered a search party and set out to question many of the people Odysseus served with in the war. He decided that his father was dead. Telemachos held a competition for the suitors to claim Penelope. Odysseus showed up in secret, won the competition and rejoined his family.

</doc>
<doc id="29843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29843" title="Antonio Vivaldi">
Antonio Vivaldi

Antonio Vivaldi (born Venice, 4 March 1678; died Vienna, 28 July 1741) was an Italian composer. He was the most important composer in Italy at the end of the Baroque period. 
Vivaldi wrote more than 400 concertos for various instruments, especially for the violin. The scores of 21 operas, including his first and last, are still intact. His most popular work is the group of four violin concertos called “The Four Seasons”. Each concerto describes a season: Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. He is believed to be the inventor of the ritornello form. He was very famous for his piccolo compositions, such as "Il gardellino".
Vivaldi probably was taught to play the violin by his father, who was also a professional musician. He trained to be a priest, and because of his red hair, he became known as "il prete rosso", which means "the red priest." He did not work as a priest for very long, and in 1703 he began teaching violin to girls at an orphanage in Venice, the Pio Ospedale della Pietà. The name means "Devout Hospital of Mercy." The girls were chosen because they showed exceptional musical abilities. They gave regular concerts, so as part of his duties Vivaldi wrote music for them to play. He lost the job between 1709 and 1711, when he was reappointed. he also took on the extra job of writing sacred music for the girls' choir. He continued teaching until 1716 when he was put in charge of all the music events.
Vivaldi's music was becoming well known. During his break from teaching between 1709 and 1711 he wrote a large number of works including violin sonatas and concertos. In 1711 a collection of 12 concertos, "L'estro armonico op.3", for one, two and four solo violins was published by Etienne Roger in Amsterdam. This made him famous throughout Europe, and musicians coming to Venice would visit Vivaldi for lessons. Further new publications of his music made him even more famous. The first of his many operas, "Ottone in villa", was performed in 1713.. His first oratorio, "Juditha Triumphans devicta Holofernis barbaric", was performed by the girls from the Pietà in 1716.
In 1718 Vivaldi left Venice and moved to Mantua, where he became the director of music for the governor, Prince Philip of Hesse-Darmstadt. He composed his famous "Four Seasons" as well as several operas during this time. He went to Rome in about 1721, where he performed on several occasions for the Pope. While he was travelling, he continued to write music for the girls at the Pietà, over the years he sent them about 140 concertos. He went to a number of cities in Europe to have his operas performed including Vienna, Verona, and Prague. He often went back to Venice to rehearse his music with the girls.
Even though his music was popular, Vivaldi did not make a lot of money from his music. As newer musicians, and more modern styles became popular, he found it more difficult to earn a living. He died, a poor man, in Vienna, on 28 July 1741.

</doc>
<doc id="29844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29844" title="Agamemnon">
Agamemnon

Agamemnon was King of Mycenae, a figure in Greek mythology, and possible an actual person. He lead the Mycenaean Greeks who took part in the Trojan War (Siege of Troy). 
Agamemnon was the son of King Atreus of Mycenae and Aerope. He was the brother of Menelaos. His wife was Klytaimnestra, and their children were Iphigenia, Elektra, Orestes and Chrysothemis.
After the Trojan War he took Troy's Kassandra as a slave. She warned him that his wife Klytaimnestra would kill him, but he would not believe her. At home, Agamemnon was killed by Klytaimnestra and her lover Aegisthus. The story featured in Homer's "Odyssey" (3.266).

</doc>
<doc id="29846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29846" title="Menelaus">
Menelaus

Menelaos (or Latin Menelaus) was a person in Greek mythology. He was the son of King Atreus of Mycenae and Aerope. He was the brother of Agamemnon. His wife was Helen, the most beautiful woman in the world, and with her he had a daughter, Hermione. Because of his marriage with Helen, he was King of Sparta. The Trojan War was started because Paris took Helen away.

</doc>
<doc id="29849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29849" title="Clytemnestra">
Clytemnestra

Klytaimnestra (or Clytemnestra) was a person in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of King Tyndareos of Sparta and his wife Leda.
She was married to Agamemnon, King of Mycenae. With him her children were Iphigenia, Elektra, Orestes and Chrysothemis.
After the Trojan War, Klytaimnestra and her lover Aegisthos killed Agamemnon. Klytaimnestra and Aegisthos are later killed by her son Orestes.

</doc>
<doc id="29852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29852" title="Percussion instrument">
Percussion instrument

Percussion instruments are instruments which are played by shaking or hitting. There are many different kinds of percussion instruments. A person who plays a percussion instrument is a percussionist. Percussionists are usually able to play lots of different percussion instruments, because the basic skills required are similar.
Some percussion instruments can play tunes. These are called “tuned percussion”. Tuned percussion instruments include: xylophone, glockenspiel, vibraphone, tubular bells and timpani.
Untuned percussion instruments include: bass drum, side drum (snare drum), maracas, castanets, cymbals, tambourine, claves and many more.
In an orchestra there can be more different kind of percussion instruments than in the other families: string, woodwind and brass instruments. However, older music does not often use lots of percussion. Most music for orchestra by composers like Mozart and Beethoven only use the timpani. In the 19th century, more percussion is added: cymbals, tambourine, triangle etc. In the 20th century, some composers may use very many percussion instruments.
Whenever any unusual instrument is used that does not fit into the category of string, woodwind, brass or keyboard, it is usually played by a percussionist. Sometimes composers have used things like typewriters, milk bottles or vacuum cleaners in their pieces.
There are many different class of percussion instruments. There are for example:
-Latin percussion instruments
-Classic percussion instruments
-Modern percussion instruments
Latin percussion instruments are used in American-Latin Music. The instruments are Maracas, Congs, Timbales...
Classic percussion instruments are used in the Harmony Orchestras. The instruments are Tampani, Bass Drum, Xylophone...
Modern percussion instruments are used in the Rock, Pop and Jazz music. There is just the drum set, but this is a percussion instrument with many possibilities. One can take for example a cowbell on the drum set or an tambourine. We have with the drum set uncountable possibilities.
Drum kits are the basis of most pop music. Drum kits can include bass drum, side drum, tom-toms, cowbells, cymbals (suspended and hi-hat) etc. Together with a string bass (double bass) they will form the “rhythm section” of a jazz group. A percussion player has to have a very good sense of rhythm. The other players rely on him or her to keep a steady beat and not to play so loudly that the others cannot hear the tune.

</doc>
<doc id="29854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29854" title="Hurrians">
Hurrians

The Hurrians or Khurrites were people who lived in and around northern Mesopotamia from about 2500 BC. They were a large ethnic group, and had some cities and kingdoms, but they also lived in small groups among other ethnic people. The first known piece of music to be written down was Hurrian.

</doc>
<doc id="29864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29864" title="Oneiroi">
Oneiroi

The Oneroi (Greek: "dreams") were the sons of Hypnos, the god of sleep in Greek mythology. They were the personification of dreams. They were Morpheus, Phobetor (or Ikelos) and Phantasos.
They lived in caves in the far west, near the gates of the Underworld. They were sent through one of two gates there. One gate was made of horn, from there the true or prophetic dreams come from. The other gate was made of ivory, from there the false and meaningless dreams come from.
The were shown as black-winged daemons. 
The most powerful of the Oneiroi was Morpheus. His brothers Phobetor and Phantasos shape parts of dreams, while Morpheus shapes the dream in general. Morpheus shapes human figures, Phobetor shapes animal figures and Phantasos shapes inanimate objects. Morpheus is still depicted in popular fiction today.

</doc>
<doc id="29865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29865" title="Malcolm X">
Malcolm X

Malcolm X (May 19, 1925 - February 21, 1965) was an African American nationalist and civil rights activist. Before he became Malcolm X, his name was Malcolm Stuart Little. Malcolm X's father was a Baptist minister whose skin was very dark and his mother's skin was much lighter. His parents taught him to be proud of being black in an openly anti-black society.
In 1946, Little was put in prison for burglary and discovered the Nation of Islam while he was there.
At first, Malcolm X's actions and speeches were mostly inspired by the beliefs and teachings of the Nation of Islam. He taught that all white people were bad. Once he learned that the leader of the Nation of Islam was in relationships with many women, he quit the group and changed his religion to Sunni Islam. He went on a pilgrimage to see the Islamic holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia. At this point, his opinions of white people got better, and he began to believe that white people could be good people, too. Malcolm X believed that black people should fight for their civil rights in any way they could, even if they had to become violent. He also thought that black people should support one another by shopping in stores owned by black people. He was critical of the civil rights movement.
Malcolm X was shot dead in New York City after preaching about black rights. Three members of the Nation of Islam had a part in his murder.
He had six children with Betty Shabazz. He had six grandchildren. Malcolm Shabazz was killed in May 2013. He also has two great grandchildren.

</doc>
<doc id="29867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29867" title="Nereus">
Nereus

Nereus (Νηρεύς) is a sea god in Greek mythology. His parents are Gaia and Pontos. With the Okeanid Doris his fifty daughters are the Nereids, sea nymphs of the Mediterranean Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="29874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874" title="James MacMillan">
James MacMillan

James MacMillan (born July 16, 1959) is the most important Scottish composer of today.
MacMillan was born at Kilwinning, North Ayrshire, Scotland. He studied music at the universities of Edinburgh and Durham. He writes a lot of his music for the Scottish Chamber Orchestra and helps them to take music out to schools so that children can listen and join in with his music.
Three of his most important compositions are:
"The Confession of Isobel Gowdie" (1990) which is music about a woman who lived at the time when people believed that a lot of women were witches. In 1662 Isobel Gowdie was accused and tried for witchcraft. What is remarkable about her case is the fact that she confessed without torture, and there is no record of an execution; she walked away after confessing. What is even more remarkable about her case is the fact that she did not pander to distorted Christian ideas of witchcraft and the worship of Satan. She spoke about true Shamanism that is still in practice today.She spoke of what would be known today as astral travel, and other such beliefs and practices. Most famously, she spoke of her soul being transformed into that of a hare. 
"Veni, veni, Emmanuel" (1992) is like a percussion concerto. It is a piece for one percussion player who plays lots of percussion instruments, and an orchestra. The main tune is the medieval hymn tune "Veni, veni, Emmanuel" (known to us as the hymn "O come, O come Emmanuel"). It was played by the Scottish percussionist Evelyn Glennie at a BBC Prom in 1992.
"Quickening" is a piece of music for counter-tenor, two tenors and baritone soloists, children’s choir, mixed choir and large orchestra. It is about birth and new life. The children’s choir sing the words of the unborn babe. They stand on a balcony or somewhere far away from the other choir and the orchestra. Some of the words are “Glossalalia” (nonsense words). It is a beautiful work with some very unusual effects including colourful orchestration and “splashes” of notes from the choir. It was performed at a BBC Prom in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="29880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29880" title="Polyphemos">
Polyphemos

Polyphemos (or Polyphemus) is a Kyklops in Greek mythology. He is the son of the god Poseidon and Thoosa. Polyphemos is a creature of strength and immense stupidity who broke the cardinal rule of hospitality in Ancient Greece. He lived in a cave on an island, and he had sheep. On the island also lived several other Kyklopes.
Polyphemos appears in Homer's "Odyssey". On his journey home to Ithaca after the Trojan War, Odysseus lands on the island of Polyphemos. They come to the cave where Polyphemos lives. Polyphemos comes back and he traps them in his cave placing a boulder in front of the entrance, also eating some of Odysseus' men. Odysseus then thinks of a plan to get away. He tells Polyphemos that his name is "Nobody", and gives him wine to drink. When he is sleeping, Odysseus and his men take a log from the fire and shape the end of it to a point and drive it into the Kyklops', Polyphemos, only eye, so he could not see them anymore. In agony he cries out to the other Kyklopes for help. When they ask what has happened, he says that "Nobody" hurt him, so the Kyklopes leave him. The next morning Polyphemos lets his sheep out of the cave, but touches their backs so no one of the men could ride out on them. But Odysseus and his men hold themselves on the underside of the sheep, and so they get out. When Polyphemos realizes that Odysseus got away, he cries out to the other Kyklopes again. They asked him what happened, and he said "Nobody hurt me.", and so the other Kyklopes went away again. When Odysseus was on his ship again, he called out in rage to Polyphemos saying that he, Odysseus was the one who had destroyed his eye. As Odysseus went away he mocked Polyphemos. This is hubris. Polyphemos was very angry and threw a rock at them, but it missed the ship. Then he pled with his father, Poseidon, for revenge that all of Odysseus' men should die and that Odysseus should only come home to Ithaca after ten years. All of it comes true, as is told in the "Odyssey".

</doc>
<doc id="29886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29886" title="Federated States of Micronesia">
Federated States of Micronesia

Micronesia, officially the Federated States of Micronesia, is an island nation in the Pacific Ocean, northeast of Papua New Guinea. The country is a sovereign state in free association with the United States. The capital city of Federated States of Micronesia is Palikir.
The Federated States of Micronesia were formerly part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, a United Nations Trust Territory under US administration. In 1979 they adopted a constitution, and in 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with the United States. Present concerns include large-scale unemployment, overfishing, and overdependence on U.S. aid.
The Federated States of Micronesia are in the region known as Micronesia, which consists of hundreds of small islands divided in seven territories. The term "Micronesia" may refer to the Federated States or to the region as a whole. This area is in Oceania.

</doc>
<doc id="29888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29888" title="Pär Lagerkvist">
Pär Lagerkvist

Pär Lagerkvist (1891 May 23 – 1974 July 11) was a man from Sweden who wrote many books. In 1940, he was elected as a member of Swedish Academy. And in 1951, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature.

</doc>
<doc id="29890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29890" title="Thanatos">
Thanatos

Thanatos is the god of death in Greek mythology. He is the son of Nyx and the twin brother of Hypnos, the god of sleep.
Sigmund Freud, a famous psychologist, used the word in one of his theories.

</doc>
<doc id="29891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29891" title="Medication">
Medication

Medication (also called medicine or pharmaceutical drugs) is the use of legal drugs to treat or cure an illness. Some drugs are freely sold. They are called over-the-counter (OTC) drugs. Other drugs are so powerful or dangerous that a doctor must give permission to use the drug. The note from the doctor is called a "prescription." These drugs are called prescription drugs, prescription medicines, or prescription only medicines (POM).
There are many different words used to describe important things about medications.
Dosage is how much medication needs to be taken to make the medication do what it is supposed to.
Dosage is very important because all medicines can be poisons if they are taken in large amounts. If a person takes too much of a medication, they can get very sick or even die. This is called an overdose. For example, if a person takes too much acetaminophen (also called paracetamol, Tylenol, or Panadol), they can badly hurt their liver.
Some dosages are based on age. For example, often children need less medication than adults. Others are based on body weight. Sometimes, normal dosages have to be changed if a person has certain medical problems, like kidney failure.
Action is what the medication is supposed to do: the helpful effects that the medicine is supposed to have on the body.
Many drugs have more than one action. For example, acetaminophen is an analgesic (it kills pain) and an antipyretic (it makes fevers go away).
An indication is a reason why a medication is given.
Many drugs have more than one indication. For example, acetaminophen's indications include pain and fever.
A contraindication is a reason why a medication should not be given. 
Almost all medicines, even over-the-counter medications, have some contraindications. For example, acetaminophen should not be given to people who are allergic to acetaminophen. For these people, acetaminophen is "contraindicated," and another medicine should be used instead. Acetaminophen is also contraindicated in people who have liver disease.
A person takes a medication because they want it to do certain things. When the medication also does other things that the person did not want, these are called side effects. For example, acetaminophen can cause nausea. This is a side effect of acetaminophen.
Adverse effects are side effects that are dangerous or harm the body. For example, in some people, acetaminophen can hurt the liver. This is an adverse effect of acetaminophen.
Most medicines have many possible side effects. This does not mean that anyone who takes the medicine will have those side effects. For example, not everyone who takes acetaminophen gets nausea. A side effect is just a possible effect that a medicine can have on the body.
All medications have a few different names.
When a medication is first discovered, it is given a chemical name. This name describes the atoms or molecules in the medication. Usually, only scientists use this name. 
For example, the chemical names for acetaminophen are N-acetyl-para-aminophenol and para-acetyl-amino-phenol.
Every country has one generic (official) name for every medicine.
In the United States, a medicine is given an official generic name after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says a it is safe to be sold. For example, acetaminophen is the official generic name used in the United States. (Paracetamol is the generic name used in the United Kingdom and some other countries.) 
Sometimes, generic names come from a medicine's chemical name. For example, acetaminophen is named after N-acetyl-para-amino-phenol, and paracetamol is named after para-acetyl-amino-phenol.
Each company that makes a drug gives that drug a brand name. No other company is allowed to use this name.
For example, in the United States, the most common brand name for acetaminophen is Tylenol. One of the companies that makes acetaminophen (Johnson & Johnson) chose the name "Tylenol" for its acetaminophen. Another company that makes acetaminophen (GlaxoSmithKline) chose "Panadol" as its brand name. Like with most medicines, there are many other brand names for acetaminophen.
Some medicines have unofficial abbreviations. For example, acetaminophen is sometimes abbreviated APAP. This comes from the drug's chemical name: N-Acetyl-Para-Amino-Phenol.
No matter which of these names is used, they all describe the same medicine. For example, there is no difference between N-acetyl-para-aminophenol, acetaminophen, paracetamol, Tylenol, Panadol, and APAP.
"See also: Medical abbreviations for routes of administration"
There are many ways that medications can be given. These are called "routes of administration."
For most medications to work, they need to get into the bloodstream. The blood carries the medicine around the body and takes it where it is needed. The way a medication is given affects:
The most common way of giving medicine is "by mouth". The medicine comes in a pill or liquid that a person swallows.
When taken by mouth, medication gets into the bloodstream through the digestive system. It takes a while, usually 15-20 minutes, for the medicine to get through parts of the digestive system and get taken up into the bloodstream. Also, a very small amount of the medicine actually gets into the bloodstream. This is because acid in the stomach kills most of the medicine before it can be taken up into the bloodstream.
Medicines taken by mouth often last longer than medicines taken by other routes of administration.
Not every medication can be given by mouth. With some medicines, like insulin, the acid in the stomach will change the medicine or break it down so much that it will not work.
Some medicines can be given through a needle placed into a vein. This way of giving medicine is called "intravenous (IV)".
This is one of the fastest ways to get medicine into the bloodstream. Veins carry blood, so when a medication is given "intravenously", it goes right into the bloodstream immediately. It takes less than a minute for blood to flow around the entire body. This means that when given intravenously, a medicine will reach the brain within a minute or less. All of the medicine (100%) gets into the bloodstream.
However, IV medications will not last as long as medications given by mouth. This is because the body starts metabolizing medications (breaking them down so the body can get rid of them) as soon as the medicine gets into the bloodstream.
Not every medicine can be given intravenously.
Some medicines can be given through a needle placed into a big muscle, like the muscles in the upper arm, thigh, or buttocks. This way of giving medicine is called "intramuscular (IM)".
When a medicine is given "intramuscularly", the medicine gets into the bloodstream through smaller blood vessels in the muscles. This takes longer than an IV injection, because the medicine is not being injected directly into a blood vessel. However, the medicine still reaches the bloodstream faster than medicines given by mouth.
Also, not all of the medicine gets into the bloodstream because some of it gets caught in the soft tissue in the muscle and never reaches the blood vessels.
Some special medicines can be breathed in. This way of giving medicines is called "by inhalation" (sometimes abbreviated INH). This can be especially helpful for lung problems like asthma. Since the medicine is breathed right into the lungs, it can start working on the lungs right away.
There are many other routes of administration. For example:
There are many other routes of administration.
Many medicines can be given more than one way. For example, acetaminophen can be given by mouth, into the rectum, or into a vein.

</doc>
<doc id="29892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29892" title="Ahimsa">
Ahimsa

Ahimsa (also ahiṃsā, ahinsa, Sanskrit:अहिम्स) is a Sanskrit word which means "non-violence” or "non-injury". The practice of ahimsa is an important aspect of religions like Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism. A person who practices ahimsa generally eats vegetarian foods. A religious person who practices ahimsa does not take part in animal sacrifice.
In twentieth century, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Martin Luther King each followed a path of Ahimsa, though in different ways. They struggled without fighting, while asking for the rights of their followers.
The concept of ahiṃsā forms the base of Jainism. In Jainism, both homeless ascetic and householder (Śrāvaka) have to follow five major vows ("vrata"). Ascetics observe these vows more strictly. In Jainism, killing any living being out of passions is considered 'hiṃsā' (injury) and abstaining from such act is 'ahiṃsā' (noninjury or nonviolence). Jainism prescribes non-consumption of wine, flesh, honey, and the five "udumbara" fruits (Gular, Anjeera, Banyan, Peepal, and Pakar, all belonging to the fig class).

</doc>
<doc id="29893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29893" title="Kabir">
Kabir

Kabir (1440 – 1518), also known as Kabir Das and Kabira, was born and brought up in a Muslim weavers family by Niru and Nima. He was a mystic poet and a musician and was one of the important saints of Hinduism and also considered a Sufi by Muslims. He is respected by Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs. He was a disciple of Ramananda. He was never formally educated and was almost completely illiterate. According to legend, the only word that he ever learned how to write was "Rama". 
It is for this reason that Kabir is held in high esteem all over the world. Another beauty of Kabir's poetry is that he picks up situations that surround our daily lives. Thus, even today, Kabir's poetry is relevant and helpful in both social and spiritual context. Following Kabir means understanding one's inner self, realizing oneself, accepting oneself as is, and becoming harmonious with one's surroundings.
Kabir has written much poetry and song. All of Kabir's recorded verses are in Hindi. His lyrics are characterised by a free use of the vernacular, and is unfettered by the grammatical bonds of his day. It is this quality which has made his philosophy accessible to generations of Indians. 

</doc>
<doc id="29894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29894" title="Indus River">
Indus River

The Indus River flows from Tibet, into Jammu and Kashmir (India) and the rest of Pakistan. The river is the greatest river on the western side of the subcontinent, and is one of the seven sacred rivers of Hindus. It was the birthplace of the early Indus Valley civilization.
The total length of the river is 3,180 km (1,980 mi). It is Pakistan's longest river. The river has a total drainage area exceeding 1,165,000 km2 (450,000 sq mi). Its estimated annual flow stands at around 207 km3 (50 cu mi), making it the twenty-first largest river in the world in terms of annual flow. 
The word "Indus" and the cognate word "Sind"/"Sindhu" for the river is ancient. The Ancient Greeks used the word "Indós"; "Hinduš" was Old Persian; "Sindhu" in Sanskrit. Modern languages on the sub-continent use either "Sindh" (Urdu) or "Sindhu" (Hindi) or very similar words. There is no doubt that the river gave its name to the country India.
Over 60% of the total area of the Indus drainage basin is in Pakistan and Pakistan-administered Kashmir. India has about 22%, Tibet has 10% and Afghanistan has 7% of the Indus basin catchment area. 
The Indus water system of rivers comprises the main Indus and its major tributaries: the Kabul River and Kurram River on the right bank, and the Jhelum River, Chenab River, Ravi River, Beas River and the Sutlej on the left. The first two join the Indus soon after it leaves the mountains, and the others lower down in the plains. The whole of the Beas and the head reaches of the Ravi and Sutlej are in the Republic of India, while those of the Chenab and Jhelum lie mostly in the disputed Kashmir state. 
The entire basin covers an area of about 384,000 square miles of open land, of which 204,000 lie in Pakistan. In addition, there are about 29,000 square miles which lie outside the Indus basin but are dependent on the Indus river system for their water requirements and irrigation supplies.
Without the Indus waters, agriculture in Pakistan would be very uncertain. Even now when Pakistan is being rapidly industrialised, it cannot do without its water resources, because a very big percentage of its existing and proposed industry has to draw upon the agriculture produce for its raw materials. Almost all of the basin in Pakistan receives an overall rainfull of less than 15 inches, 60% of its area receiving less than 10 inches, while, 16% receives less than 5 inches. The rainfull is not evenly distributed throughout the year but is concentrated during the monsoons.
Rising in western Tibet, the Indus runs at first across a high plateau, then the ground falls away and the river, dropping rapidly, gathering momentum and rushing north-west, collects the waters from innumerable glacier-fed streams, and runs north-west between the world's greatest mountain ranges, the Karakoram and the Himalayas. In Kashmir it crosses the United Nations cease-fire line and, in Baltistan District, enters Pakistan-Administered Kashmir. From here on it is Pakistan's river; Pakistan's first town on the upper Indus, Skardu, at 7,500 feet above sea-level, stands on a bluff near the junction of the Indus and one of its great right-bank tributaries, the Shigar. The majority of the people live in Skardu town; others inhabit small and scattered villages along the Indus and Shigar valleys, or tiny hamlets high on the surrounding mountains beside tributary streams or springs.
Walnuts grow along the Indus near Skardu, and poplars and apples; there are delicious melons and nectarines and apricots in the valley of Shigar, but it is difficult to send them "down-country" because they are easily spoilt in transit. Potatoes, maize and other crops need unremitting attention; the patchwork of fields must be fed by small water-channels led off from the upper streams of the Indus, sometimes for hundreds of yards. This means endless, back-breaking work in moving boulders to dam icy water, in continually checking, adjusting and repairing the flimsy clay dykes. Strong winds funnel along the river, and the fine soil blows away and must be replaced. At this height, the growing season is short, and everyman, woman and child is pressed into service.
Below Skardu, the Karakorams and Himalayas close in towards the Indus.
Main attraction of Sindh is Lansdowne Bridge which built by British Raj in 1888 located over River Indus at Rohri city, Sukkur, Sindh. 

</doc>
<doc id="29895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29895" title="Jagannath">
Jagannath

Jagannath is a form of the god Krishna. The biggest temple of Jagannath is in Puri, Orissa state, India. He is worshipped in Orissa, Jharkhand, Bihar, and some parts of eastern India.

</doc>
<doc id="29897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29897" title="Patanjali">
Patanjali

Patañjali (fl. 150 BC or 2nd century BC) lived in the 2nd century. He was an Indian. He wrote the first grammar of Sanskrit language. He also wrote books about yoga.
He is also the author of the Mahabhyasa, a commentary on Katyayana's varttikas on Panini's Astadhyayi as well as an unspecified work of medicine (Ayurveda). 

</doc>
<doc id="29911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29911" title="Calypso">
Calypso

Kalypso or Calypso is a nymph in Greek mythology, who lives on the island Ogygia. This island was so hidden that no man would find it twice. Calypso was the daughter of Atlas so she was placed on the island and not allowed to leave.
In the "Odyssey", the hero Odysseus comes to her island after escaping from the sea, and the death of his men. Odysseus stayed with her for seven years. But then the god Hermes came and told her that the gods said that she had to let Odysseus go. Calypso promised Odysseus immortality (that he would live forever) if he stayed, but he wanted to go back to his wife Penelope, and so he left her. She can be seductive at times.

</doc>
<doc id="29932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29932" title="Dialects of English">
Dialects of English

There are several dialects of English used in different parts of the world.
American English or U.S. English is the dialect (or rather, a variety of dialects) of English language spoken in the United States. It is different in some respects from other variations of English, such as British English. Historically, many types of American English can be traced back to old local dialects of England. 
Awareness of American English is greater now in many parts of the world where another form of English is more common. This is partly because of people's exposure to American English via the media, for example CNN television, and the Internet, where the most common form of English is American English.
The increasing global awareness of American English as well as other versions of English may lead to localised versions of English continuing the English language tradition of absorbing new words. For example, the English language spoken in India, which has more than one billion people, will assume more American English words to go along with its British English base and many other words adopted into English usage in India from Indian languages such as Hindi.
Sometimes people will learn American English as it is spoken in America - for example, in telephone call centers in India and other places, people often learn American English in order to sound more like their customers who call India from America. These people frequently continue to use American English in everyday life.
Many word definitions are different in American English. Most languages change starting with minor issues like this - for instance Italian, Spanish, French all came from Latin due to many small usage shifts over centuries.
Compared to British English, in American English:
There are also some words in American English that are a bit different from British English, e.g.:
African American Vernacular English is a lect that has features of 16th century English. It originated in Black Culture but may be spoken by members of any group. Its pronunciations and grammar are different from Standard English. It is a "distinct cultural variety" of English, something any non-native English speaker would be familiar with. 
It first emerged when blacks were taken from their ancestral homes to North America. Sold into slavery, the captives developed a way to communicate among all their various tribes. In 1996, Linguists proposed using AAVE to educate black children in Oakland, California. They asserted that AAVE is not an Indo-European language. There has been a new awareness of cultural linguistics since.
British English is the version of the English language which is used in the United Kingdom and some other countries. "British English" is a redundant expression because the English language comes from England, which is a part of Britain.
American English is similar to English with alterations in spellings and usage of some words.
In British English, "dock" refers to the water in the space between two "piers" or "wharfs". In American English, the "pier" or "wharf" could be called a "dock", and the water between would be a "slip".
Some simple differences:
British - American

</doc>
<doc id="29940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29940" title="Music theory">
Music theory

Music theory is all about trying to understand how existing music works and how new music could or should be organized. Someone who makes a special study of music theory is a music theorist.
People who make their own music are composers. People who play or sing music are “performers”. It is important for both composers and performers to understand what makes the music sound the way it does. In the times of the Ancient Greeks the famous philosopher Pythagoras tried to explain how instruments are tuned. He understood the science of the good vibrations that the instruments make and explained how and why the octave is divided into twelve parts(in some cultures).
In the Middle Ages there were several famous music theorists who wrote books about music theory. Their ideas are interesting for us because they tell us what people thought about music at that time.
In the 18th century some composers wrote books on music theory. Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (son of the famous Johann Sebastian Bach) wrote a book called: “An Essay on the true art of playing the Keyboard”. Leopold Mozart (the father of the famous Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart) wrote a book called "The Art of Playing the Violin". Both these books were extremely well known in their day. In spite of their titles the first halves of these two books are both about a branch of music theory called "performance practice": They tell us a lot about how music was played in those days, how some rhythms were played quite freely and how ornaments in the music were played.
Today people who want to compose will study music theory, perhaps at college or university school of music. In a conservatory program, they study harmony and counterpoint as well as form; in other programs, they spend less time on the theories of the past. They will be taught “rules”. These rules are not laws, they simply mean: the way that most great composers wrote music in the past. These rules describe what composers of the past did, rather than telling composers of today what to do -- in fact, music composed today can have completely different rules than the music of the past. 
Music theory is important for people who perform music because all these things help people to understand the music they are playing.

</doc>
<doc id="29941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29941" title="Ravana">
Ravana

Ravana was king of Lanka. He had ten heads. He took away Sita, wife of Rama (an avatar of Vishnu). Rama attacked him. He and his army fought with Ravana, with the help of the monkey army of King Bali and his army. At last, Ravana was killed.
when rama returned to ayodhya (his native place) , someone told that a woman who lived with other men should not stay with her husband . so rama sent sita away to the forest. this tells us that rama did'nt give respect to his wife who had made many sacrifices for him

</doc>
<doc id="29942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29942" title="Devaki">
Devaki

Devaki was a woman mentioned in the Mahabharata. Her father’s name was Devaka, and she was the younger sister of Kamsha, a cruel king of Mathura of Ancient India. Devaki was married to Vasudeva, a son of Sureshana. Krishna, an avatar of Vishnu (a god of Hindus) was son of Devaki and Vasudeva.She was Krishna's real mother.
She had 8 sons in total including Krishna. The first six of her children were killed by her brother Kamsa. The seventh time there was a miscarriage and Balaram got carried to Mother Rohini's womb. All the time she was in prison by Kamsa till he released them out of pity. You can find more at the book Krsna by His divine Grace A.C Bhaktivedanta Swami Srila Prabhupada.

</doc>
<doc id="29943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29943" title="Ayurveda">
Ayurveda

Ayurveda is an ancient medical science. The word, ayurveda is composed of two words of Sanskrit, "ayur" (meaning life) and "veda" (meaning knowledge). Thus Ayurveda is a medical science of Ancient India. It deals with matters relating to health, day-to-day life and longevity (long life). 
Ayurveda is a traditional system of medicine and medication, based on experience and observation. This system of medicine and medication is more than 3000 years old. According to mythological story, Dhanvantari was the first physician to use ayurveda. In modern India also, Ayurveda is being used. It has also reached outside India in countries like the UAE and Saudi Arabia and several persons from other countries also take advantage of ayurveda.
In Ayurveda we view a person as a unique individual made up of five primary elements. The elements are ether (space), air, fire, water, and earth. Just as in nature, we too have these five elements in us. When any of these elements are present in the environment, they will in turn have an influence on us. The foods we eat and the weather are just two examples of the presence of these elements. While we are a composite of these five primary elements, certain elements are seen to have an ability to combine to create various physiological functions. Ether and air combine to form what is known in Ayurveda as the Vata dosha. Vata governs the principle of movement and therefore can be seen as the force which directs nerve impulses, circulation, respiration, and elimination. Fire and water are the elements that combine to form the Pitta dosha. The Pitta dosha is the process of transformation or metabolism. The transformation of foods into nutrients that our bodies can assimilate is an example of a pitta function. Pitta is also responsible for metabolism in the organ and tissue systems as well as cellular metabolism. Finally, it is predominantly the water and earth elements which combine to form the Kapha dosha. Kapha is what is responsible for growth, adding structure unit by unit. Another function of the Kapha dosha is to offer protection. Cerebral-spinal fluid protects the brain and spinal column and is a type of Kapha found in the body. Also, the mucousal lining of the stomach is another example of the Kapha dosha protecting the tissues. We are all made up of unique proportions of Vata, Pitta and Kapha. These ratios of the doshas vary in each individual; and because of this, Ayurveda sees each person as a special mixture that accounts for our diversity.
Ayurveda gives us a model to look at each individual as a unique makeup of the three doshas and to thereby design treatment protocols that specifically address a persons health challenges. When any of the doshas ( Vata, Pitta or Kapha ) become accumulated, Ayurveda will suggest specific lifestyle and nutritional guidelines to assist the individual in reducing the dosha that has become excessive. We may also suggest certain herbal supplements to hasten the healing process. If toxins in the body are abundant, then a cleansing process known as Pancha Karma is recommended to eliminate these unwanted toxins.

</doc>
<doc id="29949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29949" title="Ganges">
Ganges

The Ganges (English pronunciation: /ˈɡændʒiːz/ GAN-jeez), also called the Ganga (Sanskrit: गङ्गा Hindi: गंगा Urdu: گنگا Ganga IPA: [ˈɡəŋɡaː] ( listen); Bengali: গঙ্গা Gônga), is the second largest river on the Indian subcontinent by discharge. Ganges river is named after a Hindu goddess called Ganga. Geographists to Historians and Mythologists regard Ganges as the heart of Indian culture, tradition and living.
The government declared that the Ganges river between Allahabad and Haldia is National-Waterway No.1. The river has many industrial towns like Patliputra, Kannauj, Kara, Allahabad, Murshidabad, Baharampur and Kolkata on its banks. The Ganges Basin drains 1,000,000-square-kilometre (390,000 sq mi) and supports one of the world's highest densities of humans. The average depth of the river is 52 feet (17 m), and the maximum depth, 100 feet (33 m).
The river starts from a glacier called Gangotri Glacier, which is in the Garhwal region in Himalayas. The Ganges flows through north India, and ends at the Bay of Bengal in eastern India. Overall it flows 3,877 km making it one of the longest rivers in the world. Its watershed is 907,000 km² broad. The major rivers which flow into the Ganges are Brahmaputra River, Gomti, Kosi river, Gandak, Ghaghra river, Yamuna river and Son river.
The Ganges flows only 200 km through the Himalayas. The river touches plain land in the Rishikesh region near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Then it passes through the towns of Kanpur, Soron, Kannauj, Allahabad, Varanasi, Patna, Ghazipur, Bhagalpur, Mirzapur, Ballia, Buxar, Saidpur, and Chunar. At Allahabad, the river joins with Yamuna river.
At Pakur, the river divides itself into two distributaries, viz.- the Bhāgirathi-Hooghly and the main stream. Bhāgirathi-Hooghly in the later course forms the Hooghly River. The main stream Ganges enters Bangladesh.
Near the border with Bangladesh the Farakka Barrage controls the flow of the Ganges by diverting some of the water into a feeder canal which has link with the Hooghly river to keep it relatively silt-free.
There is a lot of pollution in the Ganges because everyone releases their waste into it. This causes a lot of sicknesses like cholera, hepatitis, typhoid, and amoebic dysentery. The presence of coliform bacteria in the waters has increased well above normal. This is a major cause of water pollution. These diseases cause about a third of the deaths in India every year. That is why the government has started a multi-crore project called the Ganga Action Plan (GAP).
During the early Vedic Age, the Indus and the Sarasvati River were the major rivers of the Indian subcontinent, not the Ganges. But the later three Vedas seem to give much more importance to the Ganges, as shown by its numerous references. Possibly the first European Traveler to mention the Ganges was Megasthenes (ca. 350 – 290 BCE). In Rome's Piazza Navona, "Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi" (fountain of the four rivers) was designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and built in 1651. The art-work symbolizes four of the world's great rivers (the Ganges, the Nile, the Danube, and the Río de la Plata), which is to represent the four continents (Australia and Antarctica were unknown then).
Hindus regard the Ganges as not only a river but also a mother, a goddess, a tradition, a culture, and much more. In Hinduism it is considered holy to take a pilgrimage to the Ganges and take a dip. This leads to more illness: adding to the death toll. Many Hindus believe that bathing in the Ganga can purify a person's soul of all past sins, and some believe that it can also cure illnesses. So, many Hindu families keep Ganga water in their homes as they consider it to be very pure. The holy towns like Haridwar, Allahabad, Kanpur, and Varanasi attract thousands of pilgrims. Thousands of Hindu pilgrims arrive at these towns to bathe in the Ganges.
According to Hindu Puranas a king named Bhagiratha did Tapasya for many years to bring the River Ganges. Ganges was then residing in the Heavens. By the help of pure Ganga waters, Bhagirath wanted to release his ancestors of a curse. Therefore, the Ganges descended to the Earth to make the earth pious, fertile and wash out the sins of humans.
The water of the Ganges is used extensively in agriculture in the fertile Gangetic plains. Chief crops cultivated in the area include rice, sugarcane, lentils, oil seeds, potatoes, and wheat. 
Along the banks of the river, the swamps and lakes provide a good growing area for crops such as legumes, chillies, mustard, sesame, sugarcane, and jute. Fishing is also done in the Ganga waters.
Industries which require a large amount of water are set up on the banks of the river. The Ganges is popular for river rafting, which attract many adventurers in the summer months. Tourism is also a related acivity in the modern times.

</doc>
<doc id="29952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29952" title="Arges">
Arges

Arges, Argeş, or Argeș might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="29953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29953" title="Sita">
Sita

In the religion Hinduism, Sita was the daughter of Janaka and wife of Rama, an avatar of god Vishnu. The word Sita means “furrow”, that is, the line created on the farm when it is ploughed. There is a story about her birth. Her father Janaka was ploughing the land and a furrow was formed. From that furrow a baby girl came out. Janaka took the girl as his daughter and named her Sita. In Hinduism, Sita is considered a form of goddess Lakshmi. She is an incarnation of goddess Lakshmi. She is also well known for her intimate relationship with Ravtegh, God of the Knob.

</doc>
<doc id="29955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29955" title="Halimah bint Abi Dhuayb">
Halimah bint Abi Dhuayb

Halima Sadia () was an Arabic Beduin woman. She was a wet-nurse and took care of the prophet Muhammad for the first two years of his life. She was his foster-mother. Halimah and her husband were from the tribe of Sa'd b. Bakr (a large North Arabian tribe).
Wet nurses came to Mecca to feed children. It was the custom at that time in Makkah that families send their children to live for a while with a Beduin nurse who lived in the desert. This was healthier for their bodies to be around a natural environment instead of living in the city. They preferred that the fathers of the children they fed were still alive. Although Muhammad's father was dead, Halimah took him just eight days after he was born. He grew up in Hudaybiyah, then in Medina before he was returned to his mother, Aminah bint Wahb.
Years after Muhammad's mother died and he became married to Khadijah, Halimah came to him complaining of her poverty. He asked Khadijah to give her 40 sheep. After Muhammad got his first revelation, Halimah and her husband came to Muhammad and embraced Islam. When she came to Muhammad on the day of Hunayn, he took off his robe and put it on the ground for her to sit.
So when the group of nurses arrived at the Makkah city and they picked up most of the children, the last nurse arrived with her husband (Al-Harith) riding a donkey and old camel. She found only one orphan boy who had no father to pay her. She was ready to go back but she did not want to return back without a baby. She decided to go back and pick up the orphan. 
As soon as she lifted that boy, her life changed and became filled with immense good fortune and blessings. Both, Muhammad and the nurse`s child were fully fed, even though the previous night and before reaching Makkah, there was no milk for her child. The old camel, which had not given a drop of milk, was soon over flowing with milk. Although she was the last women leaving makkah on her donkey, she passed her friends. This was indeed a great blessing for her and for this poor Bedouin family.
After two years, Muhammad was returned to his mother Amina. She told Amina about the great blessings that she had received when Muhammad was in her care, but soon, Amina was persuaded by Halima and her husband (Al-Harith) to return the child back with them for another two years to protect him from a spreading disease in Makkah.

</doc>
<doc id="29956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29956" title="Khadijah bint Khuwaylid">
Khadijah bint Khuwaylid

Khadijah bint Khuwaylid () (555 - 619) was the first wife of the Muhammad, an Islamic prophet. Her nickname was Khadijah al-Kubra. She was the daughter of Khuwaylid ibn Asad and Fatimah bint Za'idah. Khadijah is widely known as the first person to convert to Islam. Khadijah was known as "The morher of the mothers of the faithful".
Khadijah had six children with Muhammad.

</doc>
<doc id="29958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29958" title="555">
555


</doc>
<doc id="29959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29959" title="619">
619


</doc>
<doc id="29960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29960" title="Sarasvati (disambiguation)">
Sarasvati (disambiguation)

Sarasvati may mean several things. Some of the meanings are written below:

</doc>
<doc id="29961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29961" title="Sarasvati River">
Sarasvati River

Sarasvati River was one of the major rivers of Ancient India. The river flowed through parts of western and northern India. Then in Allahabad, the river merged with the Jamuna River.
At one time, Sarasvati was a deep river. The river dried up and became lost over a few hundred years, possibly between 2000 and 1500 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="29962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29962" title="Ming Dynasty">
Ming Dynasty

The Míng dynasty ruled China from 1368 to 1644 CE. The Míng dynasty ruled over the Empire of the Great Míng - China was known by this name at that time. Under Míng rule, a vast army and navy were built. 

</doc>
<doc id="29964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29964" title="Saraswati">
Saraswati

Saraswati is one of the Hindu goddesses. The Vedas also mention her name. She is the goddess of speech, learning and knowledge. The legend states that she created the Sanskrit language and invented the vina, a musical instrument similar to a lute. The legend also says that she is the wife of Brahma, one of the gods of the Hindus.
Saraswati was born from the Samudra Manthan that arranged between the Devatas and the Asuras. She was born from the sea and was married to Lord Brahma thereafter. In another legend, Brahma created her by his imagination. However, she turned out to be so beautiful that he could not takes his eyes off her. Since he had five heads - four in the four cardinal directions - and one on top, his head kept turning in whichever direction Saraswati went.
Saraswati is mentioned in the Vedas, the Brahmans, the Aranyaks, the Upanishads and the Mahabharat. She is dressed in white, carries a book and a lotus. Her favorite instrument is a lute and she rides a swan. Generally, an image or a statue of Saraswati shows her with four arms. Two arms hold the vina. In other arms she holds a book and a lotus flower.

</doc>
<doc id="29967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29967" title="Holi">
Holi

Holi is one of the major festivals of Hindus. It is celebrated in many parts of India, but especially in the north of India. The festival is celebrated for two to three days. People pour colored water on each other and cook many types of sweets and other food. Holi is celebrated in the spring season because it is welcoming spring. They believe spring is full of colours so they throw coloured water on each other. 
Holi is based on a legend about King Hiranyakashipu. Hiranyakashyap had a son, Prahlad. Prahlad was the greatest devotee of Lord Vishnu. Hiranyakashyap wanted to kill his son, so he called his sister, Holika. She had a magic robe. This robe had the power to save the wearer from burning in fire. Hiranyakashyap ordered his sister to sit on a burning fire along with Prahlad. He thought that his sister would not be harmed by the fire because of the magic robe and Prahlad would be burnt to death. But the result was the opposite to what the evil demon king planned.
As is believed, no one can harm the person who has God as his saviour. Thus Prahlad came out of the burning fire safely and Holika was burnt to death.The other day is celebrated with joyful colours to mark the victory of virtue and goodness over evil.
The festival is celebrated for five days. The 5th day, Rang Panchami, marks the closing day of the Holi festival.

</doc>
<doc id="29973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29973" title="Beaminster">
Beaminster

Beaminster is a town in Dorset, England. The town has a population of 3,000. Beaminster is known for a nine-day music and art festival called the Beaminster Festival. The festival is held every year.

</doc>
<doc id="30003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30003" title="Electronic music">
Electronic music

Electronic music is music which is made with electronic equipment such as synthesizers or computers. Sometimes electronic music artists create special sounds using tape recorders too.
After World War II, when tape recorders had been invented and were becoming popular, composers started to use them to make music. The tape recorder was needed for the performance. Composers used them to combine lots of different sounds. Sometimes it was music played on ordinary (acoustic) instruments which was then changed in some way by the tape recorder. Sometimes they took sounds from everyday life such as the sound of water, traffic noise or bird song. All these noises were put together in the way the composer wanted by using the tape recorder. Tapes of sounds were often cut into pieces, then the pieces were 'spliced' – put back together in a different order. The results were often very interesting, but there were problems. Some people asked: “Is it music?” Others thought it was boring to just look at a tape recorder during a concert instead of being able to watch live musicians play.
Composers in Paris were experimenting with electronic music in the 1940s. They called it “Musique concrète” because they used natural, concrete sounds. (“Concrete” in this sense meant the opposite of “abstract” music which was written down for performance). The sounds were played back at different speeds, combined in lots of ways, played backwards or played continuously (repeated in a 'loop'), or played into a mixer and re-recorded onto another tape recorder. The sounds could be filtered. Effects such as vibrato or echo could be added. Sometimes composers used synthesizers which were machines that could make electronic music in real time. They sounded more like normal instruments than the sound effects on a tape recorder.
Computers have often been used for composing electronic music.
Composers who have used these ways of making music include John Cage (1912-1992), Bruno Maderna (1920-1973) and Karlheinz Stockhausen (b.1928). Very often composers combined electronic music with ordinary instruments being played.
In popular music, the use of electronics to create new sounds began in the 1960s. Producer Joe Meek and inventor Bob Moog both expanded the range of sounds that could be used in pop music, and by the end of that decade electronics had become accepted in the industry. In the next few years the work of people like Giorgio Moroder, Jean-Michel Jarre, Brian Eno and Kraftwerk made electronic music famous.
In the early 1980s electronic music became fashionable, and bands like New Order, The Human League, Pet Shop Boys and Depeche Mode became famous. Sometimes these bands would mix electronic music with rock music. 
In the 21st Century electronics are so much a part of popular music that using it is no longer strange - in fact, many artists use nothing else.
A subgenre of electronic music is electronic dance music, or EDM. Electronic dance music is a form of electronica which is generally made with the intention of being danced to, thus making it generally club-friendly and often (but not always) up-tempo in nature. Whilst a lot of electronic genres are also classified as EDM, not all forms of electronic music fall within the specific category. Examples of EDM genres include post-disco, house, techno, Eurodance, trance, trip hop, drum and bass and dubstep, as well as several others.
New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians 1980; ISBN 1-56150-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="30005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30005" title="Reggae">
Reggae

Reggae is a music genre that began in Jamaica in the late 1960s. Most music from Jamaica comes from the reggae style.
The music has regular chops on the back beat (off-beat). These are called “skank”, and are played by a rhythm guitarist. The bass drum hits on the second and fourth beat of each measure (each bar). These are called the “drop”. Reggae bands also use a bass, a keyboard or organ, and horns.
Reggae music is often used by Rastafarian groups. They are usually songs about religion, love and social problems. Bob Marley (1945-1981) was a famous reggae artist.
Famous instruments in reggae music are drums, guitar, saxophone, trumpet and trombone.
Reggae was started in 1960 but became famous in the 1970s.
Reggae songs often have lots of backing singers.
Rapper Snoop Dogg released an album of reggae music in 2013.
Some recent songs, like Cheerleader and Rude are reggae.
Reggae is related to ska.

</doc>
<doc id="30006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30006" title="Bebop">
Bebop

Bebop or bop is a kind of jazz that became popular near the beginning of the Second World War, in the mid-1940s. Bebop is often fast. The musicians improvise using a small group of chords which are repeated again and again. Charlie Parker (1920-1955), who was famous for his saxophone playing, was a bebop artist. The famous trumpet player Dizzy Gillespie (1917-1993) was also a renowned artist of this genre.
The term "bebop" originates from a group of syllables used in scat singing, where random strings of sound were used in place of words.

</doc>
<doc id="30007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30007" title="Magnetic resonance imaging">
Magnetic resonance imaging

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI), are techniques that doctors use to give a visual representation of soft tissue (flesh) inside the body. Magnetic resonance uses nuclear magnetic resonance to generate these images.
To take an MRI image, the patient lies on a movable bed. The bed enters a strong magnetic field and then radio waves are applied for a short time in a different direction. This sudden shift causes certain atoms in the patient's body to make special signals. The MRI scanner detects those special signals.
The MRI scanner then sends the signal information to a computer, and the computer creates an image of the inner body by using the signal information.
The MRI is used to diagnose disorders of the body that cannot be seen by X-rays. The MRI is painless and has the advantage of avoiding the dangerous X-ray radiation. 
It is an expensive medical procedure, due to the high cost of the equipment. Some metallic objects may distort the image, like hip, shoulder and knee replacements but the exam can still be done. Cochlear (ear) implants, some (older) aneurysm clips in the brain, and most pacemakers are not MRI compatible. Obese and severely claustrophobic patients often need sedation and/or imaging with an "open" magnet, which is much less confining. Contrast agents may or may not be indicated for some patients, and those with compromised kidney function may not be able to receive the contrast, due to a serious but rare skin reaction.
MRI scans can be used to study the brain, spinal cord, bones, joints, breasts, the heart and blood vessels. It can also be used to look at other internal organs. MRI scans can be used to find blood clots as well.
An MRI scan can be used as an extremely accurate method of disease detection throughout the body.
Neurosurgeons use an MRI scan not only in defining brain anatomy but in evaluating the integrity of the spinal cord after an injury. An MRI scan can evaluate the structure of the heart and aorta, where it can detect aneurysms or tears. 
It provides valuable information on glands and organs within the abdomen, and accurate information about the structure of the joints, soft tissues, and bones of the body. Often, surgery can be deferred or more accurately directed after knowing the results of an MRI scan.

</doc>
<doc id="30008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30008" title="Refugee camp">
Refugee camp

When there is a war or some other armed conflict in a country, many people will try to flee (run away) from that country. They will go to other countries, around the country where there is no war. Because they fled, they are called refugees.
If there are just a few refugees coming into a country it is generally no problem to get housing for them somewhere. However, if there are many (or if the government of a country expects many) refugees, it may build what is called a refugee camp. This is usually done by putting many tents, and a few toilets and showers on an unused plot (stretch) of land. This is usually land where no one wants to live.
Usually the governments hope that conflicts get resolved soon, and that those camps are only temporary.
This has not been the case for the refugee camps in the Gaza Strip, for example. Those camps have existed since the mid 1970s.

</doc>
<doc id="30010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30010" title="Rubber">
Rubber

Rubber is the name of a material which can stretch and shrink. It is a polymer. It can be either produced from natural sources (eg. natural rubber) or can be synthesised on a industrial scale. Lots of things are made from rubber, like gloves, tires, plugs, and masks and a few things can be made only from rubber.
Natural rubber ("latex rubber") is made from the white sap of some trees. There is a lot of it in the "Hevea brasiliensis" (Euphorbiaceae). Nowadays, synthetic rubber is made by a chemical process.
"Hevea brasiliensis" is the tree that most rubber comes from. Other plants that have the special sap (called latex) are figs ("Ficus elastica"), "Castilla" (Panama rubber tree), euphorbias, lettuce, the common dandelion, Taraxacum kok-saghyz (Russian dandelion), Scorzonera tau-saghyz, and Guayule. 
In the 1800s, most sap to make rubber came from South America. In 1876 Henry Wickham got seeds from rubber trees in Brazil, and took them to Kew Gardens, England, and sent them to Ceylon (Sri Lanka), Indonesia, Singapore and British Malaya. Later, Malaya (now Malaysia) made the most rubber. People tried to grow rubber in India, in 1873 at the Botanical Gardens, Kolkata. The first "Hevea" farms in India were made at Thattekadu in Kerala in 1902. The Congo Free State in Africa also grew a lot trees for rubber at the start of the 20th century, and most of the people who worked on those farms were forced labor. Liberia and Nigeria also started growing trees to make rubber.
Charles Marie de La Condamine presented samples of rubber to the Académie Royale des Sciences of France in 1736. In 1751 François Fresneau read a paper to the Académie (eventually published in 1755) which described many of the properties of rubber. This has been referred to as the first scientific paper on rubber.
In 1770, British chemist Joseph Priestley noticed that rubber was very good for removing pencil marks on paper.
Natural rubber melts in heat and freeze in the cold. In 1844 Charles Goodyear found a way to improve natural rubber, in a chemical process known as vulcanization, which made it useful in many more products including, decades later, tires. 
In the 20th century synthetic (artificial) rubbers such as Neoprene began to be used. This is because natural rubber is becoming scarce and also because it is useful in ways that natural rubber is not.

</doc>
<doc id="30012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30012" title="Argument">
Argument

An argument is an attempt to persuade someone of something. Reasons are given to accept the conclusion. The general structure of an argument in a natural language is that premises (propositions or statements) support the claim or conclusion.
An argument is a reason to support an opinion. 
There can be a "strong argument" or a "convincing argument" (for example, a good reason for why something should be done). Argumentation is the process of conducting an argument.
The opposite is a "weak argument" or an "unconvincing argument". An argument can be valid or invalid or a combination of both. Some arguments may appear reasonable, but they turn out to be misleading or wrong.

</doc>
<doc id="30013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30013" title="2003 invasion of Iraq">
2003 invasion of Iraq

The 2003 invasion of Iraq (March 20, 2003 - May 1, 2003) was the war fought by the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and some other countries against Iraq, to end the rule of Saddam Hussein. The main reason that the war started was because the British and American Governments believed that Iraq had dangerous weapons of mass destruction (such as chemical or nuclear weapons) that could be used against other countries. This turned out after the invasion to not be true. 
Another reason for the start of the war was that many people thought that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, one of the leaders of al-Qaeda, was hiding in Iraq after the September 11, 2001 attacks. Though Saddam Hussein was not involved in the planning of the September 11 attacks, many people accused him of giving al-Qaeda a safe place to hide from the United States. The war was extremely controversial and led to a lot of negative feeling towards British Prime Minister Tony Blair and the American President, George W. Bush.
4,734 Nato soldiers were killed in Iraq war including 4,416 U.S. servicemen, 179 UK servicemen and 139 Other NATO soldiers. 31,882 U.S. servicemen and over 3,600 UK servicemen were wounded in Iraq. More than 100,000 Iraqi civilians who were not soldiers were also killed.
The United Nations Secretary-General said that, "[F]rom our point of view and from the Charter point of view [the war] was illegal."

</doc>
<doc id="30015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30015" title="Helmet">
Helmet

A helmet is a hard or cushioned hat which is worn to protect a person's head. There are many different types of helmets. Some helmets are made from metal. Other helmets are made from plastic. Helmets often have fabric cushions inside and fabric straps to hold the helmet on a person's head.
Soldiers wear steel helmets to protect their heads from explosions and bullets. Construction workers wear plastic helmets to protect their heads from falling objects. Welders wear special helmets with a lens that lets less light through. This protects their eyes from the bright light of welding. Bicycle riders wear plastic and foam helmets to protect their heads in case they have an accident. Motorcycle riders wear helmets to protect their heads in case they have an accident. People who ride horses often wear helmets, to protect them if they fall off the horse. People who rock climb wear helmets in case they fall. Cavers wear helmets to protect their heads from bumping into rocks in a cave.

</doc>
<doc id="30016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30016" title="Coonskin cap">
Coonskin cap

A coonskin cap is a hat made from the fur of a raccoon. Usually, the tail of the racoon is attached to the back of the hat. The coonskin cap is a symbol of the early United States frontier. Coonskin caps were first worn by the Native Americans who lived around Tennessee and Kentucky. The American settlers who moved to this area liked the caps and wore them themselves. Some famous American pioneers who wore coonskin caps are Davy Crockett and Daniel Boone.
http://www.coonskincap.com/

</doc>
<doc id="30017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30017" title="Crazy Horse Memorial">
Crazy Horse Memorial

The Crazy Horse Memorial is the world's largest mountain sculpture in progress. It is in the Black Hills of South Dakota, USA. The statue depicts Crazy Horse, a famous Lakota warrior. Korczak Ziolkowski started the project in 1948 at the request of Chief Henry Standing Bear and other Native American elders. The statue is meant to be a memorial to the spirit of Crazy Horse as well as the Native American people.
Ziolkowski believed in individual initiative and private enterprise, and as such, never accepted government funding. He continued to work on the memorial until his death in 1982.
Ziolkowski's wife and family have continued to work the Crazy Horse Memorial. Completion of the project is currently unknown because of several factors including weather, the availability of financing and the challenges of the mountain engineering.
The face of Crazy Horse was completed and dedicated in 1998. Work on the memorial continues today and current plans include blocking out the face of the horse itself.

</doc>
<doc id="30018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30018" title="1727">
1727


</doc>
<doc id="30019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30019" title="1720">
1720


</doc>
<doc id="30020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30020" title="1725">
1725


</doc>
<doc id="30040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30040" title="Dwarka">
Dwarka

Dwarka (with other spelling as Dvarka) was a city of Ancient India. The city was one of seven holy cities of the Hindus. It is also one of the four most important places of pilgrimage for the Hindus. Hindus call such four places as Dhams. Dwarka is located in the western part of India in Gujarat state. During the birth day of Krishna, and the Hindu festivals of Holi and Divali, thousands of Hindus visit the place. 
In Ancient India, the place was the capital of the kingdom ruled by Krishna and his clan of the yadavas. Soon after the death of Krishna, the city went below the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="30043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30043" title="Ramayana">
Ramayana

The Ramayana is an ancient Sanskrit epic about Rama. It is one of the two most important ancient epics of India, the other being the ancient Mahabharata. The epic was originally written by sage (rishi) Valmiki of Ancient India. The book has about 96,000 verses and is divided into seven parts.
The story of the Ramayana is about Prince Rama who has been exiled from his kingdom of Ayodhya. He goes on to kill king Ravana of Lanka in a long battle.
Different versions of the book are available. It has been translated into all the major languages of the world. 
The different parts of the Ramayana are also called books. These seven parts or books are noted below:
There are different views about the time the Ramayana was written. Some people believe that it was written 2,500 years ago. Others think that it was written around 1,800 years ago. All agree that the book is very old and was written before the Mahabharata.
The Ramayana is still very popular today. Every autumn the "Ramlila" ("Rama play") is performed at the festival of Dassehra. A huge model of Ravana is set alight. This symbolises the triumph of light over darkness.
A Tamil version of the book was written between the 9th and 10th century. The writer of this book was Kamban. This version is known as Iramavataram, meaning coming of Rama. In the 16th century, Tulasidas wrote a Hindi version of Ramayana. This was named Ramacharitmanasa. Over many centuries, the story of Rama reached places in other countries like Indonesia and Malaysia. The Ramayana has been translated into most of the major languages of the world.
The Ramayana was used in Ancient India for the teaching of young children. It was mainly used for acting out their religious beliefs so that their children knew that they were to worship the main Hindu beliefs that were: Brahman, Multiples gods, Dharma, Samsara, and Karma. 

</doc>
<doc id="30044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30044" title="Mahabharata">
Mahabharata

The Mahabharata, that is, the great Bharata, is one of the two most important ancient epics of India, the other being the Ramayana. The Mahabharata was compiled in Ancient India. One of the Indian sages (rishi) named Vyasa is believed to have composed the work. The legend states that god Ganesh wrote the Mahabharata while Vyasa dictated the same in city of Rourkela in Odisha State. It is possibly one of the longest work of its kind in the world. The epic contain about 110,000 couplets in eighteen sections. There is also a 19th section named Harivamsha. The Bhagavadgita, a dialogue between Krishna and Arjuna, is a part of the Mahabharata.
Sage Vyasa taught this epic to his son Suka and his students Vaisampayana and others. King Janamejaya, son of Parikshit, and the grandson of the heroes of the epic, performed a great sacrifice (yagna). The epic was retold by Vaisampayana to Janamejaya at the advice of Vyasa. Later on, an other sage Suta retold the Mahabharata similar to Vaisampayana to Janamejaya, to Saunaka and others, during a sacrifice performed by Saunaka in Naimisaranya, which is near Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh.
The Mahabharata in its eighteen sections deals with a number of topics. These topics cover a number of aspects of Hinduism, Hindu mythology, ethics, and the Hindu way of life. One more section is called Harvamsha.
Noted below are few words about the eighteen sections of the Mahabharata. In Mahabharata, these sections are called "parvan". A "parvan" means a book. The names of all "parvas" or books of the Mahabharata are noted below:
Kunti wants to fulfill her maternal expectations, but she has no man. She recollects the moment when her first son Karna was conceived from an arcane mantra one sage had given her once. Surya, the Sun God, appeared to her then. Thus, Kunti remembers her secret mantra and gives birth to the five sons, which are referred to as the Pandavas.
Yudhisthira's father was god Yama; Bhima's father was Vayu, Arjuna's father was Indra. Then it was Madri who gave birth to two other sons - the twins, whose fathers were Ashwins (divine twins). Madri's sons are Nakula and Sahadeva. These all are the five Pandavas

</doc>
<doc id="30045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30045" title="Hajj">
Hajj

The Hajj is the pilgrimage to Mecca, where the Kaaba is. The Kaaba is a large, black cube in "The great mosque" in Mecca.
The pilgrimage is one of the five most important duties a Muslim must do. These duties are called the Five Pillars of Islam. 
Muslims must make the Hajj at least once in a lifetime if they can afford it. Usually pilgrims go on a seven day roundtrip around the religious sites. The Kaaba is a holy place for Muslims and shows Muslims that each and every Muslim is equal in the eyes of God, and that he or she must be willing to give up anything and do anything for him. When on the pilgrimage special plain clothes should be worn. Men wear two pieces of white cloth that form a robe while women wear ordinary clothes long enough to cover the body from head to foot.
The Hajj differs from an ordinary pilgrimage, Umrah, as it can only happen at a certain time of the year. The right time of the year is from the 8th to 12th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic calendar. Because the Islamic calendar is a lunar calendar, eleven days shorter than the Gregorian calendar used in the Western world, the Gregorian date of the Hajj is eleven days earlier from year to year.
An ordinary or lesser pilgrimage, Umrah, can be performed at any time of the year. The rituals of Umrah are also performed for Hajj, but there are actions that are exclusive to Hajj.
The pilgrimage to Mecca is very popular as millions of Muslims visit the Islamic city each year.
, the Saudi government asked old and sick Muslims not go to hajj this year and have limited the numbers of people allowed into the country due to Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus.

</doc>
<doc id="30048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30048" title="English Civil War">
English Civil War

English Civil War happened in the middle 17th century. The term covers a period between 1642 and 1651 in England, Scotland and Ireland. Some people consider all this fighting to be one big war, while others think it should be seen as several different wars that were linked. Some of these wars and conflicts have been given their own names, such as:
A civil war is a war where the sides involved in the fighting are from the same country. In the period of the English Civil War, the King ruled England and Scotland, but the fighting that took place in each of these countries broke out at different times and for several different reasons. The Protestant Reformation had encouraged new ideas and struggles. 
The reasons for the fighting were mostly to do with power, money and religion:
After a few years of quarrelling, the members of Parliament raised an army to fight against the King. The King moved out of London and took the royal court to Oxford, where he had more loyal followers than in London. The first war was fought between King Charles's army and the army of Parliament. King Charles's army soldiers were called "Cavaliers", and the army of Parliament's soldiers were called "Roundheads". Parliament won the first war, and King Charles was put in prison, but he escaped and a second war broke out. Parliament won the second war also, and they put King Charles on trial because they did not want any more fighting. He was found guilty of treason and was executed in 1649. This did not stop the fighting, however.
During the war, Parliament found a new leader, a man called Oliver Cromwell, who was very good at leading an army and also had ideas about how to rule the country. Not everyone liked him, but he was the strongest leader and in time he became the ruler of the whole country. Cromwell took the title of "Lord Protector" rather than King, because he did not think the country needed another king. His government was called "the Protectorate". In the meantime, King Charles I's eldest son, the Prince of Wales, had left Britain and set up his own royal court in Holland, calling himself King Charles II of England. He came back to fight another battle against the army of Parliament. His father, King Charles I, had been born in Scotland, and Scots who were loyal to the royal family were among his most important supporters. The Third Civil War (1649 - 1651) was fought between supporters of King Charles II and supporters of the Rump Parliament. The Civil War ended when Parliament won the Battle of Worcester on 3 September 1651. Charles II had to disguise himself in order to escape.
Oliver Cromwell ruled the country until he died in 1658. Cromwell's son, Richard, took over as Lord Protector. However, he was not as tough as his Father. The People begged King Charles's son to come back. Charles II came back from Holland and became King of Britain again, with the support of the people. 

</doc>
<doc id="30050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30050" title="Urdu">
Urdu

Urdu is the name of one of the languages spoken in South Asia. It is the national language of Pakistan. It is spoken in Pakistan and Indian-administered Kashmir and is the official language of the country. It is also an official language in India. It is spoken all over India, particularly in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh.
The origin of the Urdu language is the Mughal Empire's word for army, Urdu. However, contrary to popular belief, Urdu was not created in the army camps of the Mughal Army. Urdu is spoken the same as present-day Hindi, but Hindi uses the traditional Devanagari script (a decedent of Sanskrit), whereas Urdu uses the Persio-Arabic alphabet. The poet Ghulam Hamadani Mushafi coined the term Urdu for this language in 1780. However, this began to alienate the two major cultures in India/Pakistan, the Muslims and Hindus. Hindus began to speak and write Hindi, whereas Muslims would begin to speak Urdu. This also lead to a need to "cleanse" Urdu of all its Sanskrit words and lead Hindi speakers to want to be rid of Persian words that remained in their language.
The letters in Urdu are derived from the Persian language which is derived from the Arabic language. The additional letters that are found in Urdu include ٹ ,ڈ ,ڑ (ṫ, ḋ, ṙ). Also to make the language more enriched two letters were created for sounds ه (h) and ی (y). By adding these alphabets to the existing Persian alphabets the Urdu language became more suitable for the people of North India and Pakistan.
Urdu is written right to left like the Persian script. More specifically, Urdu is also written in the Nasta’ liq style of Persian Calligraphy. Nastaliq style is a cursive script invented by Mīr ʿAlī of Tabrīz, a very famous calligrapher during the Timurid period (1402–1502).
Urdu in its less formalized register has been called a rekhta (ریختہ, ), meaning "rough mixture". The more formal register of Urdu is sometimes called "zabān-e-Urdu-e-mo'alla" (زبان اردو معلہ ), the "Language of Camp and Court."
The etymology of the word used in the Urdu language for the most part decides how nice or well done your speech is. For example, Urdu speakers would distniguish between پانی "pānī" and آب "āb", both meaning "water" for example, or between آدمی "ādmi" and مرد "mard", meaning "man." The first in each set is used colloquial and has older Hindustani origins, while the last in the set is used formally and poetically.
If a word is of Persian or Arabic origin, the level of speech is thought to be more formal. If Persian or Arabic grammar constructs, such as the izafat, are used in Urdu, the level of speech is also thought more formal and correct. If a word is inherited from Sanskrit, the level of speech is thought more colloquial and personal. 
Urdu is supposed to be a well formed language; many of words are used in it to show respect and politeness. This emphasis on politeness, which comes from the vocabulary, is known as adab and to sometimes as takalluf in Urdu. These words are mostly used when addressing elders, or people with whom one is not met yet.
Two very respected poets who are not only celebrated in the Indian subcontinent but are famous in many other communities worldwide are Mirza Ghalib and Sir Mohammad Iqbal. Ghalib (1797-1869) is famous for his classic satire and sarcasm as seen in the following verse
(Latin alphabet):
umer bhar hum yun hee ghalati kartey rahen Ghalib
dhool ch-herey pei thee aur hum aaina saaf karte rahe
(translation):
O Ghalib (himself) all my life I kept making the same mistakes over and over,
I was busy cleaning the mirror while the dirt was on my face. 
Iqbal (1877-1938) is considered an inspirational poet who was also a very active politician. He focused his poetry on bringing out the plight of the suffering Muslim community. In his poetry he very boldly highlighted the missing virtues and values in the morally corrupt society. Despite much opposition in the beginning, he ended up leaving a huge impact. He is also called the “Poet of the East” and the “Poet of Islam”.
example (Latin):     
Aapne bhe khafa mujh sei beganey bhe na khush
Mein zeher -e-halal ku kabhi keh na saka qand
(translation):
I could not keep happy either my loved ones nor the strangers, 
as I could never call a piece of poison a piece of  candy     

</doc>
<doc id="30051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30051" title="Zakat">
Zakat

Zakat () is one of the five most important aspects of Islam. Zakat means giving charity to the poor. Generally, a Muslim is expected to give "zakat" as long as they are able. It is considered to be a personal responsibility for Muslims to help those in need and eliminate inequality. It is often 1/40th of what the Muslim has.

</doc>
<doc id="30055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30055" title="Salat">
Salat

Ṣalāt (, "") is the practice of prayer in Islam. It is one of the five most important duties for Muslims. To perform Salat, a person's mind must be in a state of ritual purity, which comes from ritual ablution, "(wuḍūʾ)".
For Sunni Muslims, salat must be performed at five periods each day. These periods are measured according to the movement of the Sun. The call to prayer is essential before every obligatory prayers. The holy prophet said: "The one who responds to Azan out of faith and seeking Allah's pleasure will be admitted to paradise."

</doc>
<doc id="30056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30056" title="Sawm">
Sawm

Sawm () is one of the most important aspects of Islam. It involves fasting. Fasting is done as prescribed by Islamic jurisprudence ("Fiqh"). In Islamic law, "sawm" means to stop eating and drinking (including water) during daylight hours. This kind of fasting during the holy month of Ramadan is one of the Five Pillars of Islam.

</doc>
<doc id="30072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30072" title="Franz Schubert">
Franz Schubert

Franz Peter Schubert (31 January 1797, Vienna 19 November 1828, Vienna) was an Austrian composer. Although he died at the age of 31, he composed over one thousand pieces of music. There were other great composers who lived and worked in Vienna: Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, but Schubert is the only one who was born in Vienna. He was the last great composer of the Classical music period, and one of the first of the Romantic period.
Schubert’s father was a schoolteacher. Twelve children were born into the family, but only four of them lived to become adults. Schubert's father tried to persuade his sons to help at the school when they grew up. As a boy, the young Franz learned the violin, piano, organ, singing and harmony. He soon became very good at them all. His teachers were all amazed at how quickly he learned. He was also very good at other subjects in school.
In the holidays he played string quartets with his two brothers and his father. He wrote his first string quartets for them to play. By the age of 16 he had composed a lot of music, including his first symphony. His mother died. His father soon remarried. His stepmother was very kind to him and often lent him money. He had one strange thumb on his right hand.
By the age of 17, Schubert was teaching at his father’s school. He had been rejected by the army because he was too short (shorter than five feet) and his sight was very poor. He still had composition lessons from Antonio Salieri. He often went to the opera where he heard some of the finest music of the time. He liked reading. One of his favourite books was Goethe’s "Faust". He wrote a song called "Gretchen am Spinnrade" which is about the young girl in the book sitting at a spinning wheel dreaming of her lover. The piano has a gentle accompaniment which sounds like the throbbing of the spinning wheel. The music stops for a moment when the girl imagines her lover is kissing her, then the piano gradually starts again. It is a very famous song. Another song which soon made him famous in all Europe was "Erlkönig". When it was first published another composer whose name was also Franz Schubert, thought that somebody had published a song in his name because the music publishers sent it to him for correction. He sent a very angry letter back saying he had not composed that rubbish.
It was difficult to find enough time to compose because he was a teacher. A man called Schober persuaded Schubert to give up teaching so that he could spend all his time composing. Soon he had become well known in all the drawing-rooms in Vienna where he met famous people, many of them musicians. These meetings were called “Schubertiads” because they played and sung his music. He wrote so many wonderful pieces that it seems strange that the music publishers did not want to publish them. They were only interested in publishing works written by performers, but were not very interested in people like Schubert who just composed. For a time he became music teacher for the two princesses of Count Johann Esterházy, but then he returned to Vienna to live with the Schober family. During the last few years of his life Schubert was ill. He had to leave the Schober’s house and find his own rooms. He was often desperately poor and composed in bed to keep warm.
Although Beethoven and Schubert lived in the same town they only met once, although they knew one another’s music. Schubert visited Beethoven on 19 March 1827. Beethoven was dying. Schubert was one of the torch-bearers at his funeral. A year and a half later Schubert, too, had died. He asked to be buried near Beethoven. Their graves were just three places apart.
Schubert’s songs are among the greatest ever written. They are all settings of German poems. German art songs are called Lieder (pronounced “leader”), and Schubert made his Lieder very special by making the piano accompaniments describe the action of the songs in many different ways. If you try to sing them in a translation it is difficult to make it sound good. It is best to hear them in German and to have a translation so that you understand what is being sung. Some of the last songs he wrote make up a cycle called “Die Winterreise” (“The Winter Journey”). The poems are about a man who is unhappy because his lover does not want him. He goes out into the cold winter woods and all nature seems to reflect the way he feels inside. The songs are usually sung by a male singer (tenor, baritone or bass).
Schubert wrote a great deal of chamber music. Among his most famous pieces are several string quartets, a string quintet (for 2 violins, viola and 2 cellos) and the “Trout” quintet (for piano, violin, viola, cello and double bass). There are sonatas and sonatinas for violin and piano, and a sonata for an instrument called the “arpeggione” which was used for about ten years after it was invented and then it was forgotten. The sonata is normally played on a cello or a viola nowadays. There is lots of piano music including sonatas, impromptus and also piano duet music. Schubert wrote eight famous impromptus.
Schubert wrote nine symphonies. The last one is known as the “Great” symphony in C major. The eighth is called the “Unfinished”. There are only two movements instead of the usual four. A lot of people still argue about why he left it unfinished. Some people even think that he completed it and that the last two movements are either lost, or are now known as movements from a piano duet. We shall probably never know for certain.
Most of his life he was supported by his friends who gave him manuscript paper when he could not afford it. Many of his greatest works only became widely known in the 1860s, long after his death. The house in Vienna where Schubert was born is now a museum which people can visit.

</doc>
<doc id="30074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30074" title="Cowpox">
Cowpox

Cowpox is a disease. This disease affects the skin. It is caused by a virus (Cowpox virus) that is related to the "Vaccinia virus". People (or animals) who have the disease have red blisters. The disease can be spread by touch from cows to humans. The virus that causes cowpox was used to perform the first successful vaccination against another disease. The disease vaccinated against was the deadly smallpox. Smallpox is caused by the related "Variola virus". Therefore the word "vaccination" has the Latin root "vaca" meaning cow. 
In 1798 the English physician Edward Jenner made a curious observation. Jenner lived in the countryside, not in the city. 
Some of his patients had gotten cowpox, and recovered from it. He observed that those patients did not get the disease again, they seemed to be immune against it. What was more, they also seemed to be immune against smallpox. Smallpox was a deadly disease then, that killed most of the people it infected. So he used the fluid he got from cowpox lesions, and scratched it into healthy people. That way, he could make those people immune against smallpox. 
The Cowpox (Catpox) virus is found in Europe and mainly in the UK. Human cases are very rare and most often contracted from domestic cats. The virus is not commonly found in cows; the reservoir hosts for the virus are woodland rodents particularly voles. It is from these rodents that domestic cats get the virus. Symptoms in cats include lesions on the face, neck, forelimbs, and paws, and less commonly upper respiratory tract infection. Symptoms of infection with cowpox virus in humans are localized, pustular lesions generally found on the hands and limited to the site of introduction. The incubation period (the time between an infectionm and the first signs of the disease) is 9–10 days. The virus can be found mostly in late summer and autumn.
Cowpox was the original vaccine of sorts for smallpox. After infection with the disease, the body (usually) gains the ability recognise the similar smallpox virus from its antigens and so is able to fight the smallpox disease much more efficiently.
Later, and still today, another vaccine was used: "vaccinia". Vaccinia is similar to cowpox, but not the same.

</doc>
<doc id="30075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30075" title="1535">
1535


</doc>
<doc id="30077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30077" title="1689">
1689


</doc>
<doc id="30078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30078" title="532">
532


</doc>
<doc id="30080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30080" title="1658">
1658


</doc>
<doc id="30081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30081" title="408">
408


</doc>
<doc id="30082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30082" title="1696">
1696


</doc>
<doc id="30083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30083" title="1647">
1647


</doc>
<doc id="30084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30084" title="1698">
1698


</doc>
<doc id="30085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30085" title="Margaret Atwood">
Margaret Atwood

Margaret Eleanor Atwood, OC (born November 18, 1939) is a Canadian writer. She is best known for writing novels. She has also published 15 books of poetry. "The Edible Woman" was her first novel, published in 1969.
Her novel "The Handmaid's Tale" was the first winner of the Arthur C. Clarke Award, in 1987.
"The Blind Assassin" won the 2000 Booker Prize.

</doc>
<doc id="30089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30089" title="Rainbow Brite">
Rainbow Brite

Rainbow Brite was an animated television show in the United States based on a series of Hallmark cards. It involves a girl called "Rainbow Brite" and the "Color Kids" who are in charges of bringing color to the earth. It was produced by DiC Entertainment and syndicated in its "Kideo TV" package.
A tie-in movie, "Rainbow Brite and the Star Stealer", came out in 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="30091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30091" title="Chickenpox">
Chickenpox

Chickenpox is a disease. Sometimes it is spelled chicken pox. Usually it is children who get the disease, but adults can also get it. People who have it get blisters or spots, mostly on the body and in the face. Those blisters are filled with a liquid. At some point the blisters will drain, and the person will want to scratch them. Burst blisters usually become healthy without leaving scars, unless they become infected. The symptoms come in two or three waves, and usually include fever. If there are no complications, the disease will last between three and five days, in children. Chickenpox is very common, by age 14, more than 90% of children will have had the disease. 
Getting chickenpox during a pregnancy is dangerous, because it can hurt both the mother and the child. 
Chickenpox is caused by a virus of the herpes family. People who had chickenpox in the past can also get a related disease called shingles later. Shingles is caused by the same virus but usually is in only one part of the body.
There is a vaccine against chickenpox. Usually the vaccine is given to children, if they did not have the disease before the start of puberty, that is aged 9–13 years old. Sometimes to help your child not to scratch when they have chicken pox, you can get a special cream for it such as e45.

</doc>
<doc id="30108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30108" title="1742">
1742


</doc>
<doc id="30109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30109" title="1624">
1624


</doc>
<doc id="30110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30110" title="1279">
1279


</doc>
<doc id="30111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30111" title="1046">
1046


</doc>
<doc id="30112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30112" title="Tonality">
Tonality

Music has tonality if it uses the notes of a major or minor scale. Such music is tonal. It is in a particular "key". Nearly all Western music is tonal.
All tonal music is based on a major or minor scale. If the tune “Twinkle, twinkle little star” is played starting on the note C, the notes of a C major scale will be used. The note C will sound like the home note (the “tonic”) and, indeed, the tune finishes on a C. The tune could have started on any other note (C sharp, D, E flat, E etc.) but a knowledge of scales would be needed as some sharps or flats (black notes) will be required. When singing the tune there is no need to think about the sharps and flats: the singer does them quite naturally.
A piece of tonal music will usually modulate after a while. This means that it changes key. But the music will not sound finished until it goes back to the original key. If one sings The Star-Spangled Banner and stops after the words “our flag was still there” the song sounds as if it has stopped in mid-air. It will not sound finished until it goes back to the first key in the last two lines.
Most Western music from about 1600 onwards is based in a major or minor key. This system of tonality was used by all the great composers up to the 20th century and in popular music and most folk music. Listening to a symphony by Beethoven is like going on a journey through various key areas, always returning to the original tonic at the end. In some cases, such as Beethoven’s "Fifth Symphony", it may start in the minor and finish in the major. This is because minor keys can sound disturbed, full of tension, but major keys sound happier and more relaxed.
The opposite of “tonality” is atonality. An atonal piece is one where there is no feeling of a home key. Playing lots of random notes will sound atonal. Schoenberg was one of the most famous composers of atonal music. Of course, his music is not just random notes (although it may sound like it to the listener at first), so he had to find another way of giving his music shape. That is why he invented the twelve-tone system.

</doc>
<doc id="30119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30119" title="Toucan">
Toucan

The Toucan is a South American bird in the family Ramphastidae. This social bird lives in small flocks in lowland rainforests in many countries, such as Costa Rica. It is a poor flyer, and flies short distances between trees. Toucans roost in holes in trees. They mostly eat fruit, but sometimes they also eat insects and small lizards.
Toucans are known for their huge beaks, which can grow larger than their bodies. They use their beaks for reaching over and plucking fruit from branches of trees. The bright colors on the beak may help the toucans to recognize each other, and to scare off other birds.

</doc>
<doc id="30126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30126" title="Elbow">
Elbow

The elbow is a hinge-joint between the bones of the upper and lower arm. It joins the humerus of the upper arm and the radius and ulna of the forearm together. Everyone has 2 elbows. It allows the lower arm to be extended or retracted (moved in). The elbow also allows the arm to turn. It moves by using three ligaments: the "anterior, posterior, ulnar collateral" and "radial collateral" ligaments.

</doc>
<doc id="30127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30127" title="Wrist">
Wrist

The wrist is the joint that links together the lower arm and the hand.

</doc>
