<doc id="215521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215521" title="Vanessa Redgrave">
Vanessa Redgrave

Vanessa Redgrave (Blackheath, London, England, 30 January 1937) is an English actress She is active in theatre, movies and television. 
Born in a theatrical family, her father was actor Sir Michael Redgrave (1908-1985). Her mother was actress Rachel Kempson (1910-2003). Her brother Corin Redgrave (1939-2010) and sister Lynn Redgrave (1943-2010) were both actors. She began her career in theatre in 1958 with the Royal Shakespeare Company. 
She made her movie debut in 1966 in "Morgan, a Suitable Case for Treatment", followed by "Blowup". 
In 1967, she appeared in the musical "Camelot", opposite Richard Harris. Other notable movies have included; "The Charge of the Light Brigade" (1968), "Isadora" (1969), "The Devils" (1970), "The Trojan Women" (1971), "Mary Queen of Scots" (1972), "Murder on the Orient-Express" (1974), "Julia" (1977), for which she won an Academy Award for best supporting actress, "Agatha" (1979), "The Bostonians" (1984), "Wetherby" (1985), "Howard Ends" (1992), "Mrs Dalloway" (1997), etc.
On television, she appeared in "Playing for Time" in 1981, which won her an Emmy Award for best actress, as well as in the teleseries "Peter The Great" (1986) and "Young Catherine" (1991). 
In 2010 she received the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award.
Redgrave was married to movie director Tony Richardson from 1962 until 1967, with whom she had two daughters: actresses Natasha Richardson (1963-2009) and Joely Richardson (b. 1965). She has a son, Carlo Gabriel Nero (b. 1969) with Italian actor Franco Nero, whom she married in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="215530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215530" title="WarioWare DIY">
WarioWare DIY

WarioWare D.I.Y., known in Japan as , is a minigame video game released for the Nintendo DS in 2009. It is the seventh title in the "WarioWare" series. It was first revealed on October 2, 2008 and it was released in Japan on April 29, 2009. In North America, it was announced at E3 2009 on June 2nd, 2009.
"WarioWare D.I.Y." allows players to design their own minigames, creating their own graphics, music and designing a 'cassette' for them. The game features three sections in its main menu: My House, where the player designs minigames, WarioWare, the tutorial, and My Shop, where the player makes microgame cassettes. When creating the music, the player can sing through the DS's microphone, which the DS then turns them into notes. These notes can then be performed by various instruments such as pig noises. 
Players can send their creations to other D.I.Y. owners or receive other people's works. They can also be uploaded to Nintendo Wi-Fi connection for contest purposes. Microgames made available by Nintendo can be downloaded, too. Additionally, the WiiWare game Asobu Made in Ore allows users to play the microgames on the Wii with the Wii remote's pointer.

</doc>
<doc id="215535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215535" title="Phil Keaggy">
Phil Keaggy

Philip Tyler Keaggy (born March 23, 1951 in Youngstown, Ohio) is an American musician. He is most famous for playing Contemporary Christian music. He has won seven "Dove Awards" for his instrumental albums and he has been nominated twice for the Grammy Award for ""Best Rock Gospel Album."" The style of guitar playing he is most famous for is his "fingerpicking" style which means he usually plucks the strings with his fingers rather than use a plastic guitar pick. Many guitar magazines have voted him as one of the best in the world at the fingerpicking style.

</doc>
<doc id="215536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215536" title="Apocynaceae">
Apocynaceae

The Apocynaceae or dogbane family is a family of flowering plants in the order Gentianales, that includes trees, shrubs, herbs, and lianas. Are usually with milky sap comprising about 200 genera and 2,000 species.

</doc>
<doc id="215552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215552" title="Reaction inhibitor">
Reaction inhibitor

An inhibitor is a substance that slows down chemical reactions without being involved in the actual reaction. It does the opposite of a catalyst, which speeds up reactions without undergoing a permanent change in itself. An example is snake venom, which is deadly for humans because it can slow down their internal chemical reactions.

</doc>
<doc id="215572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215572" title="Frontier Falcon">
Frontier Falcon

Frontier Falcon is a member internal hockey team for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province in Pakistan part of PHF.

</doc>
<doc id="215574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215574" title="Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regiment">
Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regiment

The Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regiment is one of the six infantry regiments of Pakistan Army. Its "Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regimental Centre" is located at Mansar (Pakistan), Attock District, The Pak-Punjab.

</doc>
<doc id="215581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215581" title="Federal Capital Territory">
Federal Capital Territory

The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) around Karachi was the original Capital territory of Pakistan. The FCT was created in 1948 from the city of Karachi and surrounding areas as the location for Pakistan's capital following independence. The FCT was bordered by the province of Sind Province (1936–1955) to the northeast and the princely state of State of Las Bela to the northwest with the Arabian Sea to the south.

</doc>
<doc id="215585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215585" title="Merlot">
Merlot

Merlot is a type of red wine and it is the main agricultural production of the Swiss canton called ticino.

</doc>
<doc id="215586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215586" title="Iconostasis">
Iconostasis


</doc>
<doc id="215591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215591" title="Charles Bronson">
Charles Bronson

Charles Bronson (Charles Dennis Buchinsky; November 3, 1921 – August 30, 2003) was an American actor. He was a Purple Heart recipient.
He was born in Ehrenfeld, Pennsylvania. Bronson was married to Jill Ireland (his second marriage, 1968–1990) until her death from breast cancer. He died of pneumonia and Alzheimer's disease. He is of Tatar origin. He died in Los Angeles. 
He played Paul Kersey in the "Death Wish movie series". He was 5'9". He was 81 years old when he died. His real full name was Charles Dennis Buchinsky 
Rectified - Karolis was the 1st name, his parents being from Litva, a Balto-Slavic nation, not Tartar. 
The Slavic KAROL stands for KING

</doc>
<doc id="215592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215592" title="Sundance Film Festival">
Sundance Film Festival

The Sundance Film Festival is an American movie festival that takes place every year in Utah. It is one of the largest independent movie festivals in the United States. 
The festival is held in January in Park City, Salt Lake City, Ogden, and at the Sundance Resort. It is an event for new work from American and international independent movie makers. The festival has competition for American and international drama and documentary movies, feature films and short films.
The 2015 Sundance Film Festival took place January 22 to February 1, 2015. "What Happened, Miss Simone?", a documentary about American singer Nina Simone, opened the festival. A comedy-drama movie, "Grandma", was the closing night movie. It stars Lily Tomlin.
Many notable independent movie makers first got noticed at Sundance, including Kevin Smith, Robert Rodriguez, Quentin Tarantino, Todd Field, David O. Russell, Steve James, Steven Soderbergh, Darren Aronofsky, James Wan, Edward Burns, and Jim Jarmusch. 
The festival has also given more attention and a larger audience to such movies as "Saw", "Super Troopers", "The Blair Witch Project", "Spanking the Monkey", "Reservoir Dogs", "Primer", "Little Miss Sunshine", "Clerks", "Sex, Lies, and Videotape", "The Brothers McMullen", "Afternoon Delight", "Napoleon Dynamite", and "Whiplash".

</doc>
<doc id="215593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215593" title="Turner Field">
Turner Field

Turner Field is a baseball ballpark in Atlanta, Georgia, home to the Atlanta Braves. The park first opened in 1996 to host the Summer Olympics in Atlanta, when it was known as Centennial Olympic Stadium. After the Olympics, the park was changed to allow baseball to be played, and opened for the 1997 braves season., The stadium replaces Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, which was built in 1966.
On November 11, 2013, it was announced that the Braves would leave Turner Field for a new stadium in Cobb County. The lease which allowed the Braves to play in Turner Field was set to end in 2016, and the team stated that many fans had problems getting to the stadium on game days. At the new stadium's groundbreaking on September 16, 2014, that venue's name was revealed as SunTrust Park.

</doc>
<doc id="215594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215594" title="Stevie Nicks">
Stevie Nicks

Stephanie Lynn "Stevie" Nicks (born May 26, 1948, in Phoenix, Arizona) is an American singer-songwriter. She is best known for her work with Fleetwood Mac and a long solo career. Within the band and as a solo singer, she has over forty Top 50 hits and has sold over 140 million albums. 
She was named "The Reigning Queen of Rock and Roll" and one of the "100 Greatest Singers of All Time" by "Rolling Stone". As a member of Fleetwood Mac, she was selected to be included in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998. 
With Fleetwood Mac, Nicks has been nominated for nine Grammy Awards. They won the 1978 Grammy Award for Album of the Year for "Rumours". They also won the 2003 Grammy Hall of Fame Award.

</doc>
<doc id="215596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215596" title="Baloristan">
Baloristan

Baloristan (Gilgit-Chitral) is the name of a region of Northern Areas of Pakistan. It borders Pakistan's North-West Frontier to the west, Afghanistan and China to the north, Indian-occupied Jammu and Kashmir to the east, leading to the frozen wastes of the Third Pole. 
The central administrative unit of Baloristan, Gilgit Agency.

</doc>
<doc id="215602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215602" title="Michael Waltrip">
Michael Waltrip

Michael Curtis Waltrip (born April 30, 1963 in Owensboro, Kentucky) is an American race car driver and owner of his team called Michael Waltrip Racing. Michael Waltrip is the younger brother of three time Sprint cup champion, Darrell Waltrip.

</doc>
<doc id="215615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215615" title="Jean Simmons">
Jean Simmons

Jean Simmons (January 31, 1929 - January 22, 2010) was an Anglo-American actress. She was active in movies, television and theatre.
Jean Simmons was born in London, England. She began her acting career very young, and appeared in films like David Lean's "Great Expectations" (1946) and Laurence Olivier's "Hamlet" (1948) while still a teenager.
As a very promising young actress, she came to Hollywood in 1950, where she appeared in such films as "The Robe" (1953), "Young Bess" (1953), "Désirée" (1954), "The Egyptian" (1954), "The Big Country" (1958), "Spartacus" (1960), "Elmer Gantry" (1960), "Life at the Top" (1965), "A Rough Night in Jericho" (1967), etc.
In the 1970s, she gradually turned to television work, notably in the highly successful miniseries "The Thorn Birds" (1983), for which she won an Emmy Award for best supporting actress, and "North and South " (1985).
Simmons was married twice. Her first was to actor Stewart Granger from 1950 to 1960, with whom she had a daughter, Tracy (born 1956). Simmons and Granger became American citizens in 1956. The second was to film director Richard Brooks from 1960 to 1977, with whom she had a second daughter, Kate (born 1961). Both marriages ended in divorce.
Simmons died aged 80 of lung cancer in Santa Monica, California.

</doc>
<doc id="215616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215616" title="Ernie Coombs">
Ernie Coombs

Ernest "Ernie" Coombs, CM (November 26, 1927 – September 18, 2001) who was most famous for being the host of the popular Canadian television TV show called "Mr. Dressup". 'Mr. Dressup was on TV for a very long time.
He was born in Lewiston, Maine in 1927. After he finished school at the North Yarmouth Academy he decided to find work entertaining children. He first started learning how to do this when he moved to Canada in 1963 and started working for Fred Rogers on an early version of "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood". This show was on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation TV channel. After Rogers moved back to the United States in 1964 Coombs stayed in Canada. His next work was on a TV show called "Butternut Square" which was on TV from 1964 to 1967.
After ""Butternut Square"" ended Coombs started the ""Mr. Dressup"" TV show. It would become one of Canada's longest-running children's TV shows. As Mr. Dressup he would do art, sing songs, tell stories and play children's games. In each show Mr. Dressup would dress up in costumes that he would find in a box he called his ""Tickle Trunk"".
Coombs became a Canadian citizen in 1994.
His TV show did not stop until February 1996. The same year, he was named a Member of the Order of Canada. 
Repeats of his TV show were shown on CBC Television until 2006.
After he retired from TV Coombs continued to work entertaining children and did a lot of work to raise money for many children's charities.
Coombs had a stroke on September 10, 2001. He died on September 18, 2001 in Toronto, Ontario. He was 73 years old when he died.

</doc>
<doc id="215655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215655" title="Pleiotropism">
Pleiotropism

Pleiotropism is a central term in developmental genetics. In pleiotropism, a single gene affects a number of phenotypic traits in the same organism. 
These pleiotropic effects often seem to be unrelated to each other. The usual underlying mechanism is that the same gene is activated in several different tissues, producing apparently different effects. It follows that the phenomenon must be extremely common, since most genes will have effects in more than one tissue. 
The term may be contrasted with pleiomorphism, in which a genetically uniform group of organisms shows variable phenotypes.
Pleiotropy has significance for the theory of evolution. It has often been claimed that some heritable features of animals are not the product of adaptation by natural selection. Much of this may be explained by pleiotropism. Strong selection for one or two aspects of gene function will automatically bring along some other pleiotropic traits. These other traits, though inherited, may be neutral or even slightly deleterious in terms of selection.
"Antagonistic pleiotropy" refers to the expression of a gene resulting in multiple competing effects, some beneficial but others detrimental to the organism. Three circumstances are possible:
1. Simultaneously, a gene may cause deleterious traits which are outbalanced by the survival value of positive traits.
2. A gene may increase fitness in the younger, fertile organism, yet contribute to decreased fitness later in life. The reproductive contribution at the younger stages of life will ensure the spread of such a gene.
3. A gene may increase fitness in some habitats, but not others. Its survival in the population is then balanced. An example is a bacterial gene which enhances glucose use at the expense of the ability to use other energy sources (such as lactose). This has positive effects when there is plenty of glucose, but can be lethal if lactose is the only available food source.

</doc>
<doc id="215661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215661" title="Empire of the Sun (band)">
Empire of the Sun (band)

Empire of the Sun is an Australian electronic music group which started in 2007. The band is made up of two musicians, Luke Steele of The Sleepy Jackson and Nick Littlemore of Pnau. The pair achieved chart success with their first single, "Walking on a Dream", which got to number ten on the Australian charts, and reached 64 on the UK Singles Chart.
Their first album also called "Walking on a Dream", released in October 2008, won a platinum award in Australia. Another single from the album, "We Are the People" reached the top 25. Recently Empire of the Sun was in the news for getting to fourth position on the BBC’s annual Sound of Music poll 2009. They are currently signed to EMI Australia and Virgin UK. In November 2009, the band won four awards from the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). They were given the award for the best group, the best pop release, the Album of the Year, and Single of the Year.
Empire of the Sun is very different, Luke Steele said that "...we are not a band. We're anything we want it to be..." The two musicians play a lot of instruments and dress in elaborate stage costumes.

</doc>
<doc id="215668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215668" title="Interrobang">
Interrobang

An interrobang or interabang is a grammatical symbol which combines both the exclamation mark (!) and the question mark (?).
It is a very uncommonly used symbol as most people would simply end their exclamatory questions with both of the symbols like this: !? or ?!
On a computer an interrobang looks like this: ‽

</doc>
<doc id="215676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215676" title="Altruism">
Altruism

Altruism (or selflessness) is concern for the well-being of others. A truly altruistic act is something done completely for the benefit of another, without concern for the self. It usually involves sacrificing something (time, effort or possessions), with no expectation of receiving anything in return (including recognition for the act of giving). It is considered a virtue in many cultures and a basic aspect of most religions. It is the opposite of selfishness.
Altruism is different from acts done out of responsibility, loyalty or moral obligation towards a specific individual (such as a god, a king or a government). Whether "pure" altruism is possible has been debated by scholars for thousands of years. One theory says that no act of giving, helping or sacrificing can be described as truly selfless, because the person will receive personal gratification from it (that is, a feeling of satisfaction that they have done something good for another). Whether this theory is correct depends on whether such feelings qualify as a 'reward' or 'benefit'.
The concept of altruism has long been studied in philosophy and ethics. The term was originally used in the 19th century by sociologist and philosopher of science, Auguste Comte. It has become an important topic for psychologists (especially those that study evolutionary psychology), evolutionary biologists and ethologists. The scholars of each field have developed different ideas about altruism. All agree that altruism is caring about the welfare of other people and acting to help them.
In the study of animal behaviour, altruism is seen in social animals when an individual willingly sacrifices itself for the better survival of the group. There are several theories about how this behaviour has come about under evolution by natural selection.
These theories try to explain how evolution has shaped psychological mechanisms, such as emotions, that encourage altruistic behaviour. 
Most, if not all, of the world's religions promote selflessness as a very important moral value. It forms part of the central philosophies of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Jainism, Judaism and Sikhism, as well as many other religions.
Buddhism teaches love and compassion for all forms of life (ahimsa). Love is the wish that all beings be happy, and compassion is the wish that all beings be free from suffering. It considers all living things to be equal. Unlike most other religions, Buddhists believe that the consequences of our actions come not from punishments based on moral judgment, but from the law of karma ("kamma"). Karma is the natural law of cause and effect. In this law, we experience the effects of what we cause: if you cause suffering, then as a natural consequence you will experience suffering; if you cause happiness, then as a natural consequence you will experience happiness. Most types of karmas, with good or bad results, will keep one in the wheel of samsāra; others will liberate one to nirvāna.
In Sufism, the idea of "īthār" (selflessness) is defined as preferring others over yourself. For Sufis, this means devotion to others and completely forgetting concern for oneself. It teaches sacrifice for the sake of the greater good. Islam considers those practicing "īthār" as abiding by the highest degree of virtue. In "īthār", attention is focused on everything that exists except for the self.

</doc>
<doc id="215677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215677" title="Visegrád Group">
Visegrád Group

The Visegrád Group (also the Visegrád Four or V4) is a group of four Сentral European countries: the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. It was created in 1991 in Visegrád, Hungary for the purposes of better cooperation among these countries.

</doc>
<doc id="215690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215690" title="Standard error">
Standard error

The standard error is the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of a statistic. The term may also be used for an estimate (good guess) of that standard deviation taken from a sample of the whole group.
The average of some part of a group (called a sample) is the usual way to estimate the average for the whole group. It is often too hard or costs too much money to measure the whole group. But if a different sample is measured, it will have an average that is a little bit different from the first sample. The standard error of the mean is a way to know how close the average of the sample is to the average of the whole group. It is a way to know how sure you can be about the average from the sample.
In real measurements, the true value of the standard deviation of the mean for the whole group is usually not known. So the term "standard error" is often used to mean a close guess to the true number for the whole group. The more measurements there are in a sample, the closer the guess will be to the true number for the whole group.
One way to find the standard error of the mean is to have lots of samples. First, the average for each sample is found. Then the average and standard deviation of those sample averages is found. The standard deviation for all the sample averages is the standard error of the mean. This can be a lot of work. Sometimes it is too difficult or costs too much money to have lots of samples.
Another way to find the standard error of the mean is to use an equation that needs only one sample. Standard error of the mean is usually estimated by the standard deviation for a sample from the whole group (sample standard deviation) divided by the square root of the sample size.
where
How big does the sample need to be so that the estimate of the standard error of the mean is close to the actual standard error of the mean for the whole group? There should be at least six measurements in a sample. Then the standard error of the mean for the sample will be within 5% of the standard error of the mean if the whole group were measured.
There is another equation to use if the number of measurements is for 5% or more of the whole group:
There are special equations to use if a sample has less than 20 measurements.
Sometimes a sample comes from one place even though the whole group may be spread out. Also, sometimes a sample may be made in a short time period when the whole group covers a longer time. In this case, the numbers in the sample are not independent. Then special equations are used to try to correct for this.
"A practical result:" One can become more sure of an average value by having more measurements in a sample. Then the standard error of the mean will be smaller because the standard deviation is divided by a bigger number. However, to make the uncertainty (standard error of the mean) in an average value half as big, the sample size (n) needs to be four times bigger. This is because the standard deviation is divided by the square root of the sample size. To make the uncertainty one-tenth as big, the sample size (n) needs to be one hundred times bigger!
Standard errors are easy to calculate and are used a lot because:
The relative standard error (RSE) is the standard error divided by the average. This number is smaller than one. Multiplying it by 100% gives it as a percentage of the average. This helps to show whether the uncertainty is important or not. For example, consider two surveys of household income that both result in a sample average of $50,000. If one survey has a standard error of $10,000 and the other has a standard error of $5,000, then the relative standard errors are 20% and 10% respectively. The survey with the lower relative standard error is better because it has a more precise measurement (the uncertainty is smaller).
In fact, people who need to know average values often decide how small the uncertainty should be before they decide to use the information. For example, the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics does not report an average if the relative standard error exceeds 30%. NCHS also requires at least 30 observations for an estimate to be reported.
For example, there are many redfish in the water of the Gulf of Mexico. To find out how much a 42 cm long redfish weighs on average, it is not possible to measure all of the redfish that are 42 cm long. Instead, it is possible to measure some of them. The fish that are actually measured are called a sample. The table shows weights for two samples of redfish, all 42 cm long. The average (mean) weight of the first sample is 0.741 kg. The average (mean) weight of the second sample is 0.735 kg, a little bit different from the first sample. Each of these averages is a little bit different from the average that would come from measuring every 42 cm long redfish (which is not possible anyway).
The uncertainty in the mean can be used to know how close the average of the samples are to the average that would come from measuring the whole group. The uncertainty in the mean is estimated as the standard deviation for the sample, divided by the square root of the number of samples minus one. The table shows that the uncertainties in the means for the two samples are very close to each other. Also, the relative uncertainty is the uncertainty in the mean divided by the mean, times 100%. The relative uncertainty in this example is 2.38% and 2.50% for the two samples.
Knowing the uncertainty in the mean, one can know how close the sample average is to the average that would come from measuring the whole group. The average for the whole group is between a) the average for the sample plus the uncertainty in the mean, and b) the average for the sample minus the uncertainty in the mean. In this example, the average weight for all of the 42 cm long redfish in the Gulf of Mexico is expected to be 0.723–0.759 kg based on the first sample, and 0.717–0.753 based on the second sample.

</doc>
<doc id="215692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215692" title="Really Wild Animals">
Really Wild Animals

Really Wild Animals was a National Geographic television series. It had Dudley Moore as the voice of "Spin".

</doc>
<doc id="215700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215700" title="Adaptive radiation">
Adaptive radiation

Adaptive radiation is rapid evolutionary radiation. It is an increase in the number and diversity of species in each lineage. It produces more new species, and those species live in a wider range of habitats.
Some definitions phrase it in terms of a single clade: "Adaptive radiation is the rapid proliferation of new taxa from a single ancestral group". However, in the most striking cases, such as occurred in the Triassic after the greatest extinction event in Earth history, many lines underwent rapid radiation simultaneously. This must have something to do with the availability of ecological niches and relative absence of competition. 
The Ediacaran biota were the result of an early metazoan radiation. The greatest radiation of all took place early in the Cambrian period, when most of our animal phyla evolved: see List of animal phyla. 
In the relative absence of competition, groups diversify to fill available habitats and niches. This is an evolutionary process driven by natural selection. 
The term was introduced and discussed by George Gaylord Simpson, the palaeontologist who contributed to the modern evolutionary synthesis. Others prefer not to use the term. Robert L Carroll prefers to use the term "major evolutionary transitions", though it turns out that all or most of these could also be described as adaptive radiations. Others use terms like macroevolution, or even megaevolution, as if the processes are different from those which occur below species level. It is part of evolutionary theory that all processes take place at the level of populations. All agree, though, that the speed of evolution does change, however it is measured.
Records of timing are bedevilled by gaps in the fossil record, often at those crucial early stages when numbers are low and geographical distribution is severely restricted. "In reality, there are long periods within nearly every lineage for which the fossil record remains unknown". These gaps affect our knowledge of timing, and of changes in body shape and function.
Nevertheless, when a string of distinctly new lines appear within a short period, it seems reasonable to say that the rate of change has been surprisingly fast. An example would be the appearance of new reptilian groups in the Upper Triassic. Using the term 'reptile' broadly, the groups include dinosaurs, pterosaurs, Chelonia (turtles), crocodylomorphs (early Crocodilia), phytosaurs, and ichthyosaurs a bit earlier (Middle Triassic). 
These radiations occurred after the great mass extinction at the end of the Palaeozoic era, and the Triassic itself had several lesser (but still significant) extinctions. Unfortunately, the Triassic has the poorest fossil record of the whole of the Mesozoic era.
The evolution of a new feature may let a group diversify because it makes possible new ways of living. A most striking example is the cleidoic egg, which developed in early amniotes, and permitted vertebrates to invade the land. The cleidoic egg must have been developed in the latest Devonian or early Carboniferous. Amphibians, who branched off before this event, still lay their eggs in water, and so are limited in the extent to which they can exploit land environments. 
An example of a more modest innovation is the evolution of a fourth cusp in the mammalian tooth. This trait permits a vast increase in the range of foodstuffs which can be fed on. Evolution of this character has thus increased the number of ecological niches available to mammals. The trait arose a number of times in different groups during the Cenozoic, and in each instance was immediately followed by an adaptive radiation. With birds, the evolution of flight opened new possibilities, and at least two huge adaptive radiations occurred (one before and one after the K/T extinction event). Even more striking was the evolution of insect flight, which led to huge radiation in the Mesozoic era. Then, these insect groups developed ways of feeding on flowering plants. They now outnumber all other forms of animal life by quite a margin.
Adaptive radiations often happen when organisms enter environments with unoccupied niches, such as a newly formed lake or an isolated island chain. The colonizing population(s) may diversify rapidly and take advantage of all possible niches. Opportunities occur when land bridges form between areas which were previously separate, and whenever species get to new place in the world. 
In Lake Victoria, an isolated lake which formed recently in the African rift valley, over 300 species of cichlid fish radiated from one parent species in just 15,000 years.
In about , the Hawaiian Islands have the most diverse collection of drosophilid flies in the world, living from rainforests to mountain meadows. About 800 Hawaiian drosophilid species are known.
Studies show a clear "flow" of species from older to newer islands. There are also cases of colonization back to older islands, and skipping of islands, but these are much less frequent. By potassium/argon radioactive dating, the present islands date from 0.4 million years ago (mya) (Mauna Kea) to 10mya (Necker). The oldest member of the Hawaiian archipelago still above the sea is Kure Atoll, which can be dated to 30 mya. The archipelago itself, produced by the Pacific plate moving over a hot spot, has existed for far longer, at least into the Cretaceous. The Hawaiian islands plus former islands which are now beneath the sea make up the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain; and many of the underwater mountains are guyots.
All of the native drosophilid species in Hawaii have apparently descended from "a single ancestral species" that colonized the islands, about 20 million years ago. The subsequent adaptive radiation was spurred by a lack of competition and a wide variety of vacant niches. Although it would be possible for a single pregnant female to colonise an island, it is more likely to have been a group from the same species.
There are other animals and plants on the Hawaiian archipelago which have undergone similar, if less spectacular, adaptive radiations.
Adaptive radiations commonly follow mass extinctions. After an extinction event, many niches are left vacant. A classic example of this is the replacement of the non-avian dinosaurs at the end of the Cretaceous with mammals in the Palaeocene.

</doc>
<doc id="215704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215704" title="Ajda Pekkan">
Ajda Pekkan

Ajda Pekkan (born February 12, 1946 in Istanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish singer and actress. She is one of the most successful Turkish singers with the sales of over 30 million copies worldwide. She is called ""Superstar"". She has released more than 20 albums. Most famous ones are "Superstar", "Superstar II", "Superstar III" (also known as Superstar 83), "Ajda '90", "Ajda '93", "The Best of Ajda", "Diva", "Cool Kadın" and "Farkın Bu". Also he recorded singles in French and English.
Ajda was born to Rıdvan Pekkan, an officer in the Turkish Navy, and Nevin Dobruca, a housewife. She spent her childhood at the Gölcük Naval Base in Kocaeli Province. Ajda graduated from the Çamlıca Kız Lisesi.
She won a Cover Star contest in 1963 and she began her professional career. She started her career as an actress. She was a popular actress in 60s. She released her very first recording, "Göz Göz Değdi Bana" as a B-Side in 1964. Following year, she released her first single, "Her Yerde Kar Var" in 1965. In April 1977, she released an album called "Superstar". It was a great success. Album sold over millions of copies and became a classic. Her next album, "Superstar II", released in May 1979. It was more successful than Superstar. Songs from album, Bambaşka Biri (It was a Turkish cover of I Will Survive and it became a signature song of Ajda Pekkan), Dile Kolay, Ya Sonra, Haykıracak Nefesim Kalmasa Bile, Yeniden Başlasın, Bir Köşede Yalnız were successful hits. She gave concerts in Tehran, Paris and Tokyo in the 70s. She represented Turkey with the famous entry "Petr' oil" at the 1980 Eurovision Song Contest in the Hague, the Netherlands.
She released her first album on CD, "Ajda '90" in 1990. She recorded her "Ajda '93" album in the USA and Switzerland. Her complation albums containing the new recordings of his hit songs, "The Best of Ajda" and "Diva" were very successful albums. Her latest album, "Farkın Bu", which released in July 2011 became the most selling album of 2011 in Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="215709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215709" title="The Fabulous Moolah">
The Fabulous Moolah

Mary Lillian Ellison (born July 22, 1923 in Kershaw County, South Carolina – died November 2, 2007 in Columbia, South Carolina), better known by her ring name The Fabulous Moolah, was an American female professional wrestler. She wrestled for WWE. She was a 4 time WWF Women's Champion. She was champion for almost thirty years. That made her champion longer than anyone else in the sport. She was inducted into the 1995 WWE Hall of Fame. She was the first woman to join the WWE Hall of Fame. She is also the oldest WWE Women's Champion ever to win the title against Ivory at No Mercy in 1999. She was best friends with fellow wrestler "Mae Young". The Fabulous Moolah also has a book about her life titled, "The Fabulous Moolah: First Goddess of the Squared Circle".
Moolah died on November 2, 2007 in Columbia, South Carolina of a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="215712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215712" title="Percentile">
Percentile

In statistics a large set of numerical data is sometimes, divided into 100 groups, each consisting of 1% of the data. Beforehand the data are arranged in ascending order. Each of the 99 dividing points is called a percentile of the data set. 
The 35th percentile, for instance, has a bigger value than 35% of the datapool.
Some of the percentiles have special names. The 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles are called quartiles. The 50th percentile is also called the median.

</doc>
<doc id="215751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215751" title="Grand Coulee">
Grand Coulee

The Grand Coulee used to be a river in the U.S. state of Washington. This dry river stretches for sixty miles from the Grand Coulee Dam to Soap Lake. A feature known as Dry Falls divides the Coulee into two parts. Dry Falls is thought to be the remains of the largest waterfall ever, two or three times higher than Niagara Falls.
The Grand Coulee is granite bedrock which is 40 to 60  million years old. The volcanic basalt is thick. The coulee is said to have been made when the Columbia River was blocked by a large glacier. At the end of the last ice age the Columbia River went back to its old route and left the coulee. The coulee is a mile wide and was formed by a river that now flows a different way.
The area surrounding the Grand Coulee is shrub land. It has a rainfall of twelve inches per year. The Lower Grand Coulee contains the Park, Blue, Alkali, Lenore, and Soap lakes. Until recently, the Upper Coulee was dry.
The "Columbia Basin Project" dammed the river in 1952. It used the Grand Coulee as an irrigation network. The Upper Grand Coulee was dammed and made "Banks Lake". The lake is filled by pumps from the Grand Coulee Dam. Banks Lake feeds a hundred-mile (160 km) irrigation system.

</doc>
<doc id="215752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215752" title="Latent autoimmune diabetes">
Latent autoimmune diabetes

Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults (LADA) is similar to both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Like type 1 diabetes, LADA is an autoimmune disease of the pancreas. This means the body's immune system attacks the cells in the pancreas that are supposed to make insulin. But LADA is also like type 2 diabetes, because it causes insulin resistance. This means that insulin does not work as well as it should in a person's body.
Most people with latent autoimmune diabetes are thin or skinny or have a normal BMI, although some are overweight to slightly obese. 
The biggest difference between LADA and type 1 diabetes is that LADA has a gradual onset (it comes on slowly).
Also, people with type 1 diabetes cannot make insulin. But if they are given a shot of insulin, the insulin works and does its job in their bodies. But in people with LADA, even if they are given insulin, the insulin may not work as well as it should.
Most people with LADA become insulin-dependent (have to inject insulin) within 3-15 years. This is very different from type 2 diabetes. Only 20%-30% of type 2 diabetics end up being insulin-dependent.
Another difference is that type 2 diabetes can happen to anyone at any age. But LADA does not affect children or teenagers. It usually affects people age 35 and older, but can affect anyone between 20-29 years of age.
With LADA, the pancreas cannot make insulin because the immune system is attacking its insulin-making cells. This does not happen in type 2 diabetes.
Contrary to popular belief, some people with LADA do have family members with type 2 diabetes.
People with LADA are sometimes misdiagnosed (diagnosed incorrectly) as having type 1 or type 2 diabetes. A special blood test can prove what kind of diabetes a person has. The test looks for an antibody that only diabetics with LADA have. It is called a GAD antibody test.
People with LADA usually control their diabetes using very similar methods and changes of lifestyle to type 2 diabetes: eating right, exercising and oral medications; weight loss is optional. Unlike Type 2 diabetics who might never need to inject insulin, however, the LADA patients become insulin dependent within several years.
The complications of latent autoimmune diabetes of adults are highly similar to those for types 1 and 2 diabetes, like stroke, heart disease, gangrene, kidney trouble, and heart attacks.
There are glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies connected with LADA. There are also TCF7L2 genes associated with Type 2 diabetes which are also connected with LADA.

</doc>
<doc id="215780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215780" title="Screwdriver (alcoholic drink)">
Screwdriver (alcoholic drink)

The Screwdriver is an alcoholic cocktail. It is made from orange juice mixed with vodka which is an alcohol. It got its name because American builders used to add vodka to their orange juice and stir it with their screwdrivers.

</doc>
<doc id="215781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215781" title="Antoine Lavoisier">
Antoine Lavoisier

Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier (26 August 1743 – 8 May 1794) was a French nobleman, chemist and biologist. He is often called the ""Father of Modern Chemistry"". His work is an important part of the histories of chemistry and biology. It also contributed to the beginnings of atomic theory. He was the first scientist to recognise and name the elements hydrogen and oxygen. He was executed, as were hundreds of other nobles, during the French Revolution.
Antoine de Lavoisier began studying at the Collège Mazarin in Paris in 1754, when he was 11 years old. This was one of the best secondary schools in France then. He studied to be a lawyer like his father and his grandfather. He got his degree in 1763 and practised law at the parliament. But he really preferred scientific research to law. So he also studied chemistry, botany, astronomy, and mathematics. He got his law degree in 1763, but never practised as a lawyer. He started a career as a scientist instead.
During his career, Lavoisier brought major changes to the study of chemistry. Much of his research was done on combustion. He is the person who explained combustion by oxidation. To prove this, Lavoisier studied the air. In order to do this, in 1776, he burned mercury in an enclosed vase. His conclusion: the air is a combination of oxygen and is not a chemical element.
He also discovered the law of conservation of mass that is "nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed". It says that the mass of the final products of a chemical reaction is the same as the reactants’ ones. Today, this principle is the basis of modern chemistry.
Lavoisier, together with L. B. Guyton de Morveau, Claude-Louis Berthollet and Antoine François de Fourcroy, created the first system of chemical nomenclature in the 1780s.
While he was doing research in chemistry, Lavoisier was also working at the government. During this time, the French Revolution began in 1789. Antoine kept his position in the government. But, two years later, a new government arrived in power. This new government was suspicious of Lavoisier's great success as a scientific researcher and as a public administrator. He was accused of selling modified tobacco. He was arrested for conspiracy against the people. Even though there was no proof that showed that Antoine de Lavoisier broke the law, he was sentenced to death on May 8th 1794. He was executed using the guillotine.

</doc>
<doc id="215786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215786" title="Tequila Sunrise">
Tequila Sunrise

The Tequila Sunrise is an alcoholic cocktail made using tequila. Mexico is known for having Tequila in its bars. It is named afer the way it looks when it is poured into a glass, similar to the sky at sunrise. 

</doc>
<doc id="215793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215793" title="George Gaylord Simpson">
George Gaylord Simpson

George Gaylord Simpson (16 June 1902 – 6 October 1984) was an American paleontologist. Simpson was perhaps the most influential paleontologist of the twentieth century, and a major participant in the modern evolutionary synthesis. 
He was an expert on extinct mammals and their migrations, especially the Great American Interchange between the Americas. Simpson opposed Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift, so his work on animal migration lacked this idea.
Simpson dispelled the myth that the evolution of the horse was a linear process culminating in the modern "Equus caballus". He coined the word "hypodigm" in 1940, and published extensively on the taxonomy of fossil and living mammals.
Born in Chicago, Illinois, Simpson was raised mostly in Denver, Colorado. He got his degrees from Yale University in 1923 and 1926. His dissertation, "American Mesozoic Mammalia" (1929), was the first step in his lifelong interest in the evolution of mammals. After a post-doctoral year at the British Natural History Museum, Simpson returned in 1927 to take up a post in the American Museum of Natural History.
In 1942, Simpson enlisted in the U.S. Army. He served as a Captain, then Major, in Army intelligence, Simpson served with American forces in North Africa and western Europe until 1944. Then he resigned, suffering from a severe bout of hepatitis. He returned home, with two Bronze Stars. He was promoted to Curator (head) of the Department of Geology and Paleontology at the American Museum of Natural History. He also held a post as Professor of Zoology at Columbia University (19451959). He took up his work on early mammals, and worked on the Palaeocene and Eocene faunas of the San Juan Basin, New Mexico. 
He was Curator of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University from 1959 to 1970, and a Professor of Geosciences at the University of Arizona until his retirement in 1982.
In the 1940s Simpson produced three major works. "Tempo and mode in evolution" (1944), "Principles of classification and a classification of mammals" (1945) and "The meaning of evolution" (1949). Simpson provided a popular account of modern evolutionary theory with emphasis on evidence from the fossil record.
Simpson was awarded the Linnean Society's Darwin-Wallace Medal in 1958. He also received the Royal Society's Darwin Medal "In recognition of his distinguished contributions to general evolutionary theory, based on a profound study of palaeontology, particularly of vertebrates" in 1962. He was awarded the U.S. National Medal of Science in 1965.
These quotations from Simpson give a good idea of the man:

</doc>
<doc id="215801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215801" title="Daisy Duck">
Daisy Duck

Daisy Duck is a character of the duck produced by Walt Disney. Daisy Duck is the girlfriend of Donald Duck. She is characterized by her big ribbon on her head. Her best friend is Minnie Mouse. Minnie Mouse is Mickey Mouse's girlfriend. 
Daisy made her official debut (an earlier love interest for Donald called Donna was introduced in the 1937 short 'Don Donald') in the 1940 short Mr. Duck Steps Out.
She likes shopping and she is a showboat. Daisy Duck is popular among women though she has made relatively few appearances in media compared to Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck..

</doc>
<doc id="215810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215810" title="List of 100 greatest NHL players by The Hockey News">
List of 100 greatest NHL players by The Hockey News

This is The Hockey News" top 100 National Hockey League players of all-time. The "Hockey News" is a newspaper that write about ice hockey. This list is included in the book The Top 100 NHL Players of All-Time" (ISBN 978-07710-4175-4).
The judges who helped make the selections for this list included writers, journalists, and broadcasters (Don Cherry, John Davidson, Milt Dunnell, Stan Fischler, Dick Irvin, Brian McFarlane, Bob McKenzie, Jim Matheson, Harry Neale, Frank Orr), as well as coaches, referees, general managers, and former players (Al Arbour, Scotty Bowman, Emile Francis, Howie Meeker, Scotty Morrison, Roger Neilson, Bud Poile, Sam Pollock, Marcel Pronovost, Billy Reay, Glen Sather, Harry Sinden, Red Storey).
Players in boldface were active when the list was published in early 1998. Flags of players "born" outside of Canada (regardless of nationality) are included next to their names.

</doc>
<doc id="215812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215812" title="James Norris Memorial Trophy">
James Norris Memorial Trophy

The James Norris Memorial Trophy is given out to the National Hockey League's best "defense player who demonstrates throughout the season the greatest all-round ability in the position". The James Norris Memorial Trophy has been awarded 53 times to 22 different players since it was first created in 1954. At the end of each season, members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association vote to decide the player who was the best defenseman during the regular season.
The trophy is named in honour of James E. Norris, owner of the National Hockey League's Detroit Red Wings from 1932 to 1952. The trophy was first awarded at the end of the 1953–54 NHL season. 
Bobby Orr of the Boston Bruins won the award for a record eight seasons in a row (1968–75). Doug Harvey won the award seven times, while Nicklas Lidstrom has won it six times in his career and Ray Bourque won it five times during his career. The Boston Bruins have won the most Norris Trophies with 14. The Montreal Canadiens are second with 11.
There are only two players that have won both the Norris and Hart Memorial Trophy for the same season: Bobby Orr, who won both trophies for the 1969–70, 1970–71 and 1971–72 seasons, and Chris Pronger, who won the Hart and Norris for the 1999–2000 NHL season.
Seven different defensemen won the Hart Trophy before the Norris Trophy's establishment: Billy Burch, Eddie Shore (four times), Herb Gardiner, Albert "Babe" Siebert, Ebbie Goodfellow, Tommy Anderson and Babe Pratt.
The voting is done at the end of the regular season by members of the Professional Hockey Writers Association, and each voter picks their top five candidates on a 10–7–5–3–1 points system. Three finalists are named and the trophy is awarded at the NHL awards ceremony after the end of the playoffs.

</doc>
<doc id="215819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215819" title="Epistle to the Colossians">
Epistle to the Colossians

Colossians is the fifty-first book in the Christian Bible, and the twelfth in the New Testament. 
This book was supposed to have been written by the Apostle Paul to the people of Colossae.

</doc>
<doc id="215822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215822" title="Carousel">
Carousel

A carousel, also known as a merry-go-round, is a ride found in an amusement park or on a playground. It includes a circle-shaped rotating platform. A carousel found in an amusement park has seats made to look like objects such as automobiles, trains and animals. Animals that can be seen on a carousel might be horses, elephants, and swans. Carousels are often brightly decorated with lights, paintings, and animals around the outside. A carousel found in an amusement park often moves by machine power. A carousel is also a common toy on a child's playgrounds. Playground carousels are not powered by a machine. The children make the carousel spin by holding on to the handle bars that are attached to the rotating platform. The child will then run in a circle while holding on to the handle bars making the merry-go-round spin. The merry-go-round found on a playground will move faster or slower depending on how fast the child runs. In this Wikipedia article, you will be able to find other words for carousel that are commonly used, a brief history about carousels, animals that may found on carousels, and the scientific principles of how machine powered carousels work.
There are many words that have been invented to talk about carousels. They originate from all over the world. Both of the terms “Merry-go-round” and “round about” came from the United Kingdom. The word “carousel,” can also be spelled "carrousel". It is a word that came from the 17th century. The word "carousel" is a French word which means "a tilting match". This refers to the jousting game played by knights. Both “merry-go-round” and “carousel” are now used interchangeably in North America and The United Kingdom. There are many words which have the same meaning as carousel. Since it was a popular ride in the United Kingdom, America, and France, each region had its own term. Some people call carousels by different names. In England, a carousel can be called a roundabout, galloper, or tilt. In France, a carousel can be called a riding ring of wooden horses. In America, some people may call carousels flying horses, whirlgig, flying Dutchmen, flying jinny, Kelly’s goats, spinning jinny, hobby horses, steam circus, steam riding galleries, galloping-horse steam carousels, carry-us-alls, and the most popular merry-go-rounds. Most of the words used in the 1700s were to attract customers. Merry-go-round which means a ride rotating happily and Menagerie which means beasts. The reason a carousel is generally used today is due to its tie to the origin of the ride.
The earliest types of carousels were most likely created by Arabians. The first carousels were made for adults to ride. Today carousels are made for children to ride. However, the carousel was first recognized as being a carousel in Europe. People most likely made the first carousels in the seventeenth century. However carousels were used in France, to practice a game they enjoyed playing. For this game, horsemen practiced playing a game on which they would ride wooden horses, horses that were carved out of wood. The wooden horses would be rotated by servants pulling at the rotating platform. This would be similar to the playground carousels. Or the horsemen would use real horses to rotate the platform. The carousel emerged as a ride when a toy dealer in France showed wooden horses on a rotating platform moved by human power or horsepower in the beginning of 18th century. Carousels became popular in America between 1880 and 1930. During this time, there were around 5000 carousels built. Michael Dentzel, an American who immigrated from German and lived in Philadelphia, moved the rotary platform of his carousel using steam power or horsepower in 1814. Later, the carousels found in amusement parks had platforms moved by a machine. This concept is still being used today. It was invented in 1898 in America. Railroads were the first companies in America to purchase carousels for their customers' enjoyment.
The most popular of the carousel animals always has been and still is the horse. Eighty percent of animals carved for carousels in America are horses. Other animals that have been used on carousels include "Mother Goose" and "Disney" characters. The "romance" side of the carousel animals is the side that faces the audience. On the romance side the animal had extra "carvings" and "decorations". Most of the carousels in "Europe" and America turn the "opposite" direction of a "clock" or "counterclockwise". In "Great Britain", carousels turn the same direction as a clock or "clockwise".
A carousel is set up a little above the ground. The platform rotates under motor power in the middle and can move up and down. The number of seats resembling horses or other animals varies depending on the carousel but there are usually between 16 and 60. The horses on the platform are connected to a pole attached to both the floor and the ceiling of the ride. The velocity of a carousel’s rotation is about 5 rounds a minute. An average ride length is 2 to 3 minutes.
The speed of the ride is low in order to keep centrifugal force low because the faster it turns the more centrifugal force the ride will have. The axis in the middle has centripetal force, which is the opposite force of centrifugal force.

</doc>
<doc id="215847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215847" title="Tony Abbott">
Tony Abbott

Anthony John "Tony" Abbott (born 4 November 1957) is an Australian politician, former Prime Minister of Australia from September 2013 until 15 September 2015, and parliamentary leader of the Liberal Party. He took over from Malcolm Turnbull on 1 December 2009, and was succeeded as Prime Minister by Turnbull on 15 September 2015.
Abbott was born in London, England to an Australian mother; her father was Dutch; her mother was Welsh. Abbott's father was born in Newcastle upon Tyne, moved to Australia during the Second World War and is an unconfirmed naturalized Australian citizen. Abbott was raised in Sydney, Australia and is a Roman Catholic. He studied economics and law at Sydney University, and then did a Master of Arts in politics and philosophy at Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar. When he came back to Australia he entered St. Patricks Seminary in Manly where he began training as a priest. He did not complete his priest training and in 1990 he started work as a journalist writing for the Bulletin magazine and the Australian newspaper From 1990-1993 Abbott worked as press secretary and an advisor to Dr. John Hewson, who was the Leader of the Opposition. He then worked as the executive director of Australians for a Constitutional Monarchy. He was elected to the Federal Parliament for the Division of Warringah in a by-election in 1994 after Michael McKellar resigned.
in 1998, Prime Minister John Howard made Abbott the Minister for Employment Services and in 2001 was promoted to Minister for Employment, Workplace Relations and Small Business. In 2003 Abbott was the Minister for Health and Ageing, and Leader of the House of Representatives in the Federal Parliament. After the defeat of the Howard Government in 2007 he was Shadow Minister for Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs. He resigned on the 26 November 2009 in protest against Liberal Party policy on climate change. He then defeated the leader Malcolm Turnbull by only one vote in a Liberal Party leadership election on 1 December, 2009.
Abbott led the party to the 2010 Federal Election. Following the narrow victory of the Australian Labor Party, Abbott was re-elected leader of the Liberal Party and remained Leader of the Opposition.
At the 2013 federal election on 7 September, Abbott led the Coalition to victory and became Prime Minister on 18 September 2013.
Abbott has always held strong conservative and religious views and has not been afraid to speak out on controversial issues. Combined with his earlier training as a priest this has led to his being given the nickname of the "Mad Monk". Abbott for example does not support the right of women to have an abortion. As Minister for Health he created a huge protest in 2006 when he tried to ban a drug used for abortions. In 2012 he was criticised by Australian lawyer Julian Burnside for saying that refugees trying to reach Australia were acting in an un-Christian way. Abbott's policies for the 2013 Australian election includes a plan to stop refugee boats coming to Australia. He does not support marriage equality which would let same sex couples get married.
Abbott is a very keen sportsman, and regularly takes part in competitions. He is currently in training for the 2014 Port Macquarie Ironman contest. This is a race with a 3.9km swim, 180km bicycle ride, and finishing with a 42.2km run. Abbott is married with three daughters.

</doc>
<doc id="215855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215855" title="Conrad Gessner">
Conrad Gessner

Conrad Gessner (or Konrad Gessner, 26 March 1516 – 13 December 1565) was a Swiss naturalist and bibliographer. His five-volume "Historiae animalium" (1551–1558) is a forerunner of modern zoology. The flowering plant genus "Gesneria" is named after him. 
He studied at Strasbourg, Bourges (1532–1533) and Paris. In 1535, religious unrest drove him back to Zürich, where he made an unwise marriage. His friends came to his aid, enabled him to study at Basel (1536), and in 1537 obtained for him the professorship of Greek at the newly founded academy of Lausanne (then belonging to Berne). Here he had leisure to devote himself to scientific studies, especially botany. 
In 1540–1541 he visited the famous medical university of Montpellier, took his degree of doctor of medicine (1541) at Basel, and then settled down to practise at Zürich, where he obtained the post of lecturer in physics at the Carolinum, the precursor of the University of Zürich. There, apart from a few journeys to foreign countries, and annual summer botanical journeys in his native land, he passed the remainder of his life. He devoted himself to preparing works on many subjects of different sorts. He died of the plague, the year after his ennoblement.
To his contemporaries he was best known as a botanist, though his botanical manuscripts were not published till long after his death (at Nuremberg, 1751–1771, 2 vols. folio), he himself issuing only the "Enchiridion historiae plantarum" (1541) and the "Catalogus plantarum" (1542) in four languages. 
In 1545 he published his remarkable "Bibliotheca universalis" (ed. J. Simler 1574), supposedly a catalogue (in Latin, Greek and Hebrew) of all writers who had ever lived, with the titles of their works, etc. A second part, "Pandectarium sive partitionum universalium Conradi Gesneri Ligurini libri xxi", appeared in 1548; only nineteen books being then concluded. The last, a theological encyclopaedia, was published in 1549, but the last but one, intended to include his medical work, was never finished.
His great zoological work, "Historiae animalium", appeared in 4 vols. (quadrupeds, birds, fish) folio, 1551–1558, at Zürich, a fifth (snakes) being issued in 1587. This work is the starting-point of modern zoology. Not content with such vast works, Gessner put forth in 1555 his book entitled "Mithridates de differentis linguis", an account of about 130 known languages, with the "Lord's Prayer" in twenty-two languages, while in 1556 appeared his edition of the works of Claudius Aelianus.
Gessner's work "On fossil objects" contains, among much else, a recognition of the true organic nature of some fossils.
To non-scientific readers, Gessner is best known for his love of mountains (below the snow-line) and for his many excursions among them, undertaken partly as a botanist, but also for the sake of exercise and enjoyment of the beauties of nature. In 1541 he prefixed to his "Libellus de lacte et operibus lactariis" a letter addressed to his friend, J. Vogel, of Glarus, as to the wonders to be found among the mountains, declaring his love for them, and his firm resolve to climb at least one mountain every year, not only to collect flowers, but in order to exercise his body. In 1555 Gessner issued his narrative ("Descriptio Montis Fracti sive Montis Pilati") of his excursion to the Gnepfstein (1920 m), the lowest point in the Pilatus chain.
Also note:

</doc>
<doc id="215895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215895" title="Bernhard Rensch">
Bernhard Rensch

Bernhard Rensch (21 January 1900–4 April 1990) was a German evolutionary biologist, and ornithologist who did field work in Indonesia and India. He is probably best known as one of the architects of the modern evolutionary synthesis, which he popularised in Germany. His work on the evolution of geographically isolated populations, and on evolution above the species level, contributed to the modern synthesis. He also worked extensively on animal behavior (ethology). 
Rensch's education and scientific work was interrupted by service in the German military during both World War I and World War II. His autobiography, published later in life, translates as 'Life of a biologist in a turbulent century'.
In 1929 he published a classic book on species and speciation in which he proposed ideas which later were to become basic principles of taxonomy. He recognised the significance of Moritz Wagner's idea of geographical species-splitting.
In 1947, Rensch published "Neuere Probleme der Abstammungslehre: die Transspezifische Evolution". This looked at how the evolutionary mechanisms involved in speciation might be extended to explain the origins of the differences between the higher level taxa. His work contributed to the rapid acceptance of the synthesis in Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="215906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215906" title="Kinect">
Kinect

Kinect is a device being made by Microsoft for the Xbox 360. Kinect uses cameras and a special microphone to see and hear Xbox 360 users. The device also uses equations to know what is a person and what is not. It was first shown at E3 in Los Angeles in May of 2009. It has won many awards. Kinect allows a user to move his or her body to control games, movies, and more. People can move their hand to go through menus, or they can use their whole body to control a body in a game. Kinect is special because it is the first way to play games that does not use a controller.
Kinect was released to retail stores in late 2010. The retail price is $149.99 and the Kinect is also optionally bundled with a new Xbox 360. Microsoft has said they will advertise it almost like a new video game console. They want Kinect to increase the time that people make games for Xbox 360 before a new video game console is made. In the future, Microsoft hopes Kinect starts a new idea of people using televisions, computers, and games with their hands and voices. PlayStation Move, which is for the PlayStation 3 console, is Kinect's main competitor.
The Kinect was named the "Fastest selling consumer electronics device" by the Guinness World Records, selling an average of 133,333 kinects per day with a total of 8 million units in its first 60 days.
A new version of the Kinect sensor was released with the Xbox One, which was released on November 22, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="215910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215910" title="Lille (disambiguation)">
Lille (disambiguation)


</doc>
<doc id="215915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215915" title="G. Ledyard Stebbins">
G. Ledyard Stebbins

George Ledyard Stebbins, Jr (6 January 1906 – 19 January 2000) was an American botanist and geneticist. He was one of the leading evolutionary biologists of the 20th century. Stebbins received his PhD in botany from Harvard University in 1931. He went on to the University of California, Berkeley, where his work led to a synthesis of plant evolution and genetics. 
His most important publication was "Variation and evolution in plants", which combined genetics and Darwin's theory of natural selection to describe plant speciation. It helped form the modern evolutionary synthesis, and still provides the framework for research in plant evolutionary biology. According to Ernst Mayr, "Few later works dealing with the evolutionary systematics of plants have not been very deeply affected by Stebbins' work". 
He also researched and wrote widely on the role of hybridization and polyploidy in speciation and plant evolution; his work in this area has had a lasting influence on research in the field.
Stebbins was elected to the National Academy of Science, was awarded the National Medal of Science. He was involved in the development of evolution-based science programs for California high schools, as well as the conservation of rare plants in that state.
In 1935, Stebbins was offered a genetics research position at the University of California, Berkeley working with geneticist E.B. Babcock. Babcock needed assistance with a large Rockefeller-funded project on the genetics and evolution of plants from the genus "Crepis". "Crepis" commonly hybridized, displayed polyploidy, and could make seed without fertilization (a process known as apomixis). The collaboration between Babcock and Stebbins produced numerous papers and two monographs. 
Stebbins's review, "The significance of polyploidy in plant evolution", showed how polyploidy was important in developing large, complex, and widespread genera. By looking at the history of polyploidy in plant families, he argued that polyploidy was only common in herbaceous perennials, but infrequent in woody plants and annuals. As such, polyploids played a conservative role in evolution since problems with fertility prevented the replication of new genetic material that might lead to a new line of evolution. This work continued with the 1947 paper "Types of polyploids: their classification and significance", which described Stebbins' ideas about the role of paleopolyploidy in angiosperm evolution. He argued that chromosome number may be a useful tool for the construction of phylogenies. These reviews were highly influential and helped others study the role of polyploidy in evolution.
In 1939, with Babcock's support, Stebbins was made a full professor in the Department of Genetics at UC Berkeley, after the Department of Botany failed to promote him. Stebbins taught a course on evolution. During his preparation he became excited by research combining genetics and evolution. Stebbins directed his research towards evolution. He became involved with the Society for the Study of Evolution in 1946, and was one of the few botanists in the new organization.
He worked on the genetics of grass grown for grazing, looking at polyploidy and the evolution of the Poaceae (grass family). He produced an artificial autotetraploid grass from the diploid species "Ehrharta erecta" by treatment with the chromosome doubling agent colchicine. He was able to establish the plant in the field, and after 39 years of field trials found that the tetraploid was not as successful as its diploid parent in an unchanging environment.

</doc>
<doc id="215918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215918" title="Rusty Wallace">
Rusty Wallace

Russell William Wallace, Jr. (born August 14, 1956 in Fenton, Missoui) is a retired American race car driver. Wallace won the 1989 Sprint Cup. In 2013 Wallace was inducted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="215924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215924" title="Kevin Clash">
Kevin Clash

Kevin Clash (born September 17, 1960) is a puppeteer and voice actor. Clash currently performs Elmo on Sesame Street. He has also performed Splinter from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Clifford from Muppets Tonight, and Baby Dinosaur from Dinosaurs. Mr. Clash is an important part of Sesame Street Workshop. He often performs Elmo in hospitals for sick children. Mr. Clash is well known for his ability to improvise.

</doc>
<doc id="215929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215929" title="George Mallory">
George Mallory

George Herbert Leigh Mallory (June 18, 1886 - June 8/June 9 1924) was a British mountaineer who took part in three expeditions to Mount Everest in the early 1920's. Mallory and his climbing partner Andrew Irvine both disappeared somewhere high on the North - East Ridge in an attempt to get to the top. The pair's last known sighting was a few hundred feet from the summit. Mallory's fate was unknown for 75 years until his body was discovered in 1999. Whether they made it to the summit or not still remains a mystery.
George Mallory was famous for replying to the question "Why do you want to climb Mount Everest?" with the reply: "Because it's there", which has been described as "the most famous three words in the history of mountaineering". Some questions have been raised inquiring whether Mallory had actually said it, or if it was a newspaper reporter making it up.
Mallory was born in Mobberly, Cheshire, the son of Herbert Leigh Mallory (1846 - 1943), a clergyman who changed his name to Leigh-Mallory in 1914. George had two sisters - one older, one younger - and a younger brother called Trafford-Leigh Mallory, the World War II Royal Air Force commander.
In 1896, Mallory went to Glengorse, a boarding school in Eastbourne on the south coast of England, having already transferred from a school in West Kirby. At the age of 13, he won a scholarship to Winchester College. In his second - to - last year at Winchester, he was introduced to rock climbing and mountaineering by a master, R.L.G Irving, who took a small number of pupils climbing in the Alps every year. In October 1905, Mallory entered Magdalane College, Cambridge to study history. There, he became good friends with several members of the Bloomsbury Group including James Strachey, Lytton Strachey, Rupert Brooke, John Maynard Keynes, and Duncan Grant, who painted many portraits of Mallory. Mallory was a keen oarsman and rowed in his college "eight", but he did not (as has been written elsewhere) row for Cambridge in the annual Oxford & Cambridge Boat Race. 
After getting his degree Mallory stayed in Cambridge for a year writing an essay he later published as Boswell the Biographer (1912). He lived briefly in France, where Simon Bussy painted his portrait, now in London's National Portrait Gallery. On his return he decided to become a teacher. In 1910 he began teaching at Charterhouse School, Godalming, Surrey, where he met the poet Robert Graves, then a pupil; in his autobiography, "Goodbye to All That", Graves remembered Mallory, who acted as best man at Robert Graves' wedding in 1918, fondly both for his encouragement of Grave's interest in literature in poetry and his instruction in climbing. Graves recalled: "He (Mallory) was wasted (as a teacher) at Charterhouse. He tried to treat his class in a friendly way, which puzzled and offended them."
While at Charterhouse he met his wife, Ruth Turner, a taxi driver who lived in Goldalming, and they were married in 1914, just six days before Britain and Germany went to war. George and Ruth had two daughters and a son: Clare, born 1915; Beridge, known as 'Berry' (1917); and John (1920). In December 1915 Mallory joined the Royal Garrison Artillery as 2nd lieutenant and in 1916 participated in the shelling of the Somme, under the command of Major Gwilym Lloyd George, who was son of then Prime Minister David Lloyd George. 
After the war he returned to Charterhouse, resigning in 1921 to take part in the first Everest expedition.

</doc>
<doc id="215955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215955" title="Atomic clock">
Atomic clock

An atomic clock is a very good clock that works with atoms, as opposed to most other clocks which are mechanical. The frequency comes from the crossing radiation of electrons. Atomic clocks are currently the most exact clocks of the world. They are also called "primary clocks".
Most clocks know what time it is because they count how many times something moves back and forth. Atomic clocks count how many times an atom wiggles back and forth. Most atomic clocks use an atom of cesium.
Worldwide, there are over 260 atomic clocks at over 60 different places. All data is collected at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in Paris, France. The International Atomic Time is calculated there.
The basics were developed by Isidor Isaac Rabi. He was an American physicist at Columbia University. He got the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1944.

</doc>
<doc id="215964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215964" title="Typography">
Typography

Typography is the practical art of arranging how the printed word appears on the page. Typography was born when print was born. Indeed, the early types were copies of the letterforms of scribes, and the design of roman type was modelled on type used on Trajan's column. 
Typography includes not only letters, but all the set of symbols in a font, and it includes the overall design of a page or document. It applies to any medium which may be read; therefore it includes text on computer screens. A typographer may design type, select fonts, and design the layout of pages and books. The term does not cover the act of printing itself, though many of the early printers were themselves typographers. 
Typography in the 20th century was greatly influenced by three things:
A traditional aim of the typographer would be to produce a page which is, above all, "legible" and "attractive" to read, without its being obtrusive. For display typography, such as advertising, the display must be "noticed" before it is read. This had led to the development of many display typefaces which are highly visible, and which are available in large sizes.

</doc>
<doc id="215982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215982" title="Cape">
Cape

A cape can mean any outer piece of clothing that has no sleeves. However, it usually it is long and covers only the back half of the wearer, It fastens around the neck. Capes were common in medieval Europe, especially when combined with a hood. Capes have had periodic returns to fashion. Roman Catholic clergy wear a type of cape known as a ferraiolo, which is worn for formal events. Capes are often used as rain wear in various military units and police forces. In modern times, comic-book super-heroes, such as Superman and Batman, are often shown wearing capes.

</doc>
<doc id="215989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215989" title="Cab Calloway">
Cab Calloway

Cabell "Cab" Calloway III (December 25, 1907 – November 18, 1994) was an American jazz musician and actor. He was famous for his ""scat"" style singing. He was the leader of one of the most famous big bands in the 1930s and 1940s. Calloway's band featured many famous musicians including Dizzy Gillespie.
In 1931 he recorded his most famous song, '"Minnie the Moocher."'
In his later career Calloway became a popular actor in movies and stage shows. In 1980 he acted and sang in the movie ""The Blues Brothers."" In the movie he sang "Minnie the Moocher." He sang the song "The Jumpin' Jive" on the famous children's TV show "Sesame Street".
In May 1994, Calloway suffered a stroke. He died six months later on November 18, 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="215998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215998" title="Korean name">
Korean name

Korean names today have different rules than they had in the past. And, this article mainly covers South Korea's. The North Korean one could be different.
Korean names have two parts. One is the family name and the other is the given name.
"Park Chan-Ho" is a name of a Korean person. Park is the family name, and Chan-Ho is the given name. In the Korean language, the family name comes first, and the given name comes second. (It is like writing Smith John, instead of John Smith.) Most Koreans feel uneasy when they are called in the reverse way or by only family name.
Married men and women usually keep their full personal names, and children take the father's family name. So, a son of Ha Hi-Ra (female) and Choi Su-Jong (male) will be Choi something.
Although Koreans have nicknames, these usually come from their personal characteristics like appearance, a physical defect, or the word has similar pronunciation with his name. They are different from the nicknames in the Western sense such as Bob, Bill, Liz and Kate. Unfavorable nicknames are more common than favorable ones. After growing up, being called by nicknames is very rare.
Koreans call someone with Si (氏 means Mr., Mrs. or Miss, the most universal), Yang (孃 means Miss, in case of the younger person than the speaker), Goon (it means Mr., in case of the younger person than the speaker) after the family name, the given name or the full name. 
Koreans call someone by only the given name itself or with the vocative postpositional word (Ya - In case the last syllable is open, or A - In case the last syllable is closed)
Koreans call someone with 형 (Hyeong, in case a male person calls the older male person than him) 누나 (Nu-na,in case a male person calls the older female person than him), 오빠 (O-ppa,in case a female person calls the older male person than her), 언니 (Eon-ni, in case a female person calls the older female person than her) after the given name.
Koreans call someone by only the given name itself or with the vocative postpositional word (Ya - In case the last syllable is open, or A - In case the last syllable is closed)
Koreans call someone using the word indicates blood relation than their name itself
ex) 아버지 (A-beo-ji, means father), 아빠 (A-ppa, means dad in a casual way), 어머니 (Eo-meo-ni, means mother), 엄마 (eom-ma, means mom like "dad" in Korean), 형 (hyeong, means male's elder brother), 누나 (Nu-na, male's elder sister), 오빠 (O-ppa, means female's elder brother), 언니 (Eon-ni, female's elder sister), 남동생 (Nam-Dong-Saeng, means the younger brother of a person regardless of the person's gender), 여동생 (Yeo-Dong-Saeng, means the younger sister of a person regardless of the person's gender)
Koreans call someone using the job title than his name. 
Let me give you examples using the words, 사장 (Sa-Jang, means the president of a company) and 과장 (Gua-Jang, the head of a department)
Koreans call someone with the job title after his family name.
ex) 박과장 (Park Gua-Jang) 
Koreans call someone plus 님 (Nim, the suffix showing respect) after the job title or by the combination like the family name + the job title + Nim
ex) 사장님 (Sa-Jang Nim), 과장님 (Gua-Jang Nim) or 박과장님 (Park Gua-Jang Nim)
The family name is typically a single syllable, and the given name two syllables. There is no middle name in the Western sense. Each syllable in Korean name (including family names) usually has its Chinese character. But its pronunciation is considerably different from the one in China. In case of the given name, Koreans place great importance on the meaning of each Chinese character. And, mainly, naming centers take charge of naming a new baby. 

</doc>
<doc id="216039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216039" title="Villette">
Villette

Villette is a novel by English writer Charlotte Brontë. It is based on her experience as an English teacher in Brussels. "Villette" is a moving story of hidden feelings and , and a woman's right to love and be loved. People like the book, not so much for its plot, but for the careful and detailed picture of Lucy (the main character)'s feelings and emotions. Charlotte Brontë used Gothic buildings and other things to show Lucy's feelings inside.
The story starts with Lucy Snowe at age 14 observing a visitor at her godmother, Lousia Bretton's, house, a little girl called "Polly" or "Missy." (Her real name is Paulina Mary Home). Polly loves her papa very, very much, and when he leaves, is extremely unhappy. However, she soon starts to like Mrs. Bretton's young son, Graham, and they become great friends. Later, when Lucy tells her she has to leave and see her father again, Polly is very surprised and sad. Lucy comforts her, and they part.
Later, a family trouble (the book does not say what) forces Lucy into action--she goes onto a ship heading for France. On there, she makes friends with a very pretty and selfish girl named Ginevra Fanshawe. When she arrives at France, a gentleman helps her find her trunk, and she finally finds work as a teacher in Madame Beck's boarding school. Madame Beck is a cool, clever, careful woman, who often spies and searches the teachers, firing and hiring easily. However, Lucy is quite satisfied, if not happy, there. Ginevra Fanshawe is a student there, and she and Lucy become friends again. They usually fight with each other because of Ginevra's silliness, but they never get separated completely. Later, young English Dr. John (the gentleman who helped her when she first came to France) keeps on visiting the school because he loves Ginevra, who says she doesn't like him much. Later, Dr. John is discovered to actually be Graham Bretton, and Lucy and Graham become friends again. Lucy begins to love him secretly, but tries her best to keep her feelings hidden. Eventually, though, she buries her love for him by symbolically burying all the letters he sent to her.
Dr. John meets little Polly again, now a young and beautiful countess, and they quickly become friends again - and something more. They marry and have a happy life.
Meanwhile, Lucy begins to be good friends with Professor Emanuel, and they fall in love. However, lots of people, including Madame Beck, try hard to break the two up, and at last force him to travel away. Professor Emanuel and Lucy declare their love for each other before Professor Emanuel leaves, making Lucy the principal (headmistress) of a school in the meantime. However, it is hinted that he probably dies on the trip home.
loves him, and thinks of her as "quiet Lucy Snowe," and he admits she "...tasted nothing of my grace."

</doc>
<doc id="216044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216044" title="The Stranger (novel)">
The Stranger (novel)

The Stranger (sometimes known as The Outsider) is an existentialist novel written by French writer Albert Camus. It was written in 1942.
The title is ""L'Etranger"" in French. It discusses philosophical ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="216051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216051" title="Toei Asakusa Line">
Toei Asakusa Line

The Toei Asakusa Line (都営浅草線, とえいあさくさせん) is a metro line of Tokyo Metropolitan Bureau of Transportation in Tokyo, Japan.
Explanation of marks:

</doc>
<doc id="216058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216058" title="1080p">
1080p

1080p refers to a level of high definition. It is the highest level of high definition that most high definition televisions can show. The number 1080 means there are 1,080 lines of color going from left to right in each picture on the screen. The p means progressive scan (every picture has all the lines every time). 1080p is almost always widescreen.

</doc>
<doc id="216061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216061" title="Teriyaki">
Teriyaki

Teriyaki is an Asian cuisine dish usually made from pork, chicken, or beef on a stick or separately on plates. It is mostly found in Thailand, China, and Japan and other Asian countries. The taste is something of sweet, or sour, or spicy usually.

</doc>
<doc id="216066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216066" title="Dance hall">
Dance hall

A dance hall is a place where people go to dance and talk to each other. It also usually has drinks and lounging, with music and disco lights or lighting of some sort.

</doc>
<doc id="216073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216073" title="Yaque del Norte River">
Yaque del Norte River

Yaque del Norte is the longest river in the Dominican Republic, and the second longest river of the Hispaniola island, after the river Artibonite.
It is 296 km long and flows to the northwest into the Montecristi Bay, Atlantic Ocean.
"Yaque" or "Yaqui" is a Taíno word given to two rivers. One of those rivers, the longest, goes to the north of the island, to the Atlantic Ocean, and is called the Yaque del Norte ("Northern Yaque"); and the second goes to the south, to the Caribbean Sea, and is called Yaque del Sur ("Southern Yaque").
During his first visit to America in 1492, Christopher Columbus saw for the first time this river, at its mouth, and he called it "Río de Oro" ("Gold River") because he found many small pieces of gold. But later, during his second visit, he saw the river in other place and called it "Río de las Cañas" ("River of Canes") because many tall grasses (as sugar cane) were growing on the borders of the river. But none of those names were ever used; it has always been called Yaque, or Yaque del Norte.
Columbus built three forts near the river: Esperanza, Magdalena and Santiago; the first two were abandoned and Santiago was moved to another place with the name of Santiago de los Caballeros. Later Santiago de los Caballeros was moved again near the river but not in the original place.
The source of the Yaque del Norte is at an elevation of 2,580 m, on the "Pico del Yaque" mountain, in the central part of the Cordillera Central mountain range.
But in this place, the river is called "Los Guanos" or "Río de la Derecha" ("River to the Right"). The name Yaque del Norte is used only when this small river joins another small river, "Los Tablones" or "Río de la Izquierda" ("River to the Left") in Manabao, to the west of Jarabacoa, at an elevation of 900 m.
From Manabao, the river flows to the east, through the northwestern part of La Vega province. When it gets to Jarabacoa, it turns to the north, to the Santiago. The River Jimenoa, the only important right tributary of Yaque del Norte, joins it at Jarabacoa.
In Santiago de los Caballeros, the river turns to the northwest and flows by the "Yaque del Norte Valley", the western part of the Cibao Valley.
Its mouth is on the Montecristi Bay, just to the south of the city of San Fernando de Monte Cristi, on the Atlantic Ocean.
Its most important left tributaries are the rivers Bao, Ámina, Mao and Guayubín.
The city of Santiago de los Caballeros is the most important Dominican city close to the river.It goes also near the cities of Jarabacoa, Mao, Guayubín, Castañuela and Monte Cristi.
With an area of 7,044 km², its watershed is the largest of the Dominican Republic, and the second largest of the island. Its discharge (volume of water which passes through a section of the river per unit of time) is 97.0 cubic metres per second at Palo Verde, to the southeast of San Fernando de Monte Cristi.
The water of the river is used for irrigation, mainly in the valley that goes from Santiago to Monte Cristi, the Yaque del Norte Valley. It is a very dry valley and without water it would be very difficult to grow any crop. The most important crops here with irrigation are rice, bananas and 
vegetables as tomato.
Around Jarabacoa, the river is used for some water sports with canoes and small boats.
There are several dams along the river to generate electricity, store the water for irrigation, and prevent flooding.

</doc>
<doc id="216084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216084" title="Whip (instrument)">
Whip (instrument)

In music, a whip or slapstick is a percussion instrument. It consists of two pieces of wood joined by a hinge. The pieces of wood are slapped together. This makes a noise like a whip. There is a handle on each of the pieces of wood so that the player can hold it and slap them together without trapping his fingers. 
The whip is often heard in modern orchestras, bands and percussion groups. Examples of a whip in classical music can be heard near the beginning of Ravel's "Piano Concerto" (3rd movement), and in Britten's "Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra".
There is another type of whip, in which one plank is longer than the other. It can be played with one hand. The player shakes the instrument quickly and the small plank moves away from the large one, then slaps back onto it. It makes a different kind of sound from the whip, and is properly called a slapstick. It has been used by several composers including Mahler, Richard Strauss, Ravel, Mussorgsky and Hindemith. The first whip was designed in the 14th century.

</doc>
<doc id="216102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216102" title="First Epistle to the Thessalonians">
First Epistle to the Thessalonians

The First Epistle to the Thessalonians is the fifty-second book in the Christian Bible, and the thirteenth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to a church in Thessalonica.

</doc>
<doc id="216103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216103" title="Second Epistle to the Thessalonians">
Second Epistle to the Thessalonians

The Second Epistle to the Thessalonians is the fifty-third book in the Christian Bible, and the fourteenth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to a church in Thessalonica.

</doc>
<doc id="216105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216105" title="First Epistle to Timothy">
First Epistle to Timothy

The First Epistle to the Timothy is the fifty-fourth book in the Christian Bible, and the fifteenth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Timothy.

</doc>
<doc id="216106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216106" title="Second Epistle to Timothy">
Second Epistle to Timothy

The Second Epistle to the Timothy is the fifty-fifth book in the Christian Bible, and the sixteenth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Timothy.

</doc>
<doc id="216110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216110" title="Frederick Soddy">
Frederick Soddy

Frederick Soddy was a Nobel Prize winning English chemist and physicist. 
He graduated from Merton College, Oxford with a degree in chemistry. He won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1921.
His work on the theory of how atoms worked was very important. He proved, amongst other things, the existence of isotopes and how radioactivity causes changes in atoms. Throughout his career he worked closely with another important atomic physicist, Ernest Rutherford. 

</doc>
<doc id="216114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216114" title="Epistle to Titus">
Epistle to Titus

The Epistle to Titus is the fifty-sixth book in the Christian Bible, and the seventeenth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Titus.

</doc>
<doc id="216116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216116" title="Epistle to Philemon">
Epistle to Philemon

The Epistle to Philemon is the fifty-seventh book in the Christian Bible, and the eighteenth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Philemon.

</doc>
<doc id="216119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216119" title="Epistle of James">
Epistle of James

The Epistle of James is a book inclused in the Christian Bible, the twentieth in the New Testament. 
According to its opening verse, this epistle was written by James (often identified with the “brother of the Lord” who leaded the Jerusalem Church about 20 years and was killed around 62 AD). 
The title “servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ” (which suggest a Church official), the courage to address “the twelve tribes in the Dispersion” (i.e. Jewish Christian communities outside Palestine, or all faithful living in a non-Christian environment), and the tone of authority throughout the letter, all indicate someone well known and respected. 
The writer appears concerned in clarifying Paul’s teaching on faith/action, against Christians who deform it. This indicates that the letter was written after those of Paul had begun to circulate diffusely, in the last decades of the 1st century.
This late dating, together with the quite elegant Greek style and the lack of any real emphasis on the Jewish legalism which was part of James’ approach to religion, have persuaded a growing majority of contemporary scholars that a Christian versed in both Hellenism and Judaism wrote using James’ name. 
May be early tradition stemming from James was updated and published by an unknown Christian teacher of a later generation: possibly this is why the letter was not universally accepted by the Churches until near the end of the 4th century.
The author’s two chief sources are OT Wisdom books and the teaching found in the Gospels, though he hardly ever uses direct quotations. 
Reflecting Jewish Christian assemblies, he rethinks OT sayings in the light of Jesus’ teachings and re-presents them in an original way. 
The epistle consists of a long series of exhortations, mostly brief and loosely connected, some developed at length. 
The one common trait, which gives the letter its distinctive quality, is a concern that the faith be implemented in every aspect of life; otherwise it is useless. 
The author takes for granted Jesus' saving work, but is especially interested in Christians' moral life. So, there is no real contradiction between Paul's and James' teachings, for Paul was speaking of the impossibility of earning salvation by one's own efforts, not of the works of charity and justice to which the Christians are called. 
James used a friendly way of addressing his readers on the day-to-day problems we also meet and in which we must follow faith and love for others: community life, prejudice or discrimination, care for poor, widows and orphans, jealousy and selfish ambition, controlling the tongue, community concern for the sick, matters of justice, speaking evil against each other. He said in effect: “Love first and it will prove your faith”. 
The central theme is the true wisdom that comes from God as opposed to false wisdom. The moral teaching revealed from on high, is not human but divine wisdom. Humans can only analyse it, enter into it more deeply and put it into practice. It is an objective ethics needed to see life in its proper perspective and to be guided in action. Earthly wisdom, on the contrary, is a permanent temptation in people who want to decide for themselves what is right and what is wrong, only to end in justifying wicked behaviour.
The other main theme is God’s preference for the lowly: so in this manifesto for social justice the author praises the poor and threatens the rich. Respect for the dignity of every person is fundamental especially that of the poor, exposed to contempt by the powerful. This evidently takes up the task undertaken by the prophets, but it also refers to Christ, whose glory guarantees the dignity of everyone redeemed by his blood, and excludes every kind of favouritism. 
James insists much on bridling the tongue: in this respect, teachers have a special responsibility within the Church since their instructions (and their writings) can create dissent and division in her. Those with a strong influence on public also have a similar responsibility.
More in detail, we read:
Jas 1:1-18: A series of short exhortations, linked together more by word connections than by concept, introduces topics to be developed in the letter.
Jas 1:19-27: The Word in which we were given birth by God must be heard: any obstacles must be removed so to put it into practice.
Jas 2:1-13: This explanation of the previous exhortations is a warning against partiality and leads to a fuller consideration of the poor in community.
Jas 2:14-26: This part is unique for its unified and relatively long development of a single theme: that faith without works is dead i.e. cannot save anyone for eternal life. This is the heart of the letter, giving the theoretical basis for the practical exhortations. Yet, the appearance of a contradiction of Paul’s teaching on justification by faith has given excessive prominence to this section. It was largely because of it that M. Luther wished to exclude this letter from the Bible.
Jas 3:1-4:12: These are two clearly defined, closely developed sections. Since faults of tongue and false wisdom lead to strife in the community, James considers the root causes and remedies thereof, concluding with a consideration of law and judgment.
Jas 4:13-5:6: These two passages are parallel in that each is introduced identically and employs direct address. The first is against mercantile arrogance, the second is a severe denunciation of unjust rich similar to those of OT prophets. It is a useful warning to the faithful of the terrible fate of those who abuse riches.
Jas 5:7-20: After an exhortation to patiently waiting for the Lord’s coming, the letter ends with three topics: oaths, prayer and converting the sinners. In the midst, James proclaims the anointing of the sick by Church leaders which is one of the seven sacraments.

</doc>
<doc id="216123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216123" title="First Epistle of Peter">
First Epistle of Peter

The First Epistle of Peter is the sixtieth book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-first in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to be a letter from Peter to fellow Christians.

</doc>
<doc id="216124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216124" title="Second Epistle of Peter">
Second Epistle of Peter

The Second Epistle of Peter is the 61st book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-second in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to be a letter from Peter.

</doc>
<doc id="216126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216126" title="First Epistle of John">
First Epistle of John

The First Epistle of John is the sixty-second book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-third in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from John.
There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

</doc>
<doc id="216128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216128" title="Second Epistle of John">
Second Epistle of John

The Second Epistle of John is the sixty-third book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-fourth in the New Testament. 
This book is believed to a letter from John.
There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

</doc>
<doc id="216129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216129" title="Third Epistle of John">
Third Epistle of John

The Third Epistle of John is the sixty-fourth book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-fifth in the New Testament. It is the shortest book in the Bible.
This book is believed to a letter from John to his friend Gaius.
There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

</doc>
<doc id="216131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216131" title="Epistle of Jude">
Epistle of Jude

The Epistle of Jude is the sixty-fifth book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-sixth in the New Testament. It is one of the shortest books in the Bible, at only 25 verses long.
This book is believed to be a letter from Jude the Apostle. The writer warns of "people who change the message about the grace of God in order to excuse their immoral ways" (verse 4).

</doc>
<doc id="216133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216133" title="General Epistles">
General Epistles

General epistles (also called Catholic Epistles) are books in the New Testament in the form of letters. The letters attributed to Paul are not included.
Listed in order of their appearance in the New Testament, the General Epistles are:

</doc>
<doc id="216153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216153" title="Augustine Volcano">
Augustine Volcano

Augustine Volcano is a high volcano in southwestern Cook Inlet, about southwest of Anchorage, Alaska. More than half the people of Alaska live no more than about from it. It has erupted six times since the 1812 eruption; 1883, 1935, 1964-65, 1976, 1986. and 2006 The 1976 and 1986 eruptions started with a series of vent-clearing explosions. There were clouds of volcanic ash that went straight up into the sky. These were followed by eruptions of rocks and mud slides down the side of the volcano. In 1812, 1935, 1964-65, 1976, and 1986, unlike some prehistoric eruptions, the top of the mountain did not collapse. However, in the 1883 eruption, a part of the top of the volcano broke loose starting an avalanche that flowed down to the sea. The avalanche started a small tsunami that reached the Kenai Peninsula at English Bay, east of the volcano. 
Clouds of volcanic ash are a major problem to jet aircraft using Anchorage International and other local airports. Ashfall from future eruptions could disrupt oil and gas operations and shipping activities in Cook Inlet. Eruptions like the historical and prehistoric eruptions are likely in Augustine's future.

</doc>
<doc id="216177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216177" title="Ace Frehley">
Ace Frehley

Paul Daniel "Ace" Frehley (born April 27, 1951) is an American guitarist best known as one of the first members of the rock band Kiss. He was the lead guitar player in the band. When the band started wearing costumes face paint onstage Frehley chose paint that made him look like he was from outer space. Frehley played with the group from 1973 until 1982. 
When he left Kiss he started making his own music as a solo musician. In 1996 he went back to playing with Kiss. His second time playing with Kiss stopped in 2002 when he left the band at the end of their world tour.
He went back to his solo career. His last album was finished in September, 2009. 

</doc>
<doc id="216184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216184" title="Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat">
Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat

Sagwa is the name of a siamese cat in the children's book "Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat" by author Amy Tan. Sagwa's popularity with children prompted an educational animated series of the same name on PBS Kids. In the series, which is set circa 1900 during the Qing Dynasty, Sagwa has fun in her day-to-day life while learning and teaching valuable life lessons. The show is notable for its setting and messages about family and loyalty.

</doc>
<doc id="216185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216185" title="2009 Pacific hurricane season">
2009 Pacific hurricane season

The 2009 Pacific hurricane season started on May 15, 2009 and ended November 30, 2009. In this season there were 12 tropical storms, 3 hurricanes, and 5 major hurricanes. This season featured Hurricane Rick, which was the second strongest hurricane recorded in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. Another storm to remember was Hurricane Jimena, which caused over $50 million in damage when it made landfall in Baja California.
This are the names that were set aside for the 2009 Pacific hurricane season. Names that did not get used are marked in .
These are the name that were set aside for the Central Pacific, which is close to Hawaii. Again, names that did not get used are marked in .

</doc>
<doc id="216202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216202" title="The Bourne Identity">
The Bourne Identity

The Bourne Identity is an action-thriller movie released in 2002. It is based on the novel by Robert Ludlum, "The Bourne Identity", which was published in 1980. The movie is directed by Doug Liman. It stars Matt Damon as the main character, Jason Bourne.
In the movie, as Jason Bourne recovers from his gunshot wound, he find that he lost his memory. As he recovered his memory, he learns he was involved with an international spy agency. The movie is set in Europe, in places such as Prague, Paris, and Italy. It shows thrilling gunfights, car chases, and action scenes. After release, the box-office profit was successful. Two sequels, "The Bourne Supremacy" and "The Bourne Ultimatum" were released in 2004 and 2007.
An unidentified man is rescued from the sea by fishermen. But because of amnesia, he cannot remember who he is. He cannot remember why he was drowning in the sea, how the gunshot wound on his back was made, how he can speak many languages or how he has martial arts skills. He only knows the number to his Swiss bank safe which was hidden in his skin.
In the safe, he finds a huge amount of cash, and passports for each country. He saw the name "Jason Bourne" on his U.S. passport and he believes that is his name. After he has some trouble at the U.S. embassy in Zurich, he moves to Paris with the help of a woman named Marie Kreutz. Wherever he moves, the police and assassins chase him and Marie. In continuous chasing between Bourne and the killers, he notices that some unknown big power threatens his existence. To find his identity and the reason why they are trying to kill him, Bourne gradually gains access to the unknown agency.
After the movie was released in the U.S., the movie got generally good reviews from several critics, especially for the acting of Matt Damon and the direction of Doug Liman. Peter Howell of the "Toronto Star" said, "An entertaining thriller that eschews most of the usual spy gimmicks in favour of old-fashioned sleuthing." Eric Harrison of the "Houston Chronicle" praised the direction of Liman: "The Bourne Identity shouldn’t be half as entertaining as it is, but director Doug Liman and his colleagues have managed to pack it with enough action to satisfy the boom-bam crowd without a huge sacrifice of character and mood." Matt Damon also got praise from Stephen Hunter of the "Washington Post": "Great fights. You wouldn’t think of Damon as a tough guy, but he’s worked really hard on the physical stuff here and it shows."

</doc>
<doc id="216251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216251" title="Antarctic">
Antarctic

The Antarctic is the area around the Earth's South Pole. It is opposite the Arctic region which is around the North Pole. The Antarctic includes the continent of Antarctica and the ices, waters and islands in the Southern Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="216252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216252" title="Beringia">
Beringia

The Bering land bridge joined present-day Alaska and eastern Siberia at times during the Pleistocene ice ages. 
Its greatest extension was about 1,000 miles (1,600 km) north to south. It was not glaciated because snowfall was extremely light as the southwesterly winds from the Pacific Ocean lost their moisture over the fully glaciated Alaska Range. 
The grassland steppe, including the land bridge, that stretched for several hundred miles into the continents on either side has been called Beringia. It is believed that a small human population of at most a few thousand survived the ice age in Beringia. It was isolated from populations in Asia for at least 5,000 years. Sometime after 16,500 years ago, it started to populate the Americas when the American glaciers that blocked the way southward melted.
The Bering Strait, the Chukchi Sea to the north and the Bering Sea to the south, are all shallow seas ("maps, right"). During cycles of global cooling, such as the most recent ice age, enough sea water became concentrated in the ice caps of the Arctic and Antarctica that the subsequent drop in eustatic sea levels exposed shallow sea floors that have subsequently re-flooded. Other land bridges around the world have been created and re-flooded in the same way: approximately 14,000 years ago, mainland Australia was linked to both New Guinea and Tasmania; the British Isles were an extension of continental Europe via the dry bed of the English Channel; and the dry basin of the South China Sea linked Sumatra, Java and Borneo to the Asian mainland.
The rise and fall of global sea levels has exposed and submerged the bridging land mass called "Beringia" in several periods of the Pleistocene. The Beringian land bridge is believed to have existed both in the glaciation that occurred before 35,000 BP and during the more recent period 22,000-7,000 years Before Present. The strait reopened about 15,500 BP and by c. 6000 BP the coastlines had assumed approximately their present configurations.
The Bering land bridge is significant for several reasons, not least because it is believed to have enabled human migration to the Americas from Asia about 25,000 years ago. A study by Hey has indicated that of the people migrating across this land bridge during that time period, only 70 left their genetic print in modern descendants. 

</doc>
<doc id="216257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216257" title="1917–18 NHL season">
1917–18 NHL season

The 1917–18 NHL season was the first season of the National Hockey League (NHL). The season was split into two halves, December 19 to February 4, and February 6 to March 6. The Montreal Canadiens won the first half, and Toronto the second half. The Montreal Wanderers withdrew early in January 1918 after their rink, the Westmount Arena, burned down. Toronto won the NHL playoff and then won the Stanley Cup by defeating the PCHA's Vancouver Millionaires three games to two in a best-of-five series
The November 10, 1917 annual meeting of the NHA was presided over by Frank Calder, who was the NHA secretary. The NHA voted to stop operating.
On November 17, 1917, it was announced that the Quebec Bulldogs team would not play the next season, but that the NHA season would continue.
On November 26, 1917, representatives of the NHA clubs met at the Windsor Hotel in Montreal. The decision to start a new league was made, which was named the National Hockey League.
They also decied on several things for the NHL:
A Toronto team was to be controlld for a wihle by the Arena Gardens while the problem of who owned the Toronto team was fixed. The franchise had players from the Toronto Blueshirts, including those who had been sent to other NHA teams for the second half of the 1916–17 NHA season. While Eddie Livingstone, who owned Toronto teams, agreed to do this, the NHL owners did not want to share any money with him. Livingstone would sue for the Toronto team's revenues in 1918. George Kennedy, owner of the Canadiens, would later say:
"The Toronto players belong as a body to the National Hockey League, for they were only loaned to the Toronto Arena Company, though Livingstone tried to make the Arena Company believe that he controlled those players"
The Toronto team played without a nickname for the season. They would later be called the "Toronto Arenas."
The NHL was not supposed to be a permanent league. It was only supposed to exist until the NHA could fix the problem of teams in the NHA. The NHA was involved in a lawsuit against the 228th Battalion, who had a team in the NHA the year before, and could or would not fold until that was finished.
The O'Brien Cup was given to the new NHL from the NHA, and became the league's championship trophy. It was awarded to the winner of the NHL playoffs and that winner then went on to play for the Stanley Cup in a series against other leagues.
On January 9, 1918, the league decided to allow goaltenders to drop to the ice surface in order to make saves. This was the first implemented and amended rule change in the National Hockey League. It was done in response to Ottawa's Clint Benedict, who would fall to the ice to stop the puck, even though it was against the rules.
The new league had trouble getting players because there were other leagues at the time, including the Pacific Coast Hockey Association. Also making it difficult was many people were involved in World War I, so they could not play hockey.
The Wanderers were in trouble from the start of the season. They won their first home game, but only had 700 people watch. The Wanderers then lost the next three games and owner Lichtenhein threatened to withdraw from the league unless he could get some other players. Although they could have acquired Joe Malone, who led the NHL in scoring, in the draft, they turned to the PCHA and signed goaltender Hap Holmes. They were also allowed to sign players like Frank Foyston, Jack Walker and others if they could get the players to agree. The Wanderers loaned Holmes to the Seattle Metropolitans of the PCHA, but he eventually came back to the NHL when Seattle loaned him to Toronto.
A league meeting was planned to deal with the Wanderers, but on January 2, 1918, the it was fixed when the Montreal Arena burned down, leaving the Canadiens and Wanderers without a place to play. The Canadiens moved into the 3,250 seat Jubilee Rink. The Hamilton arena said the Wanderers could play there, but instead Lichtenhein shut down the team on January 4, after the other clubs refused to give him any more players. The remaining three teams would complete the season.
The last player from the this season who played was Reg Noble, who retired following the 1933 Stanley Cup playoffs.
The first game of the season featured Toronto versus the Wanderers. Montreal's Dave Ritchie scored the first goal in NHL history and Harry Hyland had four goals in the Wanderers 10–9 victory, which would be their only one in the NHL. The opening game was played in front of 700 people.
On January 28, when Canadiens visited Toronto, players Alf Skinner and Joe Hall started swinging their sticks at each other. Both players received match penalties, $15 fines and were arrested by the Toronto Police for disorderly conduct, for which they received suspended sentences.
Wanderers defaulted scheduled games against the Canadiens (Jan. 2, 1918) and Toronto (Jan. 5, 1918), when their arena burned down. These were counted as losses in the standings, though the games were not played.
"The league did not accept the Wanderers' resignation immediately, electing to wait and see whether the team showed up for its scheduled match in Toronto on Saturday January 5. ... The deadline did expire, and the once-powerful team that had been known as the Little Men of Iron was thrown onto the scrap heap of hockey history. The Wanderers' scheduled games of January 2 and 5 were officially recorded in the standings as victories for their respective opponents, the Canadiens and Torontos." — Holzman.
† Montreal Arena burned down and Wanderers withdraw. Two Wanderers games count
as wins for Canadiens and Toronto.
"GP = Games Played, G = Goals, A = Assists, Pts = Points, PIM = Penalties In Minutes"
"All dates in 1918"
Montreal had won the first half of the NHL split season and Toronto had won the second half. The two teams then played a two-game total goals series for the NHL championship and the O'Brien Cup. Toronto won the series and advanced to the Stanley Cup finals.
Toronto vs. Montreal Canadiens
"Toronto wins total goals series 10–7 for the O'Brien Cup"
Vancouver Millionaires vs. Toronto
"Toronto wins best-of-five series 3 games to 2 for the Stanley Cup"
"GP = Games Played, G = Goals, A = Assists, Pts = Points"
The following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 1917–18 (listed with their first team, not including players who previously played in the NHA):
The following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 1917–18 (listed with their last team):

</doc>
<doc id="216262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216262" title="Defenceman">
Defenceman

Defence (defense in the U.S.) in ice hockey is a player position whose main job is to stop the other team from scoring. They are often called defencemen, defensemen, D, or "blueliners" (a reference to the blue line in ice hockey which is boundary of the offensive zone; defencemen generally stay along the line to keep the puck in the zone).
In regular play, two defencemen play with three forwards and a goaltender on the ice. Exceptions include overtime and when a team is shorthanded (i.e. has been assessed a penalty), in which two defencemen are typically joined by only two forwards and a goaltender.

</doc>
<doc id="216277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216277" title="2010 Atlantic hurricane season">
2010 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2010 Atlantic hurricane season started on June 1, 2010 and ended on November 30, 2010. This is the time when hurricanes are likely to form. Unlike the last three years, a storm did not form in the month of May or earlier.
On December 9, 2009, the Colorado State University made their first forecast for the 2010 hurricane season. They said there would be 11 to 16 named storms, 6 to 8 hurricanes and 3 to 5 major hurricanes. A major hurricane is a Category 3 storm or higher on the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale. On April 7, 2010, they made another forecast: 15 named storms, 8 hurricanes and 4 very strong hurricanes. They said the season would be active because of several things, including warm ocean waters, which make hurricanes stronger. North Carolina State University said that 2010 would have 15 to 18 named storms, and 8–11 would become hurricanes. On May 27, 2010, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) put out their forecast for the season. They said it would be "extremely active", with 14 to 23 named storms, 8 to 14 hurricanes, and 3 to 7 very strong hurricanes.
On June 2, 2010, the Colorado State University team made another forecast, saying that there would be 18 named storms, 10 hurricanes, and 5very strong hurricanes. They said the chance of a very strong hurricane hitting the United States is 76 percent, which is higher than the average of 52 percent. On June 17, the Met Office said there would be 20 tropical storms. However, they do not issue forecasts on the number of hurricanes and very strong hurricanes. A normal season has about 10 named storms, so if these predictions are correct, the 2010 season will have a high number of storms.
Tropical Depression One started just offshore of Honduras on June 25. Strengthening fast, it became a tropical storm the next morning, given the name Alex. Tropical Storm Alex continued to strengthen fast, striking central Belize on that same day with winds of 65 mph (105 km). For about twelve hours, Alex had weakened back to a tropical depression after moving further inland over the Yucatán Peninsula. Alex would re-strengthen into a tropical storm on June 27 while entering the Gulf of Mexico. Tropical Storm Alex moved generally westward across the Gulf of Mexico, strengthening further as it did so. By June 29, winds from Alex were strong enough for it to become a hurricane. While reaching its highest winds, 105 mph (169 km/h), Hurricane Alex struck land again in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas late on June 30. Alex died out over Mexico a few days after striking land. 
Hurricane Alex caused 51 deaths and about $1.885 billion (2010 USD) in damage. 
Tropical Depression Two had started in the western Gulf of Mexico on July 8. It stayed weak and did not become a tropical storm. Two made landfall in southern Texas with winds of 35 mph (55 km/h). Tropical Depression Two rapidly died over Mexico. 
Tropical Depression Three started to the southeast of the Bahamas on July 22. It quickly strengthened into Tropical Storm Bonnie, but did not strengthen any further. Tropical Storm Bonnie moved quickly westward, making landfall in Cutler Bay, Florida only the next day. Bonnie quickly went back to tropical depression status while crossing Florida. Instead of re-strengthening, Tropical Depression Bonnie died in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico. 
One person drowned in Puerto Rico from what would become Tropical Storm Bonnie. 
On August 2,a Tropical wave that came from Africa had started to organize Tropical Depression Four. On the next morning, Tropical Depression Four had strengthened and became Tropical Storm Colin. Bad conditions for tropical cyclones were in the atmosphere, and Colin quickly died out. By August 5, the storm reformed , and was again Tropical Storm Colin, heading northward. Cooling water temperatures later began to destroy the storm, and Tropical Storm Colin died again just west of Bermuda. 
Tropical Depression Five started in the southeast Gulf of Mexico, near Florida. It headed northwestward, toward Louisiana. There was no further strengthening, so Tropical Depression Five did not become a tropical storm. Nearing the coast of Louisiana, Tropical Depression Five died just before making a landfall in the state on August 11, but the remains did reach land. 
On August 19, Tropical Depression Six formed close to Africa. On August 22, Tropical Depression Six strengthened to become Tropical Storm Danielle. The next day the storm strengthened further and became Hurricane Danielle, a Category 2 hurricane. Suddenly bad conditions in the atmosphere meant that Danielle weakened back to a tropical storm. A few hours later Danielle strengthened to a hurricane for a second time, reaching Category 4 strength. As Danielle went over the colder waters of the north Atlantic it weakened, and was no longer a hurricane east of Newfoundland. Danielle was never a threat to land.
On August 23, a Tropical Wave moved off the East coast of Africa. Two days later Tropical Depression Seven formed East of Hurricane Danielle, and later strengthened and became Tropical Storm Earl on the same day. On August 29th, Earl strengthened into a hurricane. On August 30, Earl impacted the northern Leeward Islands including Antigua and Barbuda and the British Virgin Islands, while at the same time strengthening into a Category 4 hurricane. After moving away from the Leeward Islands, Earl was downgraded to a Category 3 hurricane due to changes in the eyewall of the storm. However, the hurricane quickly intensified back to a Category 4. Earl passed Cape Hatteras in the U.S. state of North Carolina on September 2nd, bringing heavy rainfall and strong winds to the area. Buildings in the area were not damaged much, as houses along the coast were built to stand against hurricanes. Earl travelled north along the U.S. coast, weakening down to a tropical storm when it reached Nova Scotia in Canada. 
Damage from Earl was minimal in the U.S., but Earl caused $150 million of damage in the Caribbean.
On August 30, an area of Disturbed weather that moved off from Africa gained enough strength to be named as Tropical Storm Fiona, skipping the status of being a tropical depression. Fiona struggled to strengthen further, as it was close to the much more powerful Hurricane Earl. Fiona died just south of Bermuda, but dropped an inch of rain on the island.
Another tropical wave emerged off Africa near the end of August. Good conditions meant that the tropical wave developed into a tropical depression on September 1st. Later that day it strengthened to become Tropical Storm Gaston. However bad conditions meant that Gaston weakened and died soon after. There was a possibility that the leftovers of Gaston could re-strengthen and affect the Caribbean, however this did not happen.
The leftovers of Tropical Depression Eleven-E from the Pacific Ocean re-strengthened over the Bay of Campeche. By August 5, the storm had enough power to be called a tropical depression. Later in the day it strengthened further to become Tropical Storm Hermine. The storm reached land in north-eastern Mexico on September 7 as a tropical storm. 
Hermine blew over trees and power lines in the Rio Grande valley, and one person drowned due to a strong sea current in Texas. Hermine also created at least two tornadoes.
A tropical wave from Africa strengthened quickly on September 8 to become a tropical depression. Later it strengthened further to become Tropical Storm Igor to the south of the Cape Verde islands. Igor weakened to a tropical depression due to mixing with another area of bad weather, but then strengthened to a tropical storm, and then a hurricane on September 11. Shortly after becoming a hurricane, Igor strengthened faster, reaching strong category 4 hurricane status the following day. By September 17, it looked like Igor would hit Bermuda in some way, which it did the following day. Bermuda only got minor effects from Igor, unlike Hurricane Fabian in 2003 which almost destroyed parts of the island. From there, Igor started moving north and then northeast toward Canada, weakening to a tropical storm early on September 21, and dying later that day.
Another tropical depression started from a tropical wave off of Africa, forming on September 12. After remaining a tropical depression for the rest of the day, the system strengthened into Tropical Storm Julia early on September 13. Early on September 14, Julia strengthened into the season's fifth hurricane. The hurricane strengthened very quickly on September 15, and became a major Category 3 hurricane. Julia holds the record for the strongest storm to form farthest east. However, just a day after Julia strengthened to a Category 4, it weakened to a Category 2 hurricane.
An area of low pressure stopped around the Northern Venezuela coast on September 11. It moved northward and then eastward, bringing bad weather to Hispaniola and Jamaica. On September 14 the storm strengthened and was named Tropical Storm Karl. Karl made landfall on the Yucatán Peninsula on September 15, and once in the Bay of Campeche, it strengthened into a hurricane. On September 17 Karl became a Category 3 hurricane, the first major hurricane to exist in the Bay of Campeche. It reached land near Veracruz, Mexico the next day and died just a few hours later.
A tropical depression formed on September 20 from a tropical wave off the coast of west Africa. Six hours later it strengthened to form Tropical Storm Lisa. The storm moved very slowly around the area of ocean next to the Cape Verde islands. On September 24 Lisa became a Category 1 hurricane, however weakened quickly back to a tropical depression the next day before dying. Lisa was not a threat to land. 
Tropical Depression Fifteen formed on September 23 in the Caribbean Sea and strengthened to Tropical Storm Matthew.On September 24 Matthew reached land at the Honduras and Nicaragua border while a tropical storm, and then Belize as a tropical depression. Matthew produced a lot of rain that flooded portions of southern Mexico.
On September 28, Tropical Depression Sixteen formed from an tropical wave in the northern Caribbean Sea. The next day, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Nicole and reached land on Cuba close after formation. After crossing Cuba, the National Hurricane Center could not find the storm centre and decided that Nicole was no longer a tropical storm.
On October 6, bad weather near the Leeward Islands formed into a subtropical depression, a storm that is not a proper tropical storm. It then strengthened into Subtropical Storm Otto, and a few hours later the National Hurricane Center believed that it was a fully tropical storm, and it became Tropical Storm Otto. On October 8 Otto strengthened and became a Category 1 hurricane out in the Atlantic. Soon after, Otto began to weaken and was no longer a hurricane when it passed west of the Azores. 
On October 11, an area of Disturbed weather in the Caribbean Sea strengthened into Tropical Storm Paula. A day later, Paula became a hurricane and soon into a Category 2 storm. Paula then weakened as it approached Cuba, and hit the island as a tropical storm. Paula then quickly died after hitting Cuba.
On October 20, an area of Disturbed weather strengthened into Tropical Depression Nineteen, and the next day it became Tropical Storm Richard. Richard is one of only three storm to have a name beginning with the letter 'R' - the others are Hurricane Roxanne from 1995 and Hurricane Rita of 2005. On October 24, Richard strengthened into a hurricane and reached land at Belize. Richard dissipated in the Bay of Campeche on October 26.
On October 28, an area of Disturbed weather south of Bermuda became Tropical Storm Shary. On October 30, while west of Bermuda, Shary became a Category 1 hurricane. The same day, Shary became non-tropical and was not known as a hurricane.
On October 29, an area of bad weather north of Guyana became Tropical Storm Tomas. The storm went west and became a hurricane while over the Windward Islands on October 30 before going into the Caribbean Sea. Hurricane Tomas weakened into Tropical Storm Tomas on October 31. On November 3, it weakened into Tropical Depression Tomas. Tomas turned into a tropical storm later on November 3 and a hurricane again on November 5. The hurricane went north between Cuba and Haiti and then hit the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands before going into the Atlantic Ocean. Tomas died in the Atlantic Ocean on November 7.
These are the names that may be used in the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season. This is the same list used in the 2004 season, except for Colin, Fiona, Igor, and Julia. In 2004, the names that started with those same letters were Charley, Frances, Ivan, and Jeanne, respectively. They were removed because of the damage they caused.
On March 16, 2011, World Meteorological Organization retired the names Igor and Tomas from its rotating name lists. The names were replaced with Ian and Tobias

</doc>
<doc id="216293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216293" title="Pool (cue sports)">
Pool (cue sports)

Pool, also known as pocket billiards, is the general term for a family of cue sports. These games are played on a pool table with six holes cut into them called pockets, into which balls are deposited as one of the main goals of play.
Outside the billiards industry, the various games played on these tables are very often called "pool". This is due to an association with the "poolrooms" where gamblers "pooled" together their money to bet on horse races. Because these places often provided billiard tables, the term "pool" became linked to billiards. Though the original "pool" games were played on pocketless carom billiards tables, the name stuck to pocket billiards as it gained in popularity. The traditional view of billiards as a refined and noble pastime did not blend well with the low-class connotations of gambling. Because of this, the billiards industry's attempts to distance itself from the term "pool" beginning in the late 19th century. They were largely unsuccessful.
There are hundreds of pool games. Some of the more well known include eight-ball, nine-ball, straight pool, and one-pocket. The game of snooker is played on a table with pockets but is considered separate from pool. It is governed internationally by the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (professional) and the International Billiards and Snooker Federation (amateur). There are also hybrid games combining traits of both pool and carom billiards, such as English billiards, American four-ball billiards, cowboy pool and bottle pool.
As a competitive sport, pool is governed internationally by the World Pool-Billiard Association (WPA), which has national affiliates such as the US Billiard Congress of America (BCA), and which represents pool in the World Confederation of Billiard Sports, which in turn represents all forms of cue sports in the International Olympic Committee.
Pool uses different equipment from carom billiards. In addition pool tables having pockets, the balls for pool are generally smaller and range from in diameter to in diameter. By comparison, carom billiard balls are generally , or . While UMB, the International Olympic Committee-recognized world carom billiards authority, permits balls as small as , no major manufacturer produces such balls any longer. For that reason the normal standard is . Modern pool tables range in size from by , to by . Modern cue sticks are generally long for pool while cues prior to 1980 were designed for "straight pool" and had an average length of , while carom billiards cues are generally long.

</doc>
<doc id="216297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216297" title="Jason Mraz">
Jason Mraz

Jason Mraz (born June 23, 1977) is an American singer and songwriter. He has put out five albums, "Waiting for My Rocket to Come" (2002), "Mr. A-Z" (2005), " We Sing. We Dance. We Steal Things" (2008), "Love Is a Four Letter Word" (2012), and "Yes!"(2014). Jason Mraz became internationally famous after the release of the single "I'm Yours" from the album "We Sing. We Dance. We Steal Things".
Jason Mraz was born and grew up in Mechanicsville, Virginia. His grandfather was ethnic Czech and moved to the United States from Austria-Hungary in 1915. Mraz's surname means "frost" in the Czech language. ().

</doc>
<doc id="216302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216302" title="Hanbok">
Hanbok

Hanbok (Hangul:한복)refers to traditional Korean clothing. In North Korea, Hanbok is referred to as Choson-ot (조선옷). One of the most famous characteristics of Hanbok is its vivid colors and straight and curved lines. Although its literal meaning is Korean clothing, it today indicates specifically traditional garment, especially that of Joseon dynasty.
Hanbok has been a great part of Korean culture though history. The trace of Hanbok is found even before Three Kingdom period of Korea. The oldest form of hanbok can be seen in tomb mural paintings from the Goguryeo Kingdom (37 B.C.-668 A.D.). Korea had two kinds of clothing tradition. The rulers and noblemen usually wore clothing of different kinds of foreign styles. But subjects continued to use a distinct style of indigenous clothing that today is known as Hanbok.
There are several kinds of Hanbok. People wore different sorts of Hanbok according to their social statuses, sexes, jobs and from time to time, they chose special Hanbok for ceremonies. People could figure out the wearer’s job, educational background and even whether he or she got married or not. There are Hanbok for men, women, royal court, government officials and children. Because Hanbok could reveal the wearer’s social status, there were some government regulations on designs, materials and shapes of Hanbok. For example, only royal families could use golden stripes on their Hanbok.
Hanbok had a long history. But the ancient one that is similar with today’s Hanbok would be that in Three Kingdom period. During this time, noblewomen started wearing full-length skirts and jackets, and noblemen began to wear roomy trousers bound in at the ankles and belted at the waist, and thus, aristocrates began to wear what is similar with Hanbok in thses days.
After Silla unified the Korean peninsula in the 7th century, a new clothing style was introduced which combined original Korean dress with foreign elements imported from China. This Chinese style of the Tang Dynasty (618 A.D.-907 A.D.) was regarded as an international clothing style and was used for the uniforms of government servants and for ceremonial dress. The most conspicuous difference is that while the original Korean cloth had a straight neckline, the imported Chinese style had a rounded one. In the ensuing Goryeo (918-1392) and Joseon (1392-1910) periods, the hanbok underwent various changes in terms of fashion, and the form that has been known today dates from Joseon. Koreans carefully consider their national identity in the Sirhak or “Practical Learning” movement of the 17th and 18th centuries, and in fashion, as in other fields, whatever was imported or influenced by foreign factors was subsequently Koreanized.
In the Joseon period, most of attire was unified, and most Koreans dressed in a similar way. Even so, differences in social status appeared in little differences of design, material, and decoration, so that Koreans in those days could indirectly recognize the class, rank, educational level, and character of the owner of it by fashion style. Although the basic shape was little similar, we can also tell the season appeared in paintings from this period by the material that is used in clothing and the use of seasonal attire.
Hanbok consists of various components. The most famous ones are Jeogori, Chima, and Baji. Jeogori is a shirts or a jacket for both of female and male. Chima is a skirt which is usually worn full. Men usually wore Jeogori and baggy pants called Baji. Women wore the ensemble of Jeogori and Chima.
Jeogori and Chima are the basic form of Hanbok for female, and Baji and Jeogori were for men. But therer are other garments of Hanbok. There are Jokki, Magoja and Po. Jokki is a vest, Magoja is an outer jaekct and Po is an overall outher robe or overcoat.
There are accessories and headdresses that go together with Hanbok. Women wore a wig, called Gache. Like the case of Western, the bigger and heavier the wigs were, the more elegant they were. But this heavy wig (Gache) was popular until 19th century, and after that, simple Gache was preferred to heavy ones due to Confucian values. Women also had a long pin, called Binyeo. It was thrust though the knotted hair of a woman. Various patterns were carved on Binyeo, and it is often made of Jade.
Traditionally, Korean people have various kinds of Hanbok for different purposes. There were Hanboks for men, women, royal court, government officials, children and special ceremonies, like wedding and funeral. Men’s and women’s everyday Hanboks were the basic forms.
The men's jacket is designed to be long because sleeves were added, and not to make the front part open, the two sides of front jacket overlap. The neck is gathered up into a collar with a white collar strip folded around the neckline. Breast-ties hold the two sides of the jacket together so that one side is overlapping the other. Until the mid Joseon period, the breast-ties were short and thin and merely perform its practical purposes to fasten the two sides of the jacket, but in the late Joseon era, they became longer and thicker, showing decorative aspect quite far from their practical usage. The male costume could include a gown similar to a topcoat which the wearer dress over the jacket and pants, with different sorts of hat and coronet for a noble effect. People chose different gown from time to time depending on the occasion. Although the generous cut of the men's clothes emphasized the individuality of the wearer, the belt framed the upper body for a tidy shape or fit. The typical male costume in those days is the gentleman's outfit of white or light green gown and black hat. The harmony of black and white indicates a well-rounded and rational intelligence and a dignified character. A different girdle in terms of color on the chest adds variety to the contrast of black and white, which could otherwise look serious and solemn.
The women's Hanbok includes a jacket and skirt, the men's has a jacket and pants, and both of cloth for female and male have an optional gown for added formality. The jackets of men and women are similar in shape, their length and color was different. The women's costume consists of a jacket and skirt with a sleeveless waistcoat and a gown worn when she need looking formal. Ceremonial attire can be decorated with various ornaments including coronets, bridal headpieces, hairpins, and pendants. The upper garment fits neatly while the lower garment is more voluminous and wide, and women usually wear various kinds of underwear under Chima (lower garment, the skirt). The women of that time valued chastity, and when they went out, they covered their faces with a shawl or cloak which would prevent them from exposing to outside of the world. They used a variety of colors and designs when they chose ornaments, often standing for the cherished hopes of the age: long life and happiness, prosperity and posterity.
More than three decades ago, hanbok, a traditional form of Korean clothing, was popular. Like all clothing, hanbok also changed as time goes by with fluctuating fashion trends. Hanbok designs changed a lot as it pass throughout Korea's turbulent history. Hanbok we freely wear and see these days is reminiscent of the late Joseon Dynasty (early 20th century).
Curved features are important in traditional hanbok design. As they are not designed to be tight fitting, the inherent beauty of hanbok is apparent in its elegance and style generated by the abundance of material. The curves, lines and vivid colours of hanbok have affected the Korean fashion industry. By mixing traditional dress with modern fashion, a series of fusion hanbok designs appeared. Designs, patterns and styles of hanbok have even been used to architecture.
Although now, hanbok become the ritual dress of choice worn only on traditional holidays, Koreans' love for hanbok is great. The famous Korean classic dramas are making many foreigners take a more interest in traditional Korean clothing as well.
Recently, some high schools adopted Hanbok as their school uniforms. Especially, one of the most famous high school in Korea, Korean Minjok Leadership Academy, is famous for its school uniform, which is modified Hanbok. Moreover, Korean people nowadays modify their traditional clothing, Hanbok to make it more wearable. The vivid colors, shapes, curved lines, materials of Hanbok are used for designing fashionable clothing in Korea, these days.
http://kin.naver.com/knowhow/detail.nhn?d1id=10&dirId=10&docId=534155&qb=TW9yZSB0aGFuIHRocmVlIGRlY2FkZXMgYWdvLCBoYW5ib2ssIGEgdHJhZGl0aW9uYWwgZm9ybSBvZiBLb3JlYW4gY2xvdGhpbmc=&enc=utf8&section=kin&rank=1&sort=0&spq=0
http://www.mcst.go.kr/main.jsp

</doc>
<doc id="216305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216305" title="Troup County, Georgia">
Troup County, Georgia

Troup County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of 2000, 58,779 people lived there. The 2007 census estimate showed 63,535 people living there. The county seat is LaGrange.
The land that makes up Troup County as well as other (Lee, Muscogee, Coweta and Carroll) was taken from the Creek people in 1825. This was done through a treaty called the Treaty of Indian Springs. The counties' area were created by the Georgia General Assembly on June 9, 1826. They were not named until December 14, 1826.
The county is named for George Troup. Troup was the thirty-fourth governor of Georgia, a member of the United States House of Representatives, and a U.S. senator.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 446 square miles (1,155 km²). Of this area, 414 square miles (1,072 km²) is land and 32 square miles (83 km²) of it (7.19%) is water.
As of the 2000 census, there were 58,779 people, 21,920 households, and 15,607 families residing in the county. The population density was 142 people per square mile (55/km²). There were 23,824 housing units at an average density of 58 per square mile (22/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 65.80% White, 31.87% Black or African American, 0.16% Native American, 0.58% Asian, 0.06% Pacific Islander, 0.75% from other races, and 0.78% from two or more races. 1.71% of the people were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 21,920 households. Of these, 34.60% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 49.10% were married couples living together, 17.90% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.80% were non-families. 24.90% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.20% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.61 and the average family size was 3.12.
In the county the people were spread out with 27.90% under the age of 18, 9.20% from 18 to 24, 28.40% from 25 to 44, 21.90% from 45 to 64, and 12.60% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35 years. For every 100 females there were 91.00 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 86.70 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $35,469, and the median income for a family was $41,891. Males had a median income of $31,863 versus $22,393 for females. The per capita income for the county was $17,626. About 12.20% of families and 14.80% of the people were below the poverty line, including 20.70% of those under age 18 and 14.00% of those age 65 or over.

</doc>
<doc id="216313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216313" title="Whitespace (computer science)">
Whitespace (computer science)

Whitespace are "blanks", characters that represent space between other characters. The space, tab, carriage return and line feed characters are all whitespace.

</doc>
<doc id="216315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216315" title="Carriage return">
Carriage return

A carriage return, sometimes known as a cartridge return and often shortened to CR, <CR> or return, is a control character or mechanism used to reset a device's position to the beginning of a line of text. It is closely associated with the line feed and newline concepts, although it can be considered separately in its own right.
In computing, the carriage return is the name of a computer character that directs a printer or screen display to return to the start of a line when printing or displaying text. The origin of its name is as you'd expect: it told a teletype that its print carriage (the cylinder that held the paper) should return to the beginning of a line. On some systems, such as older Macintoshes, it also creates a new line, like the line feed character.

</doc>
<doc id="216316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216316" title="Newline">
Newline

Line feed is the name of a computer character that directs a printer or screen display to advance one line of text. The word "feed" refers to its original use: causing paper to be fed through a teletype, one line at a time. On some systems, such as the Unix family, it also returns to the beginning of the line, like the carriage return character.

</doc>
<doc id="216318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216318" title="Ardashir I">
Ardashir I

Ardashir I, founder of the Sassanid dynasty, was ruler of Istakhr (since 206?), then of an important part of Persia (since 208?), and finally "King of Kings of Persia" (since 226). The dynasty Ardashir founded would rule for four centuries until overthrown by the Rashidun Caliphate in 651.
Ardashir is also known as Ardashīr-i Pāpagān "Ardashir, son of Pāpağ", and other variants of his name include Latinized "Artaxares" and "Artaxerxes".
Ardashir was born in the late 2nd century in Istakhr, what is present-day Fars in Iran. At that time is was a vassal kingdom of Parthia. 
In conclict with Artabanus IV, who ordered his vassal, the ruler of Khuzestan, to confront Ardashir. It was Ardashir who emerged victorious in that battle.
In 226, Artabanus IV himself invaded Fars to defeat the rebelling Ardashir. But the Parthian army was completely defeated, and Artabanus IV was killed. According to one account, Ardashir and Artabanus fought in close combat on horseback. Ardashir pretended to flee, turned around in the saddle and shot Artabanus through the heart.
Ardashir I was crowned in 226 as the "Šāhān šāh Ērān" "king of kings [of] Iran" (his consort Adhur-Anahid took the title "Queen of Queens"), Ardashir finally brought the over 400 year-old Parthian Empire to an end and began four centuries of Sassanid rule.
Ardashir I was an energetic king, responsible for the resurgence not just of Persia but of Iranian-speaking peoples as a unified nation, the strengthening of Zoroastrianism, and the establishment of a dynasty that would endure for four centuries. While his campaigns against Rome met with only limited success, he achieved more against them than the Parthians had done in many decades and prepared the way for the substantial successes his son and successor Shapur I would enjoy against the same enemy.

</doc>
<doc id="216323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216323" title="Artabanus IV">
Artabanus IV

Artabanus IV of Parthia ruled the Parthian Empire (c. 216 – 224). He was the younger son of Vologases V who died in 209. Artabanus rebelled against his brother Vologases VI, and soon gained the upper hand, although Vologases VI maintained himself in a part of Babylonia until about 228. 
The Roman emperor Caracalla, wanted to make use of this civil war for a conquest of the East and attacked the Parthians in 216. He crossed the Tigris and destroyed the towns, but when Artabanus advanced at the head of an army, he retired to Carrhae. There he was murdered by Martialis on April 8, 217. Caracalla's successor, the Praetorian Prefect of the Guard Macrinus, was defeated at Nisibis and in a peace with Artabanus he gave up all the Roman conquests and paid a heavy contribution to the Parthians. 
At about this time, the Persian Great King Ardashir had already begun his conquests in Persia. When Artabanus tried to subdue him his troops were defeated. The war lasted several years; at last Artabanus himself was killed in 226. Thus the 400-year rule of the Arsacid Dynasty came to an end.

</doc>
<doc id="216352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216352" title="Helen Mirren">
Helen Mirren

Helen Mirren, DBE (born 26 July 1945) is an English actress active in theatre, movie and television. 
Born Ilyena Vasilievna Mironov in Chiswick, Middlesex, England, to a Russian father and an English mother, she was raised in Essex. 
She began her acting career in 1963 with the National Youth Theatre, later joining the Royal Shakespeare Company. She has since then appeared with several theatre companies in a wide variety of roles. She is widely regarded as one of the greatest British actresses of all time. 
She began appearing in movies while still very young but did not really attract attention until the late 1970s. Her movies include: "Caligula" (1979), "The Long Good Friday" (1980), "Excalibur" (1981), "Cal" (1981), "White Nights" (1985), "Pascali's Island" (1988), "The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover" (1989), "The Madness of King George" (1994), "Gosford Park" (2001), and "The Queen" in 2007, for which she won the Academy Award for best actress, and several other awards (Golden Globe, BAFTA, etc.).
Mirren has also appeared in several series on television, notably as Inspector Jane Tennison in the "Prime Suspect" series, she was also acclaimed as Queen Elizabeth I in the series "Elizabeth I" (2006).
Mirren is an atheist. She has no children. She began a relationship with Taylor Hackford in 1986. The couple married in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="216358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216358" title="Makgeolli">
Makgeolli

Makgeolli (Makuly, also called nongju or takju) is a Korean traditional rice wine. Made from rice, it is a milky brew with an alcohol content of 6 to 7 percent. Rice, the main ingredient of it, is not sweet in itself, so Nuruk is also used to make it. Once boiled rice and Nuruk are mixed, the enzymes in Nuruk break down carbohydrates in rice into sugar. Then the sugar meets yeasts in Nuruk and there begins fermentation. Because the fermentation keeps on going, Makgeolli should be drunk as soon as possible once it is opened.
It has a long history. Ancient people made liquor with grains such as wheat and rice after they found the way to grow them. That is the beginning of it. There are some records about it. For example, a book written in Three Kingdoms of Korea, it says many people drank ‘grain liquor.’ Moreover, in a document about the brewing of Joesun Dynasty, there says Makgeolli had had long history and been considered as liquor of the folk. Made from newly harvested rice, it was regarded as sacred gift from God. In addition, it played an important role in religious event like praying ceremony for a year of abundance.
Compared to other liquor, it is good for health. Abundant in protein and fiber, it affects to liver much less than any other alcohol. Rather it helps prevent cancer and heart disease. Similar to milk and yogurt, it has good effect on the health with its organic acids.
These days, demand on it is growing from USA and Japan, so exports are rising in Korea. Actually in Korea, most of the men who drank it were farmers or manual workers in 1970s. That’s because it was replaced not only by soju but also by Western drinks such as beer or whisky. Recently, however, even young generations are more likely to drink it than before.
- Yonhap News http://app.yonhapnews.co.kr/yna/basic/ArticleEnglish/Search/YIBW_showSearchArticleList.aspx?searchtext=Makgeolli&scope=all&period=&startdate=&enddate=

</doc>
<doc id="216380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216380" title="Sadri language">
Sadri language

Population 166,000 (2000). 
Region Throughout Rajshahi Division; Sylhet Division, Moulvibazar and Habiganj districts; Khulna Division, Jhenaidah District (Jhenaidah Subdistrict, Moheshpur Subdistrict), Kushtia District (Mirpur Subdistrict), Magura District (Magura Subdistrict). 
Language maps Bangladesh
Bangladesh
Dialects Borail Sadri, Nurpur Sadri, Uchai Sadri, Mokkan Tila Sadri. Dialects may need separate literature. Inherent intelligibility of 7 Sadri varieties on Borail ranges from 70%–93%; of 8 varieties on Nurpur from 78%–94%. Lexical similarity: of 14 Sadri varieties with the Borail Sadri dialect ranges from 88%–97%. 
Classification Indo-European, Indo-Iranian, Indo-Aryan, Eastern zone, Bihari 
Language use Vigorous but some educated people do not use Oraon with their children. Bangladesh Oraon Foundation has committed to language revitalization. Low proficiency in Bengali [ben]. 
Language development Literacy rate in L2: 30%. NT: 2003. 
Writing system Bengali script. Latin script. 
Comments The Oraon people came from India over 100 years ago. Sometime in the past some Oraon shifted from Kurux [kru], a Dravidian language, to Sadri, which is Indo-Aryan. Some Oraon people still speak Kurux. Agriculturalists. Traditional religion, Hindu. 

</doc>
<doc id="216381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216381" title="Rohingya language">
Rohingya language


</doc>
<doc id="216383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216383" title="Friedrich Kurt Fiedler">
Friedrich Kurt Fiedler

"Friedrich" Kurt Fiedler (8 March 1894 – 11 November 1950) was a German graphic designer. During the Weimar Republic he became known for his book and poster designs. Kurt Fiedler was an active member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany.
Kurt Fiedler was born in the little village Eichbusch near Dresden as a son of a carpenter. Together with the later known painter Hermann Glöckner he attended around 1910 the evening classes of the Kunstgewerbeschule Dresden. The students were educated in an aesthetic style, which was propagated by Deutscher Werkbund. From 1911 to 1915 Fiedler got a grant to study as master scholar of Richard Guhr and Josef Goller. During World War I Fiedler served as front-line soldier in France. After the war, Ferdinand Avenarius introduced him to the Dürerbund. Fiedler lived in the house of this leading cultural organization in Blasewitz for about 20 years. For the social democratic newspaper "Dresdner Volkszeitung" he designed the masthead.
The Nazis hindered Kurt Fiedler because he was known as an active social democrat. During World War II Kurt Fiedler served as translator for French prisoners of war. He left army in 1942 because of poor health. Until the end of Nazi Germany he earned his money with technical drawings at the Dresden University of Technology. The home of Kurt Fiedler was completely destroyed during Bombing of Dresden in World War II on 13 February 1945. After the war, Kurt Fiedler belonged to the directorate of the association of fine arts in Dresden. He was artistic fellow worker of the Saxon regional board of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany. As nearly all social democrats Fiedler became sidelined in following years.
Fiedler worked for the leading publishing houses of Dresden. "B.G. Teubner", "Theodor Steinkopff-Verlag", "Wilhelm-Limpert-Verlag", "Buchdruckerei der Dr. Güntz'schen Stiftung" and "Rudolph'sche Verlagsbuchhandlung" were known nationwide. Fiedler designed books on astronomy for the Dürerbund and the local planetarium. Especially known were his cover illustrations for adventure stories of the famous circus Sarrasani. Some of the books for "Talisman-Bücherei" of Rudolph were banned by the Nazis. They were bound to the New Thought movement.
On occasion of the World Advertising Congress 1929 in Berlin, Fiedler was awarded for his poster design. Some important posters were "Hiertstein - Katzenstein Gebiet", "Riesen-Auftakt 43. Bundesfest Bund Deutscher Radfahrer" for the German Cycling Federation, and "200 Jahre Dresdner Anzeiger" on occasion of the jubilee of the first newspaper of Dresden. After 1930 Fiedler became known for some of his drawings, especially of children.
Fiedler counts today as one of the leading poster artists of post-war East Germany. Many of his works can be found in Deutsches Historisches Museum, Akademie der Künste and the German Federal Archive. Among his best known pieces of that period is "Junkerland in Bauernhand", a movie poster designed for the DEFA. The "German national picture archive of arts" at the University of Marburg documents 34 of his posters from that time.

</doc>
<doc id="216394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216394" title="Cryosphere">
Cryosphere

The cryosphere is the part of the Earth’s surface where water is in solid form, including sea ice, lake ice, river ice, snow cover, glaciers, ice caps and ice sheets, and frozen ground (which includes permafrost). It often overlaps with the hydrosphere, the water on, under and over the surface of the Earth. The cryosphere is an important part of the global climate system. It influences surface energy, clouds, precipitation, hydrology, and the way both air and water move about in the atmosphere and oceans. The cryosphere is important to understanding how the climate of Earth works and how it affects global climate. The word "cyrosphere" comes from the Greek word "cryo" meaning "cold" or "to cold".

</doc>
<doc id="216399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216399" title="Jute">
Jute

Jute is a vegetable fibre. It is very cheap to produce, and its production levels are similar to that of cotton. It is a bast fibre, like hemp, and flax. Coarse fabrics made of jute are called hessian, or burlap in America. Like all natural fibres, Jute is biodegradable."Jute" is the name of the plant or fiber that is used to make burlap, Hessian or gunny cloth.
The jute plant is easily grown in tropical countries like Bangladesh and India. Ninety percent of world's jute is harvested in Bangladesh and the rest in India.
Jute is less expensive than cotton, but cotton is better for quality clothes. Jute is used to make various products: packaging materials jute bags, sacks to expensive carpets, espadrilles, sweaters etc.
it is obtained from the bark of the jute plant. Jute plants are easy to grow, have a high yield per acre and, unlike cotton, have little need for pesticides and fertilizers. 
Jute has been shown to exist in the Bronze Age in Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="216409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216409" title="Bryan Hopkin">
Bryan Hopkin

Sir Bryan Hopkin (7 December 1914 – 10 October 2009) was a Welsh economist. He spent a lot of his career giving economic advice to the British government. At other times he taught economics at university. He did not agree with the economic policies of Margaret Thatcher.
Hopkin went to Barry Grammar School and then studied at St John's College, Cambridge, where he was a student of John Maynard Keynes. He then studied at Manchester University.
In 1941, during the Second World War, Hopkin was working as a civil servant at the Ministry of Health. Winston Churchill chose him to be part of the government's statistical team. He spent many years advising the government, before becoming Professor of Economics at Cardiff University in 1972.
He became head of the Government Economic Service in 1973, and gave advice to Denis Healey. It was a hard time for Healey because the unions were asking for big pay increases and inflation was rising. Hopkin helped Healey to persuade people to stick to the pay policy he had made. Then Hopkins returned to work at the university, from where he criticized Margaret Thatcher's policies. The economy was not going well, and Mrs Thatcher wanted to make cuts in government spending. Hopkin and many other economists disagreed. They thought the government should spend money instead to help the economy.
Hopkin was made CBE in 1961 and knighted in 1971. In 1938 he married Renée Recour (d. 2002), and they had two sons. Sir Bryan Hopkin died in Bedford.

</doc>
<doc id="216412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216412" title="Denis Healey">
Denis Healey

Denis Winston Healey, Baron Healey CH, MBE, PC (30 August 1917 – 3 October 2015) was a British Labour politician. He was Secretary of State for Defence from 1964 to 1970 and Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1974 to 1979.
Healey was born in Mottingham, Kent, and moved with his family to Keighley in the West Riding of Yorkshire when he was five years old. He was given the middle name "Winston" after Winston Churchill, who was an important politician at the time Denis was born.
Healey was one of three children. Their father was an engineer who had worked his way up by taking extra lessons at night school. 
Healey went to Bradford Grammar School, and in 1936 he won a type of scholarship known as an "exhibition", which gave him enough money to take a degree at Balliol College, Oxford. At Oxford University he got involved in politics, and he joined the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1937. In 1939, not liking the party's policies, he changed his mind. From that time on, he supported the Labour Party, even though one of his best friends at university, Edward Heath, supported the Conservative Party. 
After getting his degree, Healey joined the Royal Engineers, and served in the British forces in several countries during World War II. He took an important part in the Battle of Anzio, towards the end of the war. After the war, he joined the Labour Party, and made an important speech to the Labour Party conference in 1945, shortly before the United Kingdom general election, 1945. 
In February 1952, Healey became the Member of Parliament for Leeds South East. He supported Hugh Gaitskell, the leader of the Labour Party. When Gaitskell died in 1963, Healey became a supporter of Harold Wilson. When Labour won the 1964 election Healey was given the job of Secretary of State for Defence. Labour lost power in 1970, but Healey was given the job of Shadow Chancellor in April 1972.
When Labour won a general election in March 1974 and came back into power, Healey became Chancellor of the Exchequer in March 1974. When Harold Wilson resigned as Prime Minister in 1976, Healey was one of those who hoped to take over, but he was not chosen. He continued in the job of Chancellor of the Exchequer when James Callaghan took over as Prime Minister.
Healy married Edna Edmunds in 1945. Together, they had three children. They lived in Alfriston, Sussex. Edna died in 2010.
On 14 June 1978, Healey likened being attacked by the mild-mannered Geoffrey Howe in the House of Commons to being "savaged by a dead sheep". Nevertheless, Howe appeared and paid warm tribute when Healey was featured on "This Is Your Life" in 1989. The two remained friends for many years, with Howe dying only a few days after Healey, in 2015.
Healy died at his home in Alfriston, Sussex on 3 October 2015 from a short-illness, aged 98..

</doc>
<doc id="216416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216416" title="Plessy v. Ferguson">
Plessy v. Ferguson

Plessy v. Ferguson, , was a United States Supreme Court case that ruled segregation was legal, as long as equal facilities were provided for both races. The decision was handed down by a vote of 7 to 1. The majority opinion was written by Justice Henry Billings Brown, and the minority opinion was written by Justice John Marshall Harlan. 
In 1954, "Brown v. Board of Education" partially overturned the "Plessy v. Ferguson" ruling.
The State of Louisiana passed a law saying that whites and blacks had to ride in different cars on trains, but required that the train cars be "equal." Homer Plessy, who was one-eighth black (meaning that one of his eight great-grandparents was black) was arrested for riding in a whites-only car. He challenged the Louisiana law, saying it was against the United States Constitution. Plessy argued that the state law which required East Louisiana Railroad to segregate trains had denied him his rights under the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
The Supreme Court, in a 7-1 decision, ruled that the Louisiana law was valid. They said that requiring whites and blacks to ride in separate trains did not harm blacks in any way. Justice John Marshall Harlan was the only justice who thought the law was against the Constitution. He thought segregation made blacks feel inferior. He said that the Constitution is "color blind" and that the law should not treat any group better than any other group.
In 1954, the United States Supreme Court made it illegal to segregate schools by race. Chief Justice Earl Warren even ruled that ""separate facilities are [always] unequal."" 
However, Brown did not make it illegal to segregate in any other places, aside from schools. Segregation in other places was still legal. This means that Brown overturned "part" of "Plessy v. Ferguson" by making school segregation illegal, but it did not overturn the entire law.

</doc>
<doc id="216435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216435" title="Robbinsville Township, New Jersey">
Robbinsville Township, New Jersey

Robbinsville is a township in Mercer County, New Jersey. As of the year 2000, 10,275 people live in Robbinsville. The town was incorporated, or created as a town, on March 15, 1859.
Robbinsville is 20.5 square miles in size. The median income is $71,377. The main transportation systems within Robbinsvile are US Route 130, Route 33, Interstate 195 and the New Jersey Turnpike (Interstate 95). Trenton-Robbinsville Airport is also located within Robbinsville. About 30,000 aircraft enter and exit the airport a year.

</doc>
<doc id="216439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216439" title="Mercer County, New Jersey">
Mercer County, New Jersey

Mercer County is a county in New Jersey, United States of America. Trenton, the capital of New Jersey is in Mercer County. As of the year 2006, 367,605 people lived in the county. Mercer county was founded in the year 1838.

</doc>
<doc id="216441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216441" title="Cyrillic numerals">
Cyrillic numerals

Cyrillic numerals was a numbering system using the Cyrillic alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="216450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216450" title="Gochujang">
Gochujang

Gochujang () is a savory, fermented Korean food. It is made from red chili, glutinous rice, fermented soybeans and salt. It is used to add flavour to a variety of Korean foods such as "bibmbab" (), "bulgogi" (), and "tteokbokki" (). 
The main ingredients of "gochujang" are red chili powder, glutinous rice powder mixed with powdered fermented soybeans, and salt. Each serving contains 8.9% of protein, 4.1% lipid, 15.9% of carbohydrate, and 3.5% of fibre. It has more Vitamin B than "doenjang" and "ganjang". It contains 5mg of Vitamin C per gram and 2,445mg of carotene per 100 gram.
One peculiar ingredient is capsaicin which is main cause of hot taste. Some people put salted fish or meat into "gochujang".
"Gochujang" (hot pepper paste) has been made since chili was introduced from Japan in 1592, during the middle period of the "Chosun Dynasty" (). According to "Jung-Bo-Sal-Lim-Kyung-Jae" (), written in 1766, it was made from beans, sweet from glutinous rice, hot from red peppers, and salty. Since that time, making "gochujang" became rapidly popular. In "Nong-Ga-Wol-Lyung-Ga" (), there is content regarding making it.
Different types of "gochujang" are made by adding different ingredients in the production process. Recipes are slightly different depending on the parts of Korea it comes from. The most common types of "gochujang" are listed below.
Made by mixing glutinous rice powder with powdered fermented soybeans red peppers, which are the basic ingredients of Gochujang.
made by adding kaoliang.
made by adding barley. Popularly used as "Ssam-Jang" (쌈장) in summer. 
made by adding wheat. Used for making "Jji-Gae"s (찌개, stews), and "Jang-A-Jji" (장아찌, Pickled Vegetables)
made by adding red-beans. Used in "Cho-Gochujang" (초고추장) thanks to the beautiful red color.

</doc>
<doc id="216452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216452" title="Silliman University">
Silliman University

Silliman University, sometimes simply called Silliman or SU, is a private Christian university in Dumaguete City, Philippines. The school first started in 1901 when American Presbyterian missionaries came to the Philippines after the war between America and Spain ended. Because of this, Silliman became the first Protestant and American private school in the country. It is also the oldest university founded by Americans in Asia. At first, they started it as an elementary school for boys. But later on, it became a college, and then into a university. The man who was first sent by the Presbyterians to start the school was David Sutherland Hibbard, a pastor from Lyndon, Kansas. On the other hand, the one who gave the money to start it was Horace Brinsmade Silliman, a businessman from Cohoes, New York. Thankful for what Silliman did, the Presbyterians named the school after him.
Today, Silliman has ten colleges, four schools, and two institutes. Its students come from different parts of the Philippines, as well as from other parts of the world (more than 20 different countries). Silliman offers early childhood, elementary, high school, and college education. In college, Silliman teaches many things such as Accountancy, Business Administration, Engineering, Information Technology, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Biology, Chemistry, Education, Marine Sciences, Physics, Theology, Philosophy, Psychology, and Public Administration among others. Those who want to take up masters and doctorate courses can also find these in Silliman. Aside from teaching, Silliman is also involved in activities called "extension projects" that help people and different communities.
Silliman is in Dumaguete City, beside the sea. It has 116,392 people. Silliman has two campuses. One is along Hibbard Avenue, called the main campus, and the other is beside the Silliman Beach, two kilometers from the main campus, known as the College of Agriculture and Marine Lab campus. The main campus has a land area of 33 hectares (330,000 m²) and contains most of Silliman's colleges, schools and institutes. The College of Agriculture and Marine Lab Campus on the other hand has a land area of 29 hectares (290,000 m²). It has a farm, a place for students to live in called dormitories, and other buildings of the College of Agriculture. Located beside the College is the Marine Laboratory and the Silliman Beach.
Silliman also has facilities in other places. One of these is in Valencia, Negros Oriental (East Negros) and is presently called the Camp Lookout Facility. It is on top of a hill. Silliman "Writers' Village" is there. The village has a main building called a function hall and five small apartments called cottages which are all designed to host the annual Silliman National Writers Workshop.
The other facility not on campus is the Ticao Island facility. This facility has a land area of 465 hectares and is on another island (Ticao Island) in a province called Masbate. This facility is basically a ranch and a farm, with some areas being covered by forests. Silliman has many plans for this facility, and because it wants to let the people around the area know what these plans are, the university has shown it to them to see if they like it or not.
The people who run the University are called the Board of Trustees. Sometimes, they are simply called the Board. They represent different sectors of the university. These sectors are the alumni, the Silliman University Foundation Incorporated (SUFI), and the United Church of Christ in the Philippines (UCCP). Each of these sectors are represented by five members. All in all, the Board has fifteen members. The Board can't work alone, and so they are assisted by many persons. These persons are the University President, the Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Vice-President for Finance, the University Registrar, Treasurer and Auditor as well as the Manager for Human Resource (HRD). Since these persons also have a lot of things to do and think about, they are also assisted by other people called Deans, Directors, Department Chairpersons, Coordinators and Unit Heads of the different colleges, schools, institutes, units, research centers, programs and extension projects of the University.
Silliman is divided or organized into academic units called colleges, schools and institutes. These units teach different things. These units are:

</doc>
<doc id="216456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216456" title="Yut">
Yut

Yut is a traditional Korean board game played mainly during the period from Korean New Year to the first full moon. "Cheok-sa" and "sa-hee" are the other names of the game. Its origin is not clear, but it seems that the game was started from the age of ancient Korea called Three-Kingdoms. The game is played by throwing four sticks, and moving marks on the board according to shapes of the sticks that fell down. During Korean New Year, many people play the game because it can be enjoyed anywhere by players of any age.
The equipment of the game consists of a board, four yut sticks, and four marks, called "mal", per each team. The board, which is normally rectangular shaped, is made of various materials like stitched cloth, paper, or leather. It includes a circle with a cross in the center, and 28 circles around this cross. The sticks determine how far a "mal" can advance. The stick has two sides; one is round, and the other flat. It is usually made of wood from chestnut trees. Players can move their "mal" from one circle to another, based on the results that their sticks indicate. Any item can be used for a "mal", if it can be distinguished from the "mal" of opposite teams. 
The facing of the sticks after being thrown indicate the movements of each team’s "mal". There are five possibilities: "do, gae, geol, yut", and "mo", meaning five livestock, pigs, dogs, cow, sheep, and horses. "Do", when the flat side of only one stick faces upward, means a one-step advance. When two flat sides are up, it means "gae", which is a two-step advance. "Geol" is three flat sides up, which is a three-step advance, and "yut", where all four sticks are lying flat side up, means a four-step advance. When all four sticks face round side up, it is "mo" which means a five-step advance. Each team normally throw the sticks in turn, but players get one more chance to throw the sticks when they throw a "yut" or "mo".
Players can move only one "mal" per each movement, unless "mals" are grouped in one. When a "mal" reaches the big circles in the center, or reaches the others in each corner, players can move their "mal" in a shortcut. There are four possible routes to move "mal" when considering shortcuts. When a "mal" reaches a circle that is already occupied by a "mal" of an opposing team, the "mal" of the opposing team is captured by the new mal, and must restart from the starting point. If a mal lands on a circle with another mal of same team, the two mals can make a group, and move together. The first team causing all of their mals to reach the starting point again becomes the winner of game.

</doc>
<doc id="216457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216457" title="Sujebi">
Sujebi

Sujebi () is a traditional Korean soup. It is a Korean-style pasta soup consisting of hand-torn dough flakes with various vegetables and has been eaten from the early Goryeo period. In ancient times, when the Korea people were poor, they didn't have much foodstuffs and so made "sujebi" with small quantity of dough and leftover vegetables. In addition, rice was rare after the Korean War, so many people ate sujebi instead of rice because wheat flour was cheaper at that time. However, "sujebi" with various kinds of ingredients was considered a special food, so it was eaten on special days like a celebration day or feast. Nowadays, there are many kinds of sujebi and many people enjoy it as a health food. It is similar to another Korean traditional food "Kalguksu", but "Kalsuksu" is made with noodles while "sujebi" is made with wheat flakes. Both of them are considered as proper food for a rainy day due to its hot and rich flavored broth. It is usually eaten with kimchi.
It was during the mid Joseon period that "sujebi" was named. Its name was originally came from Chinese letter 手(su, 수) meaning ‘hand’ and 摺(jeop, 접) meaning ‘folding’. The pronunciation has been changed as time passes for the ease of articulation. It is called differently depending on the regions, but sujebi is the standard word and most commonly used.
Generally, there are two kinds of "sujebi" depending on the type of broth. One is with Korean clear soup, and the other is with seaweed soup. In the former one, dough flakes are roughly torn by hand, whereas in the latter one, dough flakes are round shaped. This round-shaped dough is called "Saeal"(새알 in Korean). When people order or make "sujebi", it usually refers to the former one in Korea. Then, it is again classified as various types depending on other ingredients. Typically, there are "potato sujebi" which includes potatoes and "seafood sujebi" with seafood. However, many restaurants are making new sujebi variations to attract customers these days.

</doc>
<doc id="216467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216467" title="Kim Gu">
Kim Gu

Kim Gu (Hangul:김구, 1876–1949) was a Korean independence activist and politician. He was the President of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea three times. Kim was the 6th, 12th, and 13th (and final) president. He was the leader of the Korean independence movement against Japanese Imperialism and a reunification activist. Kim was also called Baekbeom. It was his pen name. He is a well respected person to many Korean people. Prime Minister 1921 to 1927 and Interior Minister of Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea 1923 to 1924.
Kim was born in Heaju, Korea in 1876. At the age of 15, he studied the Chinese language. (한학; 漢學). In 1893, he joined the Donghak movement. He became the regional leader for Haeju. The next year, while he was leading the Donghak Peasant Revolution, he went to Manchuria to escape from Japanese soldiers. In 1896, he returned to Korea and killed Josuke Tsuchida, a Japanese soldier. He killed Tsuchida as revenge for the 1895 assassination of Empress Myeongseong of the Korean Empire. Empress Myeongseong was killed by Miura Goro, a Japanese assassin.
After the March 1st Movement in 1919, Kim Gu exiled himself to Shanghai, China. He joined the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea. From that time, he started fighting against Japanese Imperialism. He wanted independence for Korea. He organized the Korea Patriotic Legion. It was a nationalist group. He told Yoon Bong-Gil to bomb the ceremony for the Emperor's birthday at Hongkeou Park in Shanghai. Also, he had Lee Bong-chang try to kill the Japanese Emperor Hirohito in Tokyo. This ended up with failure. Kim also created the Korean Liberation Army. He was re-elected several times as the leader of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea.
After the independence of Korea on 15 August 1945, he came back to Seoul. He worked as a right-wing politician with Lee Seung Man and Kim Kyu-sik. He tried to prevent the division of the Korean peninsula. In 1948, he tried to stop South Korea’s national election and to start negotiations between South and North Korea. This failed.
In 1949, Kim was assassinated by a Korean soldier, Ahn Doo-hee. Ahn was later killed by a taxi driver. Many people think there must have been a conspiracy. It is not known if this is true. In 1962, he was awarded the Republic of Korea Medal of Order of Merit for National Foundation. He wrote "Baekbeomilji" ("Journal of Baekbeom"). It is his autobiography. It is important both historically and educationally.

</doc>
<doc id="216485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216485" title="Southern California">
Southern California

Southern California is a region of California. The definitions of it vary, but it usually contains the area around Los Angeles and San Diego, as well as the "Inland Empire" of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. Over twenty million people live in Southern California.

</doc>
<doc id="216488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216488" title="Chocolate brownie">
Chocolate brownie

A chocolate brownie (or simply called a brownie) is an American dessert or snack made with chocolate. Its name came from its dark brown color. It tastes like a cross between a cake and a cookie. Unlike other cakes, it is baked without baking powder so it is much thicker. It is normally served cut into squares or rectangles. It can be eaten as a snack, or with ice cream or whipped cream as a dessert.
There is no clear record of how brownies were first made. They were first made in the late 1880s. The first known recipe for brownies was in the 1897 Sears, Roebuck Catalogue. The most popular story about the origin of the brownie is about a housewife in Bangor, Maine. It says that the house wife forgot to add baking powder to a chocolate cake she was making. The cake did not rise but it was still delicious.
There are different types of brownie. They are either chewy or cake-like depending on the recipe. Sometimes nuts or chocolate chips are added, or icing is put on top. A brownie with brown sugar and no chocolate is called a blondie.

</doc>
<doc id="216496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216496" title="Military strategy">
Military strategy

A military strategy is a set of ideas or policy used by armed forces to get the results they want. Strategy is used to win combat, battles and wars. It involves planning, logistics (the movement and use of forces and equipment), and the deception of the enemy.
Carl von Clausewitz is considered the creator of modern military strategy.

</doc>
<doc id="216497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216497" title="Civilization IV">
Civilization IV

"For the series as whole, see Civilization (series)"
Civilization IV is a strategy computer game released in 2005. It is build by the company Firaxis Games. It is a turn based game where the player builds an empire from the ancient era, into the modern era. In this time, the player is tasked with researching technology, managing a military, declaring war, engaging in diplomacy, spreading religions, managing governmental systems and building wonders of the world. There is an option as playing as one of 18 historical civilizations, each with at least on historical leader. Different nations and leaders have different advantages, disadvantages, and special military units to construct. It has two expansions. The first was "Warlords" and the second was "Beyond the Sword". It was released in 7 languages: Chinese, French, German, Spanish, English, Japanese and Italian. 

</doc>
<doc id="216504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216504" title="PCB">
PCB

PCB is an abbreviation for one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="216509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216509" title="Trenton-Robbinsville Airport">
Trenton-Robbinsville Airport

Trenton-Robbinsville Airport is a privately owned airport in Robbinsville, New Jersey. It has a 4,275 foot (1,303 meter) long asphalt runway.

</doc>
<doc id="216510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216510" title="Jhalawan">
Jhalawan

Jhalawan is a former country. It was established in the 17th century. Its boundary was fixed with Sindh in 1853.

</doc>
<doc id="216511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216511" title="Sarawan County">
Sarawan County

The Sarawan Country was a division of the former princely state of State of Kalat in Baluchistan, Pakistan. Its area was 4,339 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="216514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216514" title="Swat (princely state)">
Swat (princely state)

Swat () was a princely state and is now part of Pakistan. Swat was part of the Mughal Empire ruled by local Gujar rulers known as Akhoond or Akhwand. From 1926 until 1947, Swat was a princely state in British Raj, and in 1947 it acceded to Pakistan. It lay to the north of the modern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa of Pakistan until it was dissolved in 1969. It incorporated the current states of Swat, Buner and Shangla.

</doc>
<doc id="216515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216515" title="Marri-Bugti County">
Marri-Bugti County

Marri-Bugti Country (Marri and Bugti Country) was a tribal region during the British occupation of Baluchistan.

</doc>
<doc id="216527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216527" title="Shirley Jackson">
Shirley Jackson

Shirley Jackson (December 14, 1916, San Francisco, California - August 8, 1965, Bennington, Vermont) was an important American author. A popular writer in her time, her work has received even more attention from literary critics in recent years. She has influenced such writers as Neil Gaiman, Stephen King, Nigel Kneale and Richard Matheson.
Born Shirley Hardie Jackson in San Francisco in 1916 to Leslie and Geraldine Jackson, Shirley and her family lived in Burlingame, California, an wealthy middle-class suburb. Shirley spent most of her early life in California. The Jackson family then moved to Rochester, New York, where Shirley attended Brighton High School and graduated in 1934. For college, she first attended the University of Rochester before graduating from Syracuse University in 1940. 
She got married in 1940 to Stanley Edgar Hyman who met in campus literary magazine, literary critic, and have four children who are Laurence (Laurie), Joanne (Jannie), Sarah (Sally), and Barry. The Hyman family lived in Vermont, in a quiet rural community and far away from city life. In 1965, Shirley Jackson died of heart failure in her sleep at the age of 48. Shirley suffered all through her life from various neuroses and psychosomatic illness. These illnesses, along with the various prescription drugs used to treat them, overweight and heavy smoking, may have led to her declining health and early death.
She is best known for "The Lottery" (1948), which suggests a deeply unsettling dark underside in human nature who lives in suburban small-town in America. This is easily the best adaptation of the famed Shirley Jackson short story, first published in The New Yorker (June 28, 1948). Jackson may even have taken pleasure in the destructive impact of her work, as evidenced by Hyman's statement that she "was always proud that the Union of South Africa banned "The Lottery", and she felt that they at least understood the story. Larry Yust made this story into a short film which was banned in Boston.
With information for Jackson's first novel, "The Road Through the Wall" (1948), her husband who also is a literary critic, described Shirley Jackson as someone who practiced witchcraft. Shirley later wrote about witchcraft accusations in her book for young readers, "The Witchcraft of Salem Village" (1956).
Her other novels include "Hangsaman" (1951), "The Bird's Nest" (1954), "The Sundial" (1958) and The "Haunting of Hill House" (1959), regarded by many as one of the important horror novels of the 20th Century. 
When the Hymans eventually settled in Vermont, Shirley continued to publish novels and short stories while caring for their children Laurence, Joanne, Sarah and Barry. Eventually her four children would come to their own brand of literary characters as fictionalized versions of themselves in their mother's short stories; In a series of the short stories, later collected in the books "Life Among the Savages" and "Raising Demons", she presented a fictionalized version of her marriage and the experience of raising four children. 
In addition to her adult literary novels, Shirley also wrote a children's novel, "Nine Magic Wishes" as well as a children's play based on "Hansel and Gretel" and entitled The "Bad Children".
The first annual Shirley Jackson Awards for "outstanding achievement in the literature of psychological suspense, horror and the dark fantastic" were presented July 20, 2008. The jurors were John Langan, Sarah Langan, Paul G. Tremblay and F. Brett Cox. 
The winners were:

</doc>
<doc id="216544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216544" title="Book Off">
Book Off

Book Off () is Japan’s biggest chain of second hand bookstores. It is operated by Book Off Corporation Limited. The first Book Off store opened in May, 1990. The first franchisee Book Off store opened in Nov, 1991. The success of the business expanded to 917 stores in Japan and 14 stores abroad (8 in US, 3 in France, 2 in Korea, and 1 in Canada). Book Off sells books including comic books, magazines, and novels, and also sells CDs, DVDs, and Game software. Books are grouped by genres, writers, and prices. The overseas Book Off stores sell second hand books from Japan and also from its own country. Book Off not only sells the second hand books, but also buys the books from customers. For that reason Book Off’s theme copy is “お売りください” which means “Please, sell us your book”. The company uses this copy rather than ”We buy your book” to show respect to customers.
Some Book Off chains, especially ones abroad, have various signboard designs, but still they share the symbol colors of Book Off which are yellow, blue, and red. Book Off has its mascot "Yomuyomukun (Mr. Yomu-yomu)" holding a book in his hands. "Yomu (読む)" in Japanese means "read". Another uniqueness of Book Off is the employees’ loud greeting. Employees shout “いらっしゃいませ! (irashaimase! : welcome!)” when customers enter, and "ありがとうございました! (arigatou gozaimasita! : thank you!)” when customers leave the shop. Book Off chain stores abroad also greet customers with Japanese. 
From 1999 Book Off Corporation Limited started to expand the business into other second hand stores. B-Kids, B-Sports, B-Style, B-Life and B-Select cover second hand baby goods, children wear, sports goods, ladies’ and men’s wear, interior goods, and accessories respectively. After the first B-Kid store opened in Apr, 1999, now there are 26 B-Kids, 32 B-Style, 24 B-Sports stores in Japan. Book Off charges about 81% of the business and the other type of stores charge 19% of the entire sales.

</doc>
<doc id="216561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216561" title="Françoise Hardy">
Françoise Hardy

Françoise Hardy is a French singer, actress and model. As a celebrity in various fields, she has been an icon in France. 
Hardy was born at 17 January 1944 in Paris and grew up in rich family. From her childhood, she was so interested in literature that she was attracted to Simone de Beauvoir and Albert Camus. She received a guitar from her mother as a present for her passing baccalaureat at 16. It caused her to get interested in Chanson. Hardy mastered guitar by herself and showed an interest in composing chanson. Trying to be a singer was hard, she failed many times. After entering the University of Sorbonne in Paris, she kept studying a chanson in Petit conservatoire de la chanson, a chanson school founded by Mireille who was a famous singer at that time. Soon, she contracted with the record label Vogue in November 1961.
In June 1962, she made a great debut with her famous chanson ‘Tous les garçons et les filles' which became a hit all over Europe at her age of 18. The song made the wave of Yé-yé music in France with two million sales. It was when another famous song ‘Comment te dire adieu' appeared that Hardy estalished her as a singer in 1968. The song received a favorable review from many critics who were indifferent to young singers without precedent. Since then, she has been a cultural iconic figure in France. All of almost her songs were self written, and they have been translated into English, Spanish, Italian and German. As an actress, she appeared in many films - ‘Château en Suède”(1963) , “Une balle au cœur”(1965), ”What’s new pussycat?”(1966) “Masculin- Féminin”(1966) and “Grand prix”(1967)
She had a son, Thomas Dutronc in 1973 and married his father Jacques Dutronc. Now, they remain a couple.

</doc>
<doc id="216565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216565" title="Baekje">
Baekje

Baekje was ancient kingdom on the Korean Peninsula from 18 BCE to 660 CE. Baekje was also called Nam Buyeo. According to the Samguk Sagi, a historical record published in ancient Korea, Baekje was founded by Onjo at Wirye-sung (the present-day Han River area in Seoul). Baekje was one of the three kingdoms of Korea together with Goguryeo and Silla. Beakje, Goguryeo and Silla tried to expand each of their lands by allying and making war against one another. 
In the 4th century, Beakje conquered almost every southern part of the Korean Peninsula and flourished by accepting Buddhism and reforming its system. Also, due to its advantageous natural environment, Baekje easily traded with China and Japan. Especially Baekje established goodwill relationships with Japanese rulers of the Kufun period and transmitted its advanced culture such as pottery and Buddhism to Japan.
However, in the 5th century, Baekje was defeated by Goguryeo. It suffered the loss of its capital. Baekje moved its capital to Ungjin. In 6th century, King Seong decided to move capital to Sabi to restore Baekje's glorious past. However, Baekje was ruined by Silla at 660. Although Baekje was destroyed at that time, many ill-fated attempts were existed to restore Baekje from its descendants.

</doc>
<doc id="216566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216566" title="App Store (iOS)">
App Store (iOS)

The App Store is an online market used on Apple's iOS, managed by Apple Inc. The App Store lets users view and download applications that were made with the iOS Software Development Kit. Apps can be downloaded onto an iOS device directly, or onto a computer using iTunes (also managed by Apple).
Apps in the App Store are made mainly for iOS devices, such as iPhones and iPads. Some apps can be downloaded for free while others have a cost. Some have "in-app purchases", which are purchases made within the app. These are sometimes done to remove ads or to add features to an app. 30% of all profit made through apps goes to Apple, while 70% goes to whoever made the app.
In July 2008, the App Store opened with a change to iTunes. Apple could now control app quality and add extra pricing to the already set cost of an app. A day later, the iPhone 3G was launched and it came with iOS 2.0.1. This version had App Store support, and was soon made available for older iPhones and the iPod Touch. , there are over one million apps on the App Store.
As of January, 2011, the App Store had nearly 10 billion app downloads, which the company said using the "10 Billion App Countdown". At 10:26 am (GMT) on January 22, 2011, the 10 billionth app was downloaded from Apple App Store. As of July that year, 200 million users downloaded over 15 billion apps from the store.
Average profit per app is about US$8,700, but Apple does not let the public view this data. In May 2011, Apple approved its 500,000th app.
The success of the App Store led other companies to release their own "app stores", and now any similar service for mobiles are sometimes called app stores.
The word "app" is now a popular word; in early 2011, "app" was given 2010's "Word of the Year" by the American Dialect Society. Apple does not have a trademark on the word "app", which has been used as short for "application" since at least the mid-1990s and in products since 2002, for example Google Apps (first introduced in 2006).
In February 2011, Apple announced a new subscription-based service, which will allow developers to set the length and price of subscriptions. Previously, new magazine or news releases were sold as its own release. The new feature allowed publishers to sell content directly through their apps, allowing users to receive new content over specified periods of time.
During Apple's 2012 Worldwide Developer's Conference, Apple CEO Tim Cook said that the App Store has 400 million accounts with registered credit cards, 650,000 available apps to download and "an astounding 30 billion apps" downloaded from the app store.
When the iPhone 5 was launched, Apple changed the look of the App Store, as well as the iTunes Store and iBookstore, as part of iOS 6.
On January 7, 2013, Apple announced that there have been over 40 billion apps downloaded from their iOS App Store, with about half of those coming in 2012.
On February 1, 2013, Apple told developers that they could begin using appstore.com for links to their apps.
In September 2013, Apple announced at its Worldwide Developers Conference the addition of a Kids category to the App Store with the launch of iOS 7. The category is split by age range and apps made for children under 13 must follow the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA).
As of the end of 2013, App Store users spent over US$10 billion in 2013, and users downloaded almost three billion apps in December 2013. This was the most successful month in App Store history, and developers have earned over $15 billion since the making of the App Store.
On July 10, 2008, Apple CEO Steve Jobs told "USA Today" that the App Store contained 500 non-Apple applications for the iPhone and the iPod Touch, and of these 25 percent were free. These applications range from business to game applications, entertainment to educational applications, and many more. On July 11, 2008, the store opened, allowing users to buy applications and put them on an iPhone or iPod Touch with iOS 2.0. Ten million applications were downloaded the first weekend.
On January 16, 2009, Apple said on its website that 500 million applications had been downloaded. The billionth application was downloaded on April 23, 2009. In March 2012, the number of apps downloaded reached 25 billion.
Unlike the apps that come standard on the iPhone, apps downloaded from the App Store can be removed by the user at any time.
The iPad was launched in April 2010 with over 3000 applications made for it. About eight months after the release of the iPad, over 50,000 apps were available for it.
As of July 2011, 16 months after the iPad launched, there were over 100,000 apps available at the App Store made for the device.
By the end of November 2011, Apple advertised in a holiday newsletter of the online Apple Store there are more than 140,000 iPad apps available.
As of January 7, 2013, there were more than 300,000 native iPad apps available for users.
As of October 22, 2013, there were more than 475,000 native iPad apps available for users.
In April 2009, Apple announced the apps which had the most number of downloads since the store was launched.
With paid apps, Crash Bandicoot Nitro Kart 3D, by Activision Publishing, was ranked first, while Facebook had the same position among free apps, with the next position taken by Google Earth.
The top 25 most popular Paid and Free apps, as of 2012, are listed below:
Apple rates apps worldwide based on their content, and gives the app an age group for which is appropriate. The following are the ratings that Apple has detailed:
Apple must review all applications before they can enter the App Store for users to download.
, Apple used a method of reviewing apps which had flaws, and this meant that some bad apps could get past the review process.
Many times, Apple has removed apps because they did not follow the Apple policies for apps.
In November 2012, Boyfriend Maker, a dating sim game, was removed due to "reports of references to violent sexual acts and paedophilia" which were not appropriate to Boyfriend Maker's age rating of 4+. A modified version named Boyfriend Maker Plus was approved by Apple in April 2013.
On March 11, 2013, HiddenApps was approved and appeared in the App Store. This app allowed access to special developer-only menus, could allow built-in apps to be hidden, and an option to turn off iAds, Apple's ad system.
While Apple wants the App Store to be available worldwide, their market is restricted to country borders. Different countries have slightly different app stores. Some apps may only be available on the app stores of a few countries, while others can be available in many countries. Trying to use an app store of one country while in another may be a problem: Apple warns that "one of the risks of creating a German account while you are in Greece is, our system may able to detect it and it may put restrictions on your account (German) that will prevent you from using the iTunes Store".
Other mobile devices have other app stores available for them. Some of these are made by the company that made the device, but not all are that way. Amazon.com has the Amazon Appstore for all Android users. The Google Play store (was known as Android Market) is the official store for Google's Android devices. In 2010, Microsoft created the Windows Phone Store, an online market for their Windows Phone devices. In October 2012, the Windows Store was made for Windows 8 and Windows RT computers.
Nokia also has the Ovi Store, for Nokia devices. BlackBerry has an app store named BlackBerry World. BlackBerry 10 users do not have to use BlackBerry World, they are allowed to use other app stores as well.
Game consoles, such as the Nintendo DSi, also have their own online stores. The DSi has the "DSi Shop", while the Sony PSP (PlayStation Portable) and the PlayStation Vita have the PlayStation Store.

</doc>
<doc id="216571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216571" title="Monsters vs. Aliens">
Monsters vs. Aliens

Monsters vs. Aliens is a 2009 American computer-animated 3-D movie from DreamWorks Animation and Paramount Pictures. The movie was the first computer animated movie to be directly produced in a stereoscopic 3-D format instead of being changed into 3-D after completion, which added $15 million to the film's budget. 
The movie was supposed to come out in May 2009, but the release date was moved to March 27, 2009. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray September 29, 2009 in North America. "Monsters vs. Aliens" has the voices of Reese Witherspoon, Seth Rogen, Hugh Laurie, Will Arnett, Conrad Vernon, Rainn Wilson, Kiefer Sutherland, Stephen Colbert, and Paul Rudd.
Ed Leonard, CTO of DreamWorks Animation, says it took about 45.6 million hours to make "Monsters vs. Aliens", more than eight times as many as the first "Shrek". Many hundred Hewlett-Packard xw8600 workstations were used, along with a large and powerful "render farm" of HP ProLiant blade servers. It had over 9,000 server cores, to read through the animation. The movie had to have 120 terabytes (120,000 gigabytes) of data to complete. It also had one explosion scene alone having 6 terabytes (6000 gigabytes).
Since "Monsters vs. Aliens", all big movies released by DreamWorks Animation will be made in a 3-D format, using Intel's InTru3D technology.

</doc>
<doc id="216577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216577" title="Saturday Night's Main Event">
Saturday Night's Main Event

Saturday Night's Main Event was a professional wrestling television show that was aired as a special 36 times by World Wrestling Entertainment. Saturday Night's Main Event was a tremendous ratings success for NBC during its heyday, most notably on the March 14, 1987 show, which drew an 11.6 rating, which to this day remains the highest rating any show has ever done in that time slot. That show was headlined by a battle royal featuring Hulk Hogan and André the Giant, who were slated to face each other at WrestleMania III. As Hogan rarely wrestled on the WWF syndicated and cable television shows, Saturday Night's Main Event was the program on free television where most viewers were able to see him in action.
The success of Saturday Night's Main Event led to several Friday night prime time specials, known as The Main Event. The first of these, on February 5, 1988 featured a WrestleMania III rematch between Hogan and André and drew 33 million viewers and a 15.2 rating, which is still the highest-rated television show in professional wrestling history. This event was shown live. The late night shows however were always taped 1–2 weeks prior to airing.

</doc>
<doc id="216582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216582" title="Generator (Bad Religion album)">
Generator (Bad Religion album)

Generator is the sixth album released by the American punk rock band Bad Religion. Although the album was recorded and finished in May 1991, it was not officially released until March 1992. 100,000 copies of the album were shipped.
"Generator" was also the band's first release with drummer Bobby Schayer, who replaced Pete Finestone during the "Against the Grain" tour. Today, "Generator" has been remembered as one of the best albums to emerge from the early 90s punk scene, and one of the most enduring works of Bad Religion's career.
A video was made for "Atomic Garden". It is available for watching here. This was the first video Bad Religion ever released.

</doc>
<doc id="216597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216597" title="Niklas Hjalmarsson">
Niklas Hjalmarsson

Niklas Hjalmarsson (born June 6, 1987 in Eksjö, Sweden) is a Swedish professional ice hockey player that currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for their farm team the Rockford IceHogs of the AHL. Although he spent the majority of his time on the IceHogs, He earned a regular spot on the Chicago Blackhawks roster after James Wisniewski was traded to the Anaheim Ducks. Hjalmarsson won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks in 2010. 
On July 9, 2010, He signed an offer sheet with the San Jose Sharks which was for 4 years and $14 million. The Blackhawks matched it and Hjalmarsson became the first defenceman in 13 years to receive an offer sheet as a restricted free agent. On June 24, 2013, He won his second Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

</doc>
<doc id="216615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216615" title="Dustin Byfuglien">
Dustin Byfuglien

Dustin Byfuglien (pronounced Buff-lin; born March 27, 1985 in Minneapolis, Minnesota) is a American professional ice hockey player that currently plays for the Winnipeg Jets of the National Hockey League (NHL) as a right wing. He is African American. When he was smaller he moved to Roseau, Minnesota with his mom but decided to move to Chicago to play midget hockey it was there where he was drafted by the Blackhawks in 2003. He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2010. He played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 5 seasons and played 1 season with the Atlanta Thrashers.

</doc>
<doc id="216619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216619" title="Ash (band)">
Ash (band)

Ash is an alternative rock band from Downpatrick, Northern Ireland. They officially formed in 1992, when the frontman Tim Wheeler and the bassist Mark Hamilton were only 15. Then, Rick "Rock" McMurray joined the band as drummer and Charlotte Haterley (who left the band in 2006) as second guitar and vocalist.

</doc>
<doc id="216626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216626" title="Tomáš Kopecký">
Tomáš Kopecký

Tomáš Kopecký (pronounced "koh-PEHT-skee"; born February 5, 1982 in Ilava, Czechoslovakia) is a professional Slovakian ice hockey player that currently plays as a left winger for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He previously played four seasons with the Detroit Red Wings and played 2 seasons with the Chicago Blackhawks. He is married and has two sons named Jakub and Tobias.
In 2010, He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks making him a two-time Stanley Cup champion.

</doc>
<doc id="216638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216638" title="Transwoman">
Transwoman

A transwoman (sometimes spelled as trans-woman or trans woman) is a male-to-female (MTF) transsexual or transgender person. Many people in this group like the name "trans woman" over the many medical terms that are out there. Other non-medical names are t-girl, tg-girl and ts-girl. Transgender, though, is the more common name.
Some people who are assigned male at birth feel that this is not who they really are. They feel that the gender they were assigned and the gender they actually are do not match. They may want to show their true gender role as a woman. In keeping with their new gender role, many trans women want to simply be called "women", as they feel that being called a trans woman may mean that their new identity is false or not true. 
"Transitioning" refers to the act of changing a person's social and personal gender identity to the gender identity that they feel is their real self, and may or may not include having medical treatments done, or surgery, and the changing of their legal papers to show their new identity (such as their birth certificate) and changing the way that they dress.
Like trans men, trans women have many choices that they can make, depending on what culture they are in and what gender roles they, and the people who support them feel like they should have. No case is the same, and the options that are there for trans women depend very much on if they have easy access to medical care and money. Some trans women choose to have hair removed on their face, armpits and other parts of their body as well as train their voice so that it sounds more like a woman. There are surgeries that can make trans women's faces look more female, but may not always be necessary, as some trans women have faces that do not look very male. They are mainly to provide emotional benefits to patients so that they can see themselves changing or as a step in sexual reassignment surgery.
Some trans women who feel that their gender change is done, meaning that they have all the same physical characteristics of women who were assigned female at birth, want to just be called "women". They think that the names "transwoman" or "male-to-female" should only be used for people who have not finished their change. Some others do not feel that their gender ever changed and that they were always girls who were forced to live as boys. Because of this many see it as important to include a space in the name, as in "trans woman", using "trans" as a word to talk about a particular type of woman, not a "third gender" as "transwoman" might imply.
The story of the young boy who is very much like a young girl and grows up to live life as a woman has a very long history. It is a commonly, but wrongly, thought that all transgender and transsexual women are "straight" (attracted to males). Many studies on this issue have been thought to be hurt by bias, since many transsexuals feel they must give the "right" answers to such questions to help their chances of being able to get hormone therapy. 35% of trans women are lesbians.
Some do not pay attention to trans women identifying as women and continue to view them as men, calling trans women who feel attracted to men "homosexual" and trans women that are attracted to women as "nonhomosexual". This is seen as rude to the women that they are supposed to be studying.
Studies have shown that trans women are more likely to have a decreased sex drive (34%) than those who are born female (23%), but the difference was not very significant.

</doc>
<doc id="216646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216646" title="Pat Sajak">
Pat Sajak

Pat Sajak (born October 26, 1946) is an American actor and game show host. He hosts "Wheel of Fortune" in the United States.
Sajak was on "Super Password" several times from 1984–1989, as well as "Password Plus" in 1981. Other game shows on which Sajak guested were "Dream House" and "Just Men!".
Sajak hosted a late-night talk show on CBS called "The Pat Sajak Show" from January 1989 to April 1990. More recently, he filled in for Regis Philbin on "Live with Regis and Kelly".

</doc>
<doc id="216658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216658" title="Magnum Crimen">
Magnum Crimen

"Magnum crimen: pola vijeka klerikalizma u Hrvatskoj" (i.e. "Major accusation: Half a century of clericalism in Croatia") is a book first published in Zagreb in 1948. The book was written by a Croatian Roman Catholic priest, Dr. Viktor Novak (1889 - 1977), who was also a professor at Belgrade and Zagreb Universities, and the member of the Yugoslav Academy Science and Arts. In this book, Novak wrote about (Roman Catholic) clericalism in Croatia from the beginning of the 20th century to the end of World War II.
The Vatican Curia placed the book on their list of banned books, the "Index librorum prohibitorum", and said that Novak was an enemy of the Catholic Church.
Novak wrote that he spent more than 40 years collecting documents and books to write his book. He started collecting this material during his secondary school days, continued it as a university student, and as a member of the Austrian Institute of History in Vienna, Austria, then as a university professor in Zagreb and Belgrade. He worked on three books, of which "Magnum crimen" is the last, the first two parts of are the "Magnum tempus" and the "Magnum sacerdos". In 1941, after the destruction and occupation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Novak was forced to destroy all material he had collected. He was in danger of being arrested and killed by the German occupying forces and their collaborators in Belgrade. He was among the first ten people arrested in Belgrade by Germans, but managed to survive and continue work on this book after liberation of Belgrade in October 1944.
Novak dedicates this book to the victims (known and unknown as well) of the clero-fascism.
Observing the Roman Catholic Church activities in Yugoslavia for more than fifty years, the author concludes that this Church replaced the idea of service to God by service to the Roman Curia, i.e. service to the government of the Roman Pontificate in the role of the world leader. As a result of this idea, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Roman Catholic Church identified the Roman Catholicism to the Croatian nationhood, which turned most of its priesthood into ardent Ustashe supporters.
The book describes activities of the Roman Catholic clergy in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, including their intention and attempts to become above the state, to control the state and eventually everyday lives of the common people. It has two distinct parts. The first part consists of fifteen chapters, covering the Roman Catholic clericalism from the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth century in Austria-Hungary, then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The second part, the last four chapters, covers the rise and fall of the Independent State of Croatia, and the active support of the Roman Catholic Church clergy.
The main doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was that<br>(a) the clergy shall be paid by the state as the state officials; <br>(b) the state cannot have any control over the Church; <br>(c) the Church has right to be fully involved in the political life of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia; <br>(d) the Church doctrine/religious education shall be a part of primary and secondary school curricula; and that <br>(e) the Roman Catholic Church curricula in the schools shall be obligatory to all pupils whose at least one parent is a Roman Catholic.
To achieve these goals, the Church supported clerical political parties, confronting them to other confessions, primarily to the Serbian Orthodox Church, by publicly preaching hatred against the Orthodox population and advocating Croatian and Slovene separatism and intolerance against others.
Josip Juraj Strossmayer's ideas, of which the most important one was - serving God equals to serving people, created close relations between Croats and Serbs by introducing the Old Slavonic language as the liturgy language of the Roman Catholic Church in the Balkans - were aggressively suppressed by the Roman Catholic clergy in Croatia and Slovenia. The clergy put the Roman Curia in between the God and the people, demanding from the Roman Catholics ultimate obedience to the Roman Curia and unconditional love of the Roman Pope. The clergy remaining faithful to the Strossmayer was marginalized, with the most ardent supporters excommunicated by the Zagreb archbishop.
Nevertheless, Strossmayer was embraced as a great Roman Catholic bishop by the same clergy - but his teaching was distorted or not mentioned ever. The same destiny faced Franjo Rački, Ante Trumbić, and Stjepan Radić - three Croatian politicians advocating actively and fighting for the Yugoslavism - as a common denominator of togetherness and life among the Slavic people of the kingdom of Yugoslavia. The Trumbić and Radić's struggle against centralism was interpreted as the Croatian and Slovene separatism support.
Novak demonstrated that even the anti-Croatian activities in the Italian Croatian and Slovene lands (as compensation for their aid in World War I) were not counteracted by the Croatian and Slovene Roman Catholic clergy in Yugoslavia. Expulsion of the Croatian and Slovene clergy from these lands and their replacement by the Italians was received with silence and accepted without resistance or protest among their Catholic brethren in Yugoslavia.
Ante Pavelić's political activities in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Ustashe terrorism, and the embracement of fascism were all supported by the Roman Catholic clergy. Pavelić's nationalism identified Roman Catholicism to the Croatdom, which was actively supported and interpreted by the clergy.
The second part of this book is about the beginning of the Independent State of Croatia, the active support of the Roman Catholic clergy to this state, and their involvement and support in the extermination and/or forceful conversion of the Serbs and extermination of the Jews and the Roma people. The book is full of testimonies and documents showing the active involvements of the Catholic clergy in supporting, organizing, and executing extermination of Serbs, Jews, and Roma people of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. One of the most bizarre events described was that Roman Catholic priests in the Jasenovac concentration camp working every day on the most gruesome ways to kill the camp inmates, while they went to chapel regularly each day to pray to God.
At the end of World War II, the Catholic clergy defended themselves, claiming their opposition to forceful conversion and extermination in some letters and instructions directed to the priesthood. The book notes that these letters and directions were not public and not respected or followed. In fact, an article from "Novi list"' argued that a Jew could not be save by converting to the Roman Catholicism.
Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac is portrayed in this book as an ardent Roman Catholic crusader who publicly endorsed the establishment of the Independent State of Croatia, acknowledged the Ustashe as Croatian patriots, defended her before the Roman Pope and was responsible for the racist attitude and behavior of his clergy.
Among scholars-historians this book is accepted as a serious academic reference and as such - cited and referenced a great number of times . That way the book became a reference book in the libraries of many universities around the globe .
The earliest surveys of this book are the ones of Russian S. Troicky (as of the 1949 year - see the link) and of Swede O. Neumann. Neumann stressed three things particular to this book: the role of V. Novak in spreading and defending the idea of Yugoslavism, abundance of the documentation used to support the book content, and that ""Some passages have been written by a scholar in a dignified academic gown, in other parts of the book the author assumes the role of public prosecutor."" The abridged edition of this book published in 1960 is reviewed in the Istorijski glasnik and the same review echoed in the Historical abstracts.
A number of short notes about this book can be found - scattered in the works related to this period of history. Some are neutral and some rejective and disapproving.
The book has six full editions and one abridged.

</doc>
<doc id="216669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216669" title="William of Orange">
William of Orange

William of Orange usually refers to either:
William of Orange may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="216677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216677" title="Salcea">
Salcea

Salcea is a town of Suceava County in northern Romania. 9,194 people were living in Salcea as of 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="216717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216717" title="Agra">
Agra

Agra(English pronunciation: /ˈɑːɡrə/) is a city in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India. The city is famous for the capital of the Mughal emperors from 1526 to 1658 and maintains a major tourist destination because of its many marvelous Mughal-era buildings such as Tāj Mahal, Agra Fort and Fatehpūr Sikrī, all three of which are selected as UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
Agra is located on the Indo-Gangetic plain and has a continental climate, with long, hot summers from April to September. During summers dry winds blow in this region. The monsoon months from July to September see about 69 cm of rainfall annually. Winters are from November to February. Agra is best visited in the months of October, November, February and March, when the average temperature are between 16 and 25 Celsius.
According to the 2001 Indian census, Agra had a population of 1,326,000. Males consist of 53% of the population and females consist of 47% of the population. 11% of the population is under 6 years of age. The main language used by the people in Agra is Hindifollowed by English and Urdu.
Agra has a rich history, which is amply evident from the numerous historical monuments in and around the city. The earliest reference for Agra comes from the epical age, when Mahabharata refer Agra as Agravana. In the sources prior to this, Agra has been referred as Arya Griha or the abode of the Aryans. The first person who referred Agra by its modern name was Ptolemy. 
Though the heritage of Agra city is linked with the Mughal dynasty, numerous other rulers also contributed to the rich past of this city. Modern Agra was founded by Sikandar Lodhi (Lodhi dynasty; Delhi Sultanate) in the 16th century. Babar (founder of the Mughal dynasty) also stayed for sometime in Agra and introduced the concept of square Persian-styled gardens here. Emperor Akbar built the Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri near Agra. Fatehpur Sikri remained his capital for around fifteen years after which the city was left isolated in mysterious circumstances. Jahangir beautified Agra with palaces and gardens despite spending most of his time in Kashmir with which he was passionately attached. 
Agra came to its own when Shahjahan ascended to the throne of Mughal Empire. He marked the zenith of Mughal architecture, when he built the Taj Mahal in memory of his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal. In his later years, Shahjahan shifted his capital to the new city of Shahjahanabad in Delhi and ruled from there. Shahjahan was dethroned in 1658 by his son, Aurangzeb who imprisoned him in the Agra Fort. Aurangzeb shifted the capital back to Agra till his death. After the death of Aurangzeb, Mughal Empire could not touch its peak and many regional kingdoms emerged. The post-Mughal era of Agra saw the rule of the Jats, Marathas and finally the British taking over the city.
Auto Rickshaw and Cycle Rickshaw are the main transportations in Agra and are available all around the city. 
There are City buses but they are infrequent. 
Pollusting vehicles are not allowed near Taj Mahal, so one needs to take electric Auto's or Tanga(Tonga) from a few kilometers outside the Taj Mahal.
Taj Mahal
Agra's Taj Mahal is one of the most famous buildings in the world. It is well known for its reason to be built for Shah Jahan's favorite wife, Mumtaz Mahal. It is one of the New Seven Wonders of the world, and one of three World Heritage Sites in Agra.
Completed in 1653, the Tāj Mahal was built by the Mughal king Shāh Jahān as the grave for his beloved wife, Mumtāz Mahal. It was built in white marble. It is perhaps India's most fascinating and beautiful monument. This perfectly symmetrical monument took 22 years (1630-1652) of hard labour and 20,000 workers, masons and jewellers to build. Along with the building there is landscaped gardens. The architect who built the monument is named Persian architect, Ustād 'Īsā. The Tāj Mahal is located on the bank of the Yamuna River which can be observed from Agra Fort.

</doc>
<doc id="216731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216731" title="Kim Seong-Su">
Kim Seong-Su

Kim Seong-Su (; Hanja 金性洙, October 11, 1881-February 18, 1955), the second vice-president of the Republic of Korea (대한민국; 大韓民國), was a politician, educationist, journalist, and founder of Kyung-Sung textile Co. (경성방직회사; 京城紡織會社) ), the Dong-A Ilbo(동아일보; 東亞日報), and Korea University(고려대학교; 高麗大學校). After he died he was given the Order of Merit for National Foundation(건국훈장; 建國勳章). He is also known by his pen name Inchon (인촌; 仁村)
Kim Seong-Su was born on October 11 1891, in Gochang(고창; 高昌), Jeollabuk-do(전라북도; 全羅北道), South Korea. He graduated from Waseda University in Japan in 1914, majoring in Political Science and Economics. After returning home, he took over Jung-Ang High School, which was in financial difficulties, and took office as the president in 1917. Also, he founded Kyung-Sung textile Co. in 1919 in order to realize Korea’s economic independence from Japan and to foster its national capital. He launched the Dong-A Ilbo in 1920 and took charge of Boseong College (보성전문학교; 普成專門學校), the predecessor of the present Korea University.
In 1938, he was a promoter of the Federation for National Mobilization of Korean(국민정신총동원조선연맹; 國民精神總動員朝鮮聯盟), which was one of the pro-Japanese groups. He also took part in several pro-Japanese activities, writing articles which admired student soldiers and the draft system for Japan. Due to these activities, he was included in the list of 3,090 pro-Japanese collaborators released by the Institute for Research in Collaborationist Activities(민족문제연구소; 民族問題硏究所) in 2008.
After the Independence from the Japan Occupation on August 15 1945, in 1946 he became the governor of Korea Democratic Party(한국민주당; 韓國民主黨) and the ninth president of the Dong-A Ilbo. He was opposed to U.S. trusteeship of Sourh Korea and in 1949 he took office as the supreme council of Democratic National Party(민주국민당; 民主國民黨). He was inaugurated as the second vice president of South Korea in 1951, but resigned the following year because he was against the dictatorial powers of President Rhee Syng-man(이승만; 李承晩). The same year he became an adviser of Democratic National Party and then, continued to take part in the nongovernment party. He was posthumously awarded the Republic of Korea Medal of Order of Merit for National Foundation in 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="216740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216740" title="Nuneaton">
Nuneaton

Nuneaton is the largest town in the English county of Warwickshire. Nuneaton is famous for the novelist, George Eliot, who was born on a farm outside Nuneaton in 1819 and lived in Nuneaton during her early life.
The town is 14.5 km (9 miles) north of Coventry, 32 km (20 miles) east of Birmingham and 166 km (103 miles) northwest of London. The "River Anker" runs through the town.
Nuneaton had a population of 70,721 as of 2001 though the 2008 estimate is 73,000.
Nuneaton also has a football team called Nuneaton Town.

</doc>
<doc id="216763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216763" title="Sarrasani">
Sarrasani

Sarrasani is the name of a famous German circus. It was resident in Dresden. Later it became known as national circus of Argentina.
Sarrasani was founded by the clown "Hans Stosch". His stage name was "Giovanni Sarrasani". He came 1901 to Radebeul. The circus had its official premiere 1902 in Meißen. In the year 1912 a stationary circus building opened in Dresden. The circus often performed abroad. It had two famous labels, the Elephants and the Sioux.
Stosch-Sarrasani sen. died 1934 in São Paulo. His son Hans Stosch-Sarrasani jun. followed him as director. He died in 1941 in Berlin. His widow took directorship. The Sarrasani theater was destroyed on 13 February 1945 during the World War II.
Trude Stosch-Sarrasani emigrated to Argentina. She re-launched the circus in Buenos Aires. Perón and Evita declared Sarrasani "Circo nacional Argentino". The Argentine Sarrasani existed until 1972. 
The artist Fritz Mey re-launched the German Sarrasani in 1956. His partner, Ingrid Wimmer, was adopted by Trude Stosch-Sarrasani in 1976. André Sarrasani, son of Fritz Mey and Ingrid Wimmer, leads the circus since 2000. Sarrasani came back to Dresden in 1990 for the first time after 45 years. André Sarrasani performs today in Dresden the Dinner-Varieté-Show "Trocadero".
Trude Stosch-Sarrasani died the 6 of June 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="216770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216770" title="War language">
War language

War (also spelled Waar) or Amwi is an Austro-Asiatic language spoken by about 16,000 people in Bangladesh and 12,000 people in the Republic of India.

</doc>
<doc id="216787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216787" title="Choshinsung">
Choshinsung

Choshinsung is a six-member Korean Pop boy band. Its members are Yunhak, Sungje, Sungmo, Kwangsu, Jihyuk and Geonil. They debuted through the M! PICK season 6 in 2007 and belong to Korean record company Core Contents Media.
At first, Choshinsung was a five-member boy band but it was turned to a six-member through many times of changing their members. For this reason, they had to put their debut on after 1 year and recorded their album again. Before the debut all of members participated in commercial movies and other singer’s music videos. Then, they debuted through M.net M! PICK which is a TV program of picking up new faces for making Korean entertainers in August 2nd, 2007. 
Japan
Korea
Korea
Japan

</doc>
<doc id="216788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216788" title="Temple of Castor and Pollux">
Temple of Castor and Pollux

The Temple of Castor and Pollux is a Roman temple that worshipped the Gods, Castor and Pollux. This temple was based in the famous Roman Forum which is now in ruins.

</doc>
<doc id="216789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216789" title="Sonic the Hedgehog 3">
Sonic the Hedgehog 3

Sonic the Hedgehog 3 is the third video game in the "Sonic the Hedgehog" series. It was made by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the Sega Mega Drive in 1994. You can play as Sonic the Hedgehog or Miles 'Tails' Prower, or both (Tails follows Sonic and does what Sonic does if you play this way). Dr. Eggman is called Dr. Robotnik in the North American and European version of the game.
The game begins after what happened in the previous game, Sonic the Hedgehog 2. In Sonic 2, Sonic and Tails defeated Dr. Eggman on his giant spaceship called the Death Egg. It then exploded and landed on Angel Island, an island that floats in the air. Knuckles lives on Angel Island. He guards the Master Emerald, which is a big green gem that makes the island float. Dr. Eggman knows that the Master Emerald is very powerful. He wants to steal it, because he could fix the Death Egg with that power. He tricks Knuckles and tells him that Sonic and Tails are thieves and they want to steal the Master Emerald. Soon, Sonic and Tails arrive on Angel Island because they have seen that the Death Egg has fallen there. However, Knuckles surprises them, and takes away the Chaos Emeralds Sonic and Tails have collected.
The point of the game is to collect Rings, defeat robots and get to the end of a Zone.
In Sonic 3, there are six Zones. Every Zone has got two levels, which are named "acts" in the game. At the end of every act 1, you've got to fight one of Dr. Eggman's robots, and at the end of every act 2, you've got to fight Dr. Eggman himself. There are small robots called "Badniks" in the acts. Most of them can be destroyed if you jump on them. If the badnik is destroyed, a little animal jumps out of it. 
Rings are floating in the air and they are gold. If you collect 100 and 200 Rings, you get a life. If you have no Rings and something hits you (for example, a badnik, spike, or Dr. Eggman), you lose a life. 
There are also Starposts in the acts. If you hit a Starpost, it will spin for a bit, and if you lose a life, you restart at the last Starpost you touched. Starposts can be used to go to the Bonus Stage, if you touch them if you have 50 or more Rings. Then, a ring made of stars will spin above the Starpost, and if you jump into it, you go to the Bonus Stage.

</doc>
<doc id="216796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216796" title="Sheila Mello">
Sheila Mello

Sheila Chesed de Almeida Mello (born 23 July 1978) is a Brazilian dancer, actress and model. She became famous for dancing in the band É o Tchan!
Was born in Cidade Ademar, a district on the outskirts of São Paulo. Before becoming known for her participation in the group É o Tchan!, Sheila graduated in both classical ballet and in modern ballet.
Her entry to the group É o Tchan! came in 1998 through a contest held to choose a replacement for the dancer Carla Perez who left the group. Immediately after her victory she posed nude for the first time in Playboy magazine. She was on the cover in the other two editions, one next to Sheila Carvalho, her colleague É o Tchan. In October 2007, she posed naked again, this time for the magazine Sexy.

</doc>
<doc id="216799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216799" title="Victor Siaulys">
Victor Siaulys

Victor Siaulys (19 May 1936 - 19 March 2009) was a Brazilian businessman of the pharmacist branch.

</doc>
<doc id="216801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216801" title="Seattle Sounders FC">
Seattle Sounders FC

Seattle Sounders FC is a team in Major League Soccer (MLS) that plays in Seattle, Washington. It was founded in 2007 and began playing in 2009. Their name, which comes from the name of two older teams in Seattle, was chosen by fans in 2008. Four people own the team, including producer Joe Roth, Adrian Hanauer, Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen and comedian Drew Carey. The team plays at CenturyLink Field, which it shares with the Seattle Seahawks. Many fans are in groups and also a 53-member band called Sound Wave plays at every home game. Arlo White, who used to work for the BBC, is the announcer for local games. Their rivals, the San Jose Earthquakes, play against the Seattle Sounders FC in the Heritage Cup every year.
The team was the 15th MLS team and first played in the 2009 season. At every Seattle game, all of the seats were sold and the fans set a new record for average (or middle) match attendance, while the team also sold more season tickets than anyone else in the MLS. The Seattle Sounders FC finished their first year in the MLS playoffs, but lost in the semi-finals. The team did win their first trophy, the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup, and became the second team to do so in their first year. The Sounders went on to win the U.S. Open Cup in 2010 and 2011 as well, becoming the first team in over 40 years to win that competition three straight times.

</doc>
<doc id="216802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216802" title="Florence Ballard">
Florence Ballard

Florence Glenda Ballard Chapman (June 30, 1943 – February 22, 1976) was an American rhythm and blues singer. She was one of the founders of The Supremes. She was born in Detroit, Michigan. She died in Detroit from coronary thrombosis.

</doc>
<doc id="216807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216807" title="Amanda Knox">
Amanda Knox

Amanda Marie Knox (born 9 July 1987, Seattle, Washington) is an American author who was imprisoned without bail bond in Italy for 4 years during the trial and acquittal of the 2007 murder of Meredith Kercher, her British college housemate, in Perugia, Italy. On October 3, 2011, she was cleared of murder after an appeal trial. The sentence was declared invalid in March 2013. She was sentenced to 28 years and six months in jail in late January 2014. Her murder conviction was overturned for a final appeal in March 2015. Knox wrote about her treatment by Italian authorities and her prison problems in her 2013 memoir, "Waiting to Be Heard".
Knox was, at the time of the murder, a 20-year-old University of Washington language student who shared a flat with Kercher. She was in Perugia attending the University for Foreigners for one year, studying Italian, German and creative writing. Knox met her boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito at a classical music concert held on 25 October 2007, which she attended with Kercher at the University for Foreigners. When Kercher left at the intermission, Sollecito met Knox.
Knox and her boyfriend Sollecito were put on trial. At the time of the murder on 1 November 2007, Kercher's house keys, rent money of 300 euros (~$450), and 2 mobile phones had been missing, but the phones were found in the bushes by a neighbor, several blocks away, when Knox called Kercher's numbers the next morning after finding the front door ajar. The prosecution claimed a knife fight with Sollecito had begun after Knox and Kercher had argued about the stolen rent money, as stated by convicted suspect Rudy Guede (whose DNA was found on the body and purse). However, Amanda Knox had over $4,000 in her bank account at the time, and said she had no motive. Sollecito's DNA was found in the kitchen ashtray and outside Kercher's door frame, where he tried to push the door, but not inside the room nor on the body. Sollecito was sent to prison for 25 years, and Knox for 26 years.
They both appealed their sentences.
At the first appeal trial in 2011, a man claimed to have seen Knox and Sollecito by a town square near the house that night, when other people were wearing costume masks, but Halloween had been 2 nights earlier, not the night of the murder. The first appeal verdict was given on October 3, 2011, and Knox and Sollecito were freed from prison on that date.
In January 2014, Amanda Knox and her prior lover Rafael Sollecito were again found guilty by the Italian higher court, which overturned the first appeal. Sollecito was stopped by Italian Police when he tried to cross the border with Austria, after the verdict. 
In March 2015, at their fourth trial, Knox and Sollecito were acquitted of Kercher's murder by Italy's top appeal court. Despite being cleared of the murder charge, the guilty verdict against Knox for the slander of Patrick Lumumba - a bar owner she falsely accused of the crime - has been upheld.

</doc>
<doc id="216826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216826" title="Habilitation">
Habilitation

In some countries, Habilitation is a step toward becoming a professor that comes after people receive their Ph. D. (doctor of philosophy or "doctorate").

</doc>
<doc id="216829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216829" title="Solca">
Solca

Solca is a town of Suceava County in Romania. There were around 2500 people living in Solca as of 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="216830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216830" title="Raspberry (color)">
Raspberry (color)

Raspberry is a color that resembles the color of raspberries. 
The first recorded use of "raspberry" as a color name in English was in 1892. 

</doc>
<doc id="216839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216839" title="Bay of Campeche">
Bay of Campeche

The Bay of Campeche is an area in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. In Mexico three states, Campeche, Tabasco, and Veracruz have a coastline on the Bay of Campeche.

</doc>
<doc id="216841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216841" title="Hi! Seoul Festival">
Hi! Seoul Festival

Hi! Seoul Festival is a seasonal festival sponsored by Seoul Metropolitan Government and others. 
It has been held for each season – spring, summer, fall, and winter - every year in Seoul, South Korea since 2003. 
Hi Seoul Festival has four different themes for every season. For example, the theme of spring is usually “palace” Seoul Festival of the Han River is held in summer season. Usually during fall, the theme of the festival is "art". Also, there is Seoul Festival of Lights for winter season.

</doc>
<doc id="216851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216851" title="Mandu (dumpling)">
Mandu (dumpling)

Mandu are Chinese dumplings made from flour, meat, and vegetables chopped in very small pieces. Slightly chopped meat, and vegetables are mixed together, called "so" (소) in Korean. Then a handful of "so" is wrapped by a piece of slice dough which prevents "so" from spreading out. These small balls are cooked in various ways. They can be grilled, fried, boiled, or even steamed, so that each of them has different name. These "Mandu" are usually served with dipping soy sauce mixed with vinegar.
Originally, "mandu" are from China. They were introduced in Korea in the middle of Chosun dynasty, and have become to have their own recipe in Korea. Chinese call "tteok" which does not contain "so" "mandu", and call flour balls stuffed with "so" "gyoza". While "mandu" ("gyoza" in Chinese) are served in usual days in China, they are traditionally made only in the early winter or in a big party in Korea (Nowadays, they are easily seen in the every season, every day in Korea).
Meat for "so" can be various. Pork is the most common meat for "mandu", and beef, chicken, or pheasant also can be ingredients of "mandu". Vegetables contained in "so" are usually carrots, cucumbers, onions, and mug-bean sprouts. Sometimes kimchi is used for "so". Other additional ingredients are tofu, or chopped noodle made from sweat potatoes.

</doc>
<doc id="216861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216861" title="James Mason">
James Mason

James Neville Mason (15 May 1909 - 27 July 1984) was an English actor. He reached stardom in both British and American movies. He was born in Huddersfield, West Riding of Yorkshire. He died in Lausanne, Switzerland from a heart attack at the age of 75. He played Humbert Humbert in Lolita (1962).

</doc>
<doc id="216863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216863" title="Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind">
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind

Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a 2004 American romantic drama movie set in New York. It was released on March 19, 2004. It was directed by Michel Gondry, a well-known French director of "Human Nature", and the story of the movie was written by Charlie Kaufman of "Being John Malkovich" and "Adaptation" and Pierre Bismuth as well as Gondry. Jim Carrey, famous for his acting in several comedy movies such as "The Mask" and "Bruce Almighty", and Kate Winslet, a heroine of "Titanic", starred in this movie as main characters both of whom are struggling to erase their memories of love. 
The story of this movie is about memory erasure of a couple who once loved each other but now, suffer from the memories of their love. Joel Barish (Jim Carrey) decides to erase his memory about his girlfriend, Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslet), after he discovered that she had removed all of her memories about him. He goes to see Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson) of Lacuna Inc., a firm that helps people erase their painful, heartbreaking memories with a special brain map processing, and asks the doctor to erase his memory. However, while the memory erasure is ongoing, he faces with their earlier memories that are so passionate, sweet and precious that they should never be deleted. Although Joel tries to wake up and stop getting rid of her from his mind, Dr. Mierswiak and his employees keep going on the process. Joel eventually gets to the last memory, disappearing with the last words of Clementine saying, “Meet me in Montauk.” Other than the story of main characters, the staff members of Lacuna Inc. such as Mary (Kirsten Dunst), and Patrick (Elijah Wood) also have some related stories which will be a key for the ending of this movie. 
The director tells people two quotes by Mary’s words in the movie. The first one is from Friedrich Nietzsche’s saying, “Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders.” The second one is from Alexander Pope’s poem, “How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each prayer accepted, and each wish resigned.” The title of this movie, “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” is from this quote.

</doc>
<doc id="216867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216867" title="Cecilia (novel)">
Cecilia (novel)

Cecilia, subtitled "Memoirs of an Heiress", is an 18th century novel by Frances Burney. It is a comical, satirical love story. It was admired by people like Edmund Burke, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Choderlos de Laclos.
"Cecilia" was published in July 1782. Frances Burney started work on it in 1780. Her father, Dr. Charles Burney and her mentor, Samuel Crisp stopped her from writing a play for the stage, to be titled "The Witlings". Frances Burney tried to change their minds, but Dr. Burney insisted she stop and continue writing the more ladylike novels instead. “In the Novel way, there is no danger,” he said. The stress of this made Burney unhappy. Critics believe this may be why "Cecilia" is sadder than her first novel.
Cecilia Beverley is a young heroine, who leaves her country home to travel to London. She will live with a guardian, Mr. Harrel. Cecelia is an orphan heiress. To inherit her money, when she marries, her husband must take her surname and become "Mr. Beverley". In London, she is invited to a friend's house (Mr. Monckton), for breakfast, who has married for money. But he loves Cecilia and hopes to marry her when his wife dies. He is afraid Cecilia might fall in love with someone else. At his house she meets Mr. Morrice, a young lawyer; Captain Aresby and Mr. Belfield, who can’t seem to settle down. Mr. Monckton’s wife, Lady Margaret and her servant, Miss Bennet, are also there. Cecilia notices Albany, an old man sitting quietly in the corner, who behaves strangely. She also notices that Lady Margaret dislikes her.
Mr. Harrel is married to Cecelia's childhood friend, Priscilla. So, Priscilla gives parties to introduce Cecelia to new friends: Sir Robert Floyer, Mrs. Harrel’s shy brother Mr. Arnott, Mr. Gosport, silly Miss Larolles; and proud, silent Miss Leeson. Mr. Monckton visits her and she greets him happily. At an opera, Cecelia sees Albany, the strange old man again. He shouts a warning that she is in danger from the people around her and that she should help the poor. The next morning, she sees a poor woman, Mrs. Hill, who comes to beg for her starving family. Mr. Harrel has refused to pay them. Cecilia tries to make him pay, but he will not. Finally, Mr. Arnott, feeling sorry for the Hills, lends him the money to pay them. Cecilia, shocked at how mean Mr. Harrel is, wants to go stay with another guardian. But, they seem just as bad. While Mr. Harrel spends and gambles his money; Mr. Briggs is a selfish miser and Mr. Delvile is a vain man.
Mrs. Harrel has a masquerade ball. Mr. Monckton is in disguise as a black demon and fights anyone who comes near Cecelia.. A person dressed like a white domino tries to help her, as do Mr. Arnott, Mr. Gosport, and Mr. Belfield. Cecilia is surprised at how well the domino knows the faults of her guardians. She wonders who he could be. Later, Cecelia goes to the opera again with Mrs. Harrel. There, she meets Mr. Belfield, who is courteous; but Sir Floyer acts rudely. The two men get angry and have an argument that leads to a duel. Afraid, Cecilia hurries to her house, and worries over the duel.
The next morning, Cecelia is told that Mr. Belfield is a little injured, but Sir Floyer is well. Cecilia finds out that the white domino she saw at the masquerade party is Mortimer, Mr. Delvile’s son. Soon after, she meets Mrs. Delvile, who she likes. Now she wants to stay with them, instead of with the Harrels. But, she discovers that Mortimer thinks that she is in love with Mr. Belfield. Or perhaps, that she is engaged to Sir Floyer, who has asked her to marry him. Even though she has refused him, Mr. Harrel tells everyone they will be married soon. Later, she meets Mr. Albany again, who introduces her to Belfield's sister, Henrietta, and asks Cecilia to help her. Cecilia finds out that Mr. Belfield’s wound is serious, but because he does not have enough money he could not call a doctor. She helps the Belfields, begins a friendship with Henrietta, and finds out that Mortimer Delvile, too, is helping them. Disgusted with Sir Floyer’s rudeness and the Harrels’ silliness, she stays for a while with Mrs. Delvile, whom she has become fond of, and Mortimer. But, Mr. Monckton tells lies about them because he sees Cecelia likes them. But Cecilia does not believe him, and she realizes that she is in love with Mortimer, who still thinks she is engaged to Sir Floyer.
Mr. Harrel threatens her with his own suicide, so Cecilia lends him money for his debts. Mr. Delvile is suddenly called away, and Mortimer is happy and surprised to find out that Cecelia loves him. But, when she meets him again she is hurt by his coldness to her. Mr. Harrel loses more money by gambling and his violent behavior to his wife frightens Cecilia. After drinking, he suddenly kisses his wife and shoots himself. Terrified and upset, Cecilia meets Mortimer, who forgets to be cold. He travels with her and Mrs. Harrel to Delvile Castle, where Cecilia finds Mortimer’s behavior confusing, and Mrs. Delvile makes it clear that she does not want Cecilia to marry her son. Lady Honoria, a relative of Mrs. Delvile’s, comes and teases her about Mortimer. At last, Mortimer says that he cannot marry her, because he would have to change his name from Delvile to Beverley. He is too sad to see her anymore and he leaves the country. Cecilia says goodbye to him coolly. Mrs. Delvile, instead of going to see her son, goes to her family friend, Mrs. Charlton, and stays with her instead. While there, Mr. Biddulph, a friend of Mortimer's, sees with surprise that she is embarrassed whenever he talks about his friend, and tells that to Mortimer in a letter. Confused, Mortimer decides to find out for himself. Lady Honoria steals Mortimer’s dog, Fidel, and gives it to Cecilia to tease her. One day, Cecilia, patting the dog, talks to him about her love for Mortimer, and how much she misses him – and looking up, sees—Mortimer!
Amazed that she loves him, he asks her to marry him. Cecelia is confused, and cannot hide how much she loves him; but she is angry when he suggests that they marry in secret. He explains that his parents will never allow their marriage. So, even though Cecilia is afraid and feels guilty, she says yes. She innocently tells Mr. Monckton about her plans. He becomes furious and tries his best to break them up. During the wedding, he sends Miss Bennet, Lady Margaret’s servant, and his helper, to interrupt it. Mrs. Delvile, hearing of it, comes and tells Cecilia that what Mortimer says is true – she will never let them marry. Cecilia is unhappy, but she loves Mrs. Delvile too much to make her hate her, and finally agrees that she will not marry Mortimer. but he insists on seeing her again. Because of this, all three came together for a last meeting. Mortimer begs Cecilia to be his wife, and says he doesn’t care if he is Mr. Beverley or not. Mrs. Delvile, horrified, suddenly falls very sick. Both Mortimer and Cecilia are frightened, so they decide to do as she says, and never meet again. 
Mrs. Delvile, after kissing Cecilia goodbye, leaves as soon as she is better. The next day Mrs. Charlton suddenly dies. These events cause Cecelia to be sad and lonely, so she leaves for London. Because she is now old enough to have her fortune, she buys a quiet house in her neighborhood and lives there with Henrietta Belfield. Mortimer suddenly visits them. Cecelia finds out that Mrs. Delvile has said that if she will give up her fortune, so Mortimer will not be Mr. Beverley, but Mr. Delvile, she can marry her son. Mortimer happily says that they can marry with just her personal fortune. Cecilia, horrified, tells him that she has none of her personal fortune left. She has lent most of it to Mr. Harrel, and used the rest for other things, such as helping the Hills. Cecilia also finds out that somebody has told this to Mr. Delvile already, but with lots of lies. She begins to suspect Mr. Monckton. Mrs. Delvile says yes and Cecilia and Mortimer marry quietly and happily.
Later, Mrs. Matt, one of the poor people she has helped, tells her who stopped her first wedding—Miss Bennet! Cecilia decides that the person who sent her must have been Mr. Monckton. She also realizes that he, too, must have been the one who lied so bitterly about her to Mr. Delvile. Shortly after, a servant comes and tells her that Mr. Monckton is dead. Soon after, Mortimer comes and says he too had found out Mr. Monckton’s meanness, and he had angrily told Mr. Monckton to tell Mr. Delvile the truth about Cecilia. Mr. Monckton angrily said no, and they shot each other in a furious fight. Mortimer was safe, but Mr. Monckton was badly hurt. Cecilia tells him to leave England with his mother before she can hear about the fight, and agreeing, he goes. However, her marriage has been discovered, so her fortune is taken away from her while Mortimer is gone. Now unable to live in the house she bought, she tells Henrietta to live with Mrs. Harrel and Mr. Arnott while she looks for Mortimer. Cecelia goes to Mr. Belfield to ask for help; but while there, Mortimer suddenly walks into the room and sees them together.
Angry, surprised, and jealous, he leaves. Cecilia starts to become crazy. She tries to go to Mr. Delvile for help, but he proudly refuses to see her. At last, some people, thinking she has escaped from a hospital for crazy people, lock her up in a room and write in a newspaper about her. Albany recognizes her, and calls Mortimer to come quickly. Henrietta, too, reads the newspaper, recognizes her, and hurries to see her. Mortimer sees her and quickly calls his old friend, Dr Lyster, to heal Cecilia. Even though she grows crazier while in a fever, she finally gets well. She and Mortimer forgive each other and explain what really happened. Mr. Delvile, feeling guilty when he hears that Cecilia almost died, finally lets her and Mortimer come to his house and see him again. In the end, they live happily together. Mrs. Delvile’s sister gives Cecilia a lot of money when she dies. Cecilia can begin helping the poor again with Albany, who is happy that she did not die. Mrs. Harrel marries again, and soon begins to have parties and friends again. Mr. Arnott and Henrietta marry. Mr. Belfield still cannot settle down to a job, but finally, with the help of Mortimer, goes into the army and is happy.
Jane Austen, a famous writer, talked about "Cecilia" in her novel, "Northanger Abbey": “'And what are you reading, Miss — ?' 'Oh! It is only a novel!' replies the young lady, while she lays down her book with affected indifference, or momentary shame. 'It is only "Cecilia", or "Camilla", or "Belinda"'; or, in short, only some work in which the greatest powers of the mind are displayed, in which the most thorough (complete) knowledge of human nature, the happiest delineation of its varieties, the liveliest effusions of wit and humour, are conveyed (shown) to the world in the best–chosen language."
The title of Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" is probably from Dr Lyster’s speech at the end of "Cecilia": “remember: if to pride and prejudice you owe your miseries, so wonderfully is good and evil balanced, that to pride and prejudice you will also owe their termination.”
In her last novel, "Persuasion", Anne Elliot talks about "the inimitable Miss Larolles."
In Thackeray's "Vanity Fair", Rebecca Sharp writes to Amelia Sedley and says they "used to read "Cecilia" at Chiswick."

</doc>
<doc id="216870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216870" title="Go-Stop">
Go-Stop

Go-Stop (; also called "Godori") is a Korean card game which uses Hanafuda. Hanafuda cards have 48 cards. 4 cards are 1 set and 12 sets mean 12 months. Normally, 3 players play Go-Stop, but it is possible to play with 2 players or among more than 4 players. 
Go-Stop is played for fun among friends or family members. But it also can be a kind of gambling. In recent years, Go-Stop became one of the most popular online board games in Korea with the development of internet.
The rules of this game are different in different places, but the basic rules are the same. After deciding which player will go first, every player gets 7 cards and 6 cards which are placed upside down on the floor. The first player takes one card of his own out of his hand to pair the cards, and the game starts. It turns counter clockwise. Points are calculated by the cards that players get. If someone gets 3 points which are the minimum points to win, he can choose "Go" or "Stop". If he chooses "Stop", other players need to pay money according to the point of the winner, and then the game is finished. The winner is the first player in a new game. If he chooses "Go", the game continues. The player who chose "Go" needs to get another 1 point to select again "Go" or "Stop". But if one of other players gets 3 points before the player who chose "Go" gets another 1 point, the player who gets 3 points can stop the game as a winner. If it occurs, the player who chose "Go" should pay for the other player's money to the winner including his own. This is the specific rule that makes Go-Stop interesting.

</doc>
<doc id="216875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216875" title="Edward Scissorhands">
Edward Scissorhands

Edward Scissorhands is a 1990 American romantic fantasy movie directed by Tim Burton. Caroline Thompson wrote the screenplay. Danny Elfman, a composer and musician from the band Oingo Boingo, wrote and performed the music in this movie. The role of Edward was played by Johnny Depp, with Winona Ryder playing Kim, his love interest. After making this movie, Ryder became much more famous. Depp and Burton were a successful combination after this movie. Many of Burton's movies after "Edward Scissorhands" star Depp.
It starts with an old woman telling a story about snow to her granddaughter. The story is about an unhappy young man named Edward, who had scissors instead of hands. A saleswoman of Avon, Peg, visits the house on the top of the mountain in her town. There lived Edward. Edward was created by a lonely inventor. He was left unfinished because the inventor died before giving him human hands. Peg felt pity for him and took him home. He was welcomed in the village. The neighbors got to like him more because of his talent in gardening and hair cutting. Jim, Kim's boyfriend, tried to use Edward's skill of unlocking doors without a scratch for stealing money from his own father. However, the security system was operating and Edward was locked in the room alone, where he was later caught. After then, Jim started to dislike Edward. Later, when Edward caught saw that Kim was enjoying the snow outside, Edward made an ice sculpture of her. Jim called out her name, causing Edward to jump, and he accidentally cut Kim's hand. However, Jim claimed that it was intentional. Also, when Edward saved Kevin from a car accident, he was misunderstood. People thought he was trying to hurt Kevin. Edward was suspected by all the people in the village. So he went back to the castle he was living in. Jim followed him and tried to hurt him, but Jim was thrown out of the window of the castle and died. Kim wanted to protect Edward. So she lied to a villager, saying that they killed each other. The story ends with a scene in which it is revealed that the old woman telling the story was Kim.

</doc>
<doc id="216882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216882" title="Lippstadt">
Lippstadt

Lippstadt is a planned city in Westphalia. About 67.000 people lived there in 2008. The city is about 70 km east of Dortmund, and about 30 km west of Paderborn. 
The city was founded in 1185. It is the oldest founded city in Westphalia. Founded cities did not grow from earlier settlements; they were made as cities from the beginning. Lippstadt is known because there were many witch trials in the city, especially between 1565 and 1573. The priest Anton Praetorius wrote in 1613, that "Nail-smith Ebert Balve and his sister, a baker were released from prison, despite protests from the population. They had been tortured for a long time, and they had withdrawn their confessions." This witchcraft trial left a lasting impression on Praetorius and may have changed his thinking. In 1597, he risked his life so that the torture of a woman be stopped. Later, he continued to fight against witch-trials and torture through his writings. There were more witch trials in Lippstadt between 1630 and 1677.

</doc>
<doc id="216884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216884" title="Tteok">
Tteok

Tteok is a Korean traditional rice cake which is made of rice flour by kneading it with water. It tastes chewy and sticky. Tteok is usually only eaten on holidays or birthdays.
Koreans eat Tteok depending on the season. On the first day of the year, they make "Garaetteok" which is shaped like a long white cylinder because it looks like a white thin thread that represents a long life generally in Asian culture. Sliced Garaetteok is used for making a soup named Tteokguk. In March, women make small sweet Korean pancakes called "Hwajeon" with flowers. They use flowers such as azaleas and chrysanthemums. On Chuseok holiday, Korean Thanksgiving Day, Koreans make "Songpyeon". They dough rice flour and stuff sesame, bean or chestnut into each. After they put it in, they shape it into a half moon.

</doc>
<doc id="216887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216887" title="Pansori">
Pansori

Pansori is defined as a Korean traditional narrative song that one sorikkun(Korean: 소리꾼), a singer, weaves a story with chang(song), aniri(descriptive speech), and nurumsae(motion). The name of the song is also known as gapga, bonsaga, changga in Chinese, but it has been called pansori in Korean. The term pansori first appeared in 'Mae-il Shin bo' (the name of the newspaper in 1910s in Korea) in 1913. Pansori is a performing art which one sorikkun, and one gosu (a drummer playing a barrel drum called buk (Korean: 북)) sing a song of a long story to the audience. 'Pan' in pansori means 'a place where many people gather', and 'sori' means 'sound'. Pansori represents voluntariness and impromptu which are the characteristics of Korean traditional music. For example, before Heung-rok Song period it had been orally narrated without any exact scripts by extemporarily inserting songs handed down orally and witty remarks into the stories taught by a master.
Pansori is a professional art which requires sorikkun to have a high level of singing skill. Also, it is a performing art because one singer takes roles of various characters in a story. Music, literature, and play are the key elements that coexist in pansori. It was established as an independent performing art by associating with many adjacent genres of Korean traditional music such as Minyo, Mooga(songs that shamans sing in a performance of exorcism), Sijo, Japga(a folk music sung by common people during the latter part of Joseon dynasty), and Gasa. It is also the only genre that started with popular arts and led to ethnic arts in Korea.
There is an opinion that in the traditional society Pansori indicated Ba-tang sori (Korea:바탕소리, a song that includes the whole story) and if a singer sang certain parts of a story, usually famous parts, it was called just 'sori'. Today if a singer sing a full story, it is called Ba-tang sori whereas, if a singer sing just some parts of the story, the sori is called Toe-mak (Korean:토막)sori or Ma-di (Korean: 마디)sori. Toe-mak sori was mainly sung by sorikkun in the 20th century. However, after Dong-Jin Park, a famous male sorikkun, sang the full story of Heungbuga for five hours in 1968, many sorikkun tried to sing Ba-tang sori which requires sorikkun more efforts to sing.
Pungmul

</doc>
<doc id="216890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216890" title="Lord of War">
Lord of War

Lord of War is a crime thriller movie released in September 2005. It is directed by Andrew Nicole and starred Nicolas Cage, Ethan Hawke, Jared Leto and Bridget Moynahan. It deals with a story of gunrunner, named Yuri, who deals in arms trafficking. It is based on a real person named Victor Bout who was a notorious arms dealer.
The movie describes a person who deals in firearms as a "Merchant of Death", since by selling guns to people, Yuri is selling and bringing them death. At the end of the movie, an additional credit title points out the irony in that the five biggest arms exporting countries, the U.S., UK, Russia, France and China, are also the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
The main character Yuri Orlov (played by Nicolas Cage) is a Ukrainian-American. He persuaded his brother Vitaly (Jared Leto) to be his partner in his arms trafficking business. They made a great success. Another important character, Jack Valentine (Ethan Hawke), is an Interpol agent. Jack finds out that Yuri is a gunrunner. From the first moment Jack met Yuri until the ending, he tried to arrest Yuri but every time Yuri escaped capture. At the last moment when Yuri finally got caught by Jack, Yuri said to Jack that he would never be sent to jail because he himself was a "necessary evil". He also told Jack that the U.S. government, which Jack was working for, also knew that and they needed arms dealers just like Yuri. In the end, Yuri got freed from capture and kept his business for the purpose of arming people in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="216891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216891" title="Westphalia">
Westphalia

Westphalia () is a region in Germany. The cities of Arnsberg, Bielefeld, Bochum, Detmold, Dortmund, Gelsenkirchen, Hagen, Minden and Münster are in its centre. In 1946, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia was created, which includes part of the historical region.
Westphalia is roughly the region between the rivers Rhine and Weser, north and south of the Ruhr River. During the course of history, different places and regions were called "Westphalia", the borders of the region can therefore not be defined exactly, as they depend on the entity and time talked about. For the same reason, there are different specifications of its area and number of people. They range between in land area, and between 4.3 million and 8 million people. There is a consensus that Münster, Bielefeld and Dortmund are part of Westphalia.
A linguistic definition of Westphalia (see Westphalian language) includes the former Prussian Province of Westphalia (except Siegen-Wittgenstein), Lippe, the region around Osnabrück and the greater area of the Emsland. Present-day common use, however, often restricts the notion to the present part of North Rhine-Westphalia.
Westphalia is known for the 1648 Peace of Westphalia which ended the Thirty Years' War, as the two treaties were signed in Münster and Osnabrück.

</doc>
<doc id="216909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216909" title="Empress Myeongseong">
Empress Myeongseong

Empress Myeongseong (19 October 1851 – 8 October 1895), also known as Queen Min, was the official wife of King Gojong. King Gojong was the twenty-sixth king of the Joseon Dynasty of Korea. In 1902, she was given the honorary name of "Hyoja Wonseong Jeonghwa Hapcheon Honggong Seongdeok Myeongseong Taehwanghu" (Hangul: 효자원성정화합천홍공성덕명성태황후, Hanja: 孝慈元聖正化合天洪功誠德明成太皇后). It is usually shortened to "Myeongseong Hwanghu" (Hangul: 명성황후, Hanja: 明成皇后).
The Japanese felt that she was being politically unhelpful to them. After China was defeated in the First Sino-Japanese War, Queen Min tried to get help from Russia instead. She wanted to stop Japanese influence from spreading in Joseon, where it was getting stronger.
In the early morning of October 8, 1895, men who said that they were commanded by Miura Gorō went into Gyeongbok Palace. When they went into the Queen's Quarters (Okhoru), they killed three women whom they thought were Empress Myeongseong. When they proved that one of the women was Queen Min, they burned her body in a forest in front of the Okhoru.
In South Korea, people have recently begun showing interest in Queen Min. Novels and musicals have been made about her.
Empress Myeongseong (Min Jayoung) was born at 1851, as the daughter of Min Chirok in the province of Gyeonggi. She lost her father when she was eight, and grew in a scanty livelihood. Because the Heungseon Daewongun who was the father of King Gojong and the most powerful politician in that period, wanted the queen who had no political ambition or close relatives who would influence the queen, she was chosen as the queen of the Gojong by the recommendation of Yeoheung Budaebuin who was the mother of the King. 
At first, she was not wecomed in the palace. Her husband already had a concubine, and no one helped her in palace. But she decided to confront with her father-in-law Heungseon Daewongun, because of the heir problem. She started to be active in politics, and made her relatives royal officers. The queen finally forced the Heungseon Daewongun to retire by arguing that Gojong, now twenty-two, should govern in his own right and banished the concubine. However, her policies about foreign countries made complaints from commons, and eventually the army rebelled against her, and for the Heungseon Daewongun to be restored. She evacuated from the palace, and returned by depending on Chinese army. 

</doc>
<doc id="216938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216938" title="Callosamia promethea">
Callosamia promethea

The Promethea Moth ("Callosamia promethea") is a species of moth. It belongs in the family Saturniidae. It is also known as the Promethea Silkmoth or the Spicebush Silkmoth.
The male has dark brownish-black wings. There is a faint white line that runs down the center of both wings. There is pinkish coloring near the tip of the fore wing (the top wing). The female is bright reddish-pink or a brownish color. Both genders have tan colored wing edges. The wingspan measures 7.5-9.5 cm.
The Promethea Moth is found in the eastern half of the United States. It is also found in the lower parts of eastern Canada.
Mating happens from afternoon to early evening. Egg-laying begins at night. Females are attracted to lights, but males are not. Females lay 2-12 eggs in a cluster on the host plant (the host plant is the plant that the caterpillar eats). The yound caterpillars feed together on the underside of leaves. They are greenish yellow and striped with black. The older caterpillars do not feed together. They are almost all green except for 4 red knobs above the thorax and 1 yellow knob on the eighth abdominal segment. The caterpillar makes a cocoon within a leaf. The cocoon is firmly attached to the lower branches of the host plant. The Promethea Moth has 1 brood in the northern part of its range (which flies from June-July). It has 2 or more broods in the southern part of its range (which fly from March-May and again from July-August).
Here is a list of host plants that the caterpillars feed on:

</doc>
<doc id="216948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216948" title="F.C. Barcelona">
F.C. Barcelona

F.C. Barcelona, is a Catalan/Spanish football club from Barcelona, Spain.
This football club is known for winning the treble (La Liga, the Copa Del Rey, and the UEFA Champions League) all in 1 season, twice, in the 2008-09 season and in the 2014-15 season. Their biggest rival is Real Madrid. Matches between F.C Barcelona and Real Madrid are called "El Clasico" or "The Classic". The team has won many tournaments, which is why Barcelona is considered one of the best teams in the world. F.C. Barcelona was founded by a group of football players led by Joan Gamper. Their home stadium, Camp Nou is the largest stadium in Europe with a capacity of 99,354.

</doc>
<doc id="217007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217007" title="Negros Oriental">
Negros Oriental

Negros Oriental, sometimes called Oriental Negros (East Negros), is a province in the Philippines. It is one of two provinces found on Negros Island.

</doc>
<doc id="217008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217008" title="Valencia, Negros Oriental">
Valencia, Negros Oriental

Valencia is a municipality in the province of Negros Oriental, Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="217017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217017" title="Silla">
Silla

Silla was one of the kingdoms of ancient Korea. It existed from 57 BC to 935 and is famous as the longest sustained country in Korean history. The name, Silla, implies that the virtuous achievements of the king are renewed every day and extended all over the world. 
Silla was founded by King Park Hyeokgeose in 57 BC, around Gyeongju in the southeast part of the Korean peninsula. Although Silla was founded earlier than Goguryeo and Baekje which coexisted with Silla during that time, it took more time for Silla to build firm government structure than those kingdoms. However, around the 6th century, by accepting Buddhism, Silla made its royal power stronger. Around the 7th century, Silla acquired the Han river area, which was the most important area in Korean history. Finally, Silla conquered Baekje in 660 and Goguryeo in 668, with the Tang Dynasty of China as an ally.
In the last stage of Silla, the king and noblemen indulged in extravagance, and it provoked the people to rebellion. The later three kingdom period began as Gyeon Hwon founded a new country, later Baekje, succeeding the ancient Baekje, and Gung Ye built Taebong succeeding ancient Goguryeo. Silla could not withstand their growing force, and finally surrendered to Goryeo in 935 and collapsed.

</doc>
<doc id="217018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217018" title="Ahn Cheol-soo">
Ahn Cheol-soo

Ahn Cheol-soo (born February 26, 1962) is a Korean businessman, doctor and professor. He is famous as the developer of the computer anti-virus software program, V3. He is the founder and CEO of the Ahn Lab. He is now a professor at Seoul National University.
Ahn was born in Pusan in 1962. He graduated from the medical school of Seoul National University. He went on to do graduate work in medical science at Seoul National University. He received a master's degree in medical school and he holds a doctorate in medicine.
During the course, he found a computer virus, one of the first viruses, called the Brain, on his floppy diskette. He started to analyze and develop the vaccine software program. He also uploaded the program, and wrote about it in the magazine "Microsoft", a technical magazine which covers computer programs. He upgraded the vaccine program and introduced the V2, V2 Plus to the public with adding the function which can cure the LBC and Jerusalem viruses. He finally introduced the V3 program, now a very important software program for Korean computer users. 
He has been a chief of the Dankook University medical school. However, he decided to become a doctor of computers. He founded the Ahn Lab, a special venture business for developing computer vaccine programs. He also received an Executive MBA course in University of Pennsylvania, Wharton school. He completed the venture business course in Stanford University.

</doc>
<doc id="217020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217020" title="Just-World phenomenon">
Just-World phenomenon

The Just-World phenomenon is when people think that, because someone has bad things happen to them, they did something to deserve the bad things. The concept is a lot like Karma, except it is a fallacy instead of a religious belief. The phenomenon also happens in reverse, with good things being deserved.

</doc>
<doc id="217026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217026" title="Chan Ho Park">
Chan Ho Park

Park Chan-Ho (, born June 30, 1973) is a South Korean professional sportsperson. He is best known as a baseball player.
In 2012, Park plays for the Hanwha Eagles of Korea Baseball Organization.
He also played for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Texas Rangers, San Diego Padres, New York Mets, Philadelphia Phillies, New York Yankees, and Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League Baseball. He was the first Korean to play baseball in the MLB in the USA.
Park was born in Gongju, in the province of the Choong-cheong in 1973. He started playing baseball from the elementary school in the region he was born. At first, he wanted to be an athlete but he had a more talent in baseball. Then he was called by the baseball coach of his elementary school. From then, he played the baseball and he was famous for the speed ball in their ages. Park was a member of the 1992 and 1993 South Korea national baseball team. He was a sophomore at Hanyang University, Seoul in 1994 when he was signed by the Los Angeles Dodgers as an amateur free agent.
As he was been famous for in the MLB, so he was taken out for the Korean National Baseball team for main pitcher in 2006 in World Baseball Classics. Thus, he was good at playing baseball in the all matches and he was noticed that he functioned as a cheering up the other players. He once won 18 games in one year, was selected as an all-star player and made 100 wins in his own life three years ago.
In addition to this, he participated in the 18th Asian Games in Bang-Kok, so he got the gold medal and got the privilege that he did not have to go into the army. All this privilege is originated from the getting an awarding from the vice-premier in 1998. However, as shown above, he did not any awarding in the MLB except for the selecting the all-star players in 2001. It means that the prejudice against the Asian race exists, now.
He was selected in the 5th starter of LA Dodgers. At that time, there were so many famous pitchers in the team. There are Ramon E. Martinez, Nomo Hideo and Pedro Julio Astacio Pura etc. The players were players in that period in the MLB. The most surprising was the first pitcher who participated in the all games, and then the second pitcher who are selected in the 5th starter. However, in the practicing matches, he committed error by himself and then he was in the trouble situation, but after the game, he was also noticed that he had to go down for minor leagues. Nevertheless, he displayed his abilities and potentials to the all of coaches in the Dodgers. In a series of games, he was participated in the middle of the game, the results of the game was a record with no losing point during 2innings. As a result of this kind of good game, fortunately, he was left in the major leagues.
He got first winning in April 7th in 1996 when the time is first year left in the major leagues. The match was against with Chicago Cubs, and he was participated in the middle of the game. Then, he recorded no losing point during 4innings, so that he got the first winning point and he started with the period of prosperity. Then, he was selected in the fixed starter of LA Dodgers and then his annual salary was sharply increased. From then on, he was really famous for the Korean super pitcher in the LA and all of United States. And he pitched whole game first in 1997 and then in 1998 he got fifteen winnings and nine loses and in 1998 thirteen winnings and eleven loses etc.
During about ten seasons, he was really good at baseball game. However, all of sports players had more or less tough seasons for about one or two times. It means that the suffering was stimulus for the players so that they were trying to recover the trial, but Park Chan-Ho was not exception. He was traded into another team such as Texas Rangers, Sandiego Padres, New York Mets and Philadelphia Phillis. Then, he was always in the minor leagues and, of course, he was cut down for his annual salary. At last, he announced that he decided to resign the player and to be a good coach in this year.
It means that the Asian players can be a MLB player and they can achieve their purpose. Thus, we will show our potential to citizens of U.S.A. In addition to this, the players who are in the Korean leagues and the amateur players have a dream that they will be in the leagues. Then, the players are motivated by the different chances and they also contribute to develop economy of our society. And then, if they stop the players, they will become coaches in Korea, and then our chronic problem about the culture of sports players will have some solutions.

</doc>
<doc id="217042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217042" title="Metro Cammell">
Metro Cammell

The Metropolitan Cammell Carriage and Wagon Company (MCCW) (often called Metro Cammell) was a manufacturer of railway carriages and wagons. They were based in Saltley - and later Washwood Heath - in Birmingham, England. They are best known for making most of the trains on the London Underground and some first generation diesel multiple units, until they were sold to French company Alstom in 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="217055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217055" title="Ewha Girls' High School">
Ewha Girls' High School

Ewha Girls' High School was the first school for girls in Korea, and was called Ewha Hackdang at first. It is located in Jeong-dong, Jungu, Seoul, Korea. It was founded by Mary Scranton who came to Korea as a Christian missionary in 1885. This school opened in 1886 as a mission school, and the name "Ewha" was granted by Gojong, the 26th king of the Joseon dynasty. It literally means pear blossoms, but the internal meaning is "Be white, clear, innocent like pear blossoms". Ewha Girls' High School is one of the first private schools that are allowed to have autonomy, since 2010.
The most famous person who has graduated from this high school is Yu Kwan Soon. She was one of the leaders of a great independence movement called the "3.1 movement" while she was in school. At that time, Korea was under the domination of Japan, and the school had to close. Even though she was a young girl student, she resisted with great courage, and died in prison. Later, people praised her bravery, and she got the Order of Merit for National Foundation for effort on independence in 1962, and the Honor Ewha Girls' High School diploma in 1996.
The wife of Kim Dae Jung, the 15th president of Korea. She was the manager of Young Women's Christian Association of Korea. She was also the director of Korean National Council of Women.
They have the eight-story main hall, EWHA 100th Memorial Hall, and library building which was donated from Jeon In Hang. There are also a gymnasium, which is one of the largest in Korea, several tennis courts, and a huge play ground. A simson hall, the oldest building at Ewha Girls' High School, is registered as culture remains. 
The open-air theater, Yu Kwan soon memorial building, and Ewha church are famous. The 3.1 independence movement commemorative events are held in this memorial building annually.

</doc>
<doc id="217058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217058" title="André Segatti">
André Segatti

André Segatti (born 15 May 1972) is a Brazilian actor and model. 

</doc>
<doc id="217075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217075" title="London Underground rolling stock">
London Underground rolling stock

A wide variety of trains have been used on the London Underground. In the early days steam locomotive and carriages were used. Nowadays electric multiple units are used.

</doc>
<doc id="217089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217089" title="Giorgi Latsabidze">
Giorgi Latsabidze

Giorgi Latso (; born 15 April 1978, Tbilisi) is a Georgian-American virtuoso pianist and movie composer.
Latso started to play the piano as a boy and was giving concerts at the age of 10. He was given a presidential scholarship from the Georgian government to study in the Tbilisi Conservatorium. When he was 24, he won a DAAD scholarship to study music at the Hannover Hochschule in Germany and later continuied study at the Mozarteum in Salzburg. He later moved to Los Angeles to study with Stewart Gordon at the USC Thornton School of Music.
In 1998 he won the first prize in the Nikolai Rubinstein Competition in Paris, third prize in the Ennio Porrino Competition in Cagliari Italy and then, in 2005, he won first prize in the Yehudi Menuhin Federation Competition in Salzburg and in 2006 Young Artist International Piano Competition in Los Angeles.
His concert career has taken him worldwide across five continents – North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.
He is known for his playing of the works of Frédéric Chopin, and Franz Liszt. He recorded 24 Etudes (Op.10; Op.25) of Chopin all 12 Transcendental Etudes of Liszt, 12 Preludes (Book II) of Debussy, 24 Preludes, Op.28 of Chopin; among others.
His concerts have been broadcast on radio and television in the USA, Europe, Asia and other countries. 
Latso was listed in the 65th edition of Who's Who in America, and Who's Who in American Art 2011.
He has taught at the University of Southern California, Azusa Pacific University, at Glendale Community College. 
Latso has recorded a CD of the entire piano-violin repertoire by composer Ignatz Waghalter for Naxos Records, with the London Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, violinist Irmina Trynkos and conductor Aelxander Walker. He made his performance debut at the acclaimed Wigmore Hall, London in 2010 and at Berliner Philharmonie concert hall in Berlin in 2012. 
In 2012, Latso got an invitation to Vatican City to perform for the Pope Benedict XVI. to perform a Mozart Concerto in C major (Elvira Madigan) K. 467 with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra in Santa Maria Maggiore Basilica in Rome. 

</doc>
<doc id="217096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217096" title="Divergent boundary">
Divergent boundary

A divergent boundary, also known as a constructive boundary, is two or more plates that move apart from each other because of plate tectonics. When they move apart either water or magma fills the space. If it is magma, when it has cooled it then creates a new plate which then creates new land.

</doc>
<doc id="217119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217119" title="Trevor Linden">
Trevor Linden

Trevor Linden, OBC (born April 11, 1970, in Medicine Hat, Alberta) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He played centre and right wing with four different teams: the Vancouver Canucks (two different times), New York Islanders, Montreal Canadiens, and Washington Capitals. Before he joined the NHL in 1988, Linden helped the Medicine Hat Tigers of the Western Hockey League (WHL) win the Memorial Cup, the trophy for junior hockey teams in Canada, twice in a row. Linden also played for Canada at the 1998 Winter Olympics.
From 1990 until 1997 Linden was the captain of the Canucks. He helped the team reach the Stanley Cup Finals in 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="217131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217131" title="Vincent Price">
Vincent Price

Vincent Leonard Price, Jr. (May 27, 1911 – October 25, 1993) was an American actor. He was well known for his voice and serious but comic attitude in a series of horror movies made in the later part of his career. Price was also an art collector and consultant, with a degree in art history, and lectured and wrote books on the subject. He was the founder of the Vincent Price Art Museum in California.
His career began in 1935. He starred in film noirs. He soon moved to star in horror movies. He would work with other known horror movie stars such as Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. He received two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his works. Price narrated Michael Jackson's hit song "Thriller". He retired in 1993 shortly before his death.
Price was born in St. Louis, Missouri. He studied at Yale University. He was married three times. His first two marriages ended in divorce. His last marriage was to Caral Browne. She died in 1991. 
Price died of lung cancer in Los Angeles at the age of 82. He was cremated and his ashes scattered off Point Dume in Malibu, California.

</doc>
<doc id="217185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217185" title="Framingham, Massachusetts">
Framingham, Massachusetts

Framingham is a town in the U.S. State of Massachusetts.
John Oldman was the first European to set foot on the land that is now Framingham. In 1633 he led a group of explorers down a Native American trail called Old Connecticut Path that is now Framingham's oldest road. The first European settler was John Stone, who built a home on the west bank of the Sudbury River in 1647. Starting in 1693, families from Salem came to escape the Salem witch trials. They settled in an area of Framingham that is still called Salem's End today.
Framingham's original name was Danforth's Farm, named after Thomas Danforth, who owned the land. Danforth's family came to Massachusetts from Framlingham, England. The first petition to incorporate Framingham as a town was submitted to the General Court in 1693, and was denied because Thomas Danforth did not want Framingham to become a town. After Danforth died in 1699, the people made Framingham a town in 1700.
In 1706 the first schoolhouse was built. The first schoolmaster was Deacon Joshua Hemenway.
On February 12, 1775, British General Thomas Gage sent spies to Framingham. They reported that the Framingham minutemen were very strong and tough, so General Gage sent his troops to Lexington and Concord instead. But the Framingham minutemen marched over and helped the weaker minutemen from Lexington and Concord to fight the British. On April 18 to 19, 1775, two militia companies from Framingham, totaling about 130 men, fought in the Battle of Lexington and Concord. Only one of the men was wounded.
Today, Framingham is known for the Framingham Heart Study.
As of the census (a counting of people) in 2005–2009, there are 66,411 people living in 27,328 houses. In 200, there were 16,573 families in the town. In 2010, there were 68,318 people.
Framingham is sited on the ancient trail known as Old Connecticut Path. Old Connecticut Path is the oldest road in Framingham. Framingham's oldest public building is the First Baptist Church, designed by Sollaman Willard, a famous architect.
Framingham has three major business districts. The "Golden Triangle" was originally a three square-mile district on the eastern side of Framingham, bordered by Route 9, Route 30, and Speen Street in Natick. The area is one of the largest shopping districts in New England. The Golden Triangle has expanded since 1993 with construction of a BJ's Wholesale Club and a Super Stop & Shop just north of Route 30. Downtown Framingham is anchored by a town hall called the Memorial Building. An influx of Hispanic and Brazilian immigrants helped revitalize the district starting in the early 2000s. West Framingham is home to two of the town's seven auto dealerships. There are also several smaller business hubs in Framingham Center, Saxonville, Nobscot, and along the Route 9 Corridor. Framingham Center is the physical and historic center of town.
A dominating presence in education is Framingham State College.
The Framingham Peace and 9/11 Memorials are located across the street from Farm Pond.
Framingham's economy is predominantly derived from retail and office complexes. Breyers, Leggat McCall, The American Heart Association, and the American Cancer Society all have facilities in the area. The Dennison Manufacturing Company was founded here in 1844 as a jewelry and watch box manufacturing company by Aaron Lufkin Dennison.
Nobscot Mountain is a private facility owned by the Knox Trail Council of the Boy Scouts of America. Edward F. Loring Skating Arena is near Farm Pond, for area communities and is open to the public. Winch Park has a basketball court, a tennis court, and two large fields used for football, baseball, and lacrosse. Framingham's Country Club along Salem Rd. on the South Side is a private club that features an 18-hole course for golf.

</doc>
<doc id="217196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217196" title="Resonance">
Resonance

In physics, resonance is the tendency of a system to vibrate with increasing amplitudes at some frequencies of excitation. These are known as the system's "resonant frequencies" (or "resonance frequencies"). The resonator may have a "fundamental frequency" and any number of "harmonics".
An example of useful effect of resonant frequency is a guitar string which makes a characteristic noise when it is touched. The noise depends on how thick or slack the string is.
In earthquake engineering, on contrary, any possibility of a resonance is detrimental for the building structure.
The Kirkwood gap and other connections among orbits are caused by orbital resonance.

</doc>
<doc id="217253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217253" title="Satin Bowerbird">
Satin Bowerbird

The Satin Bowerbird, "Ptilonorhynchus violaceus", is a small Australian bird known for its ability to build a special area for attracting females. This bower is filled with blue objects to help attract a female. There are six bird species in the bowerbird genus, of which five build a some kind of courting area. The Golden Bowerbird sits on a bridge he has made between sticks decorated like maypoles.
The Satin Bowerbird lives in rainforests and on the edge of drier forests along the east coast of Australia. They can be found from Cooktown in the north to Melbourne in the south.
They are a small bird, about long and weighing about . The young males and females look the same, with grey to green, brown and dark brown feathers. The belly is colored a pale brown to cream color, with dark olive to grey crescent shapes. When the male becomes sexually mature at about seven years old he grows black feathers, with a shiny blue-purple shine. The male also has bright blue eyes, and a blue beak which is yellow on the end. 
The Satin Bowerbird builds a special area, called a bower, to attract a female. They return to the same area every year, where they clear a space about in diameter and then build the bower. In the centre is two lines of thin sticks or grass, carefully lined up to north and south. He can paint the walls with a mixture of his saliva and crushed berries which he brushes on with a stick. He then places a collection of coloured objects in the entrance to the bower. These are usually blue or yellow, and can include feathers, and even plastic or glass. The male stands outside the bower and sings and may pick up the objects to show them to the female. If she is pleased with the performance and the bower, she will enter the bower, followed by the male and they mate quickly. She will then fly off to begin building a nest. The male has nothing more to do with her.

</doc>
<doc id="217323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217323" title="Kokborok language">
Kokborok language

Kok-borok (also spelled "Kok Borok") is the native language of the Borok people in the disputed territory of the Tripura Division and its neighboring areas of Bangladesh and the Republic of India. The word Kok-borok is a compound of the words "kok", which means "language", and "borok", which literally means "nation", but is used to denote the Borok people. Thus Kok-borok means "the language of Borok" or "the language of the Borok people".
There are more than 950.000 people speaking Kokborok. Kokporok is an official language in India, in the Tripura division.

</doc>
<doc id="217331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217331" title="Koch language">
Koch language

The Koch languages are a small family of Sino-tibetan languages. There are spoken in Bangladesh, India, Myanmar and Tibet. About 35.000 people speak Koch, about 30.000 speak Rabha.

</doc>
<doc id="217336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217336" title="Pope Gregory XIII">
Pope Gregory XIII

Pope Gregory XIII (; 7 January 1502 – 10 April 1585), born Ugo Boncompagni, was the head of the Catholic Church from 13 May 1572 to his death in 1585. He is best known for commissioning and being the namesake for the Gregorian calendar, which remains the internationally accepted civil calendar to this date.
Ugo Boncompagni was born in 1502, in Bologna. 
Pope Paul IV appointed him Bishop of Viesti in 1558.
In 1564, he was made a cardinal by Pope Pius IV. 
Cardinal Boncompagni was elected Pope at age 70; and he chose to be called Gregory XIII.
Pope Gregory was involved in Italian and European political disputes.
He founded the Gregorian University in Rome.
In the last year of his life, Gregory received an embassy from Japan.
Pope Gregory is famous for his correction of mistakes in the Julian calendar. To accomplish the necessary changes, the Gregorian calendar skipped ten days between 4 October 1582 and 15 October 1582 

</doc>
<doc id="217352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217352" title="George Augustine Taylor">
George Augustine Taylor

George Augustine Taylor (August 1, 1872 – January 20, 1928) was an Australian artist, journalist, and inventor. He was the first person in Australia to fly a heavier-than-air craft.
Taylor was born at Sydney in 1872. He first became known as an artist, and was a member of the Sydney Bohemian set in the 1890s. He wrote about this part of his life in his book, "Those Were the Days", published in 1918. He drew for "The Bulletin", "Worker", "Sunday Times", "Referee", and "London Punch". Later he became interested in aviation and radio.Taylor was a member of the Dawn and Dusk Club, an group of bohemians and intellectuals that included the writer Henry Lawson. Taylor married his wife, Florence Mary Parsons in 1907.
On December 5, 1909, Taylor flew a glider for along Narrabeen beach. This was Australia's first manned flight. He had made the glider himself based on drawings by Lawrence Hargreave. The wooden framed glider had two wings, covered in calico, and a box kite tail. After his first flight, his wife Florence, flew the glider, and became the first Australian woman to fly an aircraft. During the day he became more confident and flew out over the sea, where the glider finally crashed.

</doc>
<doc id="217359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217359" title="Carmichael number">
Carmichael number

In number theory a Carmichael number is a composite positive integer formula_1, which satisfies the congruence formula_2 for all integers formula_3 which are relatively prime to formula_1. Being relatively prime means that they do not have common divisors, other than 1. Such numbers are named after Robert Carmichael. 
All prime numbers formula_5 satisfy formula_6 for all integers formula_3 which are relatively prime to formula_5. This has been proven by the famous mathematician Pierre de Fermat. In most cases if a number formula_1 is composite, it does not satisfy this congruence equation. So, there exist not so many Carmichael numbers. We can say that Carmichael numbers are composite numbers that behave a little bit like they would be a prime number. 

</doc>
<doc id="217379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217379" title="Richard Burton">
Richard Burton

Richard Walter Burton (10 November 1925 – 5 August 1984) was a Welsh stage and cinema actor. 
He appeared in more than 40 movies and received 7 Academy Award nominations. He was a recipient of BAFTA, Golden Globe and Tony Awards for Best Actor. In the mid-1960s, Burton went up into the ranks of the top box office stars and by the late 1960s, was the highest-paid actor in the world. Burton received fees of $1 million or more plus a share of the gross receipts.
Burton remains closely associated in the public consciousness with his second wife, actress Elizabeth Taylor. The couple's relationship was rarely out of the news.
Burton was born Richard Walter Jenkins in the village of Pontrhydyfen, Neath Port Talbot, Wales. He grew up in a working class and Welsh-speaking household. He was the twelfth of thirteen children of a Welsh coal miner. His mother died before he was two years old. He was raised by his much older sister and her husband. He took his surname from his guardian Philip Burton, a teacher who coached him until he won a scholarship to Oxford University at the age of eighteen.
Burton was a youngster when he made his London acting debut in the play "The Druid's Rest". After leaving military service in the air force in 1947, he established himself as a stage actor. He appeared with John Gielgud in "The Lady's Not for Burning". His movie career began in 1949 with "The Last Days of Dolwyn". 
In 1962, he replaced Stephen Boyd as Mark Anthony in the movie "Cleopatra" opposite Elizabeth Taylor. Their off-screen romance made tabloid headlines around the world. After divorcing their respective spouses, they married in 1964. They then appeared in 11 movies together. The two divorced in 1974. They then reconciled and remarried in 1975. They divorced again the following year.
Burton also appeared on Broadway in the musical "Camelot" and the play "Hamlet" directed by John Gielgud. He appeared on television in 1960 as Caliban in the Hallmark Hall of Fame production of "The Tempest" with Claire Bloom and Maurice Evans. He also appeared on "The Ed Sullivan Show" with Julie Andrews to sing "What Do the Simple Folk Do?" from "Camelot". This appearance boosted ticket sales for the stalled musical.
Burton married Sybil Williams in 1949, with whom he had two daughters. After his divorce from Elizabeth Taylor, he married Suzy Hunt in 1976. This marriage also ended in divorce. He then married Sally Hay in 1983. 
He was awarded the Commander of the British Empire (CBE) by Elizabeth II in 1970.
He died at his home in Céligny, Switzerland, on 5 August 1984, from a cerebral haemorrhage.

</doc>
<doc id="217387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217387" title="Maple Ridge, British Columbia">
Maple Ridge, British Columbia

Maple Ridge is a District Municipality (area with several settlements). It is in British Columbia, Canada.
Maple Ridge was created on September 12, 1874. It is the sixth oldest community in British Columbia.
Maple Ridge is located in southern British Columbia. It is to the east of Vancouver.
Maple Ridge is on the north shore of the Fraser River.
Maple Ridge is a District Municipality. This means that there are several communities within the official borders of Maple Ridge. These communities are: Albion, East Haney, Hammond, Haney, Port Haney, Ruskin, Silver Valley, The Ridge, Thornhill, Webster's Corners, Whonnock, and Yennadon.

</doc>
<doc id="217408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217408" title="C.A. Belgrano">
C.A. Belgrano

Club Atlético Belgrano is a football club that plays in Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="217425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217425" title="Michael Clarke Duncan">
Michael Clarke Duncan

Michael Clarke Duncan (December 10, 1957 – September 3, 2012) was an American actor who starred in movies and was a guest on television shows including: "Two and a Half Men", "The Suite Life of Zack and Cody", "" and "Chuck".
Before he became an actor, Duncan was a bodyguard for celebrities including: LL Cool J, Jamie Foxx, Martin Lawrence, Will Smith and The Notorious B.I.G.. He quit because when his friend covered for him while watching Notorious B.I.G., Biggie died that night.
Duncan became friends with Bruce Willis while he was acting with him in the movie "Armageddon", This helped him get the role of "John Coffey" in "The Green Mile". After getting that role he became a breakout star.
He had a heart attack on July 13, 2012 and was rushed to the hospital. On the morning of September 3, 2012, his publicist quoted Duncan's fiancée, Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth as saying that Duncan had died that morning at the age of 54.

</doc>
<doc id="217455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217455" title="Children's Hearing">
Children's Hearing

A Children's Hearing is a legal hearing for children in Scotland. It is part of the country's justice and welfare systems. It takes into account the fact that children who commit crimes need the same sort of care as those who are victims of an offence or neglect. Only if a child has committed a serious crime will they be sent for trial in a normal court. For most cases they are sent to a children's panel. A panel is made up of three adults, with at least one member of each gender. The child's parent or guardian and their social worker will also be present at a hearing. 
The hearing or meeting usually happens around a table. The panel members are given information and reports and the child's circumstances are fully discussed before the panel reaches their decision. It’s unlike a regular hearing because the child can speak at any time during the meeting.
A child may be sent to a children's hearing because they have committed a crime, because they have been neglected or because they have not been not attending school. Often, a children's reporter will refer a child to a panel. These reporters gather information on a child from teachers, social workers, or police and decide whether or not to refer them to a panel. A children's reporter will be made aware of a vulnerable child by a referral. A referral is a notification from anyone (neighbour, teacher, police) about a child they think needs legal intervention.
Panel members are very important in a child's life as they make many important decisions for the child. They are specially trained to deal with children and their families. At the end of the hearing they can decide to put a child in foster care, to send them to a children's home, residential school or secure accommodation, to tag them, or to keep the child with their parents and put them under the supervision of a social worker. However, the panel can not punish a child in any way: they can not inflict a fine upon the child or their parents.

</doc>
<doc id="217463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217463" title="Papilioninae">
Papilioninae

Papilioninae is a subfamily of butterflies. It belongs in the family Papilionidae. The species are found worldwide.
The caterpillars feed on plants in the following families: Rosaceae, Apiaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Magnoliaceae, Lauraceae, and Annonaceae. Caterpillars that feed on Aristolochiaceae species become poisonous. When they become adults, they are still poisonous. Because of this, many butterflies in the families Papilionidae and Nymphalidae mimic Aristolochiaceae feeders.
Very few adult Papilioninae species migrate. They spend the winter as chrysailds.

</doc>
<doc id="217465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217465" title="Carmit Bachar">
Carmit Bachar

Carmit Bachar (born September 4, 1974) is an American singer, dancer and showgirl. She was a member of the Pussycat Dolls.

</doc>
<doc id="217469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217469" title="Lock (water transport)">
Lock (water transport)

A lock is a place where boats that are travelling up or down a river or canal can be raised higher or lower. Locks are built in places where the level of the water in the river or canal suddenly changes. This may be because there is a waterfall there, or because a dam or a weir has been built, or because there is some other thing in the way. The lock is like a big chamber with gates at each end. They have lock gears which empty or fill the chamber with water. Locks help a river to be more easily navigable (easier for boats to travel up and down), or for canals to be built across country that is not level.
If a boat that is travelling downstream (in the same direction that the water is flowing) arrives at a lock, this is what happens:
If a boat that is travelling upstream (in the opposite direction to the water flow), the opposite happens:
The whole process of going through a lock may take about 15 to 20 minutes, depending on whether the boat has to wait. Some locks can take several boats at once, and the first one to enter may have to wait until other boats arrive.

</doc>
<doc id="217471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217471" title="Ahl-e Haqq">
Ahl-e Haqq

Ahl-e Haqq (Persian, translates to "people of truth") is a Kurdish religious movement. It is mainly rooted in Iraqi Kurdistan, as well as Lorestan and Kermanshah in Iran. Many members also live in the diaspora. In total, the followers are estimated to be around 1 million people. 
The religion iself has elements of Shi'a Islam, Yazidi and Alevi. Followers believe that their deity will be reincarnated seven times. The religion took the practice of Dhikr from Sufism. They also share common meals, and live together in a brotherly manner. Wladimir Fjodorowich Minorski was among the first to describe this religious community.

</doc>
<doc id="217475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217475" title="Trench foot">
Trench foot

Trench foot or fat foot is a medical condition that is caused by keeping feet in the cold, in dirty places, or in water for a long time. Trench foot was a big problem in the trenches of World War I. Many of the soldiers fighting got this condition.
The soldiers found it difficult to cope with the swelling wearing their boots but after realised that they could not get the boot on again as the foot had swollen to twice its size. Many men who suffered from it ending up having their feet amputated because they could not deal with the pain.
This can be treated by rubbing it to cause friction and if it is kept warm it can heal itself.

</doc>
<doc id="217478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217478" title="Kutless">
Kutless

Kutless is a Christian rock band formed in 2000.
The band chose the name "Kutless" from a Bible verse, Romans 6:23. They chose this name because "[<nowiki></nowiki>Jesus<nowiki></nowiki>] took our cuts for us, leaving us 'Kutless.'"

</doc>
<doc id="217490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217490" title="Leah Remini">
Leah Remini

Leah Remini (born June 15, 1970) is an American actress, best known for her role as Carrie Heffernan on the sitcom "The King Of Queens".

</doc>
<doc id="217494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217494" title="Bobby Allison">
Bobby Allison

Robert Arthur Allison (born December 3, 1937) is a American retired Racecar driver. He was the 1983 NASCAR Winston Cup champion. He is on the list of the 50 greatest NASCAR drivers.

</doc>
<doc id="217501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217501" title="Big Joe Turner">
Big Joe Turner

Joseph Vernon "Big Joe" Turner (May 18, 1911 – November 24, 1985) was an American blues singer. His musicals styles were rhythm and blues, blues, jump blues, jazz and even early rock and roll. His strong voice was able to be heard in noisy venues.
Turner was born in Kansas City, Missouri on May 18, 1911.He first discovered his love for music by when he went to church. He began singing on street corners for money, quitting school at the age of fourteen to begin working in Kansas City's nightclubs, first as a cook, and later as a singing bartender. He became known eventually as The Singing Barman', and worked in such venues as The Kingfish Club and The Sunset, where he and his piano playing partner Pete Johnson became resident performers
Turner's career started in the late 1920s when he worked as bar tender and singer in different Kansas City night clubs. In the early 1930s he met the piano player Pete Johnson and they started playing together. The partnership lasted till the late 1940s. Together they played in John Hammonds famous From Spiritual to Swing Concert in 1938. There they met Meade Lux Lewis and Albert Ammons. The four often played in the Cafe Society and went on tour. In the 1940s he sang and recorded on the West coast. When singing with the Count Basie Big Band he was heard by the bosses of Atlantic Records and they signed with him. The time with Atlantic was Turners most successful having a lot of hit singles like "Honey Hush" and "T.V. Mama." But he is most famous as an early pioneer of rock and roll music in the 1950s although he was then in his 40s. 
One of his most famous songs during this time was called ""Shake, Rattle and Roll"" and has been recorded by many other famous musicians including: Bill Haley, Elvis Presley, Fats Domino and The Beatles. During the '70s and '80s, Turner recorded for Norman Granz's jazz-oriented Pablo label. He toured and recorded till his death in 1985.
On November 24, 1985, Turner died after having a heart attack in his Inglewood, California home. He was 74 years old.
In 1983 Turner was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame. Two years after his death Big Joe Turner was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Tracks marked as † were million selling discs.
There are a lot of compilitions who gave an overview of his music:

</doc>
<doc id="217503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217503" title="James Dean">
James Dean

James Byron Dean (February 8, 1931 – September 30, 1955) was an American movie actor. He was best known for his part in a movie called "Rebel Without a Cause". He was in two other movies called "East of Eden" and "Giant". He got an Academy Award (Oscar) nomination after he died. He was the first person to get this nomination after they had died.
James Dean was born in 1931 in Marion, Indiana, United States. His parents were called Winton Dean and Mildred Wilson. Six years later, the family moved to California, and James went to school in Los Angeles. He was very close to his mother. She died of cancer when he was nine, and James went to live with his aunt and uncle in Fairmount, Indiana. In high school, he became interested in drama and car racing. After he graduated, he moved back to California to live with his father and stepmother. He attended Santa Monica College and UCLA, but left college in 1951 to become a professional actor. 
In an interview, Elizabeth Taylor told something which James Dean had said to her during their filming. After his mother’s death, when he was 11 years, he was sexually harassed by a Protestant minister. This experience tortured him during all his whole childhood.
In 1955, Dean was killed in a car crash while driving his sports car to a race. He was buried in Fairmount, Indiana.

</doc>
<doc id="217504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217504" title="Greg Biffle">
Greg Biffle

Gregory Jack Biffle (born December 23, 1969) is an American racecar driver in the Sprint cup series. He drives the #16 Ford Fusion for Roush Fenway Racing.

</doc>
<doc id="217512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217512" title="List of Mario series characters">
List of Mario series characters

This is a list of characters in the "Mario" series.

</doc>
<doc id="217537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217537" title="Anna Moffo">
Anna Moffo

Anna Moffo (June 27, 1932 - March 9, 2006) was an Italian American operatic soprano particularly associated with lyric-coloratura roles in Italian and French operas, she was admired as much for her vocal gifts as her great beauty and affecting stage presence.
Born in Wayne, Pennsylvania, to Italian parents, she first studied at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, with Eufemia Giannini-Gregory, and later at the Accademia di Santa Cecilia in Rome, Italy, with Mercedes Llopart and Luigi Ricci. 
She made her operatic debut in Spoleto, Italy, in 1955, as Norina in Donizetti's "Don Pasquale". Shortly after, she appeared in a television production of Puccini's "Madama Butterfly", which made her an overnight sensation throughout Italy. She quickly appeared in other television productions ("Falstaff", "La sonnambula", "Lucia di Lammermoor", "La figlia del reggimento", "La serva padrona") and was invited to sing at most of the major opera houses of Italy (Rome, Milan, Naples, Venice, Parma, etc.). As her reputation grew, she was invited to sing outside Italy, notably at the Aix-en-Provence Festival, the Salzburg Festival and the Vienna State Opera. 
She made her American debut at the Chicago Lyric Opera in 1957, as Mimi in "La bohème", opposite the great Swedish tenor Jussi Bjorling. Her Metropolitan Opera debut in New York took place on November 14, 1959, as Violetta in "La traviata", a part that quickly became her signature role. She sang at the Metropolitan Opera for seventeen seasons to great acclaim in roles such as Lucia ("Lucia di Lammermoor"), Gilda ("Rigoletto"), Mimi ("La bohème"), Marguerite ("Faust"), Juliet ("Romeo and Juliet"), Manon ("Manon"), the four heroines in "Les contes d'Hoffmann", etc. She also sang in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, etc., while making several appearances on American television. 
She pursued a successful international career as well, singing in Monte Carlo, London, Berlin, Stockholm, Mexico City, Buenos Aires, etc. She remained very popular in Italy and performed there often and hosted her own television program "The Anna Moffo Show" from 1960 to 1973. She also appeared in movie versions of opera such as "La traviata" (1968) and "Lucia di Lammermoor" (1971), directed by her husband Mario Lanfranchi, as well as a few non-operatic movies. 
Her career was cut short by vocal problems in the mid 1970s but she remained active in the opera world as a board member of the Metropolitan Opera Guild and by hosting galas and giving occasional masterclasses. Moffo died in New York City of a stroke after a decade long battle with breast cancer at the age of 73. She is remembered as one of the most glamourous opera stars of her era.
A versatile and prolific recording artist she left a vast discography including opera, operetta, musical, art songs, pop songs, lieder, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="217542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217542" title="Entrepreneur">
Entrepreneur

An entrepreneur is a person who starts and runs a new business or organization. An entrepreneur is a founder who develops a business plan, gets financing, hires employees and runs the business. The entrepreneur takes the risks and, if successful, enjoys the benefits.
The entrepreneur starts with a good idea for a new business. While the business grows, the entrepreneur is the central person in the business.

</doc>
<doc id="217547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217547" title="QBasic">
QBasic

QBasic is a programming language made by Microsoft which was included with Windows 95 and MS-DOS. QBasic is a more limited version of QuickBasic, released in 1985. While today considered almost obsolete, it is still a popular language for beginners and especially for educational purposes.
An example Hello World program in QBasic:

</doc>
<doc id="217553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217553" title="Scratch (programming language)">
Scratch (programming language)

Scratch is a slide-and-drop programming language for children that allows them to explore and experiment with the concepts of computer programming by using the simple graphical interface of "blocks" that are put together to make simple codes.

</doc>
<doc id="217554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217554" title="Ponytail">
Ponytail

A ponytail is a common hairstyle. It is a tied back section of hair on the scalp. It is held by a hair tie or clip, and hangs freely from that point. They are worn only by people of the female gender.

</doc>
<doc id="217576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217576" title="Volkswagen Passat">
Volkswagen Passat

Volkswagen Passat is a car produced by Volkswagen in 1973. It entered its seventh generation in 2010.
The Volkswagen Passat Mk4 is the fourth generation of the Volkswagen Passat. The Mk4 replaced the Mk3 in 1993, and was replaced by the Mk5 in 1996.
The Volkswagen Passat Mk5 is the fifth generation of the Volkswagen Passat. The Mk5 replaced the Mk4 in 1996, and was replaced by the Mk6 in 2005.
The Volkswagen Passat Mk6 is the sixth generation of the Volkswagen Passat. The Mk6 replaced the Mk5 in 2005, and was replaced by the Mk7 in 2010.
The Volkswagen Passat Mk7 is the seventh generation of the Volkswagen Passat. The Mk7 replaced the Mk6 in 2010. This is the current generation of the Volkswagen Passat. 

</doc>
<doc id="217580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217580" title="Volkswagen Golf Variant">
Volkswagen Golf Variant

Volkswagen Golf Variant is a car produced by Volkswagen since 1993. It entered its fourth generation in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="217594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217594" title="Northanger Abbey">
Northanger Abbey

Northanger Abbey was the first novel by Jane Austen.
A seventeen-year-old girl, Catherine Morland, travels with her rich relatives, Mr. and Mrs. Allen, to Bath in England. Innocent and inexperienced, Catherine Morland is a plump country girl with no friends in the city. At first, she is disappointed, because she does not have anyone to dance with at the ball. Then she meets an exciting gentleman, Mr. Tilney. She falls in love with him, but the next day, he has disappeared. She is upset and sad. Then she meets a flirtatious girl named Isabella. This makes her happier. She does not yet know all the evil intentions of her new friend.
Isabella introduces Catherine to the fun of reading gothic novels. But Catherine believes they are true. She does not understand the difference between reality and fiction. Then she is introduced to Isabella's brother John Thorpe, who finds himself falling in love with her. He thinks Catherine likes him too. Catherine then meets Henry Tilney again, and is introduced to Miss Tilney, his sister. She is a sensible, intelligent lady, who is much different from Isabella. Catherine also meets Miss Tilney's father, General Tilney.
Isabella joyfully tells Catherine of her engagement to Catherine's brother, James Morland. Later, John Thorpe proposes to Catherine, but she does not realise he is asking her to marry him. Later, when Isabella tells her that John is in love with her, she is really surprised and says no immediately. Then Eleanor Tilney invites Catherine to Northanger Abbey. Catherine there learns that the gothic novels are wrong, and that Northanger Abbey is a perfectly normal place, and is not haunted.
Catherine listens to General Tilney's conversations, and suspiciously thinks that perhaps he has murdered his wife, because he avoids talking about her. She persuades Eleanor Tilney to take her to Mrs. Tilney's room, but when General Tilney comes, she rushes away in fear. Catherine later goes again, but this time is found by Henry Tilney. She accidentally reveals her suspicions to Henry, who does not get angry at her. Then, running to her room crying, she is worried that Mr. Tilney does not like her any more. Later, Eleanor Tilney takes her to an open stage coach to immediately go home. Catherine is frightened and surprised, and thinks it is all because of her mistaken thoughts of General Tilney and his wife. When she goes home, she is sullen and quiet.
Henry Tilney then visits her house and asks her to marry him, even though General Tilney said no. He explains that at first, John Thorpe, who had thought Catherine would marry him soon, had lied to General Tilney that she was rich. General Tilney then tries to make her marry Henry, but later met John Thorpe again, after Catherine had said she would not marry him. He angrily tells General Tilney another lie, that Catherine is penniless. General Tilney, horrified, rudely made Catherine go home. Catherine's parents say they have to wait until General Tilney says yes.
Finally, Eleanor marries a charming man who is very rich, and this makes the General so happy he says that Henry can marry Catherine. Later, he finds out Catherine is not as poor as he had thought, so he is even happier. At last, Catherine and Henry are married.

</doc>
<doc id="217598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217598" title="Lexeme">
Lexeme

Lexeme is a term in linguistics. They are units of meaning, independent of any inflectional endings, or whether it is one word or several. "Come in" is a lexeme; so is "raining cats and dogs". The largest English dictionaries have about half a million lexemes. "The true figure is undoubtedly a great deal higher". 
In the English language, "run", "runs", "ran" and "running" are forms of the same lexeme, conventionally written as RUN.
A similar concept is the lemma (or citation form). It is the form of a lexeme which is chosen to represent the lexeme, for example, RUN instead of the other forms. Lemmas are used in dictionaries as the headwords. Other forms of a lexeme are usually listed later in the entry. So all headwords in a dictionary are lexemes.
A "lexicon" is made of lexemes.

</doc>
<doc id="217600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217600" title="Phoneme">
Phoneme

Phonemes are the units of sound (speech) which distinguish one word from another in a particular language. In most spoken English there are about 24 consonantal phonemes and 20 vowel phonemes, but only 26 letters in writing. 

</doc>
<doc id="217625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217625" title="History of the alphabet">
History of the alphabet

The history of the alphabet begins in Ancient Egypt, more than a millennium into the history of writing. The first pure alphabet emerged around 2000 BCE to represent the language of Semitic workers in Egypt, and was derived from the alphabetic principles of the Egyptian hieroglyphs. Most alphabets in the world today either descend directly from this development, for example the Greek and Latin alphabets, or were inspired by its design.
By 2700 BCE the ancient Egyptians had developed a set of some 22 hieroglyphs to represent the consonants of their language, plus a 23rd that seems to have represented word-initial or word-final vowels. The first purely alphabetic script is thought to have been developed around 2000 BCE for Semitic workers in central Egypt. Over the next 500 years it spread north, and all subsequent alphabets around the world have either descended from it, or been inspired by one of its descendants, with the possible exception of the Meroitic alphabet, a 3rd century BCE adaptation of hieroglyphs in Nubia to the south of Egypt.
The oldest examples are in Egypt and date to around 1800 BCE /. 
These inscriptions may show that the alphabet was invented in Egypt.

</doc>
<doc id="217648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217648" title="Jerzy Buzek">
Jerzy Buzek

Jerzy Buzek (born 3 July 1940 in Smilovice, Poland) is the current President of the European Parliament. Between 1997 and 2001, he was the Prime Minister of Poland and a member of the Polish parliament.
Buzek attended the grammar school in Chorzów and got his Matura there. After successful exams, he went to the Technical University of Silesia. In Silesia, Jerzy Buzek studied chemistry and got a diploma in 1963.
In the years 1971 and 1972, he researched at the University of Cambridge in Great Britain.
During his studies and time spent in research, Buzek wrote about 200 patents and other papers.
During his time as the Prime Minister of Poland, his success was that Poland joined Nato in 1998. In 2004, he got elected to be a member of the European Parliament.
Buzek got Doctorates honoris causa from the University of Dortmund, the University of Seoul, the University of Isparta and also from the Technical Universities of Opole and Silesia.

</doc>
<doc id="217649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217649" title="Honorary degree">
Honorary degree

An honorary degree or a degree honoris causa (Latin: "for the sake of the honour") is an academic degree given by a university to a person who particularly deserves such an honour. It may be someone who has had nothing to do with that university. The person does not have to do any examination. It is purely an honour for whatever good work he or she has already done. Very often the honorary degree is a doctorate.

</doc>
<doc id="217654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217654" title="President of the European Parliament">
President of the European Parliament

The President of the European Parliament is the head of the European Parliament. He or she also represents the Parliament within the EU and internationally. The President has to sign that EU laws and the EU budget can become valid.
Presidents serve two-and-a-half-year terms. This time is normally divided between the two major political parties of the European Parliament. There have been twenty-eight Presidents, since the Parliament was created in 1952. Thirteen of whom have served since the first Parliamentary election in 1979. Two Presidents have been women and most have come from the older member states. The current President is Martin Schulz.

</doc>
<doc id="217670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217670" title="Luigi Cherubini">
Luigi Cherubini

Luigi Cherubini (pronounce: "ke-roo-BEE-nee"), (born Florence, 8 or 14 Sep 1760; died Paris, 15 March 1842) was an Italian-born composer who spent most of his working life in France. He is famous for his operas as well as for his religious music. Beethoven thought that Cherubini was the greatest composer who was living at that time.
Cherubini was born in Florence. The exact date of his birth is not known. He was only six years old when his father taught him to play the harpsichord. He was a child prodigy. By the time he was thirteen, he had composed several religious works. In 1780, he was given a scholarship by the Grand Duke of Tuscany to study music in Bologna and Milan.
At first, Cherubini composed operas about serious stories (opera seria). He composed in the style of Italian composers of that time. Soon he felt he wanted to travel to learn other ways of composing. He went to London in 1785 and then to Paris where he met many important people including Marie Antoinette. He spent the rest of his life in France.
His opera "Démophon" was performed at the Grand Opéra in 1788. It helped to make him famous. He soon became director of the Théâtre de Monsieur in the Tuileries, and three years later he went to the Théâtre Feydeau. He started to try out many new ideas in his music. His opera "Lodoïska" (1791) was very popular for the way he showed heroism. His best-known work is "Médée" (1797). "Les deux journées" (1800) was also highly successful for a while.
The French Revolution affected Cherubini’s life. He tried not to show that he had been friendly with aristocrats before the revolution. Hoping to get government jobs, he wrote several patriotic works in order to please the revolutionary leaders. Later he was made Napoléon's director of music in Vienna (1805-1806), and he conducted some of his music there.
After he had written his opera "Les deux journées", audiences in Paris started to tire of Cherubini’s music. They wanted to hear younger composers such as Adrien Boieldieu. Cherubini found it difficult to get his stage works performed. Instead, he wrote church music. When France became a monarchy again he was appointed "surintendant de la musique du roi" (director of the king’s music). He kept this title until 1830 when there was another revolution.
In 1815 he briefly went again to London. There he was asked to compose a symphony, an overture and a work for chorus and orchestra. This helped to make him more famous outside France.
Cherubini's "Requiem in C-minor" (1816), which marked the anniversary of the execution of King Louis XVI of France, was a great success. Beethoven, Schumann and Brahms all liked it very much. In 1836, Cherubini wrote a "Requiem in D Minor", which he meant to be performed at his own funeral. It uses a male choir only, because the religious authorities had criticised the fact that he had written for ladies’ voices in his C-minor Requiem.
Cherubini produced some chamber music, including several string quartets and a quintet for two violins, viola and two cellos. He also wrote some piano sonatas.
In 1822, Cherubini became director of the Conservatoire. In 1835 he wrote a book called "Cours de contrepoint et de fugue".
There are several stories told by people who lived at that time, showing that Cherubini often became angry. Hector Berlioz tells an amusing story in his autobiography about how Cherubini, in a bad temper, chased him round and round the library.
But he also had many friends, including Rossini, Chopin and, especially, the painter Ingres. The two men had the same interests: Cherubini was a keen amateur painter and Ingres enjoyed practising the violin. In 1841, Ingres painted a well-known portrait of Cherubini.
During his life, Cherubini received the highest official honours, including "Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur" (1814) and "Membre de l'Académie des Beaux-Arts" (1815). In 1841, he was made "Commandeur de la Légion d'honneur," the first time a musician had been given that title.
Cherubini died in Paris at age of 81 and is buried at Père Lachaise Cemetery, just four metres from his friend Chopin.
During the first ten years of his life in Paris Cherubini concentrated on writing dramatic stage works. After 1800 things became more difficult for him in this field. Napoleon was ruling in France, and the two men did not like one another much. The audiences expected an Italian composer to write beautiful melodies rather than anything dramatic. The Feydeau Theatre, where he had enjoyed several triumphs, did not exist any more. Cherubini concentrated on his teaching at the Paris Conservatoire. Even after Napoleon had lost his power Cherubini left it to younger people, such as Rossini and Giacomo Meyerbeer, to compose operas. He preferred to write religious pieces.
By the end of the 19th century Cherubini’s music was almost forgotten, and he was only really remembered for his theoretical writing. During the late 20th century people became interested in his music again, and his religious compositions are sometimes performed. However, his operas do not belong to any popular tradition and are hardly ever staged now, although they contain much excellent music.

</doc>
<doc id="217682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217682" title="Mario Andretti">
Mario Andretti

Mario Gabriele Andretti (born February 28, 1940) is a retired racecar driver. He won the 1969 Indianapolis 500, the 1978 Formula One championship and won the 1967 Daytona 500. He is called the most successful American racecar driver.

</doc>
<doc id="217684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217684" title="Maria Edgeworth">
Maria Edgeworth

Maria Edgeworth was a novelist in the early nineteenth century.
Maria Edgeworth was born in Oxfordshire in 1767 or 1768. She was the daughter of Richard Lovell Edgeworth and Anna Maria Edgeworth. When her father married again to his second wife, she went with him to Ireland. There, she helped her father and managed her father's land. Because of this, she became friends with lots of fashionable people and with Irish peasants. This knowledge was very useful to her later in writing her novels. At first she used to write for children, but in 1800 she published her first adults' novel, "Castle Rackrent". Lots of people liked "Castle Rackrent," which was an instant success.
In 1798 her father married his fourth wife. For fifty-one years Maria had a very good friend in her stepmother.
In 1802 their family traveled abroad. First they went to Brussels, then to a part of France. There Maria met a man named Count Edelcrantz. Maria's stepmother wrote in the book "Life and Letters," that Maria loved him very much. They came back home to Ireland in 1803 when the war began again, and Maria started writing again. Her father helped her with her writing, and corrected her books a lot. Maria published "Castle Rackrent" secretly.
Maria Edgeworth helped Irish peasantry very much. She was short, and is said to be cheerful and lively. After she was ill for a few years she died at Edgeworthstone, in the arms of her stepmother, in 1849.
Sources
Other

</doc>
<doc id="217689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217689" title="Ubuntu Studio">
Ubuntu Studio

Ubuntu Studio is an officially recognized derivative of the 
Ubuntu Linux distribution that focuses on audio, video and graphics production. The original version, based on Ubuntu 7.04, was released on May 10, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="217704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217704" title="Faisal Alam">
Faisal Alam

Faisal Alam is a gay Pakistani American who began the "Al-Fatiha Foundation", a group that is committed to helping further the cause of gay, lesbian, and transgender Muslims.
Alam came to the United States from Pakistan in 1987, when he was ten, and lived in Ellington, Connecticut. In 1997, after a marriage engagement to a Muslim girl did not work out, he began a Yahoo! group for LGBT Muslims which became popular fast. He started Al-Fatiha in 1998 and was the group's President until he stepped down in 2004.
Alam is also a member of the National Religious Leadership Roundtable and the LGBT Programme of Human Rights Watch.

</doc>
<doc id="217710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217710" title="Rick Rypien">
Rick Rypien

Rick Joseph Rypien (May 16, 1984 - August 15, 2011) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He played for the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL). 
He was a very tough player and used to play for the Manitoba Moose of the American Hockey League (AHL), who were the Canucks partner in the AHL. Rypien played four seasons with the Regina Pats, a junior team in the Western Hockey League (WHL) before going to the Moose in 2005. The following season he started playing for the Canucks. He has been injured a lot in the NHL and has missed many games because of that. 
He signed a one-year, $700,000 contract with the Winnipeg Jets but he died before training camp. His body was found in his home on August 15, 2011 by police. His death was later confirmed to be a suicide Rypien had struggled with clinical depression throughout his career.

</doc>
<doc id="217712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217712" title="Centre (ice hockey)">
Centre (ice hockey)

Centre (center in the United States) is a position in ice hockey. A centre plays in the middle of the ice as one of three forwards. The centre is between the left wing and the right wing, and is the one who takes faceoffs. Because they are in the middle, the centre sometimes has to help the two defencemen when they need help. 

</doc>
<doc id="217734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217734" title="Glenda Jackson">
Glenda Jackson

Glenda May Jackson, CBE (born on May 9, 1936, in Birkenhead, England) is an English actress turned politician. She is best known for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth I in the BBC series "Elizabeth R" in 1971.
Glenda Jackson studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. She began her acting career in 1957. She joined the Royal Shakespeare Company, where she remained for four years.
After a few bit parts in movies, she got her first major role in "Marat/Sade" in 1966. In 1969, she appeared in Ken Russell's movie version of D.H. Lawrence's novel "Women in Love". For this part, she won the Academy Award for best actress. The next year, she appeared in another Ken Russell's movie "The Music Lovers". 
Other notable movies have included; "Sunday Bloody Sunday" (1971), "Mary Queen of Scots" (1971), "A Touch of Class" (1973), which won her a second Academy Award for best actress, "The Romantic Englishwoman" (1975), "Hedda" (1975), "Incredible Sarah" (1976), "Stevie" (1978), etc.
She also appeared to great acclaim on BBC television in "Elizabeth R", a six parts serie on the life of Queen Elizabeth I of England, which is thought by many as the most scholarly version. 
Jackson retired from acting in 1992 and turned to politics. She entered the House of Commons as a Labour Member of ParliamentMP. She was married to Roy Hodges from 1958 to 1976, with whom she had a son, Daniel (born in 1969).

</doc>
<doc id="217741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217741" title="ZTE">
ZTE

ZTE (Chinese： 中兴通讯) (Zhong Xing Telecommunication Equipment Company Limited) is a publicly-owned, Chinese business that designs and builds telecommunications equipment and systems. 
The company is located in Shenzhen, and was started in 1985 ZTE offers a many telecommunications products that provide services, such as video on demand and streaming media to its customers, which are mainly people that provide telecommunications services. 

</doc>
<doc id="217750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217750" title="SuperCollider">
SuperCollider

SuperCollider is a programming language designed especially for sound and music. Artists and musicians use it to create pieces of music, or interactive sound sculptures, or other computer-based audio things.

</doc>
<doc id="217755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217755" title="Ryan Newman">
Ryan Newman

Ryan Joseph Newman (born December 8, 1977) is an American racecar driver who drives the No. 31 Caterpillar Chevrolet SS for Richard Childress Racing. Newman used to drive the #39 U.S. Army/Haas Automation Chevrolet Impala for Stewart Haas Racing, and the #12 Alltel Dodge for Team Penske. Newman won the 2008 Daytona 500.

</doc>
<doc id="217813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217813" title="Cuboid">
Cuboid

A cuboid is a 3D shape. Cuboids have six faces, which form a convex polyhedron. Simply speaking, cuboids are made from 6 rectangles, which are placed at right angles. A cuboid that uses square faces is a cube, if the faces are rectangles, other than cubes, it looks like a shoe box.
Properties of a Cuboid are:
The basic difference between a rectangle and a cuboid is that one is a 2D shape and the other is a 3D shape.
the basic difference between a cube and cuboid is that a cube has equal length,height and breadth whereas in cuboid these three may not be the same..a cuboid is a 3D Figure which is made up of rectangular faces...

</doc>
<doc id="217821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217821" title="Lucas Oil Stadium">
Lucas Oil Stadium

Lucas Oil Stadium is in Indianapolis, Indiana and is the home of the Indianapolis Colts, an NFL team.
The stadium had its first game on August 24, 2008 when the Colts played the Buffalo Bills.
The stadium also hosted the 2015 final four between the Wisconsin Badgers and the previously unbeaten Kentucky Wildcats.

</doc>
<doc id="217824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217824" title="Lakas Kampi CMD">
Lakas Kampi CMD

Lakas Kampi Christian-Muslim Democrats is a centrist political party in the Philippines. It is a member of Centrist Democrat International.

</doc>
<doc id="217836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217836" title="Sgt. Frog">
Sgt. Frog

Sgt. Frog, known in Japan as "Sergeant Keroro" (Keroro Gunso), is a manga series for the anime Keroro Gunso. It parodies htf. Keroro is having a takeover of the planet pokopen (which refers to earth), he says "de arimasu", "sir yes sir", "si senor", "shi ye", and "akene rupo keyo", and also says "whoa, that's sweet!", Gunso is black with a yellow-and-orange shoshina mark. In the anime, Fuyuki, Momaka and Chiruyo (his 2 love interests) were 11-12 years old in season 1, 13 years old in season 2, and 14 years old in seasons 3-7, Natsumi, and Mustumi (Fuyuki's other friend) were 13-14 years old in season 1, 15 years old in season 2, and 16 years old in seasons 3-7, Angol Mois was 10 years old in season 1, 11-12 years old in season 2, and 13 years old in seasons 3-7, Koyuki (who's like Fuyuki) was 12-13 years old in season 1, 14 years old in season 2, and 15 years old in seasons 3-7. Keroro (friend of Fuyuki)'s friends are Giroro, Tamama, Kururu, Dororo and Pururu. Fuyuki's other friends are Natsumi (Fuyuki's sister), Aki (Fuyuki's mother), Mutsumi, Koyuki, Chiruyo, Momoka (Momaka), and Mois. Mois's doppelganger and future daughter is Asami. In the Animax dub, Natsumi was voiced by Alexandra Levitch.

</doc>
<doc id="217843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217843" title="I Vow to Thee, My Country">
I Vow to Thee, My Country

I Vow to Thee, My Country is a British patriotic song created in 1921 when a poem by Sir Cecil Spring-Rice was set to music by Gustav Holst.
The lyrics come from a poem by Cecil Spring-Ric that he wrote in 1908 when he was working at the British Embassy in Stockholm, Sweden. At first called "Urbs Dei", or "The Two Fatherlands", the poem is about how a Christian owes his loyalties to both his homeland and the Kingdom of Heaven. The first verse, as written, had a very direct and heated patriotism that has become less popular since the First World War.
In 1912, Rice was sent to Washington, D.C. as the British ambassador to the United States of America. While serving as ambassador, he tried to get President Woodrow Wilson to give up on neutrality and join Britain and her Empire in the war against Germany. After America entered the war, Rice was called back to Britain. Shortly before he left the United States, in January of 1918, he re-wrote and re-titled "Urbs Dei", after making big changes to the first verse to talk more about the huge losses that British soldiers were having in the war years.
The first verse talks about Great Britain, and mainly about those who died during the First World War. The end verse, that starts with the line "And there's another country", is talking about heaven. The final line of the end verse uses the Proverbs 3:17 as its base, which reads, "Her ways are of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace."
In 1921 Gustav Holst changed the music from a section of the song "Jupiter" from his suite "The Planets" to create a setting for the poem. The music was made a bit longer so that it would fit the last two lines of the first verse; the end result is usually called the "Thaxted" (named after the village where Holst lived for many years). This was first performed in 1925 and became very common at Armistice memorial ceremonies.
Later on, Z. Randall Stroope would arrange a choir version of this song called "Homeland." He still used the "Jupiter" theme from the planets but also used two additional verses of his own to pay homage to his father who marched in the Bataan Death March.
The lyrics as usually sung without the middle verse because it is not suitable for modern use.

</doc>
<doc id="217844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217844" title="List of Toronto subway and RT stations">
List of Toronto subway and RT stations

This is a list of all current stations of the Toronto Transit Commission's subway/RT system.
 Shows the station is wheelchair accessible.
The listed services are in parts of the station you need to have paid to be in.
Also, the streetcar system has a single underground station with no subway connections: Queens Quay. It opened in 1990 and is wheelchair accessible, though the streetcars that service the station are not. Exhibition Loop can also have station-like status during major events; at such times ticketing booths are used at its entrance, and thus its fence-enclosed streetcar platform becomes a fare-paid area.
Interac, American Express, MasterCard, Visa tell what method of payment of Metropass purchases only at Collection Booths. Tickets and tokens are cash only.
Most of the other services have signs displayed on their doors for payment methods.

</doc>
<doc id="217847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217847" title="The Perfect Fool">
The Perfect Fool

The Perfect Fool is an opera in one act with music written by the English composer Gustav Holst. Holst wrote the work over the time period from 1918 to 1922. The opera was first played at the Covent Garden Theatre, London on May 14, 1923. At the beginning, Holst had asked Clifford Bax to write the libretto, but Bax did not want to do so.
In the musical score, Holst made fun of the musical works of Verdi, Wagner's work "Parsifal" and Debussy. In the opera, the Fool's part is only one word long. One popular way of thinking of the opera's meaning is that the Princess symbolises the world of opera and the Fool is the British people.
The opera did not do well, and audiences thought that the opera did not make any sense. Although the opera was given a live BBC broadcast a year after it was first played, it is not often played today.

</doc>
<doc id="217850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217850" title="Comet Hale–Bopp">
Comet Hale–Bopp

Comet Hale–Bopp (formerly called C/1995 O1) is the biggest and brightest comet that has come by Earth in the last century. It was called the Great Comet of 1997. It is probably the most-seen comet in history - even more than the famous Halley's comet.
Hale-Bopp was discovered by two astronomers, Alan Hale and Thomas Bopp. This is a long-period comet (it will not return to earth for a long time). It is so big that its coma (the steam burning off of it) is as big as the Sun. It didn't come close enough to the sun to cross Earth's orbital path, so we could not see a meteor shower from the dust trail.
Scientists found lots of organic chemicals in Hale-Bopp which they never saw before. It was also the first comet that had the gas argon in it.
It also has a sodium tail. See the picture on the left.
A person named Chuck Shramek saw a not very bright, "Saturn-like" thing following Hale-Bopp and called the Art Bell radio program and told them about it. Lots of people thought a UFO was following behind the comet, even though many astronomers, including Alan Hale, tried to tell them it was just a star..
A few months later, the Heaven's Gate cult said they had to join the alien spaceship by leaving their earthly bodies, and lots of people killed themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="217861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217861" title="Tech N9ne">
Tech N9ne

Aaron Dontez Yates (born November 8, 1971 in Kansas City, Missouri) is an American rapper better known by his stage name Tech N9ne. 
He has been rapping since 1985 and has made 13 studio albums. He got his stage name from rapper Black Walt because of his fast rhyming style.
He is mainly a hip-hop artist but also raps in the horrorcore genre of music.
ebah ep

</doc>
<doc id="217862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217862" title="Alex Wojciechowicz">
Alex Wojciechowicz

Alexander Francis Wojciechowicz (born August 12, 1915 in South River, New Jersey - died July 13, 1992 in Forked River, New Jersey) was an American football Center who played for the Detroit Lions and the Philadelphia Eagles of the NFL. Wojciechowicz was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1968. Wojciechowicz was the Detroit Lions first pick in the 1938 NFL Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="217873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217873" title="Temerin">
Temerin

Temerin is a town and municipality in South Bačka District, Vojvodina, Serbia. The municipality of Temerin includes the towns of Temerin and Bački Jarak, and villages Sirig and Kamendin. In the 2002 census, the town of Temerin had a population of 19,143, and the municipality had a population of 28,201. Most of its inhabitants are Serbs, while the largest minority in the town and municipality are Hungarians.
Temerin is located in Panonian plain, about 20 km north of Novi Sad, the seat of the district. It is first mentioned in 1332 in the receipt by the pope Then Temerin was part of Kingdom of Hungary. Ottomans conquered it 1526, after Battle of Mohacz. Temerin stayed in Ottoman possession until Great Turkish War at the end of 17th century, when it became part of Austrian Empire. After World War I Temerin became part of Yugoslavian state.

</doc>
<doc id="217899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217899" title="Beetlejuice">
Beetlejuice

Beetlejuice can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="217905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217905" title="Philotheus Boehner">
Philotheus Boehner

Philotheus Boehner (February 17, 1901 – May 22, 1955), who was born as Heinrich Boehner, was a member of the Franciscan order and a very well respected medieval scholar.
Philotheus Boehner was born as Heinrich Boehner on February 17, 1901, in Lichtenau, Westphalia. He joined the Franciscan Order in 1920, and was given the new name "Philotheus", which is the Latin form of the Greek "Philotheos", and means "friend of God". In 1927 he became a priest, but he was very ill with tuberculosis and not expected to live much longer. While resting to try and get better from being sick, he started to translate Étienne Gilson's work on Saint Bonaventura. In the 1930s, he and Gilson became close friends.

</doc>
<doc id="217908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217908" title="Selena Gomez">
Selena Gomez

Selena Marie Gomez (born on July 22, 1992) is an American actress and singer.
Gomez's parents divorced when she was only five, with Gomez staying with her mother. Gomez had a close relationship with her grandparents as a child, who said that they "raised her" up until she found success in the entertainment industry. She appeared in various pageants while she was growing up.
Gomez has two siblings. Her sister, Gracie Elliot Teefey, was born to Amanda and Brian Teefey on June 12, 2013. Gomez has a second sister, Victoria Gomez, born to Ricardo and Sara Gomez on June 25, 2014. She earned a high school diploma through homeschooling in May 2010.
She was first featured on the children's series Barney & Friends in the early 2000s. In 2007, Gomez came to prominence after being cast in the Disney Channel television series Wizards of Waverly Place. She portrayed the starring character Alex Russo until its conclusion in 2012. Gomez entered the film industry with star billings in feature films including "Ramona and Beezus" (2010), "Monte Carlo" (2011), "Hotel Transylvania" (2012), and "The Big Short" (2015). She will be in the films "The Revised Fundamentals Of Caregiving" (2016), "Neighbors 2" (2016), and "In Dubious Battle" (2016).Selena birthday is two days before a little girls birthday. The little girls birthday is two days after Selena's birthday.
She formed her band Selena Gomez & the Scene after signing a recording contract with Hollywood Records in 2008; they released the studio albums "Kiss & Tell" (2009), "A Year Without Rain" (2010), and "When the Sun Goes Down" (2011) before beginning a hiatus in 2012. She released her debut solo studio album "Stars Dance" in 2013. In 2014, she left Hollywood Records and signed a record deal with Interscope Records.
She released her second solo studio album, "Revival", in 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="217912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217912" title="Nudibranch">
Nudibranch

Nudibranchs are a widespread and successful group of marine Gastropod molluscs. The name means 'naked gills'. They are shelless and uncoiled Gastropods, famous for their brilliant colours. There are more than 3000 known species.
Nudibranchs are one of the groups which are informally known as sea slugs. This is a term which includes other Gastropod groups which look similar to nudibranchs. Sea slugs is an informal term; it is not a monophyletic group. 
The body forms of nudibranchs vary greatly. They are "opisthobranchs", a clade which shed their shells after the larval stage. 
Unlike most other gastropods they are "bilaterally symmetrical". They have undergone secondary detorsion. Most species have venomous appendages on their sides. These are used to deter predators. Many also have a simple gut and a mouth with a radula.
Unusually for molluscs, they lack a mantle cavity. Nudibranchs are hermaphrodite, and thus have a set of reproductive organs for both sexes, but they rarely fertilize themselves.
Most nudibranchs are carnivorous. Some feed on sponges, others on polyps, others on bryozoans, and some eat other sea slugs, or, on some occasions, members of their own species. Other groups feed on tunicates, barnacles, or anemones.
The surface dwelling nudibranch, "Glaucus atlanticus" is a specialist predator of jellyfish, such as the Portuguese Man o' War. This predatory mollusc sucks air into its stomach to keep it afloat and using its muscular foot it clings to the surface film. If it finds a small victim "Glaucus" simply envelops it with its large mouth, but if the prey is a larger siphonophore the mollusc nibbles off its fishing tentacles, the ones carrying the most potent nematocysts. Like some others of its kind "Glaucus" does not digest the nematocysts; instead, it uses them to defend itself by passing them from its gut to the surface of its skin.
Among this group can be found the most colourful creatures on earth. In the course of evolution, sea slugs have lost their shell, and have developed other defence mechanisms. Their anatomy may resemble the texture and color of the surrounding plants, giving them camouflage ("crypsis"). Many have an intense and bright colouring, which warns that they are distasteful or poisonous (warning colouration).
Nudibranchs that feed on hydroids can store the hydroids' nematocysts (stinging cells) in the dorsal body wall. The nematocysts wander through the alimentary canal without harming the nudibranch. Then, the cells are brought to specific places on the creature's hind body. Nudibranches can protect themselves from the hydroids and their nematocysts. It is not yet clear how, but special cells with large vacuoles probably play an important role. They can also take in plants' chloroplasts (plant cell organelles used for photosynthesis) and use them to make food for themselves.
Another method of protection is the release of a sour liquid from the skin. Once the specimen is physically irritated or touched by another creature, it will release the slime automatically.
The taxonomy of the Nudibranchia is still under investigation.
Meanwhile, the nudibranchs are commonly divided into two main types, "dorid" nudibranchs and "aeolid" or "eolid" nudibranchs: 

</doc>
<doc id="217914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217914" title="Sea slug">
Sea slug

Sea slug is an informal name for a group of gastropods which look similar, but are not monophyletic. Their similar shape and life styles is an example of convergent evolution. The group includes:
It would seem that their similar growth pattern, with the loss of torsion, bilateral symmetry, reduction of the Gastropod shell, and somewhat similar life styles, evolved a number of times in the Gastropods.

</doc>
<doc id="217929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217929" title="Anatole France">
Anatole France

Anatole France, born François-Anatole Thibault (16 April 1844, Paris - 12 October 1924, Saint-Cyr-sur-Loire), was a French poet, critic, and novelist. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1921. He was a member of the "Académie française".
Anatole France was a son of a bookseller. He studied at the "Collège Stanislas". He got married in 1877 but he get divorced in 1892. He was librarian for the "French Senate" in 1876 - 1890.
Anatole France start his career as a parnassianism poet. Later he became an impressionist and he was an atheist. From 1867 he was a journalist. In 1881 he became famous with the novel "Le Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard, membre de l'Institut". It's about an old scholar Sylvester Bonnard, Bonnard wants to make good, but he commits a crime. This novel won France a prize from the "French Academy". In 1893 he captured the atmosphere of the fin de siècle in "Les Opinions de Jérôme Coignard".
France took a part in the "Dreyfus Affair". He signed Émile Zola's manifesto supporting Dreyfus. Alfred Dreyfus was a French artillery officer and he was charged with high treason. In 1901 France wrote "Monsieur Bergeret" about this affair. He stood out against colonialism.
In 1921 he was awarded the Nobel Prize. He died in 1924 and he is buried near Paris in the "Neuilly-sur-Seine community cemetery".

</doc>
<doc id="217932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217932" title="Hurricane David">
Hurricane David

Hurricane David was the strongest and deadliest hurricane of the 1979 Atlantic hurricane season, but not the costliest. This hurricane caused a lot of damage as it slammed into Dominican Republic as a category 5 hurricane and was it struck Florida as a category 2 hurricane. Hurricane David killed 2,068 and caused over $1.5 billion in damage. 
Because it killed so many people in Dominican Republic, the name David was retired. This was the first male name retired in the Atlantic Ocean. Meaning, David will never be used as a name of a storm in the Atlantic Ocean. The name Danny replaced it in 1985, 1991, 1997, 2003, and 2009. The name Danny is also on the list in 2015.Hurricane David was a very strong hurricane killing many. 

</doc>
<doc id="217934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217934" title="Scaphopoda">
Scaphopoda

Scaphopoda, which are called tusk shells in English is a class of marine molluscs. The name of the class can be translated as shovel-footed. These animals vary in size, most are small though. These animals usually do not live in the tidal zone, they dig themselves into muddy or sandy ocean floors, up to a depth of about 700m. There are about 500 recent species. Fossils of over 900 species have been described. As of 2009, it is unclear how many of these descriptions are valid species. 
These species live in an elongated tube, which is open on both ends, but which can be closed on one end. The animal lives inside the tube, and is attached to it. Scaphopoda do reproduce sexually.

</doc>
<doc id="217948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217948" title="Michael Polakovs">
Michael Polakovs

Michael Polakovs, known in America as Coco the Clown, (born Riga, Latvia 23 February 1923; died USA, 6 December 2009) was a famous clown. His father was known as Coco the Clown in Britain. Michael played the part of Coco the Clown in America. He was also known for being Ronald McDonald, the clown who publicized McDonald’s fast food chain.
Michael Polakovs was born in Riga. His parents Nikolai and Valentina were both circus artists. Nikolai was known as Coco the Clown. He was working in Breslau in Germany when Willy Schumann, the circus director, saw him and persuaded him to go to Britain.
The family moved to Britain where his father found work in Bertram Mills circus. Michael was the eldest of six children. By the time he was 17 he was working as a clown called “Coconut”. Then World War II started and he and his father had to work digging roads and laying gas pipes. They earned £2 16s 6d a week (just over £2.82 in modern money). Then he became a driver for the government. He also managed to do some work as a clown in Blackpool Tower Circus and Tom Arnold’s circus.
When Bertram Mills opened his circus again after the war the Polakovs family were all working for him. He was particularly good at stilt-walking. One one occasion he saved the life of a lion tamer who was being attacked by a lion.
In 1951 he went with a brother and a sister to work for Billy Smart’s circus. The brother married Billy Smart’s daughter.
In 1958 Michael decided to go to the United States. There he became known as Coco the Clown. He worked for the Ringling Brother’s Barnum & Bailey Circus, known as “The Greatest Show on Earth”. Later he worked for other circuses. He started the popularity of the character Ronald McDonald, advertising for the fast food chain. He designed Ronald’s clothes and make-up and appeared in the first eight of his television commercials.
Later he settled with his second wife in Kentucky. He had four children by his first wife and two children by his second wife.
He died aged 86 in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="217950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217950" title="Coco the Clown">
Coco the Clown

Coco the Clown is a clown character who is very famous in Britain and later became famous in America. Coco was not a whiteface clown but an auguste.This type of clown is supposed to be a bit stupid, so he gets teased by another clown who is supposed to be much cleverer. Coco always gets buckets of water thrown at him or custard pies in his face. 
Nicolai Poliakoff (or Polakovs) (1900–74) made the character of Coco the Clown famous. Later his son Michael Polakovs (1923-2009) made him famous in America.
After retiring from the circus, Nicolai Poliakoff toured schools in the UK as Coco promoting road safety. He had a walking stick in the shape of a Bolesha Beacon. For this work he was awarded the OBE by the Queen.

</doc>
<doc id="217952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217952" title="Pipo de Clown">
Pipo de Clown

Pipo de Clown (English: Pipo the Clown) is a clown who became very popular on Dutch television. The character was created by Wim Meuldijk. The actor who took the part of Pipo de Clown was Cor Witschge (1925-1991). The television series started in 1958 and was shown until 1980.
In the television programmes Pipo lives with his wife Mamaloe (pronounce: "Mamaloo") and their daughter Petra in a gypsy-style caravan. They say that they travel all over the world.
Recently new films have been made about Pipo de Clown.
Here are some of Pipo's famous sayings:

</doc>
<doc id="217957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217957" title="Coronel Fabriciano">
Coronel Fabriciano

Coronel Fabriciano is a Brazilian city in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area, state of Minas Gerais. Its population in 2009 was 105.037 inhabitants. Its area is 221,049 km². The city was founded in December 27, 1948.
The devolviment of the municipality due to the large companies in the region, such as ArcelorMittal Timóteo (former ACESITA) and Usiminas that when opened were located in territory fabricianense. But in 1964, with the political emancipation of Ipatinga and Timóteo, Coronel Fabriciano longer hosts them.
It is limited with the municipal districts Ipatinga, Timóteo, Ferros, Joanésia, Antônio Dias and Mesquita.

</doc>
<doc id="217962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217962" title="Axillary bud">
Axillary bud

The Axillary bud is an embryonic shoot which is between the stem and petiole of a plant.

</doc>
<doc id="217967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217967" title="Robert Lang">
Robert Lang

Robert Lang (born December 19, 1970 in Teplice, CS) is a Czech retired ice hockey centre. He played a career total of 18 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Los Angeles Kings, Boston Bruins, Pittsburgh Penguins, Washington Capitals, Detroit Red Wings, Chicago Blackhawks, Montreal Canadiens, and the Phoenix Coyotes. In 2004, Lang won a Golden Hockey Stick for being the best Czech hockey player.

</doc>
<doc id="217971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217971" title="Joel Quenneville">
Joel Quenneville

Joel Norman Quenneville (born September 15, 1958 in Windsor, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey player and the current head coach for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). When he was an assistant coach for the Colorado Avalanche in 1996, he won the Stanley Cup. He became head coach of the Blackhawks in 2008, replacing Denis Savard.

</doc>
<doc id="217972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217972" title="Three Cups of Tea">
Three Cups of Tea

Three Cups of Tea is a book co-written by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. It follows Mr. Mortenson's journey to founding his organisation, the Central Asia Institute (CAI), which builds schools and other facilities for children, especially girls, in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

</doc>
<doc id="217973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217973" title="Aragonese">
Aragonese

Aragonese might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="217978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217978" title="Vladimir Teplyakov">
Vladimir Teplyakov

Vladimir Aleksandrovich Teplyakov () (November 6, 1925- December 10, 2009) was a Russian physicist who is best known for his work with particle accelerators. He, working with his friend I.M. Kapchinsky, created the Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) principle, which was very important dealing with the speed of low energy ion beams.
Teplyakov was born in the USSR on November 6, 1925. He was made to join the Red Army in January 1943 and fought in the Second World War on the Ukrainian front. After the war ended, he went to and graduated from the All-Union Correspondence Polytechnic Institute in Moscow. After leaving school, he began work at the Institute of Chemical Physics. From 1959-1966, he worked at Chelyabinsk-70, where he kept up his study of high-current proton . In 1966, he and several of the people that he worked with were moved to the Institute of High Energy Physics in Protvino, Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="217986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217986" title="Donovan McNabb">
Donovan McNabb

Donovan McNabb (born November 25, 1976 in Chicago, Illinois) is a retired American football player. He played as a quarterback in the National Football League. He played college football for Syracuse.
McNabb was picked by the Philadelphia Eagles with the second pick in the first round of the 1999 NFL Draft. With the Eagles, McNabb played fairly well. There was some controversy about his work ethic and wide receiver Terrell Owens. The Eagles made the NFC Championship game six times and the Super Bowl once. However, McNabb struggled very badly after leaving the Eagles. He later played for the Washington Redskins and the Minnesota Vikings. He retired in 2011. McNabb wore #5 throughout his career.

</doc>
<doc id="217999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217999" title="Fall to Pieces">
Fall to Pieces

"Fall to Pieces" is a song by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne, and was the fifth and last single from her second album, Under My Skin; it was the fourth single in the United States. The song was produced and written by Avril Lavigne and Raine Maida. It was Lavigne's least liked song in the U.S., but was very well liked in Canada. There is no music video for this single, because the shoot for the video was cancelled.
"Fall to Pieces" was not put out in the United Kingdom, but it made it all the way to number seven on the Canadian BDS Airplay Chart, her third successful single in Canada after "Nobody's Home" and "Don't Tell Me". It made it all the way to number sixteen in South Africa. Lavigne did not advertise the single, and because of this it failed to chart on U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100; it made it all the way to number six on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart, and at number fifty-five on the "Billboard" Pop 100; However without video the single played a lot in radios all over US, Canada and Latin America .

</doc>
<doc id="218001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218001" title="Moritz Wagner">
Moritz Wagner

Moritz Wagner (Bayreuth, 3 October 1813 – Munich, 31 May 1887) was a German explorer, collector, geographer and naturalist.
Wagner devoted three years (1836–1839) to the exploration of Algiers. It was there that he made an important discovery in natural history, which he later developed.
His idea, first based on a study of flightless beetles, was that geographical isolation could play a key role in speciation. Although at first rejected, this idea turned out to be important in the theory of evolution.
From 1852–1855, together with a companion, Wagner travelled through North and Central America and the Caribbean. In May 1843, Wagner toured the Lake Sevan region of Armenia. In his old age he committed suicide in Munich, aged 73. His brother Rudolf was a physiologist and anatomist.
Wagner's early career was as a geographer, and he published a number of geographical books about North Africa, the Middle East, and tropical America.
He was also a keen naturalist and collector, and it is for this work he is best known among biologists. Ernst Mayr, the evolutionist and historian of biology, has given an account of Wagner's significance.
During his three years in Algeria, Wagner studied (amongst other activities) the flightless beetles "Pimelia" and "Melasoma". Each genus is split into a number of species, each of which is confined to a stretch of the north coast between rivers which descend from the Atlas mountains to the Mediterranean. As soon as one crosses a river, a different but closely related species appears.
Wagner was able to make similar observations in the Caucasus and in the Andean valleys, leading him to conclude, after the "Origin of Species" had been published:
This was an early description of a process of geographical speciation. Another formulation of this idea came later: "Organisms which never leave their ancient area of distribution will never change". This cannot be literally true, and is an overstatement of his idea.
The fate of this idea was unhappy. "Unfortunately, Wagner combined [his idea] with some peculiar ideas on variation and selection" (Mayr). The leading evolutionists (Darwin, Wallace, Weismann) attacked Wagner's idea of geographic speciation, and it suffered a long decline. However, in 1942 it was reintroduced by Mayr, and the importance of geographic speciation became one of the core ideas of the evolutionary synthesis.
Modern experts such as Ernst Mayr, Jerry Coyne & Allen Orr, agree that Wagner first identified geographical speciation. However, his "migration theory" was based on a rather simple, Lamarckian idea of evolution. Wagner argued in letters to Darwin that he had missed a vital geographic component in understanding the evolution of new species. Darwin at first responded in a friendly way to these letters, and agreed that geographic isolation was important (although not the only mode of speciation). Later, he found Wagner's increasingly hysterical tone and one-sided argument upsetting, and wrote across his copy of Wagner's 1875 paper "most wretched rubbish," partly because Wagner ignored the importance of natural selection, and lifted parts of Darwin's theory that he liked without attribution, all the while claiming that Darwin's views were incorrect.
As well as Darwin, the Reverend J.T. Gulick also found Wagner's theories overstated., but in a later paper Gulick says that "Moritz Wagner, in his "Law of the Migration of Organisms", was the first to insist on the importance of geographical isolation as a factor in evolution, but when he asserted that, without geographical isolation, natural selection could have no effect in producing new species, he went beyond what could be sustained by facts".
Ernst Mayr's formulation cleared up the issues which Wagner had left unresoved: "A new species develops if a population which has become isolated from its parental species acquires during this period of isolation characters which promote or guarantee isolation when the external barriers break down". The zoological taxonomist Bernhard Rensch was also significant in keeping geographical speciation on the evolutionary menu. He identified geographical separation as the most frequent initial step towards "kladogenesis" (species splitting).
The importance of Wagner's insight is undeniable today. It was obscured for many years by his other, mistaken, ideas, but it was a genuine natural history insight gained by observation of insects in their natural habitats.

</doc>
<doc id="218002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218002" title="Africanized honeybee">
Africanized honeybee

Africanized honeybees are a hybrid of the European honeybee and African bees. They are more dangerous and defensive than regular honeybees. Because of this, some people call them 'killer bees'.
About fifty years ago, scientists brought African and European bees to Brazil, in South America, to see if they could mate them. They wanted to do this to make a bee that would make more honey in a hotter place. Scientists called these new bees "Africanized honeybees". These bees, however, were very different from regular honeybees. They would suddenly leave the colony and build a hive somewhere else. Scientists found out that the queen would decide to leave after a few months, usually taking half the colony with her. They could even take over European hives by killing the European queen bee and making their own queen bee the "queen" 
Africanized honeybees are much more protective of their beehive and more likely to sting. When one of them get surprised or scared, they all attack together and sting the same animal or person with hundreds of stings. Actually, their sting is the same as a regular honeybee's, but because they sting all together, they are much more dangerous. They usually chase their target much farther than regular honeybees, and they stay angry and ready to fight for a much longer time. They have many more "guard" bees than regular honeybees. However, if left alone, they'll usually not attack.
Because of the queen's strange behavior of leaving the hive and starting new colonies, Africanized honeybees spread out quickly from Brazil. They have moved towards the north so that they have spread through most of South America, Mexico, and the south parts of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California. Scientists are not sure how far they will spread. Some think they cannot go much more towards the north, because they do not survive well in really cold winters or extremely dry summers. Some disagree.
Those Africanized bees which have travelled southwards have become much tamer and are well suitable for beekeeping and making honey. The re-domesticated Africanized honeybee is usually the choice of South American beekeepers because it will produce much more honey than the ordinary honeybees.

</doc>
<doc id="218011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218011" title="Ipatinga">
Ipatinga

Ipatinga is a Brazilian city in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area, state of Minas Gerais. Its population in 2009 was 244.508 inhabitants. Its area is 165.509 km². The city was founded in April 29, 1964.
It is limited with the municipal districts of Caratinga, Coronel Fabriciano, Mesquita, Santana do Paraíso and Timóteo.

</doc>
<doc id="218019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218019" title="Timóteo">
Timóteo

Timóteo is a city in Brazil. It is in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area in the state of Minas Gerais. In 2009, 79,813 people lived there. The city has an area of . The city was founded in April 29, 1964.
Timóteo is ArcelorMittal Timóteo headquarters, a company of the group ArcelorMittal.
It is limited with the municipal districts of Ipatinga, Coronel Fabriciano, Antônio Dias, Jaguaraçu, Marliéria, Caratinga e Bom Jesus do Galho.

</doc>
<doc id="218020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218020" title="Mammal-like reptile">
Mammal-like reptile

Mammal-like reptile is an old term for the therapsids: those synapsids which gave rise to the true mammals. 
The term is both outmoded and a mistake, because mammals did not descend from reptiles. Both groups descended from early amniotes (egg-laying tetrapods), probably in the Lower or Middle Carboniferous. The precursors of reptiles are called sauropsids, and the precursors of mammals are called synapsids. The immediate ancestors of the mammals came from a group of therapsids called the cynodonts.
There are a number of characteristics which cannot be seen on fossils, but which are of great importance. 
Mammals are distinguished from reptiles by fundamental differences in the development of the blood system. These differences are such that it would be almost impossible for mammals to be derived from reptiles.
This supports the division of amniotes into sauropsida and synapsida.

</doc>
<doc id="218024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218024" title="Cleidoic egg">
Cleidoic egg

The cleidoic egg (from Greek kleistos = closed) is the type of egg which reptiles and birds lay. Mammalian reproduction has evolved from laying cleidoic eggs to live birth. The cleidoic egg is sometimes called the amniotic egg, because it is characteristic of amniotes.
These eggs have a protective shell, and are laid out of water. The shell is porous to air, and may be flexible or calcareous (hard). The eggs contain all the food the embryo needs to develop into a hatchling. As a result, the amphibian's larval stage, the tadpole, is not needed by reptiles or birds. The special membranes that support these eggs are typical traits of all amniotes, including mammals. 
The significance of the cleidoic egg is that it enables reproduction out of, and often away from, water. The cleidoic egg has been called "a private little pond", from the way it gives water and nutrition to the embryo. Cleidoic eggs must have evolved in the early or middle Carboniferous, "after" the early tetrapods evolved, but "before" the amniotes split into sauropsids (reptile ancestors) and synapsids (mammal ancestors).
The basic reproduction strategy of amphibia (frogs, for example), is to lay a huge number of eggs, which are left to their own fate. The strategy of amniotes is to invest more in the production of eggs, lay fewer eggs and take some care of them. 
Because the eggs are laid on land, internal fertilisation is needed. Thus, from the initial step of a cleidoic egg comes a number of changes in behaviour. With the changes in behaviour comes better and more flexible brains. Some reptiles, for example, crocodiles and birds, look after and protect their young. Mammals are an extreme case: they carry the protection and nursing of the young much further. All mammals provide milk for their young, and many smaller mammals raise their young in burrows, providing a meaasure of security. Humans go even further still, with the long period of learning before their young are independent. Also, in human evolution, there is a reduction in instinctive behaviour, which is inherited. Instead, there is a great increase in learned behaviours and social life. These later adaptations were made possible by the earlier evolution of the cleidoic egg.
Live birth is a comparatively recent adaptation. Monotreme mammals do still lay eggs. It is the marsupial and eutherian mammals which developed live birth. Actually,the embryo developing in the womb has the same membranes round it as does the embryo inside a bird egg. Mammals give birth to live young because the development takes place internally. Live birth has evolved independently a number of times in reptiles, for example Ichthyosaurs gave birth to live young. So do some snakes.
The cleidoic egg is a good example of an evolutionary innovation which permitted the invasion of a vast range of new habitats, and led to one of the greatest adaptive radiations in the history of the vertebrates. In comparison, the amphibia, whose reproduction is tied to water, are represented today by just a few highly specialised groups.
Some authors make a distinction between amniotic eggs (of reptiles, birds and mammals) and closed eggs of invertebrate groups such as insects and spiders. In that case:
This is logical, but in practice the terms are usually synonymous.

</doc>
<doc id="218025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218025" title="Terrapin">
Terrapin

Terrapins are turtles that live in brackish water. They are named for the diamond pattern on their shells. They eat mollusks, crabs, and fish. Terrapins are sexually dimorphic. Females are much larger than males. Males range between 4 and 5 inches. Females average nearly 7 inches. The largest terrapin on record was a female measuring 9 inches. 
A terrapin is one of several small species of turtle living in fresh or brackish water. Terrapins do not form a taxonomic unit, and may not be related. Many belong to the families Geoemydidae and Emydidae.
The name "terrapin" is derived from "torope", a word in the Native American Algonquian language that refers to the species, Malaclemys terrapin. It appears that it became part of common usage during the colonial era of North America and was carried back to Great Britain. Since then, it has been used in common names for turtles in the English language. In the UK, red-eared sliders are known as red-eared terrapins.

</doc>
<doc id="218026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218026" title="Regions of Brazil">
Regions of Brazil

Brazil is currently divided into five regions (also called macroregions) by the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (IBGE). These divisions are composed of states with similar cultural, economical, historical and social aspects, and, although information given by this type of division is not very accurate from the scientific point of view, this division is the most widely used in Brazil because official information given by the IBGE uses this system.

</doc>
<doc id="218027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218027" title="Vale do Aço metropolitan area">
Vale do Aço metropolitan area

The Vale do Aço metropolitan area (Região Metropolitana do Vale do Aço, in Portuguese) is a metropolitan area in Minas Gerais, Brazil, comprising only the four municipalities of Coronel Fabriciano, Ipatinga, Santana do Paraíso and Timóteo, but have an influence area of 22 other municipalities.
The region has become internationally known due to large companies that are in the region, such as the Cenibra, ArcelorMittal Timóteo (formerly Acesita) and Usiminas, all with an increasing volume of exported products.

</doc>
<doc id="218031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218031" title="Mantle (mollusc)">
Mantle (mollusc)

The mantle is a significant part of the anatomy of molluscs: it is the dorsal body wall which covers the organs of digestion, reproduction and movement. 
In many, but not all, species of molluscs, the epidermis (skin) of the mantle secretes calcium carbonate and conchiolin, and creates a shell.
The word "mantle" means cloak or cape, and does often resemble a cloak. The edges of the mantle may extend far beyond the main part of the body, forming flaps, double-layered structures adapted for many different uses, including for example, the "siphon".
The "mantle cavity" is a central feature of molluscan biology. This cavity is formed by the mantle skirt, a double fold of mantle which encloses a water space. This space contains the mollusc's gills, anus, and organs for taste, excretion and reproductive organs.
The mantle cavity functions as a respiratory chamber in all molluscs. In bivalves it is usually part of the feeding structure. In some mollusks the mantle cavity is a brood chamber, and in cephalopods and some bivalves such as scallops, it is a locomotory organ.
The mantle is highly muscular. In cephalopods the contraction of the mantle is used to force water through a tubular "siphon", and this propels the animal rapidly through the water. In other molluscs, it is used as a kind of "foot" for locomotion.

</doc>
<doc id="218046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218046" title="Carboniferous">
Carboniferous

The Carboniferous was the geological period after the Devonian and before the Permian. It lasted from about 359 to about 299 million years ago.
In the U.S.A. the Carboniferous is divided into the Mississippian (lower part, 359–323.2 mya) and the Pennsylvanian (upper part, 323.2–299 mya). In Europe the terms lower, middle and upper are used.
The early tetrapods split first into two major groups: the amphibians, which laid their eggs in water, and the amniotes, who laid their cleidoic eggs on land. The amniotes gave rise to two groups both of which became dominant at different times. They were the synapsids, which eventually gave rise to the mammals, and the sauropsids, which gave rise to the dinosaurs and other reptiles. These momentous events took place in the lower part of the Carboniferous, the Mississippian.
The Carboniferous is named after the "coal measures", the remains of peat formed by dense tropical wetland forests. New kinds of vascular plants with thick bark grew in the forests. Much of the coal came from this bark. This biota occurred in the upper part of the period, the Pennsylvanian, from 315–300 million years years ago.
These forests were on the equator, and the wetlands, which are always low-lying, stretched across the supercontinent of Laurussia. This included what is now North America in the west, through what is now Europe to China in the east. The river plain which was the heart of the wetland stretched 5000 km from eastern Canada to the Ukraine, and was 700 km wide. 
This kind of climate and geography has no exact parallel today, but the peat swamp forests in Indonesia and Malaysia, the Amazon Basin, the Mississippi River system and the Okefenokee swamp give some idea. The swamps were dominated by giant clubmosses, including "Lepidodendron". They were the earliest trees, later replaced by conifers and flowering plants. Sometimes other plants from the levee got swept down by the river, such as horsetails, ferns and tree-like pteridosperms.
The wetland forests ended when the land level was raised by the pressure of the Gondwana continent against Laurussia. This caused the zone of contact to rise. The end of the coal measures marks the end of the Carboniferous period. China was too far away to be affected. There, the wetland forests continued for another 50 million years, into the Permian.

</doc>
<doc id="218052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218052" title="Mesozoic">
Mesozoic

The Mesozoic was the geological era in which dinosaurs lived, among with other animals. It lasted around 186 million years, starting 252.2 mya (million years ago) with the P/Tr extinction and ending 66 mya with the K/T extinction (the one that killed dinosaurs).
Dinosaurs appeared around 231 mya (21 million years after the beginning of the Mesozoic). They evolved from early reptiles called the archosaurs (a group of which modern birds and crocodiles are still part). 
The Mesozoic is the middle of the three eras that make up the Phanerozoic eon. Before the Mesozoic was the Palaeozoic era. The K/T extinction in 66 mya also marks the beginning of the Cenozoic era, the one we live in. 
The three Mesozoic periods were:

</doc>
<doc id="218054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218054" title="Palaeozoic">
Palaeozoic

The Palaeozoic (or Paleozoic) era is the earliest of the three eras of the Phanerozoic. Its name means "early life". It lasted from about 541 to 252 million years ago (mya), and ended with the greatest extinction event, the Permian–Triassic extinction event.
The Palaeozoic began with an explosion of life forms. The Cambrian explosion marks the era with thousands of new life forms in the ancient seas. The era saw many important events, including the development of most invertebrate groups, life's conquest of land, the evolution of fish, reptiles, insects, and plants, the formation of the supercontinent of Pangea, and at least two distinct ice ages. The earth rotated faster than it does today so days were shorter, and the nearer moon caused stronger tides.
The six periods of the Palaeozoic:

</doc>
<doc id="218060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218060" title="Blackjack">
Blackjack

Blackjack (Twenty-one, pontoon or "Vingt-et-un") is a kind of card game which usually involves gambling. It is often played in casinos. There is a dealer, who deals cards from a special device called a 'dealer's shoe' or a 'shuffling machine'.
It is a 'dealer versus players game'. Each player has their own game against the dealer. Cards are dealt in succession, and bets placed at each stage. Players win if their card numbers add up to more than the dealer's to a limit if 21. Hands which add up to more than 21 lose. Face cards count as 10. 
'Blackjack', an ace and a face card, is the top scorer. Five cards adding to 21 or fewer is the next ranking hand. Apart from that, unbusted hands rank by total add-up. All hands below the dealer's lose; hands equal to the dealer's keep their chips.
Players have a choice whether or not to get extra cards. To mean 'no more cards' players may say 'stick' or knock the table or put their chips on top of the cards. The dealer has set rules as to when he takes extra cards for himself (or herself). In the UK, the bank must stand on 16. These rules never vary, and it would be illegal to do so. The rules are usually built into the gambling regulations of the state or country.
Blackjack has an element of skill, because the odds change as the cards are dealt. The critical information is the numbers of tens (including face cards) which have been dealt. This is because they are the common cause of 'busting', or breaking 21. This is called 'card counting', and though it is legal (if done mentally, without aid), casinos have been know to bar players they think are doing it.
This is an example of a Blackjack game. Players are named by gambling chip colour: white, brown, blue and black.
The dealer has given two cards each to the four players who are betting. One of the dealer's two cards is face-up so all the players can see it (an Ace), and the other is face down.
The dealer turns their card over and gets a 6, together with the Ace takes them to 17, and stands because the dealer must stand on 17. (In this case the dealer must stand on a "soft" 17). Results:

</doc>
<doc id="218062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218062" title="Phanerozoic">
Phanerozoic

The Phanerozoic eon is the current eon on the geologic timescale. It is the one in which abundant animal life has existed. It covers about 541 million years, and goes back to the time when hard-shelled animals first appeared. It was once thought that life began in the Cambrian, the first period of this eon. 
The time before the Phanerozoic, formerly called the "Precambrian", is now divided into the Hadean, Archaean and Proterozoic eons.
The exact time of the boundary between the Phanerozoic and the Proterozoic is slightly uncertain. In the 19th century, the boundary was set at the first abundant metazoan fossils. But several hundred kinds of Proterozoic metazoa have been discovered in the Ediacaran. Study of the Ediacaran biota started in the 1950s. There are three dividing points at the Proterozoic-Phanerozoic boundary. It might be where the first trilobites and archaeocyatha appear; or at the first appearance of signs of burrowing; or at the first appearance of the 'small shelly fauna'. The three different dividing points are within a few million years of each other.
In the Phanerozoic biodiversity increased hugely: 
During the period covered, continents drifted about, eventually collecting into a single landmass known as Pangea and then splitting up into the current continental landmasses.
The Phanerozoic is divided into three eras: the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic, and Cainozoic.

</doc>
<doc id="218063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218063" title="Skip-Bo">
Skip-Bo

Skip-Bo is a children's card game. You try and match numbers, colours, etc. It is similar to the card game Uno.

</doc>
<doc id="218064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218064" title="Ordovician">
Ordovician

The Ordovician is the second period of the Paleozoic era. It lasted from about 485.4 million years (mya) to 443.4 mya. It follows the Cambrian period and is followed by the Silurian period. 
The Ordovician was named after the Welsh tribe of the "Ordovices". It was defined by Charles Lapworth in 1879. He recognized that the fossils in the disputed strata were different from those of the Cambrian or the Silurian. Therefore, he reasoned, they should be placed in a period of their own.
Recognition of the Ordovician period was slow in Britain, but elsewhere it was quickly accepted. In 1906 it was adopted as an official period of the Paleozoic era by the International Geological Congress.
The Ordovician ended with a series of extinction events that, together amount to the second greatest extinction of the Phanerozoic. This was the EndOrdovician extinction event.
Sea levels were high during the Ordovician. Shallow (<50 metres) inland seas were the greatest for which evidence is preserved in the rocks.
During the Ordovician, the southern continents collected into a single continent called Gondwana. Gondwana started the period in equatorial latitudes and, as the period progressed, drifted toward the South Pole. Early in the Ordovician, the continents Laurentia (present-day North America), Siberia, and Baltica (present-day northern Europe) were still independent continents.
The Ordovician was a time of calcite sea geochemistry in which low-magnesium calcite was the main marine precipitate of calcium carbonate.
 
For most of the Ordovician, life continued to flourish, but near the end of the period the EndOrdovician extinction event seriously affected planktonic forms like conodonts, graptolites, and some groups of trilobites. Brachiopods, bryozoans and echinoderms were also heavily affected, and the cone-shaped nautiloids died out completely, except for rare Silurian forms. 
The extinctions may have been caused by an ice age that occurred at the end of the Ordovician period: the end of the Ordovician was one of the coldest times in the last 600 million years of earth history.
On the whole, the fauna that emerged in the Ordovician set the scene for the rest of the Palaeozoic. The fauna was dominated by suspension feeders, mainly with short food chains. The ecological system reached a new level of complexity far beyond that of the Cambrian fauna.
Though less famous than the Cambrian explosion, the Ordovician featured an adaptive radiation, which was no less remarkable. Marine genera increased fourfold, resulting in 12% of all known Phanerozoic marine fauna. Another change in the fauna was the strong increase in filter feeding organisms. The articulate brachiopods, cephalopods, and crinoids took over. Articulate brachiopods, in particular, largely replaced trilobites in shelf communities. This illustrates the greatly increased biodiversity of carbonate shell-secreting organisms in the Ordovician compared to the Cambrian. Although solitary corals date back to at least the Cambrian, reef-forming corals appeared in the early Ordovician.
Molluscs, which appeared during the Cambrian or even the Ediacaran, became common and varied, especially bivalves, gastropods, and nautiloid cephalopods. Now-extinct marine animals called graptolites thrived in the oceans. Some new cystoids and crinoids appeared.
It was long thought that the first true vertebrates (fish — Ostracoderms) appeared in the Ordovician, but recent discoveries in China show they probably originated in the Lower Cambrian. The very first Gnathostomata (jawed fish) appeared in the Upper Ordovician.
During the Middle Ordovician there was a large increase in bioeroding (shell and rock-boring) organisms. This is known as the Ordovician Bioerosion Revolution. It is marked by a sudden abundance of hard substrate trace fossils.
In the Lower Ordovician, trilobites were joined by many new brachiopods, bryozoans, planktonic graptolites and conodonts, and many types of molluscs and echinoderms, including the ophiuroids ("brittle stars") and the first sea stars. Nevertheless the trilobites remained abundant, with all the Late Cambrian orders continuing, and being joined by the new group Phacopida. The first evidence of land plants also appeared.
Trilobites in the Ordovician were very different from their predecessors in the Cambrian. Many trilobites developed bizarre spines and nodules to defend against predators such as primitive sharks and nautiloids. Other trilobites evolved to become swimming forms. Some trilobites even developed shovel-like snouts for ploughing through muddy sea bottoms. Some trilobites such as "Asaphus kowalewski" evolved long eyestalks to assist in detecting predators whereas other trilobite eyes in contrast disappeared completely.
The renowned Burgess Shale fauna disappears in the Middle Cambrian. It is now known that it did not go extinct, but survived, and thrived where the circumstances were right. A recently discovered lagerstätte (a deposit of exceptionally preserved fossils) has been found in the Fezouata Formation, Morocco. The site contains remarkable fossils of soft-bodied animals from a muddy ocean floor. The fauna also includes some hard-bodied animals such as horseshoe crabs. Probably low oxygen conditions kept predators and scavengers to a minimum.

</doc>
<doc id="218066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218066" title="Silurian">
Silurian

The Silurian was the period from the end of the Ordovician, about 443.4 million years ago (mya) to the beginning of the Devonian period, about 419 mya. 
As with other geologic periods, the rock beds that define the period's start and end are well identified, but the exact dates are uncertain by several million years. The base of the Silurian is set at a major extinction when 60% of marine species were wiped out, the Ordovician-Silurian extinction events.
The Silurian was the first period to see macrofossils of biota on land, in the form of moss forests along lakes and streams as well as millipedes and scorpions colonizing the land later in the period. The fossil record of Sea Scorpions reached it's greatest extent in the middle silurian,about 430 million years ago.
The first fossil records of vascular plants, that is, land plants with tissues that carry food, appeared in the second half of the Silurian period. The earliest known representatives of this group are the "Cooksonia" (mostly from the northern hemisphere) and "Baragwanathia" (from Australia). A primitive Silurian land plant with xylem and phloem but no differentiation in root, stem or leaf, was much-branched "Psilophyton". This plant reproducied by spores and respired through stomata on every surface, and probably photosynthesizing in every tissue exposed to light. 
Some evidence suggests the presence of primitive predatory arachnids and myriapods in Late Silurian rocks. Predatory invertebrates would indicate that simple food webs were in place that included non-predatory prey animals.

</doc>
<doc id="218075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218075" title="Devonian">
Devonian

The Devonian is the period of the Paleozoic era from about 419 million years ago (mya) to about 359 mya. It is named after Devonshire, England, where rocks from this period were first studied.
Sea levels were high, and there was a great variety of fish and other marine organisms. The Devonian fish included the Agnatha (jawless fish), the Acanthodii (spiny fish), the Placoderms (armoured fish), the Chondrichthyes (cartilaginous fish), and the early Osteichthyes (bony fish). The Devonian strata are divided into lower, middle and upper subdivisions. 
During the Devonian the evolution of fish into tetrapods occurred. Various terrestrial arthropods also became established. The first seed-bearing plants spread across dry land, forming huge forests.
Tectonic and volcanic activity was high. A series of extinction events occurred towards the end of the Devonian, including a major event at the Frasnian-Famennian boundary in the Late Devonian, about 364 mya. The supercontinent Pangaea was just starting to form.

</doc>
<doc id="218089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218089" title="Proterozoic">
Proterozoic

The Proterozoic eon comes before the Phanerozoic. It was a period before the first abundant complex life on Earth. The name Proterozoic comes from the Greek "earlier life". The Proterozoic Eon extended from 2500 million years ago (mya) to 541 mya. It is the most recent part of the former Precambrian.
The Proterozoic consists of 3 geologic eras, from oldest to youngest:
The well-identified events were:
Study of these rocks shows that the eon featured massive, rapid continental accretion (unique to the Proterozoic), supercontinent cycles, and mountain building.

</doc>
<doc id="218099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218099" title="Cainozoic">
Cainozoic

The Cainozoic (Cenozoic) is the current geological era. It began 66 million years ago and continues today. Before it was the Mesozoic.
During the Cainozoic the continents moved into their present positions. The climate started warm, but cooling continued steadily. Finally ice ages occurred. 
The word Cainozoic is derived from Greek "kainos" = "new", and "zoe" = "life". 'Cainozoic' may be spelled 'Cenozoic'. It has three periods, and the periods are split into stages. 
Previously, what is now the Cainozoic was divided into two periods, the Tertiary and the Quaternary. The Tertiary corresponded to the Palaeogene+Neogene. Now, the term 'Tertiary' is not used. Officially, it is 'deprecated'. 
On land, the Cainozoic is the era of mammals, and of birds and flowering plants. Grassland became a major habitat. Aquatic mammals took over the roles of predatory reptiles like the mosasaurs and plesiosaurs. As a result, the ecological landscape of the Cainozoic has become quite different from the Mesozoic.

</doc>
<doc id="218117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218117" title="Bill Elliott">
Bill Elliott

William Clyde Elliott (born October 8, 1955) is a part-time American racecar driver. He drives in the Sprint cup series. He won the 1988 Sprint cup, and was inducted into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 2007. In 2014, Elliot was voted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame. He will be inducted into the Hall of Fame in January of 2015. 

</doc>
<doc id="218146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218146" title="Dolhasca">
Dolhasca

Dolhasca is a town in southeastern Bukovina, in Suceava County, Romania. 11,000 people were living in Dolhasca as of 2002. It recently became a town in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="218147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218147" title="Siret">
Siret

Siret is a town of Suceava County in northeast Romania. The town is found on the right bank of the Siret River. Ukraine borders Siret to the north. 9,358 people were living in Siret as of 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="218152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218152" title="Default gateway">
Default gateway

A default gateway is the IP address used to get out of your network.

</doc>
<doc id="218153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218153" title="Token passing">
Token passing

Token passing is a communication protocol used in telecommunications. The system uses a signal called a "token" to limit when a device can transmit on the network. Only the device with the token can transmit. When that device is done, the token is sent to the next device. With large transmissions, the token may move to the next station before the transmission is finished. The device has to wait until it gets the token back before it can continue to send data. The most well known examples of token passing are token ring and ARCNET.
The rules of the system say how long a device may keep the token, how long it can transmit for and how to create a new token if there is not one in use.

</doc>
<doc id="218154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218154" title="Carrier sense multiple access">
Carrier sense multiple access

Carrier Sense Multiple Access (CSMA) is a Media Access Control (MAC) protocol. When transmitting on a medium that is shared by many transmitters, the transmitter first checks to see that nothing else is already transmitting. Examples of shared transmission medium include an electrical bus, or part of the electromagnetic spectrum.
"Carrier Sense" means that a transmitter uses feedback from a receiver to know if the medium is already in use before trying to send. That is, it tries to find a signal from another station before trying to transmit. If a signal is found, the station waits for that transmission to end before starting its own transmission.
"Multiple Access" means that many stations send and receive on the medium. Transmissions are usually received by all other stations using the medium.

</doc>
<doc id="218165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218165" title="Archaean">
Archaean

The Archaean (or Archean) eon is the geological period after the Hadean and before the Proterozoic. It is one of the four main time periods (eons) of Earth history. The Archaean lasted from 4,000 million years ago (mya) to 2,500 mya. It contains the first sedimentary rocks, and the first fossil life forms, which were cyanobacteria, and acritarchs.
Most of the rocks which survive are volcanic (igneous) and metamorphic in origin. Volcanic activity was everywhere. When the Archaean began, the Earth's heat flow was nearly three times higher than it is today. It was still twice the current level when the Archaean ended, 2,500 mya. This high level of heat flow may have made plate tectonics more vigorous than today. The question of when plate tectonics began is a major research area. The large supercontinent Vaalbara formed in the Archaean. There were oceans already, before the Archaean.
The atmosphere almost entirely lacked free oxygen, and instead, it was mostly methane and CO. 
Fossil bacterial mats, called stromatolites, are found throughout the Archaean after about 3,500mya. These were formed by cyanobacteria, which used photosynthesis and gave off oxygen as a by-product. Initially, this oxygen was absorbed by combining with iron ions in solution. Not until much later did oxygen build up in the atmosphere.
Fossil raindrop marks have been found in the later Archaean, 2,700 mya. The rocks were discovered in Ventersdorp in the North West Province of South Africa in the 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="218176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218176" title="Barcelona Metro line 1">
Barcelona Metro line 1

Line 1, shortened to L1 and known as "Hospital de Bellvitge - Fondo", coloured red and often simply called "Línia vermella" ("Red Line"), is the second oldest metro line in Barcelona, after L3. It is operated by Transports Metropolitans de Barcelona (TMB). 
Stations or lines shown in italics are under construction.

</doc>
<doc id="218182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218182" title="Hadean">
Hadean

The Hadean is the geological eon before the Archaean. It began at the Earth's formation about 4.6 billion years ago, and ended 4 billion years ago. The name "Hadean" comes from Hades, Greek for "Underworld", due to the conditions on the Earth at the time. The geologist Preston Cloud first used the term in 1972. Meteorite bombardment, volcanism and high temperatures were very widespread on the early Earth.
There are no sedimentary rocks from the Hadean at all. The earliest geological objects on Earth are some zircons, dated to about 4,400 million years ago (mya). Oceans would probably have formed as soon as the temperature allowed. It is thought that constant bombardment kept the Earth in a molten state until about the end of the eon. 
Early in Earth history, the Moon was torn out by a massive collision with a proto-planet. The evidence for this giant impact hypothesis is: 
An explanation for the general lack of Hadean rocks (older than 3800 mya) is the large amount of rocky and icy debris present in the early Solar System. After the eight planets formed, large numbers of leftover protoplanets, asteroids, and comets pursued eccentric orbits throughout our system, bombarding the early Earth and the other planets and moons until approximately 3800 mya. This activity may have prevented any large crustal fragments from forming by literally shattering the early protocontinents. A barrage of particularly large impacts known as the Late Heavy Bombardment represents the climax of this violent era. 
No life forms are known from this eon. The early atmosphere contained carbon dioxide, methane and nitrogen, but almost no oxygen.

</doc>
<doc id="218185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218185" title="Permian">
Permian

The Permian is a geological period which started about 299 million years ago (mya), and ended about 252 mya. It is the last period of the Paleozoic era, and ended in the largest mass extinction known to science. 
The climate in the Permian was quite varied. At the start of the Permian, the Earth was still at the grip of an Ice age from the Carboniferous. Glaciers receded around the mid-Permian period as the climate gradually warmed, drying the continent's interiors. In the late Permian period, the drying continued although the temperature cycled between warm and cool cycles.
During the Permian tetrapod life, (amphibians, Sauropsids and Synapsids) which evolved in the Carboniferous, became widespread and diverse. The first modern trees (conifers, ginkgos and cycads) appeared in the Permian.
The Permian was also a period of adaptive radiation in insects. Beetles (Coleoptera) appeared; so did flies (Diptera). 22 out of a total of 36 known orders of insects are known from the Permian. Some became extinct in the end-Permian event, but more radiation followed in the Mesozoic. Insects were probably, by the end of the Permian, the largest phylum, in terms of number of species.
Early relatives of cockroaches (Blattopterans) were the most common insects. and dragonflies ruled the air. True Odonata appeared in the Permian.
All the major land masses were collected together in the super-continent Pangaea. At the end of the period, the greatest flood basalt lava flows in the Phanerozoic raised world temperatures, and damaged the environment. These formed the extensive "Siberian traps". The causes of the Permian/Triassic extinction event are not yet agreed between scientists. Trilobites, once a dominant life-form in the ocean, became extinct, together with 90% of all marine species.

</doc>
<doc id="218203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218203" title="Circus">
Circus

A circus is a special kind of entertainment that can be enjoyed by children and adults. Circuses are a group of performers that may include acrobats, clowns, trained animals, trapeze acts, musicians, hoopers, tightrope walkers, jugglers and other artists who perform stunts. Circuses usually travel about to different parts of the country or to different countries. They perform in a huge tent called the “Big Top”. There may be room for hundreds of people in the audience. The seating is tiered (the seats at the back are higher than those in front). In the middle is the circular area where the artists perform. This area is called the “ring”. The person in charge of the whole show is the “ringmaster”. Not all circuses travel about. A few circuses perform in their own building.
There are many different acts in circuses. Some people do acrobatics and gymnastics. Often a group of gymnasts will finish up standing on top of one another in a pyramid. The gymnasts may also do jumping acts on trampolines. Some people are jugglers, throwing things in the air and catching them. There may be people who walk on stilts or who ride on unicycles. They may perform magic which may include swordswallowing, knife throwing or fireeating. There are always clowns who do funny things to make people laugh. They trip over things and fall over, throw buckets of water over one another or put custard pies into one another’s faces. Sometimes these clowns are also very skilful acrobats, musicians or jugglers. They may pretend to be stupid at first, but they often show that they are very clever.
During the last two centuries, and until recently, the modern circus used many kinds of animals. There were wild animals such as lions, tigers or bears. There may also have been camels, horses, elephants, sea lions and domestic animals such as dogs. In recent years people have changed their ideas. They think that it is unkind to make wild animals perform tricks that are unnatural to them. Many of their trainers used cruel methods to teach these animals to do tricks, e.g. hitting the animals, giving them electric shocks or causing pain in other ways. The animals were always touring around, living in tiny cages. Many countries now do not want to see wild animals in circuses.
In Ancient Rome the circus was a round or oval building for showing horse and chariot races, horse shows, staged battles, acts with animals, jugglers and acrobats. The Roman circus had tiered seats. The important people sat at the bottom, near the action. The Latin word "circus" comes from the Greek word "kirkos", meaning “circle" or "ring”. 
The first circus in Rome was the Circus Maximus, in the valley between the Palatine and Aventine hills. At first it was made of wood. It was rebuilt several times; the last building of the Circus Maximus could seat 250,000 people.
After the period when Rome was powerful, Europe did not have a circus tradition. In China there were shows with acrobatic performances, but they did not influence the Western circus, which started to be popular towards the end of the 18th century. In London there were circuses with horse-riding. These were started in 1768 by Philip Astley. A “Royal Circus” was set up in Lambeth, London by John Hughes. Circuses grew in size and had lots of animals. They were a bit like a zoo. They had wild animals such as lions and elephants. In 1793 a circus building was opened in Philadelphia, USA. Circuses became popular in the USA, especially the circus of Dan Rice. In 1840 Thomas Cooke brought his circus with horses from the USA to England. The circus started to become popular in many countries all over the world. The Barnum & Bailey Greatest Show On Earth toured from 1897 to 1902. They showed animal acts and human acts. There were even shows with freaks (people who were physically unusual, e.g. dwarfs and giants. During most of the 20th century this is what circuses were mostly like.
In 1919, Lenin, head of the USSR, said he wanted the circus to be treated as a serious art form, just like opera and ballet. The Moscow Circus School, which was started in 1927, is still one of the best circuses today. The artists are very skilful acrobats, gymnasts etc. Chinese circuses also have artists who are some of the world’s best gymnasts.

</doc>
<doc id="218205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218205" title="Markham, Ontario">
Markham, Ontario

Markham, Ontario is a city in Regional Municipality of York, in the Greater Toronto Area of Southern Ontario, Canada. There are twice as many people there as in 1990. 261,573 people live in Markham. It is the 4th largest town in the Greater Toronto Area, after Toronto, Mississauga, and Brampton.

</doc>
<doc id="218209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218209" title="Matt Stajan">
Matt Stajan

Matthew Stajan (born December 19, 1983) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Calgary Flames of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Toronto Maple Leafs.
Before playing in the NHL, Stajan played 3 seasons with the Belleville Bulls of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL). He was drafted with the 57th overall pick by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. On January 31, 2010, the Maple Leafs traded Stajan along with Niklas Hagman, Ian White and Jamal Mayers in exchange for Dion Phaneuf, Fredrik Sjöström and Keith Aulie.
He is married to his wife Katie and they live in Calgary. Their first child named Emerson, died on March 3, 2014 shortly after birth.

</doc>
<doc id="218211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218211" title="Cajvana">
Cajvana

Cajvana is a town of Suceava County in the southern part of Bukovina in Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="218231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218231" title="Mount Athos">
Mount Athos

Mount Athos is a mountain in the Greek province of Macedonia. It is also commonly used to refer to the Self-governed Monastic State of the Holy Mountain, which is an autonomous part of Greece. There are twenty Eastern Orthodox monasteries inside this state.
Spiritually, Mount Athos comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople.
The peninsula is the easternmost "leg" of the larger Halkidiki peninsula. It protrudes into the Aegean Sea for some at a width between 7 to 12 km and covers an area of , with the actual Mount Athos and its steep, densely forested slopes reaching up to . The seas around the end of the peninsula can be dangerous.
The peninsula is only accessible by boat. There is a limit on the number of visitors. People visiting need to get a special permit. Only men are allowed to enter. Monks call Mount Athos the "Garden of the Virgin"-. Orthodox Christians take precedence in the permit issuing procedure. Only males over the age of 18 who are members of an Eastern Orthodox Church are allowed to live on Athos (?). A large number of Albanian Muslims work in the Holy Mountain. There is a small number of unarmed, religious guards (Σερδάρηδες), who are not monks, for keeping order. Police and Coast Guard presence is very discreet. Any other people not monks are required to live in the peninsula's capital, Karyes (?) Most workers live at the place where they work. Small low class hotels exist at Karyes (administrative center) and Dafni (main port). The 2001 Greek national census recorded a population of 2,262 inhabitants.

</doc>
<doc id="218232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218232" title="Barcelona Metro line 9">
Barcelona Metro line 9

Line 9 (Línia 9 in Catalan) is the newest line in the Barcelona Metro network, currently under construction, with only five complete stations, all in Santa Coloma de Gramenet. These first five stations opened on 13 December 2009. The complete line is a railway project to build a subway line with two branches spanning a good deal of the metropolitan area of Barcelona through Barcelona, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Badalona, l'Hospitalet de Llobregat and El Prat de Llobregat. TMB is the company operating the line and handled by the division line in two: Line 9 and Line 10.
El Prat area
Central branch, shared with L10
Besòs area

</doc>
<doc id="218242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218242" title="Barcelona Metro line 10">
Barcelona Metro line 10

Line 10 (Zona Franca ZAL - Gorg) is the name of one of the two branches of the Barcelona metro extension line 9, currently under construction and to be operated by TMB.
It links the Zona Franca with Badalona, through Barcelona proper, sharing a good deal of the area covered by L9. L9/10 will be the deepest line in the network, and the longest line in Europe. Originally expected to be ready by 2008, ongoing problems with its construction are going to delay its completion until as late as 2013.
Zona Franca area
Central branch, shared with L9
Besòs area

</doc>
<doc id="218251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218251" title="Barcelona Metro line 2">
Barcelona Metro line 2

Line 2, also known by the names of its termini, currently Paral·lel - Pep Ventura, is a metro line in Barcelona operated by TMB, coloured purple and sometimes simply called "línia lila". 
Station and line names shown in italics are planned or under construction additions.

</doc>
<doc id="218252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218252" title="Sam Cooke">
Sam Cooke

Sam Cooke (January 22, 1931–December 11, 1964) was an American soul singer and songwriter. He was born Sam Cook but later changed the spelling of his name. He was very important in the beginning of soul music. He had many hit songs in America. Some of his most famous songs were "You Send Me", "A Change Is Gonna Come", "Chain Gang", "Wonderful World", and "Bring It on Home to Me".
Cooke started his own record label and publishing company. He was an important part of the Civil Rights Movement, helping African-American people to get civil rights.
Cooke died in 1964. He was shot and killed by a hotel manageress called Bertha Franklin. She told the police that she shot Cooke in self-defense. He was buried in Glendale, California.

</doc>
<doc id="218259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218259" title="Catherine Morland">
Catherine Morland

Catherine Morland is the principal character in Jane Austen's book "Northanger Abbey". She enjoys reading the mysterious and frightening gothic novels that were popular in her time. She often has a tendency to blur the lines between fiction and reality, which causes her a great deal of trouble. She is the neighbor of Mr. Allens, a rich man, and goes with him to Bath, a city in Northeastern Somerset, England. Jane Austen used her to mock the obvious classics where the perfect heroes fall in love with the heroines, and they marry and live "happily ever after".
Jane Austen, in the beginning of Chapter Two, describes her as having a heart that "was affectionate (loving)", a "disposition (character) cheerful and open, without conceit (pride) or affectation".
The book "Northanger Abbey" begins with, "No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy, would have supposed her born to be an heroine." Her father, Richard, is a clergyman (pastor) who, even though he is not rich, is not poor; her mother is "a woman of useful plain sense, with a good temper, and, what is more remarkable, with a good constitution." Catherine is called "plain" when she is young, with "a thin awkward figure, a skin without colour, dark hair, and strong features..." She likes to play boy's games more than playing with dolls, and does not like lessons, though she does like stories and fables. Catherine likes "tinkling the keys of the old spinnet (piano)," but she hates learning music, and "the day which dismissed (sent away) the music-master was one of the happiest in Catherine's life." She does not draw well; she did not like writing, or accounts, or French. However, she is usually nice to her brothers and sisters, and listens to her parents.
Catherine becomes "almost pretty" at 15, when she grows plumper, cleaner, and more . She begins reading better books, like those that Pope, Gray, Thompson, and Shakespeare's. Mrs. Allen invites her to come to Bath with her, and she agrees. There, she is always very polite to Mrs. Allen, and is humbly satisfied when a few men call her a "pretty girl." She falls in love with Henry Tilney, and even though they misunderstand each other some times, they quickly become good friends. She also becomes friends with Eleanor Tilney, and she is invited to Northanger Abbey. General Tilney, Henry's father, is kind to her, and she is happy. But sometimes she is too imaginative: for instance, she thinks General Tilney murdered his wife. Henry's gentle talk with her soon makes her more clear-sighted. The sudden rudeness of General Tilney makes her very sad until Henry comes and proposes to her; he also explains the General's first attentions, and later rudeness: the General had at first thought Catherine was very rich, and later thought Catherine was really poor. Actually, Catherine is neither - she lives quite comfortably. At the end of the book, they marry happily.

</doc>
<doc id="218260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218260" title="Child abuse">
Child abuse

Child abuse is the abuse, mistreatment or hurt done by adults to children. It often means abuse done by a child's parents or another caregiver. Injuries to the skin like bruises may be one of the signs of child abuse. 
Talking about these things and helping children who suffer from child abuse is very important, but some people do not believe it could happen in their country, neighbourhood or family. They like to think these crimes are far away and so they cannot see if a child nearby is in danger.

</doc>
<doc id="218268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218268" title="Revised Julian calendar">
Revised Julian calendar

The Revised Julian calendar is a variation of the Julian calendar. It is mainly used by Eastern Orthodox churches. Some Eastern Orthodox churches introduced it in 1923.
Until the year 2800, this calendar will be in sync with the Gregorian calendar; From 2800 to 2900, the Gregorian calendar will be 1 day off.

</doc>
<doc id="218270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218270" title="Hakha-Chin language">
Hakha-Chin language

Hakha Chin is a language spoken in southern Asia by 446,264 people. The total figure includes 2,000 Zokhua, and 60,100 Lai speakers. The speakers are largely concentrated in eastern India in addition to Myanmar/Burma and Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="218271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218271" title="Rajbanshi language">
Rajbanshi language

Rajbanshi is an Eastern Indic language spoken in India, Bangladesh, and Nepal. Rajbanshi belongs to the Indo-European language family. According to a 1991 census, it was spoken by 3 million people. This language is a speech of Bengali language and written in Bengali alphabet.
This is the native language of people of Cooch Behar,<nowiki>Lower Assam</nowiki>,Some parts of <nowiki>Bangladesh & Nepal</nowiki>.
Other names of the language are Kamtapuri, Rajbangsi, Rajbansi, Rajbongshi, Tajpuri, Kamrupi, Deshi Bhasha.
This language is also identified by the Rajbanshi Academy headquarter in <nowiki>Cooch Behar</nowiki> whose present chairperson is Mr. Bijay Barman.

</doc>
<doc id="218277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218277" title="Teen idol">
Teen idol

A teen idol is a celebrity or famous person who is very popular with teenagers. Teen idols are often young, but are not always teenagers themselves. They are often pop singers or actors. People started to call celebrities teen idols in the 20th century. Some early teen idols were Rudolph Valentino, Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Elvis Presley and James Dean.
In the 1960s and 1970s some pop singers became known as teen idols, like The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Monkees, Donny Osmond and David Cassidy. In the 1990s, bands like New Kids on the Block and Backstreet Boys were very popular with teenagers. In the 21st century, some teen idols have been Britney Spears, Miley Cyrus and the Jonas Brothers.

</doc>
<doc id="218278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218278" title="Hachinohe, Aomori">
Hachinohe, Aomori

It has been recognized as a special city since 2001.
About 240,000 people live in Hachinohe.
Hacnihone is in a part of Japan called the Tohoku region. It faces the Pacific Ocean. Two rivers run through Hachinohe. One is the Mabechi River which runs from the south to the east, and flows into the Pacific Ocean. The other is the Nida River which runs from the south to the north. 
Hachinohe means "the 8th area" in north of Tohoku region from the Middle Ages era. There was "the places of 8th" for making horses for a war in Hachinohe. 
Hachinohe has a famous industrial area in Tohoku region, and has a bigger fishing port more than most of other cities.
There is a Tohoku Shinkansen station and the Tohoku Expressway in Hachinohe.
The main industries in Hachinohe are manufacturing and services. Most of people in Hacnihohe work in manufacturing. In Hachinohe, the fishing industry is famous. Hachinohe brings in the most squid and saba in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="218279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218279" title="Gerbstedt">
Gerbstedt

Gerbstedt is a little town at the Mansfeld-Südharz rural district, Saxony-Anhalt in Germany. It is north of Eisleben. The little river Lobach flows through it.
Gerbstedt is about 30 km northwest of Halle, Saxony-Anhalt. It was first mentioned in 985 as Gerbizstidi. In the area of Gerbstedt, there is copper schist. It is mined since 1730.

</doc>
<doc id="218283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218283" title="Miles Davis">
Miles Davis

Miles Davis III (May 26, 1926 – September 28, 1991) was an American jazz trumpeter, bandleader and composer. He was very important to 20th century music. He helped to develop several different styles of jazz, like cool jazz, hard bop, free jazz, and fusion. As a bandleader he worked with other famous musicians like John Coltrane, Herbie Hancock, Bill Evans, Wayne Shorter, Chick Corea, John McLaughlin, Cannonball Adderley, Gerry Mulligan, Tony Williams, George Coleman, J. J. Johnson, Keith Jarrett, John Scofield and Kenny Garrett.
In 1959 he released an album called "Kind of Blue". That album became very famous and popular. In 2008, it had sold 4 million copies. In 2006 Davis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and described as "one of the key figures in the history of jazz".
Davis was born in 1926 in Alton, Illinois. His father, Miles Dewey Davis, Jr., was a dentist. In 1927, the family moved to East St. Louis. They also owned a big ranch in northern Arkansas, where Davis learned to ride horses.
Davis's mother, Cleota Mae (Henry) Davis, wanted him to learn to play the piano. She was a good blues pianist but did not tell her son this. Davis started to learn music when he was 13, when his father gave him a trumpet and arranged for him to have lessons with local musician Elwood Buchanan. Buchanan taught Davis to play the trumpet without vibrato, and Davis always played like this. Buchanan was said to slap Davis's knuckles every time he started using heavy vibrato. Davis later said "I prefer a round sound with no attitude in it, like a round voice with not too much tremolo and not too much baseline bass. Just right in the middle. If I can’t get that sound I can’t play anything."
When he was 16, Davis played the trumpet professionally when he was not at school. At 17, he played in bandleader Eddie Randle's band for a year. Saxophone-player Sonny Stitt tried to persuade Davis to join the Tiny Bradshaw band, but Davis's mother wanted Davis to finish his final year of high school.
In 1944, the Billy Eckstine band visited East St. Louis. Dizzy Gillespie and Charlie Parker were in the band, and Davis joined them as third trumpet player when trumpeter Buddy Anderson was out sick. When the band left to finish the tour, Davis' parents still wanted him to finish his studies.
After he graduated from high school in 1944, Davis moved to New York City to study at the Juilliard School of Music. 
When he arrived in New York, he spent most of his time trying to get in contact with Charlie Parker, even though some people had told him that he should not. When he found Parker, Davis became involved in jam sessions that took place every night in two of Harlem's night clubs, Minton's Playhouse and Monroe's. Other famous musicians like Thelonious Monk and Kenny Clarke also tookpart in these sessions. 
Davis left Juilliard early, having first asked permission from his father. He did not like the classes at Juilliard because he thought they focused too much on classical European and "white" music. He also said that his Juilliard classes helped him to understand music theory.
He began playing professionally in many jazz groups, performing in several 52nd Street clubs with Coleman Hawkins and Eddie "Lockjaw" Davis. In 1945, he went into a recording studio for the first time, as a member of the group of Herbie Fields. In 1946 he made his first recording as a bandleader, with a group called "Miles Davis Sextet plus Earl Coleman and Ann Hathaway". He did not make many recordings as a bandleader at this time.
Around 1945, Dizzy Gillespie stopped working with Parker and Parker hired Davis as Gillespie's replacement in his quintet. Also in the group were Max Roach at the drums, Al Haig (replaced later by Sir Charles Thompson and Duke Jordan) at the piano, and Curley Russell (later replaced by Tommy Potter and Leonard Gaskin) as bass player.
With Parker's quintet, Davis recorded several times. He had a solo on Parker's signature song, "Now's the Time". This solo led to the beginning of a style of jazz called "cool jazz". The group also toured the United States. During a tour in Los Angeles, Parker had a nervous breakdown and went to the Camarillo State Mental Hospital for several months. Davis found himself stuck in L.A. He stayed with, and played music with jazz musician Charles Mingus. Later he got a job with Billy Eckstine on a California tour that brought him back to New York. In 1948, Parker returned from Los Angeles, and Davis joined his group again.
The musicians in Parker's group were not getting on very well. Parker's behavior was unpredictable because of his drug addiction. Davis and Roach did not agree with Parker hiring Duke Jordan as a pianist and would have preferred Bud Powell). In December 1948, Davis left the group after an argument with Parker at the "Royal Roost". He began to work more independently with different groups in New York.
In 1948 Davis grew close to the Canadian composer and music arranger Gil Evans. Davis used to meet other musicians at Evans' house, like Roach, the pianist John Lewis and the baritone saxophone player Gerry Mulligan. Evans had been the arranger for the orchestra of Claude Thornhill and it was the sound of this group, as well as Duke Ellington's example, that inspired the creation of a large group including a french horn and a tuba.
Davis took a very active role in the project, and it soon became "his project". They tried to achieve a sound similar to a human voice, over carefully arranged compositions.
The group first played in the summer of 1948 at the Royal Roost. They were active to the end of 1949 and had several changes of musician. There were many white musicians in the group and this made some African American jazz players angry. Many of them were unemployed at the time. Davis did not listen to them.
The group got a recording contract with Capitol Records and they had several recording sessions between January 1949 and April 1950. This music was released on an album called "Birth of the Cool". This album gave its name to a new style of jazz called "cool jazz". Davis knew how important his project was and even turned down a job with Duke Ellington's orchestra. This group also led to the beginning of the lifelong friendship between Davis and Gil Evans.

</doc>
<doc id="218285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218285" title="Bandleader">
Bandleader

A bandleader is the leader of a group of musicians. Bandleaders often lead large groups that play genres like big band, jazz, blues, rhythm and blues and rock and roll. The bandleader directs the other musicians in the group. Bandleaders often perform in their groups as well. Sometimes bands are named after their bandleaders.

</doc>
<doc id="218290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218290" title="Neglect">
Neglect

Neglect is a kind of abuse where a person harms another person by not giving them the things they need to live. For example, a parent or caregiver may neglect a child by not giving them enough food, clothing, hygiene, medical care, affection or education; this is a form of child abuse. Victims of neglect are those that need looking after, like children, physically or mentally disabled adults, elderly people, medical patients, animals or plants.

</doc>
<doc id="218291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218291" title="Josef Mysliveček">
Josef Mysliveček

Josef Mysliveček (born Prague, 9 March 1737; died Rome, 4 February 1781) was a Czech composer in the classical music period. Although his music is not often performed these days he composed a lot of attractive music which often sounds like Mozart. During the 1770s he was a good friend of the Mozart family.
Josef Mysliveček was born near Prague. He was a twin. His father was a miller who had quite a lot of money. After he left school he became a miller in the family business. He also studied music. He had already been a chorister in the choir of St Michal’s church where Felix Benda was choirmaster. From 1760 he studied counterpoint with František Habermann and organ with Josef Seger. He started to compose. He wrote six sinfonias which were called after the first six months of the year (in the Czech language the months have names which are about the seasons). 
When his father died Mysliveček decided to become a composer. He left the family business to his younger brother. He wanted to learn more about composing so, in 1763, he travelled to Venice to study with Giovanni Pescetti. In Italy he became known as "Il Boemo" ("the Bohemian") and also "Venatorini", "the little hunter," which is what his name means literally. Most composers in those days were employed by rich nobles or rulers, but Mysliveček earned his living through teaching, performing, and composing music. He often got sums of money from rich people who liked his music. Although he came from a rich family he was careless with his money. When he died he was very poor.
Mysliveček stayed in Italy for the rest of his life. He only revisited Prague once (in 1767-68). Several of his operas were performed there. He also went to Vienna in 1773 and Munich from 1776-1778. He composed operas for several Italian theatres. He met Mozart in Bologna in 1770. Mozart was only 14 at the time. He was good friends with the Mozart family until 1778 when the Mozarts broke off their friendship because Mysliveček promised, but then did not arrange for Mozart to write an opera for the theatre in Naples. 
Mysliveček had many sexual relationships during his life, although we do not know the names of his lovers. In the end he became ill with syphilis. He was very ill during the last part of his life. His face became a very strange shape, apparently because he was operated on by a bad surgeon. Mozart was very upset when he saw him looking so ill.
A lot of his music sounds like some of the early works of Mozart. Mozart, in return, uses several musical themes from compositions by Mysliveček. He also made an arrangement of an operatic aria by Mysliveček's: "Il caro mio bene". Mozart changed the words and wrote "Ridente la calma," KV 152 (K⁶ 210a) for soprano with piano accompaniment.
He wrote twenty-six opera seria, more than any other composer at that time. They are full of da capo arias in which the singers can show off their technique. His orchestral music does not sound Czech, it is much more Italian in style. However, some of his chamber music has some Czech folk tunes.
His other pieces include oratorios, symphonies, concertos, and chamber music, including some of the earliest known string quintets composed with two violas. He was also one of the first composers to write good music for wind ensemble. He wrote some excellent violin concertos. 
Freeman, Daniel E. "Josef Mysliveček, "Il Boemo": the Man and His Music". Sterling Heights, Mich.: Harmonie Park Press, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="218327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218327" title="Ainaži">
Ainaži

Ainaži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1926.

</doc>
<doc id="218329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218329" title="Aizkraukle">
Aizkraukle

Aizkraukle is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1967.

</doc>
<doc id="218330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218330" title="Aizpute">
Aizpute

Aizpute is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1378.

</doc>
<doc id="218331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218331" title="Aknīste">
Aknīste

Aknīste is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218332" title="Aloja, Latvia">
Aloja, Latvia

Aloja is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218334" title="Alūksne">
Alūksne

Alūksne is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="218335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218335" title="Ape, Latvia">
Ape, Latvia

Ape is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218336" title="Auce">
Auce

Auce is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1924.

</doc>
<doc id="218337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218337" title="Baldone">
Baldone

Baldone is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218338" title="Baloži">
Baloži

Baloži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218339" title="Balvi">
Balvi

Balvi is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218340" title="Bauska">
Bauska

Bauska is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1609.

</doc>
<doc id="218341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218341" title="Broceni">
Broceni

Brocēni is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218342" title="Cēsis">
Cēsis

Cēsis is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1206.

</doc>
<doc id="218343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218343" title="Cesvaine">
Cesvaine

Cesvaine is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218344" title="Dagda, Latvia">
Dagda, Latvia

Dagda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218345" title="Dobele">
Dobele

Dobele is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218346" title="Durbe">
Durbe

Durbe is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1893.

</doc>
<doc id="218347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218347" title="Grobiņa">
Grobiņa

Grobiņa is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1695.

</doc>
<doc id="218348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218348" title="Gulbene">
Gulbene

Gulbene is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218349" title="Ikšķile">
Ikšķile

Ikšķile is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218350" title="Ilūkste">
Ilūkste

Ilūkste is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218351" title="Jaunjelgava">
Jaunjelgava

Jaunjelgava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1647.

</doc>
<doc id="218352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218352" title="Jēkabpils">
Jēkabpils

Jēkabpils is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1670.

</doc>
<doc id="218353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218353" title="Kalnciems">
Kalnciems

Kalnciems is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218354" title="Kandava">
Kandava

Kandava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218355" title="Kārsava">
Kārsava

Kārsava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218356" title="Krāslava">
Krāslava

Krāslava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="218357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218357" title="Kuldīga">
Kuldīga

Kuldīga is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1378.

</doc>
<doc id="218358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218358" title="Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d'Holbach">
Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d'Holbach

Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d'Holbach (8 December 1723 – 21 January 1789) was a French-German author, philosopher and encyclopedist. He was an important figure in the French Enlightenment. He was born Paul Heinrich Dietrich in Edesheim, near Landau in the Rhenish Palatinate. He spent most of his life in Paris, where he kept a "salon". He is best known for his atheism. He wrote a lot. Most of his writings are against religion. His best-known book is the "System of Nature".

</doc>
<doc id="218360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218360" title="Ķegums">
Ķegums

Ķegums is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="218361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218361" title="Lielvārde">
Lielvārde

Lielvārde is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218362" title="Līgatne">
Līgatne

Līgatne is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="218363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218363" title="Limbaži">
Limbaži

Limbaži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1385.

</doc>
<doc id="218364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218364" title="Līvāni">
Līvāni

Līvāni is a town in Latvia. It has had town rights since 1926.

</doc>
<doc id="218365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218365" title="Lubāna">
Lubāna

Lubāna is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218366" title="Ludza">
Ludza

Ludza is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1777.

</doc>
<doc id="218367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218367" title="Madona">
Madona

Madona is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1926.

</doc>
<doc id="218368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218368" title="Mazsalaca">
Mazsalaca

Mazsalaca is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218369" title="Ogre, Latvia">
Ogre, Latvia

Ogre is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1929. It is the principal town of Ogre District in Central Latvia. It is where the Daugava and Ogre rivers come together.

</doc>
<doc id="218370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218370" title="Olaine">
Olaine

Olaine is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1967.

</doc>
<doc id="218371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218371" title="Pāvilosta">
Pāvilosta

Pāvilosta is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218372" title="Piltene">
Piltene

Piltene is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1557.

</doc>
<doc id="218373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218373" title="Pļaviņas">
Pļaviņas

Pļaviņas is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1927.

</doc>
<doc id="218374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218374" title="Preiļi">
Preiļi

Preiļi is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218375" title="Priekule, Latvia">
Priekule, Latvia

Priekule is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218376" title="Rūjiena">
Rūjiena

Rūjiena is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="218377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218377" title="Sabile">
Sabile

Sabile is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218378" title="Salacgrīva">
Salacgrīva

Salacgrīva is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218379" title="Salaspils">
Salaspils

Salaspils is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="218380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218380" title="Saldus">
Saldus

Saldus is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218381" title="Saulkrasti">
Saulkrasti

Saulkrasti () is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218382" title="Seda, Latvia">
Seda, Latvia

Seda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218383" title="Sigulda">
Sigulda

Sigulda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218384" title="Skrunda">
Skrunda

Skrunda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="218385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218385" title="Smiltene">
Smiltene

Smiltene is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1920.

</doc>
<doc id="218386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218386" title="Staicele">
Staicele

Staicele is a town in Latvia. It has had town rights since 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="218387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218387" title="Stende">
Stende

Stende is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218388" title="Strenči">
Strenči

Strenči is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218389" title="Subate">
Subate

Subate is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218390" title="Talsi">
Talsi

Talsi is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218391" title="Tukums">
Tukums

Tukums is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1795.

</doc>
<doc id="218392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218392" title="Valdemārpils">
Valdemārpils

Valdemārpils is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="218393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218393" title="Valka">
Valka

Valka is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1584.

</doc>
<doc id="218394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218394" title="Valmiera">
Valmiera

Valmiera (; ) is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1323, it is the largest city of the historical Vidzeme region, Latvia, with a total area of . It is the center of the Valmiera District. As of 2002, Valmiera had a population of 27,323, and in 2008 – 27,569.
It lies at the crossroads of several important roads, to the north-east from Riga, the capital of Latvia, and south of the border with Estonia. Valmiera lies on both banks of the Gauja River.
Valmiera is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="218395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218395" title="Vangaži">
Vangaži

Vangaži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218396" title="Varakļāni">
Varakļāni

Varakļāni is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218397" title="Viesīte">
Viesīte

Viesīte is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218398" title="Viļaka">
Viļaka

Viļaka is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1945.

</doc>
<doc id="218399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218399" title="Viļāni">
Viļāni

Viļāni is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

</doc>
<doc id="218400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218400" title="Zilupe">
Zilupe

Zilupe is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1931.

</doc>
<doc id="218404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218404" title="Frederick Sanger">
Frederick Sanger

Frederick Sanger OM CH CBE FRS (13 August 1918 – 19 November 2013) was an English biochemist. 
Sanger is a two-time Nobel laureate in chemistry, the only person to have been so. Sanger is the fourth person to have been given two Nobel Prizes, either individually or in tandem with others.
In 1958 he was given a Nobel prize in chemistry "for his work on the structure of proteins, especially that of insulin". 
In 1980, Walter Gilbert and Sanger shared half of the chemistry prize "for their contributions concerning the determination of base sequences in nucleic acids". The other half was given to Paul Berg "for his fundamental studies of the biochemistry of nucleic acids, with particular regard to recombinant-DNA".
Sanger retired in 1983 to his home, "Far Leys", in Swaffham Bulbeck outside Cambridge. 
In 1992, the Wellcome Trust and the Medical Research Council founded the Sanger Centre (now the Sanger Institute), named after him. The Institute is on the Wellcome Trust Genome Campus near Hinxton, only a few miles from Sanger's home. John Sulston, the founding director, asked Sanger if the centre could be named in his honor. Sanger agreed but warned, "It had better be good". It was opened by Sanger himself on 4 October 1993, with a staff of less than 50 people. The Institute now has a leading role in the sequencing of the human genome. The Institute now has over 900 people and is one of the world's largest genomic research centres.
Although he retains his dislike of violence, he has lost his Quaker religious faith and calls himself an agnostic. In an interview published in the Times newspaper in 2000 Sanger is quoted as saying: "My father was a committed Quaker and I was brought up as a Quaker, and for them truth is very important. I drifted away from those beliefs – one is obviously looking for truth but one needs some evidence for it. Even if I wanted to believe in God I would find it very difficult. I would need to see proof". 
He declined the offer of a knighthood as he did not wish to be addressed as "Sir" but later accepted the award of an Order of Merit.
In 2007 the British Biochemical Society was given a grant by the Wellcome Trust to catalogue and preserve the 35 laboratory notebooks in which Sanger recorded his remarkable research from 1944 to 1983. In reporting this matter, "Science" journal noted that Sanger, "the most self-effacing person you could hope to meet", was now spending his time gardening at his Cambridgeshire home.
Sanger died on 19 November 2013 in his Cambridge, England home, aged 95. His scientific biography is currently being written for publication in 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="218407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218407" title="List of settlements in Latvia">
List of settlements in Latvia

There are 9 cities and 67 towns in Latvia. This is a list of the cities and towns.

</doc>
<doc id="218415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218415" title="Mats Sundin">
Mats Sundin

Mats Johan Sundin (born February 13, 1971) is a Swedish retired professional ice hockey player. Sundin played a career total of 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Quebec Nordiques, Toronto Maple Leafs, and Vancouver Canucks. Sundin served as the team captain of the Toronto Maple Leafs for 11 seasons. When the 2007–08 NHL season ended, Sundin became the longest serving non-North American born captain in NHL history. He last played 41 games with the Vancouver Canucks in the 2008–09 NHL season before he announced his retirement on September 30, 2009.
On November 12, 2012, Sundin along with Joe Sakic, Adam Oates and Pavel Bure was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="218416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218416" title="Khorasan Province">
Khorasan Province

Khorasan (Persian: خراسان) was the largest province of Iran until it was divided into three provinces on September 29, 2004: 
North Khorasan, center: Bojnourd
South Khorasan, center: Birjand
Razavi Khorasan, center: Mashhad
Khorasan is famous worldwide for its saffron and zereshk which are produced in the southern cities of the province. It is also known for its famous rugs. 
Khorasan is the birthplace of Ferdowsi, the famous Iranian poet who wrote the Shahnameh (Shāhnāme), the national epic of Persian people and of the Iranian World. 
Imam Reza Shrine (the shrine of the 8th shi'a Imam), the center of Razavi Khorasan Province.

</doc>
<doc id="218422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218422" title="Geoffrey Prior">
Geoffrey Prior

Sir Geoffrey Prior (1896-1972) was the first Chief commissioner of Balochistan (Pakistan) from 15 August 1947 to 3 October 1947.

</doc>
<doc id="218424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218424" title="Ambrose Dundas Flux Dundas">
Ambrose Dundas Flux Dundas

Sir Ambrose Dundas Flux Dundas KCIE, CSI (b.1899-d.1973) was the second chief commissioner of Balochistan (Pakistan) from 4 October 1947 - 8 April 1948, and the second governor of the North West Frontier Province from 9 April 1948 - 16 July 1949.
Dundas was Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man from 1952 to 1959.

</doc>
<doc id="218425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218425" title="Frederick Chalmers Bourne">
Frederick Chalmers Bourne

Sir Frederick Chalmers Bourne (12 August 1891 – 1977) was an English colonial administrator. He served in British India. He began his service in the Royal Army. He then served in the civil service from 1920. He worked in Lahore for several years, and held several high positions for the government of Punjab. Bourne was appointed acting Governor of the Central Provinces and Berar from May to October 1945, and as the acting Governor of Assam in 1946. He then served as the last Governor of the Central Provinces and Berar, from 1946 until independence of India in 1947. Bourne was then appointed the first governor of East Bengal, United Pakistan. He was governor from 15 August 1947 to 5 April 1950.

</doc>
<doc id="218426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218426" title="Francis Mudie">
Francis Mudie

Sir Francis Mudie (1890–1976) was the first governor of the Punjab in Pakistan from 15 August 1947 to 2 August 1949.

</doc>
<doc id="218427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218427" title="George Cunningham (governor)">
George Cunningham (governor)

Sir George Cunningham (1888 - 1964) was the first governor of the North-West Frontier Province province in Pakistan. He was governor from 15 August 1947 to 8 April 1948.

</doc>
<doc id="218432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218432" title="1899 Atlantic hurricane season">
1899 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1899 Atlantic hurricane season was during the summer and fall of 1899. Nine storms were seen during this time, five of them were hurricane and the other four were tropical storms. Hurricane Three or the Hurricane San Ciriaco was the longest lived Atlantic hurricane. It also killed about 3433 people, making it the tenth deadliest Atlantic hurricane. 
Tropical Storm One was a weak tropical storm in late June. One started in the northwest corner of the Gulf of Mexico. It made landfall in Texas and quickly died, the same day. 
This storm was seen about 2 days before it hit Hispaniola. It later hit Florida in the Panhandle on August 1. Two died the next day. This storm killed 6 people and caused almost $600,000 in damage.
Hurricane Three, which was called the Hurricane San Ciriaco, was the longest lived hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean. The hurricane affected about six countries. This hurricane lived from August 3 to September 4, nearly a month. It killed about 3,433 people.
Hurricane Four was a category 2 hurricane that struck Haiti in early September. The hurricane caused no damage or deaths. 
Hurricane Five was a category 3 hurricane that mostly stayed at sea. But before it died, it hit Newfoundland as a weak hurricane. 
Six was a strong tropical storm in early October, 1899. It died not very long after making a landfall near Gainesville, Florida.
Tropical Storm Seven was a weak tropical storm. It lasted during the middle of October, 1899. Seven did not affect any land.
This category 2 hurricane struck Cuba and South Carolina. It was a category 1 when it struck both of those places. 
Tropical Storm Nine was the last storm in 1899. It lasted during early to mid November in 1899. This storm also struck Cuba.

</doc>
<doc id="218436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218436" title="1890 Atlantic hurricane season">
1890 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1890 Atlantic hurricane season was one of the least active hurricane seasons, with only 4 storms. This season got an early start, as Tropical Storm One started in May. There were also only 9 deaths in 1890.

</doc>
<doc id="218440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218440" title="Paul Cézanne">
Paul Cézanne

Mr. Paul Cézanne (19 January 1839 - 22 October 1906) was a French painter. He was born in Aix-en-Provence, in the south of France and died of pneumonia there.
The artistic career of Paul Cézanne spanned more than forty years, from roughly 1860 to 1906. A prolific artist, he produced more than 900 oil paintings and 400 watercolours, including many incomplete works. 
Cézanne's work is broadly post-impressionist. His work helped the transition from the 19th century idea of art to the very different world of art in the 20th century. Cézanne forms the bridge between late 19th century Impressionism and the early 20th century Cubism. The line attributed to both Matisse and Picasso that "Cézanne is the father of us all" is significant.
Cézanne's work demonstrates a mastery of design, colour and composition. His brushstrokes are clearly recognizable. He used planes of colour and small brushstrokes that build up to form complex fields. The paintings convey Cézanne's intense study of his subjects, a searching gaze and a struggle to deal with the complexity of human visual perception.
Cézanne's "The Card Players" (1882) is at present the world's most expensive painting. It was sold for more than $250 million in 2011 to the royal family of Qatar. What makes this all the more remarkable is that there are four other Cézanne 'Card Players'. They are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Musée d’Orsay, the Courtauld, and the Barnes Foundation.
In Paris, Cézanne met the Impressionist Camille Pissarro in the mid-1860s. Initially the friendship was that of master and disciple, with Pissarro exerting an influence on the younger artist. Over the course time their landscape painting excursions, in Louveciennes and Pontoise, led to a working relationship between equals.
Cézanne's early work is often concerned with the figure in the landscape, imaginatively painted. Later in his career, he became more interested in working from direct observation and gradually developed a light, airy painting style that was to influence the Impressionists enormously. In Cézanne's mature work we see the development of a solidified, almost architectural style of painting. He ordered whatever he saw into simple forms and colour planes. His statement "I want to make of impressionism something solid and lasting like the art in the museums", and his contention that he was re-creating Poussin "after nature" proved his desire to unite observation of nature with the permanence of classical composition.
Many of his paintings show people bathing, with the Montagne Sainte-Victoire in the background. These mountains are situated east of Aix-en-Provence. He also painted many still lifes, and portraits of his wife, with these mountains. 
His colleagues included Pissarro, Monet and Renoir. Ambroise Vollard, an art critic with a gallery, was among the first people who bought Cézanne's artworks. In 1895, Vollard had the first exhibition showing Cézanne's works in his gallery, in Paris. 
Cézanne's work influenced other artists, especially Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, who started Cubism, as well as Henri Matisse. Paul Cézanne can also be seen as a post-impressionist, who contributed to modernism in painting. Paul Cézanne painted over 900 oil paintings and 400 watercolours, over 200 of them being still life paintings.

</doc>
<doc id="218443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218443" title="Alice DeeJay">
Alice DeeJay

Alice DeeJay was a Dutch electronic music group, who achieved success from 1999 to 2002. The group consisted of record producers Pronti (born Sebastiaan Molijn), Kalmani (born Eelke Kalberg) and DJ Jurgen, with lead singer Judith Anna Pronk. The groups best known song is "Better Off Alone" from their 2000 album, "Who Needs Guitars Anyway?".

</doc>
<doc id="218445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218445" title="Myriapoda">
Myriapoda

The Myriapoda is a subphylum of arthropods. It contains the millipedes, centipedes, and others. The group has 13,000 species, all of which are terrestrial. Their name suggests they have many legs. In fact one has over 750 legs ("Illacme plenipes"), but some have fewer than ten legs. 
The fossil record of myriapods goes back into the late Silurian, though molecular evidence suggests they diversified in the Cambrian period. Cambrian fossils do exist which look like myriapods.
Myriapods have a single pair of antennae and, in most cases, simple eyes. The mouthparts lie on the underside of the head,
. There is an "epistome" and labrum forming the upper lip, and a pair of maxillae forming the lower lip. A pair of mandibles lie inside the mouth. Myriapods breathe through spiracles that connect to a tracheal system similar to that of insects.
There has been much debate as to which arthropod group is most closely related to the Myriapoda. Under the Mandibulata hypothesis, Myriapoda is the sister taxon to Pancrustacea, a group comprising the Crustacea and Hexapoda. Under the Atelocerata hypothesis, Hexapoda is the closest, whereas under the Paradoxopoda hypothesis, Chelicerata is the closest. This last hypothesis, although supported by few morphological characters, is supported by a number of molecular studies.
There are four classes of living myriapods, Chilopoda (centipedes), Diplopoda (millipedes), Pauropoda and Symphyla. There is a total of around 12,000 living species. While each of these groups of myriapods is believed to be monophyletic, relationships among them are less certain.
Centipedes make up the order Chilopoda. They are fast, predatory and venomous, hunting mostly at night. There are around 3,300 species, ranging from the diminutive "Nannarup hoffmani" (less than half an inch in length,  mm) to the giant "Scolopendra gigantea", which may exceed .
Millipedes are the class Diplopoda, where most segments appear to have two pairs of legs. This happened because each pair of body segments fused (joined) into a single unit, which gives them the appearance of having two pairs of legs per segment. 
They are slower than centipedes, and feed on leaf litter and detritus. Around 8,000 species have been described, which may represent less than a tenth of the true global millipede diversity. One species, "Illacme plenipes" has the greatest number of legs of any animal, with 750. Millipedes typically have between 36 and 400 legs. Pill millipedes are much shorter, and are capable of rolling up into a ball, like pillbugs.
About 200 species of symphylans are known worldwide. They resemble centipedes but are smaller and translucent. Many spend their lives as soil infauna, but some live arboreally. Juveniles have six pairs of legs, but, over a lifetime of several years, add an additional pair at each moult so that the adult instar has twelve pairs of legs.
Pauropoda is another small group of small myriapods. They are typically 0.5–2.0 mm long and live in the soil on all continents except Antarctica. Over 700 species have been described. They are believed to be the sister group to millipedes, and have the dorsal tergites fused across pairs of segments, similar to the more complete fusion of segments seen in millipedes.
Arthropleuridea were ancient myriapods that are now extinct. The most famous members are from the genus "Arthropleura", which was a giant, probably herbivorous, animal that could be up to long. Arthropleuridea may be a division of the millipedes.

</doc>
<doc id="218447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218447" title="Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation">
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation

Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, more commonly referred to as TENS (or sometimes TeNS), is defined by the American Physical Therapy Association as application of electrical current through the skin for pain control.

</doc>
<doc id="218449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218449" title="Fenwick Island, Delaware">
Fenwick Island, Delaware

Fenwick Island is a town in Sussex County, which is in the state of Delaware in the United States. There were about 357 people in the town in 2006. Fenwick Island is part of the Seaford, Delaware Micropolitan Statistical Area. Fenwick Island is on the Atlantic Ocean north of Ocean City, Maryland.

</doc>
<doc id="218450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218450" title="General American">
General American

General American (GA) is a major accent of American English. Within American English, General American and accents approximating it are contrasted with Southern American English, several Northeastern accents, and other distinct regional accents and social group accents like African American Vernacular English.

</doc>
<doc id="218451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218451" title="Thomas Linley the younger">
Thomas Linley the younger

Thomas Linley (born Bath, England, 5 May 1756; died Grimsthorpe, Lincs 5 Aug 1778) was an English composer and violinist. He was born in the same year as Mozart and, like Mozart, he was an astonishing child prodigy. He would almost certainly have been one of England’s greatest composers if he had not died at the age of 22.
Thomas came from a musical family. His father, also called Thomas Linley, was a composer, singing teacher and harpsichord player. His young son was soon showing exceptional musical skills. We do not know who taught him the violin in his early years, but people writing at the time all say he was a brilliant player. He went to Italy to study the violin and composition with Nardini in Florence. He met Mozart there in 1770 and he also met Charles Burney in the same year. Burney wrote that Linley was the most promising genius of the time.
In 1771 Linley went back to England. He was the leader of the orchestra in the theatre in Drury Lane. He often played concertos between the acts of oratorios.
During the last five years of his life he composed a large amount of excellent music. Unfortunately a lot of it has been lost. Gainsborough twice painted a portrait of him.
He died in a boating accident when he was on holiday with his family in Lincolnshire.

</doc>
<doc id="218452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218452" title="Kaiane Aldorino">
Kaiane Aldorino

Kaiane Aldorino won Miss World 2009 on December 12, 2009. She was born July 8, 1986 in Gibraltar.

</doc>
<doc id="218454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218454" title="Thomas Linley the elder">
Thomas Linley the elder

Thomas Linley (born Badminton, Gloucestershire, England, 17 January 1733; died London 19 November 1795), was an English composer, harpsichordist and singing teacher. He studied with Thomas Chilcot, organist of Bath Abbey, and later with William Boyce and possibly also with Paradies, the Italian harpsichordist who had come to live in England.
He soon became well known as a singing teacher and composed a lot of music for the Drury Lane theatre, London.
He married a girl called Mary Johnson and the couple had twelve children. Several of them were gifted musicians, especially Thomas who died at the age of 22 in a boating accident.
Thomas Linley was chosen to be a member of the Royal Society of Musicians in 1777. He is buried in Wells Cathedral.

</doc>
<doc id="218456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218456" title="Hypothetical imperative">
Hypothetical imperative

A hypothetical imperative is a rule of the form "If you want x, then do y". Moral theories may generally have this structure. This means that only those who want x, must do y. Another view is that moral values are not relative to some objective, but are the same for all, that is they are unconditional, or categorical.
The term was coined by Immanuel Kant. Kant said that moral values had to be unconditional, categorical; he wrote a categorical imperative. 

</doc>
<doc id="218458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218458" title="William Boyce">
William Boyce

William Boyce (born London, 11 September 1711; died Kensington, 7 February 1779) is one of the most important English composers of the 18th century. He was composing during the last years of the Baroque period and the early years of the Classical Period. He is famous for his church music as well as music for the theatre and orchestral music.
Boyce was born in the City of London. His father was a cabinetmaker. His house was known by the sign of a Naked Boy which hung outside. 
Boyce was a choirboy at St Paul's Cathedral and then studied music with Maurice Greene after his voice broke. When he had finished his studies he got a job as organist at the Earl of Oxford’s chapel in Cavendish Square. Two years later he went to St Michael’s Cornhill. He was still studying music, now his teacher was Pepusch.
Boyce wrote songs for Vauxhall Gardens. Many people would have heard these songs. He became composer to the Chapel Royal in 1736. This was a great honour. He wrote several big works, although we do not know much about them or about their performances. Some time during the 1740s he composed a theatre work called "The Secular Masque". The words were by John Dryden. In 1749 he was given the title of Doctor of Music after a performance of his anthem "O be joyful".
Boyce was very famous by now. He went to live in a large house in Chancery Lane. He seems to have married and started a family. He was asked to compose for the theatre in Drury Lane. It is surprising he had not been asked to write theatre music before. It may be because he was going deaf. This would have made it difficult for him to rehearse his music with the orchestra.
Boyce wrote a good deal of music for the theatre. There seems to have been some rivalry with the composer Thomas Arne. Probably the composers themselves did not want this rivalry, it was encouraged by their supporters.
In 1755, when Maurice Green died, William Boyce was made Master of the King's Music in his place. He was expected to compose odes for every New Year and for the King’s birthday. He did this for the rest of his life.
Not much of Boyce’s works were published during his lifetime. He wrote eight symphonies. The earlier ones are in a Baroque style. Later his style started to change to become more Classical, but by the time he was very deaf he could not hear new music that was being composed by other people, so his style did not develop any more. He spent a lot of his time putting together a collection of church music called 
"Cathedral Music". It included music from two centuries of English church music, especially music by John Blow, Henry Purcell, Pelham Humfrey and Orlando Gibbons. He encouraged singers to sing with a score in front of them (music which shows all the singing parts) instead of just the part that they sing, so that they could see how their part fitted in with the others. This is normal today, but it was a new idea at the time. He had to spend a lot of his time writing unimportant music for the king which was unlikely ever to be performed more than once.
Boyce is best known for his eight symphonies, his anthems and his odes. He also wrote the masque "Peleus and Thetis" and songs for John Dryden's "Secular Masque", incidental music for William Shakespeare's "The Tempest", "Cymbeline", "Romeo and Juliet" and "The Winter's Tale", and a lot of chamber music including a set of twelve trio sonatas. He also composed the British and Canadian Naval March "Heart of Oak". The lyrics were later written by David Garrick. His music is always skilfully written, especially his fugues and dances. 
Boyce was largely forgotten after his death. In the 19th century he was known mainly for editing "Cathedral Music". Today some of his orchestral and instrumental pieces are often played.

</doc>
<doc id="218466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218466" title="The Starry Night">
The Starry Night

The Starry Night is a famous painting of a moonlit sky with stars in it by Vincent van Gogh. It was painted in 1889.

</doc>
<doc id="218474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218474" title="Money Talks">
Money Talks

Money Talks is a 1997 action/comedy movie directed by Brett Ratner and starring Chris Tucker and Charlie Sheen. It was released to theaters by New Line Cinema

</doc>
<doc id="218487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218487" title="Kalgan River">
Kalgan River

The Kalgan River is in Western Australia near Albany. It is one of the oldest rivers in the world and has seen dinosaurs on its banks. It is about in length.
The river was named the 'Riviere des Francais' by the French Scientific Expedition in 1803 led by Nicolas Baudin. Early settlers called it the 'French River'. The explorer Dr Alexander Collie wrote down the name of the river as 'Kal-gan-up' in April 1831. The name Kalganup is thought to be the Noongar word for 'place of many waters'. Kalganup is also thought to mean 'place of fishes' and there are still the remains of Aboriginal fish traps to prove the point.

</doc>
<doc id="218499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218499" title="Gas mask">
Gas mask

A gas mask is a kind of mask that fits over the face area and nose. Protecting from poisonous gases, gasoline spills, and tear gas are just a few things a gas mask is used for. Gas masks were sent all over England. They were worn everywhere even to sleep they knew Hitler would send no warning at all. It is power gear. It was much more safe to put the gas mask on in the blitz. The Germans didn't attack with gas bombs so the gas masks were not useful. The gas masks were sent to the whole country. Gas masks have a type of material which lets good air in.

</doc>
<doc id="218506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218506" title="George Whipple">
George Whipple

George Hoyt Whipple (August 26, 1878 - February 1, 1976) was an American doctor. He won the 1934 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with George Minot and William P. Murphy, for their discoveries about how eating liver could cure anaemia.

</doc>
<doc id="218507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218507" title="Milişăuţi">
Milişăuţi

Milişăuţi is a town in Suceava County, Romania. In 2011, 4,958 people lived there according to the census.

</doc>
<doc id="218508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218508" title="Fălticeni">
Fălticeni

Fălticeni is a city in Suceava County, Romania, capital of the former Baia County (1929-1950). As of 2003 the population is 28,899, and the city covers an area of 28,76 km², of which 25% are orchards and lakes. The city is 25 km away from Suceava, the capital of the county.

</doc>
<doc id="218509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218509" title="Vicovu de Sus">
Vicovu de Sus

Vicovu de Sus () is a town in northern Suceava County, Romania. It is on the border with the Ukraine.

</doc>
<doc id="218513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218513" title="George Minot">
George Minot

George Richards Minot (December 2, 1885 - February 25, 1950) was an American doctor. He won the 1934 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with George Whipple and William P. Murphy, for their discoveries how eating liver could cure anaemia.
 

</doc>
<doc id="218514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218514" title="Tertiary">
Tertiary

The Tertiary was an official geological period, but it is no longer used. It included the first part of the Cainozoic. This is now divided into the Palaeogene and the Neogene.
The previous use of the term "Tertiary" explains why the last period of the Cainozoic is called the Quarternary. There was a big debate about that. These decisions are made by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS). This organisation runs an International Commission on Stratigraphy, which decides how we should name geological strata and stages. 
In 19th and 20th century scientific literature, Tertiary is used where geologists now use Palaeogene and Neogene.

</doc>
<doc id="218517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218517" title="Quaternary">
Quaternary

The Quaternary is the current geological period. It is the most recent of the three periods of the Cainozoic era. The Quaternary follows the Neogene, which is the second period of the Cainozoic.
The Quaternary began about 2.6 million years ago, and continues today. A great deal of information is considered when geologists discuss the timing of periods. The status of the Quaternary as a period is confirmed by the "International Commission on Stratigraphy" (ICS). 
In the Quarternary were the glaciations known as the Ice Age. Also, anatomically modern humans evolved. During the Quaternary, many large mammalian species became extinct. This was due to climate change and hunting by humans.
The Quaternary includes two geologic epochs: 

</doc>
<doc id="218518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218518" title="ICal">
ICal

iCal is a personal calendar application made by Apple Inc. that runs on the Mac OS X operating system. iCal was the first calendar application for Mac OS X to offer support for multiple calendars and the ability to publish/subscribe calendars to WebDAV server.
Originally released as a free download for Mac OS X v10.2 on September 10 2002, with the release of Mac OS X v10.3 it was bundled with the operating system as iCal 1.5. Version 2 of iCal was released as part of Mac OS X v10.4, Version 3 with Mac OS X v10.5 and Version 4 as part of Mac OS X v10.6.
Apple licensed the iCal name from Brown Bear Software, who have used it for their iCal application since 1997.
iCal development is quite different from other Apple software because it was designed independently by a small French team working "secretly" in Paris, led by Jean-Marie Hullot, a friend of Steve Jobs. iCal's development has since been transferred to Apple US headquarters in Cupertino.
It has been reported that some users of iCal who have their calendar on a CalDAV server can not view or add events to their calendar. This issue is specific to Google Calendar users.
The release of Snow Leopard introduced several bugs into Snow Leopard, with regard to iCal alarms. These problems include alarms not firing; all alarms being set to one fixed date and time in the past, preventing them from firing; alarms from repeat events being fired for all historic occurrences of that repeated event, resulting in dozens of alarms for one event. Updates to Snow Leopard 10.6.1 and 10.6.2 have not addressed these problems.
iCal supports times zones, i.e.: if the function is enabled, and the computer's time zone changes, all the events in iCal are shifted to compensate for the time zone difference. The bug is that this function also occur when it is turned off, therefore when ever the computer's time zone changes, all the events in iCal shift as well. As of today, there is still no fix for this bug.

</doc>
<doc id="218519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218519" title="Palaeogene">
Palaeogene

The Palaeogene is the first geological period pf the Cainozoic. It began 66 million years ago, and ended at 23 million years ago. Before it was the Cretaceous It was followed by the Neogene.
The Palaeogene had three stages: Palaeocene, Eocene and Oligocene.

</doc>
<doc id="218521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218521" title="Neogene">
Neogene

The Neogene is the second geological period of the Cainozoic. It began 23 million years ago, and ended about 2.6 million years ago.
Before the Neogene was the Palaeogene. The Neogene has two stages: Miocene, and Pliocene. It is followed by the Quaternary.

</doc>
<doc id="218522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218522" title="Palaeocene">
Palaeocene

The Palaeocene is the first geological epoch in the Palaeogene. It started after the end of the Cretaceous, and lasted for about 10 million years. It was followed by the Eocene epoch.
The Palaeocene began and ended with an extinction event, each of quite a different character. The epoch began with the K/T extinction event, caused by a combination of a meteorite strike (Chicxulub crater) and a huge volcanic flood basalt eruption which produced the Deccan Traps in what is now India. This caused the extinction of many groups, including the dinosaurs and many other reptiles. The epoch ended with the "Palaeocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum", a deep ocean anoxic event (DOAE). This means that the ocean depths were lacking oxygen, so no higher forms of life could survive. This produced a mass extinction of between 35–50% of deep water forms such as benthic foraminifera, and coincided with a major change of mammalian types on land.
After a cooler start, the climate grew warmer during the epoch, far warmer than today, and the world was heavily forested. There were no ice caps at the poles. Warm seas circulated throughout the world, including the poles. The earliest Paleocene featured a low diversity and abundance of marine life, but this trend reversed later in the epoch. Tropical conditions gave rise to abundant marine life, including coral reefs. With the demise of marine reptiles at the end of the Cretaceous, sharks became the top predators. At the end of the Cretaceous, the ammonites and many species of foraminifera became extinct.
Marine faunas also came to resemble modern faunas, with only the marine mammals and an important family of sharks, the Carcharhinidae, are missing.
Non-avian dinosaurs may have survived to some extent into the early Danian stage of the Paleocene Epoch circa 66 mya. The controversial evidence for such is a hadrosaur leg bone found from Paleocene strata in New Mexico; but such stray late forms may be derived fossils. This means they were fossilised, then erosion uncovered them, then they were buried again in a younger layer of rocks.
The Palaeocene is divided into three stages: 

</doc>
<doc id="218526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218526" title="Byron Moreno">
Byron Moreno

Byron Moreno (born 23 November 1969) is a former Ecuadorian football referee. He has been suspended for his job, because he showed illegal red cards. He was also arrested in New York for the possession of the illegal drug heroin and was fined for drunk driving.

</doc>
<doc id="218527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218527" title="Eocene">
Eocene

The Eocene was the second geological epoch in the Palaeogene. It began 56 million years ago, and ended 33.9 million years ago. Before it was the Palaeocene and, after it, the Oligocene.
The Eocene, like the Palaeocene before it, had a climate much warmer than today. At the start of the Eocene the "Palaeocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum" was reached. This lasted for 100,000 years, and caused a large extinction event. At the end of the Eocene another extinction event occurred, this time probably caused by meteorite strikes in Siberia and Chesapeake Bay.
The land was heavily forested, with temperate forests into the polar regions, and the many herbivorous mammals were browsers, not grazers.

</doc>
<doc id="218540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218540" title="Islam in Pakistan">
Islam in Pakistan

Islam is the official religion of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. In 2007, 97% of the population were Muslims, with 75% being Sunni and 20% Shi'a. There are about 175,376,000 Muslims in Pakistan which is the second largest Muslim population in the world after Indonesia. The Shi'a Muslim population is the second largest in the world after Iran, more than 50 million.
In 644 A.D. an Arab Army under the command of Hakam defeated the combined forces of Makran and Sindh. The period of Arab rule brought the religion of Islam to the Indus Valley. The Baloch tribes gradually embraced Islam, replacing their centuries-old Zoroastrian religion. Islam arrived in the area of modern Pakistan in 711 AD, 79 yrs after the of death of the prophet Muhammad. The Umayyad dynasty sent a Muslim Arab army led by Muhammad bin Qasim al-Thaqafi against the ruler of Sindh, Raja Dahir. Raja Dahir had given refuge to many Zoroastrian Princes who had fled the Islamic conquest of Iran. Muhammad Bin Qasim's army was defeated in his first three attempts. The Muslim army conquered the northwestern part of Indus Valley from Kashmir to the Arabian Sea.
The arrival of the Arab Muslims to the provinces of Sindh and Punjab, along with subsequent Muslim dynasties, set the religious boundaries of South Asia. This would lead to the development of the modern state of Pakistan as well as forming the foundation for Islamic rule across much of South Asia. Following the rule of various Islamic empires, including the Ghaznavid Empire, the Ghorid kingdom, and the Delhi Sultanate, the Mughals controlled the region from 1526 until 1739. Muslim technocrats, bureaucrats, soldiers, traders, scientists, architects, teachers, theologians and Sufis flocked from the rest of the Muslim world to Islamic Sultanate and Mughal Empire in South Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="218541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218541" title="Kashmir Smast">
Kashmir Smast

The Kashmir Smast caves are a series of natural limestone caves, artificially expanded from the Kushan Empire to the Shahi periods, in the Babozai mountains in the Mardan Valley in Northern Pakistan. 

</doc>
<doc id="218542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218542" title="Lower Cretaceous">
Lower Cretaceous

The Lower Cretaceous is the first geological epoch in the Cretaceous. It began 145 million years ago, and ended 100.5 million years ago.
Lasting for about 46 million years, this is the longest stage in the Phanerozoic eon. It is longer than some of the geological periods in the Phanerozoic. 
The Lower Cretaceous is best displayed in England, where it is composed of two series of rocks. Between the two is a major rise in sea level. 
The two parts of the Cretaceous represent the sea level where the divisions were first defined. In the Lower Cretaceous, the sea level was much lower than in the Upper Cretaceous. In the Wealden, Southern England was a huge tropical river delta; in the Greensand the same areas were just offshore. However, in the Upper Cretaceous the deposits were made in deeper water, on what was then the continental shelf. Sea level then stood at its highest level in the Mesozoic.

</doc>
<doc id="218543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218543" title="Trio sonata">
Trio sonata

A trio sonata is a type of music for three instruments which was very popular during the 17th century and early 18th century: the period known as the Baroque period.
A trio sonata is written for three voices (three parts), in other words, it can be played by three different instruments. The two upper voices share the same musical themes. They often imitate one another. They are of equal importance. The third part, the lowest part, is played by basso continuo, which means the accompaniment. This continuo is usually played by two instruments: typically a cello or bass viol and a keyboard instrument such as the harpsichord. That makes four players, of course. However, the harpsichord player’s left hand notes are the same as the cello’s notes. This is the “third” part of the trio.
Some of the best trio sonatas are those by Arcangelo Corelli. His collection of trio sonatas numbered opus 1 and 3 are sonata da chiesa: four movements (slow-fast-slow-fast) finishing with a fugue. His op 2 and 4 sonatas are sonata da camera type: each movement is a kind of dance. Corelli’s trio sonatas are for two violins and continuo. 
Johann Sebastian Bach wrote a trio sonata in "The Musical Offering" for violin, flute and continuo. 
Bach also wrote six trio sonatas for organ. These are played by one player. The organist’s two hands each play on different manuals (keyboards) so that they sound like two different instruments. The organist’s feet play the third part on the pedals. Each part is strictly a single line (no chords, never more than three notes at a time) so that these works can also be played by other instruments (e.g. two violins and cello with harpsichord).
Bach also wrote sonatas for one melodic instrument and harpsichord. These pieces are really trio sonatas, although he does not call them trio sonatas. The melodic instrument (normally violin or flute) plays the top part, the harpsichordist plays the second part with his right hand, and the third part is the lowest part of his left hand notes.
Some other composers who wrote trio sonatas are Tomaso Albinoni, Henry Purcell, Dieterich Buxtehude, George Frideric Handel, Georg Philipp Telemann, Johann Pachelbel and Antonio Vivaldi. 

</doc>
<doc id="218549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218549" title="K/T extinction event">
K/T extinction event

The Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, or Cretaceous–Palaeogene extinction event, was about 66 million years ago. It may be called the K/T extinction event or even K/Pg event for short. This is the famous event which killed the dinosaurs at the end of the Cretaceous period.
It was a large-scale mass extinction of animal and plant species. The event marks the end of the Mesozoic era and the beginning of the Cainozoic era.
Dinosaur fossils are only found below the K/T boundary. This shows they became extinct before, or during the event. Mosasaurs, plesiosaurs, pterosaurs and many species of plants and invertebrates also became extinct. 
Mammalian and bird groups got through the event with some extinctions. Those that survived became widespread and varied during their later evolutionary radiation.
Scientists think the K/T extinctions were caused by one or more catastrophic events, such as massive asteroid or meteorite impacts (like the Chicxulub impact), and increased volcanic activity. 
Several impact craters and massive volcanic activity, such as that in the Deccan Traps in India, have been dated to the approximate time of the extinction event. These geological events would have reduced sunlight and hindered photosynthesis, leading to a massive disruption in Earth's ecology.
Evidence is accumulating that there were multiple impacts across the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary, such as the Chicxulub crater in Mexico, Boltysh crater in Ukraine, Silverpit crater in North Sea, and the Shiva crater offshore western India. 
The Shiva crater is a sea floor structure under the continental shelf in the Indian Ocean, west of Mumbai, India. It was named by paleontologist Sankar Chatterjee after Shiva, the Hindu god of destruction and renewal.

</doc>
<doc id="218552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218552" title="John Rutter">
John Rutter

John Rutter (born London 24 September 1945) is an English composer and choral conductor. He has composed a lot of church music. Many of his anthems and songs are very popular indeed with church choirs as well as choral societies. He writes in a style that can be enjoyed easily, and at the same time it is excellent music.
Rutter was born in London. He went to school at Highgate School. Another pupil in the school was John Tavener who was also to become a famous composer, although his style of music is very different.
Rutter studied music at Clare College, Cambridge. He became director of music at Clare College in 1975 and made the choir internationally famous.
In 1974, Rutter visited the United States where he conducted his new cantata "Gloria" which became a great favourite. He also conducted his "Eight Childhood Lyrics".
In 1981 Rutter started a choir of his own, the Cambridge Singers. He still conducts them. They have made many recordings. Rutter still lives near Cambridge and spends his time composing and conducting all over the world.
Rutter has been given many honours, including honorary Fellow of Westminster Choir College, Princeton (1980), Fellow of the Guild of Church Musicians (1988). In 1996 the Archbishop of Canterbury gave him the Lambeth Doctorate of Music to celebrate all he has done for church music. He was made a CBE in 2007.
Rutter also works as an arranger and editor. His collection of "Carols for Choirs" which he prepared together with Sir David Willcocks is extremely widely used in Britain.
Rutter's compositions include Christmas carols, anthems and longer choral works such as a "Gloria", a "Magnificat", and a "Requiem".
In 2002 his setting of "Psalm 150", written for the Queen's Golden Jubilee, was performed at the thanksgiving service in St Paul's Cathedral, London. He has also written an opera for young people called "Bang!". His "Mass for Children" was first performed in 2003 in the Carnegie Hall, New York.
Most of his songs and anthems were written at first with piano or organ accompaniment, but he has also arranged many of them for orchestral accompaniment as well.

</doc>
<doc id="218553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218553" title="Danny Bonaduce">
Danny Bonaduce

Dante Daniel "Danny" Bonaduce (born August 13, 1959) is an American radio and TV host, and he was a child actor.
He is famous for being on the 1970s sitcom/television series "The Partridge Family".

</doc>
<doc id="218556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218556" title="Permian–Triassic extinction event">
Permian–Triassic extinction event

The Permian/Triassic extinction event (P/Tr for short) was the largest extinction event in the Phanerozoic eon. 96% of all marine species and 70% of terrestrial vertebrates became extinct. It ended the Palaeozoic era, and began the Mesozoic era.
The event forms the boundary between the Permian and Triassic periods, at about 252 million years ago. Because so much biodiversity was lost, the recovery of life on earth took much longer than after other extinction events. This event has been described as the "mother of all mass extinctions".
The pattern of extinction is still unclear, as different studies suggest one to three different pulses. 
There are several proposed mechanisms for the extinctions. These include: large or multiple meteorite impacts, increased volcanism, sudden release of methane hydrates from the sea floor. Gradual changes include sea level change, oceanic anoxic events, increasing aridity, and a shift in ocean circulation driven by climate change.
One thing is probably significant. One of the largest ever flood basalt eruptions took place across the P/Tr junction. These eruptions, from 251 to 250 million years ago, produced the Siberian Traps, a huge volcanic province in Siberia. This would certainly have made the world's climate much worse, and is now thought to be the main cause of this great extinction.

</doc>
<doc id="218561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218561" title="Camille Pissarro">
Camille Pissarro

Camille Pissarro (10 July 1830 – 12 November 1903) was a French Impressionist painter. He was born on Saint Tomas in the Virgin Islands. Pissarro died in Paris.
He was the only artist to exhibit in both Impressionism and Post-impressionism forms. Pissarro learnt from great forerunners, including Gustave Courbet and Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. He later studied and worked alongside Georges Seurat and Paul Signac when he took on the Neo-Impressionist style at the age of 54.
In 1873 he helped establish a society of fifteen aspiring artists, holding the group together and encouraging the other members. Art historian John Rewald called Pissarro the “dean of the Impressionist painters", not only because he was the oldest of the group, but also "by virtue of his wisdom and his balanced, kind, and warmhearted personality”. Cézanne said "he was a father for me. A man to consult and a little like the good Lord". He was also one of Gauguin's mentors. Renoir referred to his work as “revolutionary”, through his artistic portrayals of the common man. Pissarro insisted on painting individuals in natural settings without "artifice or grandeur".
Pissarro is the only artist to have shown his work at all eight Paris Impressionist exhibitions, from 1874 to 1886. He acted as a father figure to the Impressionists and, in varying degress, to all four of the major Post-impressionists including Georges Seurat, Paul Cézanne, Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin.
The Franco-Prussian War of 1870–71 compelled Pissarro to flee his home in September 1870; he returned in June 1871 to find that the house, and along with it many of his early paintings, had been destroyed by Prussian soldiers. By December 1870 he and his family had taken refuge in London and settled in Crystal Palace, southwest London. 
Through the paintings Pissarro completed at this time, he records Sydenham and Norwood at a time when they were just recently connected by railways. One of the largest of these paintings is a view of "St. Bartholomew's Church" at Lawrie Park Avenue, commonly known as "The Avenue, Sydenham", in the collection of the National Gallery, London.
Whilst in Upper Norwood Pissarro was introduced to the art dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, who bought two of his 'London' paintings. Durand-Ruel subsequently became the most important art dealer of the new school of French Impressionism.
Returning to France, in 1890 Pissarro again visited England and painted some ten scenes of central London. He came back again in 1892, painting in Kew Gardens and Kew Green, and also in 1897, when he produced several oils of Bedford Park, Chiswick. 

</doc>
<doc id="218562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218562" title="Snowball Earth">
Snowball Earth

Snowball Earth or Icehouse Earth refers to times when the Earth's surface was nearly or entirely frozen. The occurrence of Snowball (or Slushball) Earths is still controversial, but it is now probable that widespread glaciation occurred in periods of the Proterozoic. What is still debatable is how widespread those glaciations were. Proponents claim the theory explains sedimentary deposits of glacial origin at tropical latitudes and other enigmatic features of the geological record. Opponents do not draw the same inferences from the geological evidence, and doubt the geophysical feasibility of an ice or slush-covered ocean.
The Snowball Earth hypothesis explains glacial deposits in the Huronian supergroup of Canada. The palaeomagnetic evidence, which suggests ice sheets at low latitudes, is contested. The glacial sediments of the Makganyene formation of South Africa are slightly younger than the Huronian glacial deposits (~2.25 billion years old) and were deposited at tropical latitudes. Perhaps the rise of free oxygen that occurred during this part of the Paleoproterozoic removed methane in the atmosphere through oxidation. As the Sun was notably weaker at the time, the Earth's climate may have relied on methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, to maintain surface temperatures above freezing. In the absence of this methane greenhouse, temperatures plunged and a snowball event could have occurred.
There were three or four significant ice ages during the late Neoproterozoic. Of these, the Marinoan was the most significant, and the Sturtian glaciations were also truly widespread. These were both in the Cryogenian period, before the Ediacaran. The million year long Gaskiers glaciation did not lead to global glaciation, although it was probably as intense as the late Ordovician glaciation. The status of the Kaigas glaciation or "cooling event" is unclear. Some do not recognise it as glacial, and others believe it may indeed be a third ice age. It was certainly less significant than the Sturtian or Marinoan glaciations, and probably not global in extent. Evidence does suggest that the Earth underwent a number of glaciations during the Neoproterozoic.

</doc>
<doc id="218563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218563" title="Rivallo">
Rivallo

Rivallo () was a legendary king of the Britons as told by Geoffrey of Monmouth. He was the son of King Cunedagius. 
During the time he ruled he was troubled by disasters: a rain of blood which lasted three days, a terrible plague, and a great swarm of flies. After he died his son Gurgustius became king.

</doc>
<doc id="218564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218564" title="Pat Fenlon">
Pat Fenlon

Pat Fenlon (born 15 March 1969) is an Irish football manager who is currently managing Bohemians F.C..
His first job as a manager was at Shelbourne where he won the league in 2003, 2004 and 2006. In that time they also made history by managing the first Irish club to reach the third qualifying round of the Champions League, where they were knocked out by Deportivo de La Coruña from Spain. He left Shelbourne at the end of 2006.
He was made the Derry City manager at the end of 2006 but left halfway through the 2007 season after making a poor start with his new club.
He was made manager of Bohemians in early 2008 and so far has won back-to-back titles, an FAI Cup and a League Cup. He has stated that his desire is to get Bohemians into the Champions League group stages in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="218567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218567" title="Victoria Wood">
Victoria Wood

Victoria Wood CBE (19 May 1953, Prestwich, Lancashire - 20 April 2016, Highgate, North London) was an English comedienne, actress, singer, writer and television presenter.
Victoria Wood went to Bury Grammar Girls' School. She wrote and starred in sketches, plays, films and sitcoms. She was a stand-up comedian. She sang and accompanied herself on the piano.
Her humour was usually about everyday life. It was often satirical. It referred to popular British media and brand names of British products.
She started her career in 1974 by winning the ATV talent show "New Faces". It was not until the 1980s that she began to be known as a comedy star, with the award-winning television series "Victoria Wood As Seen On TV" and became one of Britain's most popular stand-up comedians.
In 1998, she wrote and starred in the sitcom "dinnerladies" (deliberately spelt with a small-case "d").
Wood often worked with Julie Walters, Duncan Preston and Celia Imrie.
She won many awards, including the BAFTA award. She was made a CBE in 2008.
Wood married magician Geoffrey Durham in March 1980. They separated in October 2002. They had a daughter, Grace (born 1988) and son Henry (born 1992).

</doc>
<doc id="218570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218570" title="Niccolò Piccinni">
Niccolò Piccinni

Niccolò Piccinni (born Bari, Italy, 16 January 1728; died near Paris, 7 May 1800) was an Italian composer. He wrote over 80 operas. During his life, he worked with the greatest librettists of his age, including Metastasio. 
Piccinni’s music is hardly ever played today, but in his day many of his operas were extremely popular. He is mainly remembered today because he was invited to Paris where people wanted him to be a rival of Gluck. There were lots of arguments between the people who supported Piccinni and those who supported Gluck.
Piccinni was born in Bari. His father, who was a musician, did not want his son to study music, but the bishop persuaded him to change his mind. Niccolò went to the music conservatoire in Naples. He started to write comic operas (opera buffa). His opera "La Cecchina, ossia la buona Figliuola" with a libretto by Goldoni played for two years in Rome and was produced in all the important European capital cities. It was probably the most popular opera buffa of the 18th century.
Piccinni wrote music with a sentimental feeling that was very popular in the mid-18th century. It was typical of a lot of music in the early Classical music period.
A few years later Piccinni was invited by Queen Marie Antoinette to go and live in Paris. He had married in 1756 his pupil Vincenza Sibilla. She was a singer, but he never allowed his wife to sing on stage again after they married.
The people who had invited Piccinni to Paris were people who did not like Gluck’s music. They wanted Piccinni to be a rival to Gluck. They enjoyed arguments, and they wanted to try to make the two composers enemies. There were a lot of arguments between the people who supported Piccinni and those who supported Gluck. The whole affair is often called: the war between the Piccinnists and the Gluckists. It was very stupid, because the arguments had nothing to do with music. Both composers were asked to compose an opera about the same story: Roland. Gluck never finished the opera because he wanted to finish his career by writing Alceste. He did not want to be compared to Piccinni. Then both composers were asked to write operas about the story "Iphigénie en Tauride" . Gluck’s opera was first produced on 18 May 1779. Piccinni's "Iphigénie" followed on 23 January 1781. The rival parties went on arguing, even after Gluck left Paris in 1780. Then some people tried to get a new rival for Piccinni: they invited Sacchini to Paris. But Piccinni continued to be popular. When Gluck died, in 1787, Piccinni suggested that a public monument should be built to his memory. Gluck’s supporters refused to support the idea.
In 1784 Piccinni became professor at the Royal School of Music, a school which later became part of the Conservatoire. When the French Revolution broke out in 1789, Piccinni returned to Naples. At first he was warmly welcomed by King Ferdinand IV; but when his daughter married a French democrat the Neapolitans were angry. They said he was a revolutionist. He was not allowed to leave his house for four years.
For the next nine years he tried to make a living in Venice, Naples and Rome; but he returned in 1798 to Paris, where the public gave him a warm welcome, but he made no money. He died at Passy, near Paris.
He produced over eighty operas, but although his later work shows the influence of the French and German stage, his music is typical of Italian musicians of the 18th century.

</doc>
<doc id="218576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218576" title="William P. Murphy">
William P. Murphy

William Parry Murphy (February 6, 1892 - October 9, 1987) was an American doctor. He won the 1934 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with George Whipple and George Minot, for discovering how eating liver could cure anaemia.

</doc>
<doc id="218578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218578" title="Silent Night">
Silent Night

"Silent Night" () is a very popular Christmas carol and song. It was first performed in 1818, by Franz Xaver Gruber and Joseph Mohr. Gruber was an organist and headmaster of a primary school. Mohr was a priest. Mohr had written the poem in 1816; Gruber wrote the melody for it before Christmas 1818. Little else is known on how the song came to be. 
One of the theses is that at the time it was not possible to play the organ in the church. For this reason Gruber and Mohr created a song that could be accompanied by a guitar. There are many other stories about how the song came to be.
The audience liked the performance very much. Gruber sang, and Mohr played the guitar. It is because of an organ-maker called "Mauracher" that the song became known to a wider audience. Mauracher could capture the attention of the crowd at a performance in Leipzig in 1832. From there it spread, first to the German-speaking countries, then to the world. Today there are translations into more than 300 languages and dialects. 
The song was first published on a leaflet in 1833, with other "authentic Tyrolean songs". Frederick William IV of Prussia wanted to know the authors of the song, and asked St. Peter's Archabbey, Salzburg, in 1854. The abbey found Gruber, who was still alive. In the meantime, the song had been attributed to Michael Haydn. 
The author Hertha Pauli, who was born in Austria had to flee from the persecutions during the Second World War. In 1943, she found that many Americans thought that "Silent Night" was an American popular tune. She then wrote the childrens' book, "Silent Night. The Story of a Song", where she explained where the song was from.

</doc>
<doc id="218581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218581" title="Indonesian Rupiah">
Indonesian Rupiah

The Indonesian Rupiah (IDR) is the money used in Indonesia. Rupiah started to be used in 1946. 
The coins that are used now are 25 rupiah, 50 rupiah, 100 rupiah, 200 rupiah, 500 rupiah and 1000 rupiah.
The banknotes that are used are 1000 rupiah, 2000 rupiah, 5000 rupiah, 10 000 rupiah, 20 000 rupiah, 50 000 rupiah and 100 000 rupiah.

</doc>
<doc id="218582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218582" title="Horseshoes">
Horseshoes

Horseshoes is a game played outside. This game is played using four horseshoes and two stakes.

</doc>
<doc id="218593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218593" title="Hans Spemann">
Hans Spemann

Hans Spemann (27 June 1869 – 9 September 1941) was a German doctor. He won the 1935 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his discovery of the 'organizer effect' in embryonic development 

</doc>
<doc id="218598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218598" title="Henry Hallett Dale">
Henry Hallett Dale

Sir Henry Hallett Dale, OM, GBE, PRS, (9 June 1875 - 23 July 1968) was an English pharmacologist. He won the 1936 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with Otto Loewi, for their discoveries about the chemical transmission of nerve impulses.

</doc>
<doc id="218604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218604" title="Paul Dukas">
Paul Dukas

Paul Abraham Dukas (October 1, 1865 – May 17, 1935) was a French composer and teacher of classical music.
Paul Dukas was born in Paris to a Jewish father and Catholic mother. He was taught music by Théodore Dubois and Ernest Guiraud at the Conservatoire de Paris, where he became friends with the composer Claude Debussy. He then worked as a music critic and orchestrator.
Although Dukas wrote a lot of music, he destroyed many of his pieces because he was unhappy with them. Only a few are left. His first important surviving work is the "Symphony in C" (1896). This is in the style of Beethoven and César Franck. Like Franck's only symphony, Dukas' is in three movements not the usual four: Allegro non troppo, ma con fuoco; Andante espressive e fuoco; Allegro spiritoso. 
In 1897 Dukas wrote another work for orchestra, "L'apprenti sorcier" (English: "The Sorcerer's Apprentice") based on Goethe's poem "Der Zauberlehrling". A short version of "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" was used in the Walt Disney film "Fantasia". Dukas's use of rhythm and his skill in writing for orchestras can be seen in both the "Symphony in C" and "The Sorcerer's Apprentice".
For the piano, Dukas wrote two complex and difficult works, a Sonata in E-flat minor (1901) and "Variations, interlude and finale on a theme of Rameau" (1902), again in the style of Beethoven and Franck. The Sonata has not been performed very often, but lately pianists, such as Marc-André Hamelin, have started to add it to their concerts. There are also two smaller works for piano solo.
The opera "Ariane et Barbe-Bleue" ("Ariadne and Bluebeard"), which he wrote between 1899 and 1907, has often been compared to Debussy's "Pelléas et Mélisande". This is because it is similar in its musical style, and both operas are based on words by Maurice Maeterlinck. Dukas's last big work was the grand oriental ballet "La Péri" (1912). This is about a man who goes to the Ends of the Earth to find immortality, and finds a mythical Peri, holding The Flower of Immortality.
Because the opening of the ballet is very quiet, Dukas later added a short 'Fanfare pour preceder La Peri' which gave the usually noisy audiences time to settle in their seats before the main opera began.
In later life, Dukas became well known as a music teacher, with many famous students including Joaquín Rodrigo, Manuel Ponce, Maurice Duruflé, Xian Xinghai, Olivier Messiaen, Jehan Alain, Carlos Chávez, and David Van Vactor. After Dukas died he was buried in the Père Lachaise cemetery in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="218621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218621" title="List of extinction events">
List of extinction events

An extinction event is a relatively fast drop in the number of species living on Earth. It occurs when the rate of extinction increases more than the rate of speciation. This is a list of the largest. Major extinction events are important to both geology and evolution.
There are five major extinction events in the Phanerozoic eon, and many smaller events. In order of time, latest first:
1. K/T extinction event. The Cretaceous/Tertiary extinction event ended the Mesozoic era and started the Cainozoic era.
2. End–Triassic extinction event.
3. P/Tr extinction event. The Permian/Triassic extinction event ended the Palaeozoic era and started the Mesozoic era.
4. Late Devonian extinctions, at the Frasnian/Famennian junction.
5. End–Ordovician extinction event. After a series of lesser events, the end-Ordovician extinction resulted in an estimated 84% species loss.
Other extinction events in the Phanerozoic also had significant impact on the evolution of the biota.

</doc>
<doc id="218622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218622" title="Blaise Compaoré">
Blaise Compaoré

Blaise Compaoré (born February 3, 1951) is a former President of Burkina Faso. He served from 1987 until his resignation in 2014. He started a political party called the Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP). This is the ruling party of Burkina Faso. Compaoré became president in 1987 after a military coup and the assassination of Thomas Sankara, who was president then. 
His attempt to change the constitution to extend his 27-year term caused the 2014 Burkinabé uprising. The uprising began due to attempts at changing the constitution to allow him to run again and extend his rule. He resigned on 31 October 2014 after ruling for 27 years. 

</doc>
<doc id="218623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218623" title="Mossi">
Mossi

The Mossi are an ethnic group of people who live mostly in Burkina Faso in Africa, and also in Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana. They make up 40% of all the people in Burkina Faso. They speak a language called Mòoré or More.
The Mossi believe that they came from the marriage of a Dagomba princess called Yennenga (or Nyennega) and a Mandé hunter called Rialé. Yennenga was a warrior princess, daughter of a Dagomba king in Ghana. One day she lost her way and was rescued by Rialé. They got married and had a son called Ouedraogo. Ouedraogo is known as the father of the Mossi people.

</doc>
<doc id="218626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218626" title="Cassiopeia (constellation)">
Cassiopeia (constellation)

Cassiopeia is a constellation in the northern sky. It was named after a queen in Greek mythology called Cassiopeia. It looks like a letter W or M, with five bright stars. It has two very bright stars called ρ Cas and V509 Cas.
In 1572, a supernova called Tycho's Star, or SN 1572, was seen in Cassiopeia by many people.

</doc>
<doc id="218628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218628" title="Vikash Dhorasoo">
Vikash Dhorasoo

Vikash Dhorasoo (born 10 October 1973) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.
364||16
12||0
376||16
!Total||18||1

</doc>
<doc id="218629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218629" title="Park Kun-Ha">
Park Kun-Ha

Park Kun-Ha (born 25 July 1971) is a former South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an football player. He was a member of Korean national team.
292||44
5||1
297||45
!Total||20||5

</doc>
<doc id="218630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218630" title="Willy Sagnol">
Willy Sagnol

Willy Sagnol (born 18 March 1977) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.
117||1||||||||||18||0||135||1
184||7||25||1||5||0||64||0||278||8
301||8||25||1||5||0||82||0||413||9
!Total||58||0

</doc>
<doc id="218631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218631" title="Ediacara">
Ediacara

Ediacara can refer to several things:

</doc>
<doc id="218632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218632" title="Jathera">
Jathera

A Jathera is a shrine constructed to commemorate common clan ancestors. Each village in the Punjab has a Jathera which can be visited by members of different surnames. Many villages have a Jathera for each clan/surname.
When members of a clan form a new village, they continue to visit the Jathera in the ancestral village. If this is not possible, a link is brought from the old Jathera to construct a new Jathera in the new village.
People visit the Jathera when getting married, on the 15th day of the Indian month, and sometimes on the first Sunday of an Indian month.

</doc>
<doc id="218633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218633" title="Ediacaran">
Ediacaran

The Ediacaran period (about 635–541 million years ago), was named after the Ediacara Hills of South Australia. It is the last geological period of the Proterozoic eon. The Edicaran is followed by the Cambrian, the first period of the Palaeozoic. 
The period is famous for the first larger-bodied fossils, which are probably the first recorded metazoans. These were impressions or trace fossils, first found in England's Charnwood Forest, Leicestershire. Geologists did not know what they had found. It was over 60 years later before fossils from the same period were found in South Australia.
The status of the Ediacaran as an official geological period was confirmed in 2004 by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS). This made it "the first new geological period declared in 120 years".
The Ediacaran period was previously called the Vendian period. The Vendian period was proposed in 1952 by Russian geologist/paleontologist Boris Sokolov. The term "Vendian" is still widely used.
The two terms are not the same. The Vendian was a longer period: it included the whole of the Marinoan glaciation, of Snowball Earth fame. In other words, the Vendian included the last part of the Cryogenian period.
The Ediacaran lasted for about 90 million years. It began at the end of the Cryogenian Snowball Earth. It ended with the first appearance worldwide of some kinds of trace fossils ("Trichophycus pedum") at the base of the Cambrian. The Ediacaran period's start is defined at the base of a carbonate layer, referred to as a "cap carbonate". This caps glacial deposits and shows a sudden climatic change at the end of the Marinoan ice age. The period ended with the mass extinction of almost all the Ediacaran fauna.
No exact dating has been possible at the type section of the Ediacaran period in South Australia.
The Ediacaran biota include the oldest definite multicellular organisms. The fossils are traces or impressions of soft-bodies forms with segments, fronds, disks, or bags. Skeletons or shells are not found.

</doc>
<doc id="218663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218663" title="Ediacaran biota">
Ediacaran biota

The Ediacaran biota are the somewhat puzzling fauna of the Ediacaran period. This geological period was from 635–542 million years ago (mya), but the fossil biota was only from 575–542 mya. This was after a series of ice ages and just before the Cambrian period. The biota consists of soft-bodied multicellular organisms, probably animals, which left trace fossils in rocks of Ediacaran age. 
The biota is quite unusual, and there is no sign of it in the preceding Marinoan glaciation. The biota appears to suffer a fairly severe extinction event at the boundary with the Cambrian. Some of the biota may have survived into the early Cambrian.
There have been several different interpretations of the biota. The standard view is that the traces are fossils of well-known phyla (Cnidaria, annelids, early arthropods) with body plans that disappeared before the Cambrian.
Quite different ideas have been put forward. Seilacher thought few if any of the forms belonged to living phyla. Conway Morris opposed this idea. Rentallak suggested the biota might be lichens.
As Narbonne explains, the Ediacaran biota occupies a critical position in the fossil record. Before them, for a long period of the Archaean and most of the Protoerozoic, the only fossils were those of bacteria and bacterial mats, a form of life which has continues to the present day. The Ediacaran biota is found worldwide, and the most typical forms did disappear just before the Cambrian radiation, which begins with the 'small shelly fossils'. That is probably enough to justify the description of the change as an extinction event, though what caused it is not clear. One suggestion is that the evolution of animals which grazed upon the soft-bodied forms would have been sufficient to cause a collapse of the biota. The biota was extremely varied, and composed of many different body forms, and hence species. The ecology was benthic (sea bottom), in both shallow and deeper water. Narbonne notes the absence of depth-related zonation, the apparent absence of burrowing organisms, and the absence of animals capable of preying on the soft-bodied forms. If these conditions changed, the soft forms would be in peril.
Ediacaran-type fossils are recognised globally in 25 localities, and a variety of depositional conditions, and are commonly grouped into three main types, named after typical localities. Each assemblage occupies its own habitat, and after a burst of diversification changes little for the rest of its existence.
In the White Sea region of Russia, all three assemblage types have been found close together. This, and the faunas' overlap in time, makes it unlikely that they represent evolutionary stages. Since they are found on all continents except Antarctica, geographical boundaries do not appear to be a factor. The same fossils are found at all palæolatitudes.
Probably the three assemblages mark organisms adapted to survival in different environments. An analysis of one of the White Sea fossil beds, where the layers cycle from continental seabed to inter-tidal to estuarine and back again a few times, found that a specific set of Ediacaran organisms was associated with each environment.
It is no surprise that not all environments are exploited. Of 92 possible modes of life — combinations of feeding style, tiering and motility — no more than a dozen are occupied by the end of the Ediacaran. Just four are represented in the Avalon assemblage. The lack of large-scale predation and vertical burrowing are perhaps the most significant factors limiting the ecological diversity; the emergence of these during the early Cambrian allowed the number of lifestyles occupied to rise to 30.

</doc>
<doc id="218670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218670" title="Antonio de Trueba">
Antonio de Trueba

Antonio de Trueba (24 December 1821-10 March 1889) was a Spanish poet, novelist, and folklorist born at Montellana, Biscay, in 1821 (some sources say 1819), where he was privately educated. 

</doc>
<doc id="218679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218679" title="Arrangement (music)">
Arrangement (music)

An arrangement of a musical composition is a reworking of a piece of music so that it can be played by a different instrument or combination of instruments from the original. For example, a song written for one voice with piano accompaniment might be arranged so that it can be sung in parts by a choir, or a piece for violin might be arranged so that it can be played on a clarinet instead. The person who does the arrangement may be the composer themself, or it may be someone else.
In music history, composers often published their compositions, saying that the music could be played or sung by various instruments. For example, when English composers published madrigals in the late 16th century they often stated that they could be sung by singers or played on viols (“apt for voices as for viols”). In the Classical music period a composer might publish a sonata, stating that it could be played on the violin or flute or recorder. This helped to sell more copies, because violinists, flautists and recorder players might all want to buy the music. In a sense this is not really an arrangement, because no changes have been made to the music. 
However, when violin or cello music is arranged so that it can be played on a viola, some changes may be necessary as the viola may be playing in a different key, or some chords may be more awkward the way they were originally written. This is an arrangement.
A popular piece such as "The Flight of the Bumble Bee" by Rimsky-Korsakov can be played by almost any melodic instrument: violin, xylophone, tuba etc. These are all arrangements.
When a piece for choir and orchestra is printed for choir members to use, the orchestral part is printed on two staves so that it can be played on a piano for rehearsals. This is another kind of arrangement.
In music history, many composers have made arrangements of music composed by others. They did this in order to learn about musical composition, as well as in order to be able to play it on another instrument. For example, Johann Sebastian Bach made arrangements of four concertos by Vivaldi so that they could be played on the organ.
Arrangements are often made by people who play instruments that have not had much music written for them. People who play the viola, guitar, tuba etc. often arrange other music so that they have a larger repertoire (more music to play).
Sometimes composers have made changes to the orchestration of works for orchestra written by others. They may have done this because instruments had changed since the music was written, or simply because they thought they could do it better. For example, Mozart made an arrangement of Handels "Messiah ", adding instruments such as clarinets which Handel would not have known. Rimsky-Korsakov made arrangements of the operas by Musorgsky thinking that he was improving them.
Arrangements are sometimes made because a player has some disability. Cyril Smith, a pianist who only had one arm, played piano duets with his wife Phyllis Sellick. They arranged piano duets so that they could be played by three hands.
Sometimes arrangements are made of well-known classical pieces in which the music is “jazzed up” or made to sound more popular for movie or theatre performances. Sometimes musicians think this is not a good thing. Sometimes small vocal groups such as the Swingle Singers make lighthearted versions of works by Bach and others. 

</doc>
<doc id="218684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218684" title="Fernando Botero">
Fernando Botero

Fernando Botero Angulo (born 19th April 1932) is a Colombian painter and sculptor. Botero is one of the best-known artists of Latin America. Since 1976, he has done figure-sculpting. His figures are special because they are all "thick", which makes them look different from others.

</doc>
<doc id="218688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218688" title="Abelian group">
Abelian group

In group theory, an abelian group is a group that is commutative. 
An abelian group is a set, "A", together with an operation "•". It combines any two elements "a" and "b" to form another element denoted . For the group to be abelian, the operation and the elements must follow some requirements. These are known as the "abelian group axioms":
An abelian group is a commutative group. A group in which the group operation is not commutative is called a "non-abelian group" or "non-commutative group".

</doc>
<doc id="218691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218691" title="Homing pigeon">
Homing pigeon

A Homing pigeon is a special breed of pigeons. These pigeons have been domesticated. They have been selectively bred to find their way home. They can do this over very long distances. The wild rock pigeon from which these birds are bred also has this homing ability. This means that it will generally return to its own nest and its own mate. This made it relatively easy to breed from the birds that repeatedly found their way home over long distances. Flights as long as 1800 kilometers have been recorded by birds in competition pigeon racing. Their average flying speed over moderate distances is around 48 km/h (30 mph), but even speeds of up to 95 km/h (59 mph) have been observed.
Homing pigeons are called carrier pigeons when they are used to carry messages. This is possible where a message is written on thin light paper (such as cigarette paper) and rolled into a small tube attached to the bird's leg; this is called pigeon post. Pigeons can only go back to one "mentally marked" point that they have identified as their home. So "pigeon mail" can only work when the sender is actually holding the receiver's pigeons. White homing pigeons are used in Release Dove ceremonies at weddings, funerals, and some sporting events. 

</doc>
<doc id="218705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218705" title="Roberto de Assis Moreira">
Roberto de Assis Moreira

Roberto de Assis Moreira (born 10 January 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.
29||8||2||1||2||0||33||9
29||8||2||1||2||0||33||9

</doc>
<doc id="218706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218706" title="Rafael Scheidt">
Rafael Scheidt

Rafael Scheidt (born 10 February 1976) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazil national team.
189||7
26||5
3||0
38||2
156||14
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="218707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218707" title="Alex Sandro Santana de Oliveira">
Alex Sandro Santana de Oliveira

Alex Sandro Santana de Oliveira (born 30 October 1973) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Bahia.
9||2||0||0||4||1||13||3
9||2||0||0||4||1||13||3

</doc>
<doc id="218708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218708" title="David Soria Yoshinari">
David Soria Yoshinari

David Soria Yoshinari (born 18 September 1977) is a Peruvian football player. He has played for Peru national team.
8||0||2||0||0||0||10||0
312||37||||||||||312||37
320||37||2||0||0||0||322||37
!Total||5||0

</doc>
<doc id="218709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218709" title="Mikaël Silvestre">
Mikaël Silvestre

Mikaël Silvestre (born 9 August 1977) is a French football player. He plays for Arsenal.
48||0||||||||||||||48||0
18||1||||||||||||||18||1
263||8||23||1||15||0||75||2||376||11
329||9||23||1||15||0||75||2||442||12
!Total||40||2

</doc>
<doc id="218711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218711" title="Éric Abidal">
Éric Abidal

Éric Abidal (born 11 September 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Barcelona and France national team.
159||1||||||20||0||179||1
55||0||8||0||15||0||78||0
214||1||8||0||35||0||257||1
!Total||45||0

</doc>
<doc id="218712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218712" title="Pavel Badea">
Pavel Badea

Pavel Badea (born 10 June 1967) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.
271||58||||||||||271||58
100||12||||||||||100||12
82||10||8||2||11||2||101||14
453||80||8||2||11||2||472||84
!Total||9||2

</doc>
<doc id="218713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218713" title="Julio Hernán Rossi">
Julio Hernán Rossi

Julio Hernán Rossi (born 22 February 1977) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Neuchâtel Xamax.
11||1
11||0
220||95
36||4
278||100

</doc>
<doc id="218714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218714" title="Regis Pitbull">
Regis Pitbull

Regis Fernandes Silva (born 22 September 1976), also known by the nickname Regis or Regis Pitbull, is a Brazilian professional athlete. He is best known as a football player.
21||4||0||0||4||3||25||7
21||4||0||0||4||3||25||7

</doc>
<doc id="218719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218719" title="Otto Loewi">
Otto Loewi

Otto Loewi (June 3, 1873 - December 25, 1961) was a German doctor. He won the 1936 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with Henry Hallett Dale, for their discoveries about chemical transmission of nerve impulses 
In his most famous experiment, Loewi took fluid from a frog heart with a slowed beat and applied it to another. That slowed the second heart. This showed that synaptic signalling used chemical messengers. 
It is now known that there are two different kinds of nerve synapses. One kind releases chemicals, and is a neurotransmitter synapse. The other is an electrical synapse which transmits voltage charges over gap junctions between nerve cells.

</doc>
<doc id="218720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218720" title="Heinrich Lübke">
Heinrich Lübke

Heinrich Lübke (October 14, 1894 – April 6, 1972) was the second President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He was President from 1959 to 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="218734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218734" title="Elisha Levy">
Elisha Levy

Elisha Levy (; born on 18 November 1957 in Jerusalem) is a former professional football player and he is currently manager of Israeli side Maccabi Haifa.
Levy played in Hapoel Hapoel Beit Sha'an youth team from 1968-1974.
After playing in Hapoel Beit Sha'an youth team, Elisha Levy was playing for Hapoel Beit Sha'an from 1974-1982. For 1 year, 1982-1983, Elisha Levy was played for Maccabi Haifa. In 1983-1987, Levy played in Maccabi Petah Tikva Elisha Levy was playing for Hapoel Beit Sha'an at 1987-1989.
Elisha Levy was retired from football after those last two years in Hapoel Beit Sha'an
Levy managed teams for 20 years. Currently, Elisha Levy manages Maccabi Haifa.

</doc>
<doc id="218737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218737" title="List of WWE Raw guest hosts">
List of WWE Raw guest hosts

The WWE Raw Guest Host was started on June 29, 2009 by WWE Chairman Vince McMahon, with the first host being injured WWE superstar Batista. The requirements for a guest host is a WWE Hall of Famer, a retired superstar, celebrity or injured wrestler. The first guest host Robert Kardashian was responsible for the running of the show and had authority of a general manager for the evening. Below is the list of other WWE guest hosts.

</doc>
<doc id="218746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218746" title="Transcription (music)">
Transcription (music)

A musical transcription is an arrangement of a piece of music for a different instrument or instruments. This use of the word “transcription” is almost the same as "arrangement", (the word "transcription" literally means: "writing across"). Musicians often disagree about what should be called a “transcription” and what is an “arrangement”. Usually transcriptions are almost like the original, whereas a musician who makes an arrangement may put some ideas of his own into the music.
Another meaning of “transcription” is: writing down music which existed before but had not yet been written down. This could be because it is jazz (which is usually improvised), or because it is folk music, which traditionally is taught from one generation to another by listening and imitating. In the early 20th century some composers became interested in writing down the traditional folksongs of their countries. Béla Bartók and Zoltan Kodaly in Hungary and Cecil Sharpe and Ralph Vaughan Williams in England transcribed folk songs they heard being sung in the villages of their countries..
Some composers have made tributes to other composers by arranging some of their compositions for orchestra. Ravel's transcribed Mussorgsky's piano piece Pictures at an Exhibition for orchestra. Webern made a transcription for orchestra of a ricercar from Bach's Musical Offering. In both cases something of the transcribers’ own style can be heard in the new version.
Sometimes transcriptions are made for practical reasons. Mozart made transcriptions of some music from his own operas, arranging them for small groups of instruments so that they could play it for popular entertainment. Stravinsky transcribed some of his ballet music for piano, e.g. The Rite of Spring for piano duet and some dances from Petrouchka for piano solo.

</doc>
<doc id="218762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218762" title="VY Canis Majoris">
VY Canis Majoris

VY Canis Majoris (VY CMa) is a red hypergiant star in the constellation Canis Major. It is about distant from Earth. It is one of the largest known stars, and one of the most luminous of its type. 
VY Canis Majoris is between 1420 ± 120 times wider than the Sun. If placed at the center of the Solar System, VY Canis Majoris's surface would extend beyond the orbit of Jupiter. Other estimates of the radius make it larger than the orbit of Saturn.
VY CMa is a single star, a 'semiregular' variable with a period of about 2,000 days. It has an average density of 5 to 10 mg/m.

</doc>
<doc id="218770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218770" title="Sydney (disambiguation)">
Sydney (disambiguation)

Sydney can be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="218771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218771" title="Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences">
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences

The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences or "Kungliga Vetenskapsakademin" ("KVA") is one of the Royal Academies of Sweden. The Academy is an independent, scientific, non-governmental organization, set up to support the sciences, mainly the natural sciences and mathematics.
The Academy was started on 2 June 1739 by naturalist Carl Linnaeus, economist Jonas Alströmer, mechanical engineer Mårten Triewald, civil servants Sten Carl Bielke and Carl Wilhelm Cederhielm, and politician Anders Johan von Höpken.
The academy was set up to find useful knowledge, and to write about it in Swedish. The academy was meant to be different from the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala, which had been started in 1719 and published in Latin. It was built near the main business centre in Stockholm, (which unlike Uppsala did not have a university at this time). The Swedish scientists wanted it to be like the Royal Society in London and Academie Royale des Sciences in Paris, France.
Groups of the Academy meet to give out international prizes:
and national prizes:

</doc>
<doc id="218779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218779" title="Karolinska Institutet">
Karolinska Institutet

Karolinska Institutet (in English Karolinska Institute), and before 1968, the Royal Caroline Institute is one of Europe's biggest medical universities.
It was started in 1810 on Kungsholmen island on the west side of Stockholm. It later moved to Solna, just outside Stockholm, and a second campus has been built in Flemingsberg/Huddinge, south of Stockholm.
A committee of the institute decides on the winners of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
The Karolinska University Hospital, in Solna and Huddinge, is the university's research and teaching hospital. It is one of Sweden's largest centres for training and research, with 30 percent of the medical training and 40 percent of the medical academic research. While most of the medical programs are taught in Swedish, most of the Ph.D. programs are taught in English.
The institute is a member of the League of European Research Universities. In the 2009 Academic Ranking of World Universities, the institute is the best university for medicine and pharmacy in Europe, 8th in the world. It is listed as the best university in Sweden.
Karolinska Institutet was started between 1810 and 1811 to teach army surgeons. It was called the 'Medico-Chirurgiska Institutet'.
In 1817 the name 'Karolinska' was added as a reference to 'Karoliner' which was the name of soldiers under the Swedish king Karl XII. The full name became 'Kongl. Carolinska Medico Chirurgiska Institutet'.
In 1968 this name was changed to 'Karolinska Institutet'.

</doc>
<doc id="218785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218785" title="Florent Malouda">
Florent Malouda

Florent Malouda (born 13 June 1980) is a French football player. He plays for Chelsea and France national team.
289||45||14||6||colspan="2"|-||36||5||339||56
52||8||6||1||5||1||21||2||84||12
341||53||20||7||5||1||57||7||423||68
!Total||50||3

</doc>
<doc id="218786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218786" title="Wim Jonk">
Wim Jonk

Wim Jonk (born 12 October 1966) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.
244||62
44||8
70||5
358||75
!Total||49||11

</doc>
<doc id="218788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218788" title="Ramon Menezes Hubner">
Ramon Menezes Hubner

Ramon Menezes Hubner (born 30 June 1972) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
346||97
15||1
25||6
386||104
!Total||5||1

</doc>
<doc id="218789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218789" title="Reinhard Stumpf">
Reinhard Stumpf

Reinhard Stumpf (born 26 November 1961) is a former German football player.
179||4
179||4

</doc>
<doc id="218790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218790" title="Fumagalli">
Fumagalli

José Fernando Fumagalli (born 5 October 1977) is a Brazilian professional athlete. He is best known as a football player.
10||5||3||1||0||0||13||6
10||5||3||1||0||0||13||6

</doc>
<doc id="218791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218791" title="Osmar Donizete Cândido">
Osmar Donizete Cândido

Osmar Donizete Cândido (born 24 October 1968) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
128||26
201||34
14||6
16||7
359||73
!Total||9||2

</doc>
<doc id="218792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218792" title="Jan Veenhof">
Jan Veenhof

Jan Veenhof (born 28 January 1969) is a former Dutch football player.
68||0||3||0||3||0||74||0
68||0||3||0||3||0||74||0

</doc>
<doc id="218793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218793" title="Leonard Henriques da Silva">
Leonard Henriques da Silva

Leonard Henriques da Silva (born 22 July 1982) is a Brazilian football player.
221||11||10||0||0||0||231||11
221||11||10||0||0||0||231||11

</doc>
<doc id="218800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218800" title="List of Scottish football stadiums by capacity">
List of Scottish football stadiums by capacity

This is a list of Scottish football stadia, ranked in descending order of capacity.

</doc>
<doc id="218804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218804" title="Swedish Academy">
Swedish Academy

The Swedish Academy () was started in 1786 by the Swedish King Gustav III. It was copied from the Académie française, the first Academy ever. The Swedish Academy has 18 members. The motto of the Academy is "Talent and Taste" (""Snille och Smak"" in Swedish).
Since 1901 the Academy has decided who will win the Nobel Prize in Literature The prize is given in memory of Alfred Nobel.
The other thing the Academy does is to help to keep the Swedish language clean. They work for the "purity, strength, and greatness of the Swedish language" (""Svenska folkets renhet, styrka och höghet""). To help do this, the Academy publishes two dictionaries.
The first is a dictionary in only one big book, called "Svenska Akademiens ordlista" (or "SAOL"). In 2015, it was up to its 14th edition. The second dictionary has many volumes. It is called "Svenska Akademiens ordbok" (or "SAOB"). The content it is so big that it needs many books, like the "Oxford English Dictionary". The first book in the set was printed in 1898 and in 2015 work had got as far as words beginning with the letter "V".
The Academy uses a building now known as the Stockholm Stock Exchange Building. The bottom floor was used as a trading exchange (which became the stock exchange) and the upper floor was used for dances, New Years Eve parties, etc. In 1786, the ballroom was the biggest room in Stockholm that could be heated and be used in the winter. The king asked if he could use it. The Academy has met there every year since. In 1914 the Academy gained the right to use the upper floor as their own forever. This is where they meet and, amongst other business, choose the Nobel Prize winners. Because of this, the Academy is one of the most important literary groups in the world. The Swedish Academy is one of the Royal Academies of Sweden.
The current members of the Swedish Academy listed by seat number :

</doc>
<doc id="218811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218811" title="Norwegian Nobel Committee">
Norwegian Nobel Committee

The Norwegian Nobel Committee is the group which gives the Nobel Peace Prize every year. It has five members who are elected by the Norwegian Parliament and has the same political makeup as the parliament.
Alfred Nobel died in December 1896, and in his will he left a lot of money to start a number of prizes to given each year, to be called the Nobel Prize. The money would be looked after by the Nobel Foundation, and the prizes would be given out by a number of different groups. The other Nobel Prizes would be given by existing Swedish groups, the Swedish Academy, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and the Karolinska Institutet. The job of giving the Nobel Peace Prize was given to the Norwegian Parliament. A group of five people, to be called the Norwegian Nobel Committee, would decide who should win the prize. The Peace Prize would be given to the person who had done the most work to get countries to work together, to make the world's armies smaller, or to hold peace talks when needed.
Legal expert Fredrik Heffermehl has said that a parliament could not be expected to handle a legal jobs like looking after a will. Parliaments make and change laws, but a will can not be changed unless it has clearly become out of date. At the time this problem was not talked about very much, as the Norwegian Parliament felt that they needed to act quickly in case the money was lost in a legal battles. They agreed to give the Peace Prize on 26 April 1897 and on August 5, 1897 they worked out the rules for who could be elected to the Norwegian Nobel Committee.
The first Peace Prize was given in 1901 to Henri Dunant and Frédéric Passy. At first, the committee was filled with active members of the parliament and every year its reports were talked about in parliamentary sessions. These links to the Norwegian Parliament were later weakened so that the committee became more independent. The name was changed from the Norwegian Nobel Committee to the Nobel Committee of the Norwegian Parliament () in 1901, but changed back in 1977. Now, members of parliament cannot be on the committee, unless they have said that they will be leaving the parliament soon. The committee is currently made up of five people who have all left the parliament.
But the committee is still mainly made up of politicians. A 1903 idea to elect a law expert (Ebbe Hertzberg) was rejected. In 1948, the election system was changed to make the committee have the same political makeup as the parliament. The Norwegian Labour Party, which had a majority of seats in the Norwegian Parliament made this change. Many people do not like this change, but it is still the way the committee is elected. There have been suggestions about having non-Norwegian members in the committee, but this has never happened.
The Norwegian Nobel Committee is helped by the Norwegian Nobel Institute, started in 1904. The committee might get more than a hundred different names for people to be given the prize. It asks the Nobel Institute in February every year to study about twenty possible winners. The director of the Nobel Institute is also the secretary to the Norwegian Nobel Committee. Currently this position is held by to Geir Lundestad. Thorbjørn Jagland has been the Norwegian Nobel Committee's leader since 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="218827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218827" title="Andaz Apna Apna">
Andaz Apna Apna

Andaz Apna Apna is a Hindi language comedy movie directed by Rajkumar Santoshi. Main actors in this movie are Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Raveena Tandon, Karisma Kapoor, Paresh Rawal and Shakti Kapoor. The movie was released on 11 April 1994. This movie was nominated for Filmfare Awards 1995 in four categories: Best Film, Best Director (Rajkumar Santoshi), Best Actor (Aamir Khan) and Best Comedian (Shakti Kapoor for the role of 'Crime Master Gogo').
The movie has 4 songs composed by Tushar Bhatia with lyrics by Majrooh Sultanpuri.

</doc>
<doc id="218834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218834" title="Karisma Kapoor">
Karisma Kapoor

Karisma Kapoor (also spelled as Karishma Kapoor), is an Indian actress. She was born on 25 June 1974 in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. Karishma Kapoor acts in Hindi language movies. She has won a Filmfare Best Actress Award. She also won a Filmfare Best Supporting Actress Award and a National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress.
She is the sister of actress Kareena Kapoor. She is the daughter of Bollywood Actors Randhir Kapoor and Babita. She is the first-cousin of actor Ranbir Kapoor. Kapoor studied at the Cathedral and John Connon School in Mumbai until Grade Six.
She married Sanjay in 2003 and they have two children.

</doc>
<doc id="218839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218839" title="Parides erithalion">
Parides erithalion

The Variable Cattleheart ("Parides erithalion") is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Papilionidae. It is found in North America and South America.
The upper side of the wings is black. The hind wing (bottom wing) has a row of red spots. The underside of the wings is also black. The hind wing has a row of pink and whitish-colored spots.
The eggs are a brownish color. The caterpillar is brownish-black. It has white and reddish-brown areas.
The Variable Cattleheart feeds on "Aristolochia cordiflora".

</doc>
<doc id="218841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218841" title="Ava Gardner">
Ava Gardner

Ava Lavinia Gardner (December 24, 1922 – January 25, 1990) was an American actress. She was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress for acting in "Mogambo" (1953). She was in several popular movies during the 1950s, and got BAFTA Award nominations for her performances in "Bhowani Junction" (1956), "On the Beach" (1959) and "The Night of the Iguana" (1964). 
She is listed as one of the American Film Institute's greatest stars of all time.

</doc>
<doc id="218855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218855" title="Oswaldo Sánchez">
Oswaldo Sánchez

Oswaldo Sánchez (born 21 September 1973) is a Mexican football player. He plays for Santos Laguna and Mexico national team.
454||0
454||0
!Total||98||0

</doc>
<doc id="218856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218856" title="Costinha">
Costinha

Costinha (born 1 December 1974) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.
165||22
84||3
10||0
24||0
1||0
284||25
!Total||53||2

</doc>
<doc id="218858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218858" title="Shigeru Morioka">
Shigeru Morioka

246||31||18||2||32||4||296||37
246||31||18||2||32||4||296||37

</doc>
<doc id="218859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218859" title="Yoann Gourcuff">
Yoann Gourcuff

Yoann Miguel Gourcuff (born 11 July 1986) is a French football player. He plays for the France national team and Olympique Lyonnais in Ligue 1. Gourcuff plays as a midfielder and sometimes as a striker.
Yoann Gourcuff began his career in 1992 with F.C. Lorient. In 2001 he began to play for Rennes. While playing for Rennes, he attracted many supporters and the interest of other teams. Gourcuff moved to the Italian club AC Milan in 2003. He achieved many club honors with AC Milan, but did not play with the starting eleven players. In 2008 Goucuff was loaned to the French football team Girordins Bordeaux. After playing a good season, he became a permanent player for Bordeaux. Gourcuff has been compared to Zinedine Zidane because of his playing style and ability. Gourcuff has won the UNFP Ligue Player of the Year award. He was named French Player of the Year by the magazine "France Football" in 2009. In August 2010, he joined Olympique Lyonnais.
Gourcuff played his first game with the France national football team in August 2008. He scored his first international goal against Romania two months later. Since joining the national team, Gourcuff has been the team's playmaker. The role of playmaker had been empty since Zidane's retirement in 2006.
103||18||7||1||12||2||122||21
36||2||5||0||11||2||52||4
139||20||12||1||23||4||174||25
!Total||16||1

</doc>
<doc id="218860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218860" title="Daniel Sanabria">
Daniel Sanabria

Daniel Sanabria (born 2 February 1977) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.
15||3||3||1||2||0||20||4
113||7||||||||||113||7
10||1||||||||||10||1
0||0||||||||||0||0
34||2||||||||||34||2
172||13||3||1||2||0||177||14
!Total||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="218861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218861" title="Gláucio de Jesus Carvalho">
Gláucio de Jesus Carvalho

Gláucio de Jesus Carvalho (born 11 November 1975) is a Brazilian football player.
14||2
22||9
52||2
44||19
132||32

</doc>
<doc id="218862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218862" title="Ali Boumnijel">
Ali Boumnijel

Ali Boumnijel (born 13 April 1966) is a former Tunisian football player. He has played for Tunisia national team.
212||0
61||0
273||0
!Total||||

</doc>
<doc id="218863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218863" title="Takafumi Yoshimoto">
Takafumi Yoshimoto

Takafumi Yoshimoto (born 13 May 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
195||18||11||1||0||0||206||19
195||18||11||1||0||0||206||19

</doc>
<doc id="218864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218864" title="Daishi Hiramatsu">
Daishi Hiramatsu

Daishi Hiramatsu (born 3 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.
99||5||8||0||5||0||112||5
99||5||8||0||5||0||112||5

</doc>
<doc id="218884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218884" title="Oligocene">
Oligocene

The Oligocene is the last geological epoch in the Palaeogene. It lasted for about 11 million years, from 34 mya to 23 mya. It was preceded by the Eocene and followed by the Miocene. During the Oligocene, the world continued to get cooler from its peak in the mid-Eocene. The world was still largely forested, but grasslands began to spread. Ice formed in Antarctica. The period is seen as one of "transition", both in climate and in the biota.

</doc>
<doc id="218885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218885" title="Sidney Poitier">
Sidney Poitier

Sir Sidney Poitier, KBE (born February 20, 1927) is an American-born Bahamian actor, movie director, author, and diplomat. He became a star in American movies and plays which went against racial stereotypes, and made black actors more respected in mainstream roles.
Since 1997, he has been the Bahamian ambassador to Japan.
Poitier was born in Miami, Florida. He grew up with his family on remote Cat Island, in the Bahamas. His mother was called Evelyn and his father was called Reginald James Poitier. They had a farm. Poitier's birth was premature and people did not expect him to survive, but his parents stayed three months in Miami until he became well. Since he was born in Miami, Poitier automatically gained U.S. citizenship.
When he was 15, Poitier's parents sent him off Miami to live with his older brother. At 17, he moved to New York City and got several menial jobs. During this time, he was arrested for vagrancy (being homeless) after having to leave his home for not paying rent. He decided to join the United States Army. He worked as a dishwasher until he got a job with the American Negro Theater.
Poitier was tone deaf, and could not sing or dance. This is what black actors did at the time, so audiences did not like him. He worked very hard to improve his acting skills, and to get rid of his Bahamian accent. He eventually got a leading role in the Broadway play called "Lysistrata" and he got excellent reviews. At the end of 1949, he got a job working for Darryl F. Zanuck in the movie "No Way Out" (1950). He played a doctor treating a white bigot. After this job, he soon got more movie roles. The acting jobs he got were better and more interesting than the roles most black actors played at the time.
In 1955, he played a member of an badly behaved high school class in "Blackboard Jungle". This was an important role in Poitier's career.
Poitier was the first black actor to win the Academy Award for Best Actor (for "Lilies of the Field" in 1963).
He acted in the first production of "A Raisin in the Sun" on Broadway in 1959, and later starred in the movie version released in 1961. He was also in "The Bedford Incident" (1965), and "A Patch of Blue" (1965) co-starring Elizabeth Hartman and Shelley Winters. In 1967, he was the most successful actor at the box office, with three successful movies, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner"; "To Sir, with Love" and "In the Heat of the Night". The last movie featured his most successful character, Virgil Tibbs, a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania detective.
However, Poitier began to be criticized for typecasting himself, playing black characters who had only good personalities, like his character in "Guess Who's Coming To Dinner". Poitier agreed with this but although he wanted more different roles, but also wanted to set a good example with his characters and go against the negative stereotypes that had come before. He was the only major black actor in the American movie industry at the time.
Poitier has directed several movies, the most successful being the Richard Pryor-Gene Wilder comedy "Stir Crazy". The first movie he directed was the western "Buck and the Preacher". He was also the star, with Harry Belafonte. Other movies he has directed are "Uptown Saturday Night", "Let's Do It Again", "A Piece of the Action", and "Ghost Dad".
Poitier was first married to Juanita Hardy from April 29, 1950 until 1965. He has been married to Joanna Shimkus, a Canadian-born actress, since January 23, 1976. He has four daughters by his first marriage and two by his second.
He has written three autobiographical books, "This Life" (1980), "" (2000) and "Life Beyond Measure - letters to my Great-Granddaughter" (2008).
In April 1997, Poitier was became ambassador of the Bahamas to Japan. He is also the ambassador of the Bahamas to UNESCO. From 1998 to 2003, he was a Member of the Board of Directors of The Walt Disney Company.
In 2001, Poitier received an Academy Honorary Award for his overall contribution to American cinema. In August 2009, he received the Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama.

</doc>
<doc id="218886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218886" title="Pliocene">
Pliocene

The Pliocene (Pleiocene in older texts) was a short geological epoch at the end of the Neogene. It began 5.3 million years ago (mya), and ended 2.6 mya. The Pliocene follows the Miocene and is followed by the Pleistocene.
The world continued to get cooler and drier in the Pliocene. Tropical rain forests and deciduous forests shrank. Grasslands grew, and many herbivorous mammals became grazers instead of browsers. Hominid evolution took a new turn as some apes started to live on the savannah instead of the forests (Australopithecines).

</doc>
<doc id="218889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218889" title="Grazer">
Grazer

A grazer is an animal, usually a herbivorous mammal, which eats grass rather than trees and shrubs. It is contrasted with browsers, which eat trees & shrubs. 
The life-style, dentition (teeth), and digestive system of grazers is different from browsers, to handle the problems of eating and digesting grass. This is well illustrated in the evolution of such groups as horses. Ruminants are the largest group of grazers, though many other animals also graze.
When grazers keep eating grass in an area without giving the plants time to grow back, that is called overgrazing.

</doc>
<doc id="218890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218890" title="Fauna">
Fauna

Fauna means animal life. It is a group term; it means the animal life typical of the time or place. 
So one might speak of the Eocene fauna as being different from the Miocene fauna. Or, say, the fauna of a particular habitat. It is a similar term to flora in Botany. The flora and fauna of a savannah is different from that of a rain forest.

</doc>
<doc id="218891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218891" title="Butterscotch">
Butterscotch

Butterscotch is a confection (like candy) made from brown sugar, butter and cream. It is a bit like toffee but is made differently. Butterscotch is made by boiling sugar until it is at the "soft crack" stage, which is a slightly lower temperature than for toffee. Butterscotch can be used as a sauce for desserts like ice cream.

</doc>
<doc id="218896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218896" title="Jiffy Lube">
Jiffy Lube

Jiffy Lube is a chain of businesses that services automobiles. It is most well known for quick oil changes. The one-way design of the building allows for fast service.
In addition to oil changes, Jiffy Lube mechanics are trained to inspect cars and suggest service when needed. They can do many services themselves.
Jiffy Lube is owned by Pennzoil-Quaker State, part of SOPUS (Shell Oil Products United States), part of Royal Dutch/Shell Group.

</doc>
<doc id="218898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218898" title="National Endowment for the Arts">
National Endowment for the Arts

The National Endowment for the Arts is a branch of the United States government that gives money for art, music, television, and film projects. It is supposed to promote enjoyment and participation in the arts.

</doc>
<doc id="218902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218902" title="Art Blakey">
Art Blakey

Arthur "Art" Blakey (October 11, 1919 – October 16, 1990), also known as Abdullah Ibn Buhaina, was an American jazz drummer and bandleader. With Kenny Clarke and Max Roach, he was one of the inventors of the modern bebop style of drumming. His band, the Jazz Messengers, was made up of many jazz musicians became famous and important in jazz.
Blakey was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. By the time he was a teenager he played the piano professionally. He then taught himself to play the drums in the style of Chick Webb, Sid Catlett and Ray Bauduc. He played in New York in 1942 with Mary Lou Williams. He then went on tour with the Fletcher Henderson Orchestra. From 1944 to 1947 he played with the Billy Eckstine big band, along with Miles Davis, Dexter Gordon and Fats Navarro.
In 1947 Blakey recorded with an octet called the Jazz Messengers. In the early 1950s he performed and broadcast with musicians like Charlie Parker, Miles Davis, Clifford Brown, and Horace Silver. Blakey and Silver recorded together several times, like the album "A Night at Birdland" in 1954. Over the years the Jazz Messengers included jazz musicians such as Donald Byrd, Johnny Griffin, Lee Morgan, Wayne Shorter, Freddie Hubbard, Keith Jarrett, Chuck Mangione, Woody Shaw, JoAnne Brackeen and Wynton Marsalis. Blakey made a world tour in 1971–2 with the Giants of Jazz (with Dizzy Gillespie, Kai Winding, Sonny Stitt, Thelonious Monk and Al McKibbon).
He converted to Islam during a visit to West Africa in the late 1940s and took the name Abdullah Ibn Buhaina. (He had the nickname "Bu").
Up to the 1960s Blakey recorded as a sideman with many other musicians like Jimmy Smith, Herbie Nichols, Cannonball Adderley, Grant Green, and Jazz Messengers musicians Lee Morgan and Hank Mobley. After the mid-1960s he mostly worked as a bandleader.
Blakey continued performing and touring with his group into the late 1980s. He died in 1990 of lung cancer in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="218907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218907" title="Jethro Tull (agriculturist)">
Jethro Tull (agriculturist)

Jethro Tull (1674-1741) was an agricultural engineer from England who helped start the British Agricultural Revolution. He helped improve the seed drill, which is something that put seeds in the ground to plant them faster. This seed drill was normally pulled by a horse or strong cattle.

</doc>
<doc id="218910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218910" title="Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection">
Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection

Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection or CSMA/CD is a protocol (or rule) used by computer ethernet networks. It stops computers from sending information on the same ethernet wire at the same time. With this rule, a computer will check that the wire is not being used before it sends information. This ability to check is called "carrier sense." This rule is used when many computers can use the same connection. This is called "multiple access." If computers do send information at exactly the same time, the computers can tell a mistake has been made and stop sending. This is called "collision detection." When this collision occurs, the computers stop sending information, wait for a random amount of time, and then check before resending the information.

</doc>
<doc id="218912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218912" title="Crash Test Dummy">
Crash Test Dummy

A crash test dummy is a test device ( commonly abbreviated 'ATD') that is made to be close to the same shape, size, heaviness, proportions and articulation of the human body. They sometimes have equipment embedded in them that measures data about how hard things are hitting it and how fast the ATD is moving around. ATDs have many applications but are commonly used in simulated (test) car crashes to see how safe the cars are for people when they crash.

</doc>
<doc id="218914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218914" title="Parides montezuma">
Parides montezuma

Montezuma's Cattleheart ("Parides montezuma") is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Papilionidae. It is found in North America and South America.
The upper side of the wings is black. The hind wing (bottom wing) has one row of red crescents along the edge. The underside of the wings is black. The hind wing has a row of red crescents like the ones on the upper side.
Here is a list of host plants used by Montezuma's Cattleheart. (The host plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on.):

</doc>
<doc id="218917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218917" title="Parides alopius">
Parides alopius

The white-dotted cattleheart (Parides alopius) a species of butterfly. It is in the family Papilionidae. 
It is endemic to Mexican. It has also been found once in the United States in southeastern Arizona.
The upper side of the wings is black. The hind wing (bottom wing) has two rows of spots. The first row is white. The second row is pink. Males have fewer white spots than females. The underside of the wings is similar to the upper side. The row of pink spots on the underside are more noticeable than the pink spots on the upper side. It has a wingspan of 3-3.5 inches.
The caterpillar is ringed with black and white bands. It has yellow and reddish-brown fleshy areas. Each side of the body has red, orange, and white spots. The chrysalis is a blue-green color. The head, parts of the thorax, and the abdomen are a bright yellow-green color. It is not known whether the chrysalis has a brown form or not. The chrysalis has a similar shape to that of the pipevine swallowtail's ("Battus philenor") chrysalis.
The imago (adult) is seen from March-November. It lives in pine-oak forests.
The only known host plant the caterpillar feeds on is Watson's pipevine ("Aristolochia watsoni").

</doc>
<doc id="218938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218938" title="Innocence (Avril Lavigne song)">
Innocence (Avril Lavigne song)

Innocence is a song by written by Avril Lavigne with Evan Taubenfeld and was the fifth, and final, single off of her album "The Best Damn Thing".

</doc>
<doc id="218946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218946" title="Unwanted (Avril Lavigne song)">
Unwanted (Avril Lavigne song)

Unwanted is a song by Avril Lavigne and was released on her first studio album "Let Go". It was released as a radio single. The song is known for its very heavy guitar. It was one of the four songs released on her 2003 EP "The Angus Drive EP".

</doc>
<doc id="218947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218947" title="Angus Drive">
Angus Drive

The Angus Drive EP is an EP that was released in 2003 by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne and it contains songs that were already released on her 2002 album "Let Go".

</doc>
<doc id="218953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218953" title="Keisuke Mori">
Keisuke Mori

Keisuke Mori (born 17 April 1980) is a former Japanese football player.
66||3||2||0||2||0||70||3
66||3||2||0||2||0||70||3

</doc>
<doc id="218955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218955" title="Silva Jose Reinaldo Fernandes">
Silva Jose Reinaldo Fernandes

Silva Jose Reinaldo Fernandes (born 28 December 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="218956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218956" title="Thomas Bickel">
Thomas Bickel

Thomas Bickel (born 6 October 1963) is a former Swiss football player. He played for Switzerland national team.
319||49
75||21
394||70
!Total||52||5

</doc>
<doc id="218957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218957" title="Chris Birchall">
Chris Birchall

Chris Birchall (born 5 May 1984) is a Trinidad and Tobago football player. He plays for Los Angeles Galaxy and Trinidad and Tobago national team.
118||9||10||1||5||0||133||10
9||0||0||0||0||0||9||0
9||0||0||0||colspan="2"|-||9||0
136||9||10||1||5||0||151||10
!Total||36||4

</doc>
<doc id="218958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218958" title="Sami Al-Jaber">
Sami Al-Jaber

Sami Al-Jaber (born 11 December 1972) is a former Saudi Arabian football player. He has played for Saudi Arabia national team.
4||0||0||0||1||0||5||0
4||0||0||0||1||0||5||0
!Total||163||44

</doc>
<doc id="218959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218959" title="Tobias Linderoth">
Tobias Linderoth

Tobias Linderoth (born 21 April 1979) is a Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.
64||7
68||9
40||0
72||4
9||0
253||20
!Total||76||2

</doc>
<doc id="218960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218960" title="Marcus Allbäck">
Marcus Allbäck

Marcus Allbäck (born 5 July 1973) is a Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.
241||97
89||35
16||0
48||25
34||6
23||4
441||1674
!Total||74||30

</doc>
<doc id="218962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218962" title="Markus Rosenberg">
Markus Rosenberg

Markus Rosenberg (born 27 September 1982) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Werder Bremen and Sweden national team.
78||22
40||12
73||29
191||63
!Total||30||6

</doc>
<doc id="218963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218963" title="Marcelo Miguel Pelissari">
Marcelo Miguel Pelissari

Marcelo Miguel Pelissari (born 20 August 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.
5||0||0||0||0||0||5||0
5||0||0||0||0||0||5||0

</doc>
<doc id="218964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218964" title="Richard Dutruel">
Richard Dutruel

Richard Dutruel (born 24 December 1972) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.
102||0
176||0
278||0
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="218965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218965" title="Masahiko Nakagawa">
Masahiko Nakagawa

Masahiko Nakagawa (born 26 August 1969) is a former Japanese football player.
46||0||3||0||14||0||63||0
46||0||3||0||14||0||63||0

</doc>
<doc id="218966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218966" title="Masao Kiba">
Masao Kiba

Masao Kiba (born 6 September 1974) is a retired Japanese football player.
245||1||24||0||37||0||306||1
245||1||24||0||37||0||306||1

</doc>
<doc id="218968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218968" title="Foraminifera">
Foraminifera

Foraminifera or forams, as they are called, are an important group of tiny single-celled eukaryotes. They are mostly marine, though a few live in fresh-water, and even on damp land areas. In the sea, they live both in the plankton (pelagic), and in the deeper water (the benthos). They have "tests" (like shells) made of calcium carbonate (CaCO).
The organism has pseudopodia like an amoeba. It uses these to capture and eat bacteria and small diatoms. Also, many of them keep algal endosymbionts. Some are "idioplastic", which means they eat the algae, but keep the algal chloroplasts for their own benefit.
Forams are often used to date strata in palaeontology. The detailed record of forams from deep sea drilling projects are the basis of a fossil index for geological periods or stages. This is called "biostratigraphy".
Deep sea forams from the Mariana Trench are below the "carbonate compensation depth", below which all CaCO dissolves. They have evolved organic tests, instead of calcium carbonate ones. This suggests that the tests are a vital part of their life-style, perhaps protecting them from other micro-predators.

</doc>
<doc id="218972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218972" title="Take Me Away (Avril Lavigne song)">
Take Me Away (Avril Lavigne song)

Take Me Away is a song by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne from her second album, "Under My Skin". Like the single before it ("Losing Grip"), "Take Me Away" has an edgy, post-grunge sound and started playing on Canadian rock radio in March of 2004. At around the same time that Don't Tell Me was being promoted, as the lead single from "Under My Skin", "Take Me Away" was being released as the B-side on some copies of the "Don't Tell Me" single. 
"Take Me Away" was released to radio only in Australia in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="218974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218974" title="Strata">
Strata

Strata are layers of rock, or sometimes soil. In nature, strata come in many layers. It is a term in sedimentary and historical geology; the singular is stratum. The study of strata is called stratigraphy.
These layers are laid down as sediment, often in the sea, and are slowly changed by pressure, heat and chemical action into rocks. 
The strata are often typical of a particular time and place, and allow geologists to relate rocks in different places. For instance, chalk was laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period, and consists mainly of the remains of microscopic algae called coccoliths.
In normal strata, the later strata are laid down on earlier strata in horizontal layers. In the long passage of time, sedimentary rocks may get "deformed" by huge forces in the Earth: volcanism, orogeny (mountain building) or other causes. Then it requires research to work out what has happened to the strata.
When strata rise above sea level they get worn down by erosion, such as weather. This causes gaps in the sequence of strata, which may have risen and sunk many times in Earth history. These gaps are called unconformities in geological jargon.
In many formations of strata there are repeating patterns. For example, clay layers alternate with sandstone layers; or carbonate layers alternate with shales. This is usually caused by repeating cycles of climate. In warmer times the sea rises, and carbonate rocks are deposited in shallow subtropical seas. Later, ice builds up at the poles and the sea level drops. Then the same area is close to shore, and gets sand and mud washed down by rivers. 
Rocks showing repeat patterns of strata are called rhythmites. Sometimes the patterns are caused by annual climate changes. Geologists call those varves. 

</doc>
<doc id="218975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218975" title="Live Acoustic (Avril Lavigne EP)">
Live Acoustic (Avril Lavigne EP)

Live Acoustic EP is an EP that was released in 2004 by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne. It was made up of songs from her 2004 album, "Under My Skin", and her hit single "Sk8er Boi" from her 2002 album "Let Go".
It is an acoustic album that was only released in United States Target stores. All the songs were recorded live during Avril's North American mall tour.

</doc>
<doc id="218979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218979" title="Sarah Vaughan">
Sarah Vaughan

Sarah Lois Vaughan (March 27, 1924 – April 3, 1990) was an American jazz singer. She was described by jazz writer Scott Yanow as having "one of the most wondrous voices of the 20th century". She had a contralto (alto) vocal range.
Vaghan had the nicknames "Sassy" and "The Divine One", and she was a Grammy Award winner. The National Endowment for the Arts gave her its "highest honor in jazz," the NEA Jazz Masters Award, in 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="218983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218983" title="Gish">
Gish

Gish is the first album of the alternative rock group The Smashing Pumpkins. It was released on May 28, 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="218987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218987" title="Maureen Tucker">
Maureen Tucker

Maureen ("Mo" or "Moe") Tucker (born August 26, 1944 in Levittown, New York) is an American musician, best known as the drummer for the Velvet Underground, a band from the 1960s and early 1970s.
Tucker worked in a factory during the day, but played drums as a hobby. Two of her brother Jim's friends were college , Lou Reed and Sterling Morrison, who had started a band. (Jim gave the band its name, after he brought them a copy of a book titled "The Velvet Underground".) When their drummer suddenly quit, she was asked to fill in for him. She did so, and ended up staying with the band full-time. She left her factory job.
Early on she was asked to "do something different" with her drums. Tucker turned her bass drum on its side, and began playing with instead of drumsticks, standing up. This became her signature style. (She also played a few times, after her drums were stolen.) She played on all the band's recordings for Verve Records and MGM's record label, and their concerts through the 1960s. She also sang lead vocals on "After Hours" and "I'm Sticking With You".
Tucker had to take a break from drumming in 1970, when she became pregnant. Billy Yule, teenage brother of Doug Yule, filled in for her on drums until after her baby Kerry was born. Tucker returned to the band, staying on even when Reed and Morrison left. She quit later, when the band thought about changing names. Instead of a solo career, she went back to factory work, and family life.
Later Tucker began drumming with other bands, including her own projects. She joined the Velvet Underground's 1990s reunions, and was present when the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="218992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218992" title="Avatar (2009 movie)">
Avatar (2009 movie)

Avatar is a 2009 American science fiction adventure movie. The two main characters are played by Sam Worthington (Jake) and Zoë Saldaña (Neytiri). "Avatar" was directed by James Cameron. In 1994, Cameron wrote an 80-page story about Pandora. He did not start to develop the movie until 12 years, in early 2006. He did this because the level of technology at the time was not good enough. The cost of the movie was high. It cost $280–310 million to make it and $150 million for marketing. The movie was released in traditional 2-D and 3-D. Only three weeks after it was released (December 18, 2009 in the United States), "Avatar" has earned more money worldwide than any movie other than Cameron's previous movie, "Titanic".
The movie won the 2010 Golden Globe awards for "Best Director - Motion Picture" and "Best Motion Picture - Drama" and six Critics Choice awards. It has also been nominated for 11 Academy Awards and eight BAFTA awards. 
The story takes place on the Pandora, a moon of a far away planet, in the year 2154. The movie opens with Jake getting into a fight in a bar on Earth before he goes to Pandora. Pandora is a fictional Earth-like moon in a distant planetary system. 
Some humans have traveled from Earth to Pandora because it is a source of a very valuable mineral called unobtanium. The largest deposit of the mineral is under a large tree that the local Na'vi people have named "Hometree" ("kelutral" in the Na'vi language). The tree is very important to the Na'vi. Parker Selfridge (played by Giovanni Ribisi) is the military leader of the mining operation. He uses marines for security. The marines need to move the Na'vi people before they can start mining the unobtanium. They have tried to do this many times. They have offered the Na'vi clothing, education, and such, but none has been working. Their next plan is to just blow the place it up.
Pandora is inhabited by the Na'vi. They are a blue-skinned species of humanoids with feline characteristics. Physically, the Na'vi are much stronger and taller than humans. They live in harmony with Nature and worship a mother goddess called Eywa. The human scientists on Pandora want to learn about the Na'vi's culture. To do this, they have created "avatars". Avatars are Na'vi bodies modified with human DNA. They are controlled mentally by human operators. These avatars are used to interact with the Na'vi people, to try to create peace. Jake Sully (played by Sam Worthington) is a paraplegic marine . His brother was a scientist trained to be an avatar operator. After his brother dies, Jake replaces him to control his avatar. Jake receives the mission to form relations with the Na'vi. His goal is to get the Na'vi to move away from Hometree so the humans can mine for unobtanium there. To do this, he was to become friends with the Na'vi so he could learn what it would take to get them to move. Many people, like Grace (played by Sigourney Weaver), an avatar specialist, did not think Jake had enough experience and intelligence to be useful. On a mission in avatar form, he gets lost in the jungle.
Jake's avatar is saved by Neytiri (Zoe Saldana), a female Na'vi. Neytiri takes Jake to Hometree, where her clan, the Omaticaya, live. As a shaman, Neytiri's mother shows interest in Jake. She asks her daughter to teach Jake about their culture. Together, Jake and Neytiri have many adventures in Pandora. Neytiri shows Jake the spirit that every living thing has. Jake is respected when he first comes to the Na'vi. They call him a "sky-dreamer". Once he learns their culture, he impresses all of them and earns their respect. He becomes a member of the Omaticaya clan and is seen as one of them. At first, Neytiri does not like him. Their friendship forms as he becomes more skilled and her equal. They mate under the tree of Eywa. At first, Neytiri's father is quite mad about it. Over time, he accepts it.
Time passes and Jake has not gotten the Na'vi people to move. Park Selfridge sees this. He tells Jake that it has taken too long and that they are going to bomb Hometree. Jake tries to warn the Na'vi people. The Na'vi people feel that he has betrayed them because he knew this was going to happen. The Na'vi try to fight back but their bows and arrows are useless against the Marines. The Hometree is bombed and thousands of Na'vi people died. Neytiri's father is one of the dead. Jake and Grace have failed. They are jailed by the mining company because they fought with the Na'vi.
With the help of a woman marine pilot named Trudy (played by Michelle Rodriguez), they escape in a helicopter. They go to a nearby base to change into avatar mode. They then go to Hometree to see the Na'vi. Jake tells the Na'vi people that they still must fight. He joins with one of the Na'vi warriors to train them. Soon, more Na'vi come to defend their land. The marines choose to just destroy the Na'vi rather than try and move them. Many people do not think this was right. They think it is inhumane. These people are not listened to and the Marines went to attack the Na'vi. There is a very large battle between the Marines and Na'vi. When it looks as if the marines are going to win, many of the animals of Pandora join the battle. They fight with the Na'vi against the marines. Near the end of the battle, Jake, in his avatar, fights Parker Selfridge. When he is almost dead, Neytiri saves him. The Na'vi eventually win but many die. After the battle, the Marines are sent home to planet Earth. Jake Sully is changed into his avatar permanently and becomes the leader of the Na'vi with Neytiri.
If Cameron was inspired by every science fiction book he read when he was a kid, the look of the Na'vi was inspired by a dream that Cameron's mother had before he wrote Avatar. She dreamt about a 12-foot-tall blue woman and he thought that image was cool. 
Cameron's aim was to make us think about how we interact with nature and others . Cameron said: "the Na'vi represent(...) our higher selves, or our aspirational selves..." and the humans represent "the parts of ourselves that are trashing our world and maybe condemning ourselves to a grim future".
Home media 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment & Sony Pictures Home Entertainmentreleased Avatar on Blu-ray and DVD on April 22nd Earth Day in the United States Japan South Korea and Canada and Peoples Republic of China. this release had no special features and no 3D. it was released in UK April 26th 2010 and Ireland and Mainland Europe Australia New Zealand April 23rd 2010 another edition was re released in 12 November 2010 with special features and audio commentary a 3D version is not available in shops only with special 3D package Sony 3D TV package until February 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="218994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218994" title="Paramecium">
Paramecium

Paramecium is one of the best-known protists, often taught in school biology courses. It is a ciliate genus. Ciliates are a clade of protists which move by synchronous waves of tiny projections from their cuticle. These projections are called cilia (singular: "cilium"). The species range from 50 to 350 μm in length. They live in freshwater ponds, and eat bacteria, and other protists such as single-celled algae.
Paramecium species usually have bacterial symbionts, and some species have green algal symbionts.
Reproduction in "Paramecium" has been researched for many years.
"Paramecium" has two nuclei (a large macronucleus and a single compact micronucleus). They cannot survive without the macronucleus and cannot reproduce without the micronucleus. Reproduction is either by binary fission (asexual), conjugation (sexual), or, rarely, by "endomixis", a process of self-fertilisation. During binary fission a fully grown organism divides into two daughter cells. Conjugation consists of the temporary union of two organisms and the exchange of micro-nuclear elements. Without the rejuvenating effects of conjugation a paramecium ages and dies. Only opposite mating types, or genetically compatible organisms, can unite in conjugation.
This reproductive system is unique to ciliates, and is one of the reasons why we think the Protista is not a natural clade (monophyletic), but rather a polyphyletic collection of single-celled organisms.
This species consists of 14 "syngens", each genetically isolated from every other, and biochemically unique. Each syngen has two mating types. The syngens are so similar in appearance that they have not been given separate species names.
These are paramecia which secrete, into the medium around them, particles which kill other paramecia. This killer trait is caused by kappa particles, which are are symbiotic bacteria. The kappa particles are only found in paramecia with a dominant K gene. The killing is done by smaller particles which are defective DNA phages. The kappa bacterium is just one of many found in natural populations of "Paramecium aurelia".

</doc>
<doc id="219002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219002" title="Kingston, Wisconsin">
Kingston, Wisconsin

Kingston is a village of Green Lake County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 288 people were living in Kingston as of 2000. Kingston has a total area of 1.5 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="219003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219003" title="Canonic Variations on &quot;Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her&quot;">
Canonic Variations on &quot;Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her&quot;

The Canonic Variations on "Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her" ("From Heaven above to Earth I come"), BWV 769 is a well-known piece of music for organ by Johann Sebastian Bach. An organ with two manuals (keyboards) and pedals is needed to play this work. There are five “variations”. All the music is based on a Christmas hymn called “Von Himmel hoch” which was very well known to the people who went to the Lutheran church where Bach was organist.
Bach composed the piece when he became a member of Mizler's Music Society in Leipzig in 1747. It was printed in 1747. Another version was published later. This was an autograph manuscript which also included other organ music: the six trio sonatas and the Great Eighteen Chorale Preludes. The most important difference Bach made in this version is that the fifth variation was moved to the middle.
In June 1747, Bach was allowed to become a member of the "Correspondierde Societät der Muscialischen Wissenschaften" ("Corresponding Society for the Musical Sciences"). There were 14 members when Bach joined. The society studied and encouraged people in Leipzig to compose music. To celebrate becoming a member, Bach gave to the society a version of the Canonic Variations and also a portrait of himself that had been painted by Elias Gottlob Haussmann. In the portrait Bach is seen holding up a copy of another composition which uses a lot of canon.
The five variations on “Von Himmel Hoch” are not variations in the usual musical sense. They are not five statements of the theme with ornamentation. They are five movements which all use canon to build up the music. During the last years of his life Bach composed several works which were based on canons. Several of his works from that period are canonic, including organ pieces from Parts III and IV of the Clavier-Übung, the Goldberg Variations for harpsichord, the Musical Offering and the Art of the Fugue.
The Canonic Variations are based on the Christmas Hymn "Von Himmel hoch, da komm ich her". The words and melody were composed in 1539 by Martin Luther. Bach had used the chorale (hymn tune) before. It comes in his Christmas Oratorio, in his Magnificat, and in several organ preludes including the short one from the Orgelbüchlein (Little Organ Book) which can be heard in Britain and other countries on radio and television each Christmas Eve at the end of the world-famous carol service from King’s College, Cambridge.
There are five variations:
This is a two part canon between the right and left hand. It is a “canon at the octave” because the second part starts an octave lower than the first part. The hands play on different manuals so that they can produce a different sort of sound, like a duet between two instruments. The chorale tune (cantus firmus) is heard in the pedals. It is played in long notes with gaps of a bar and a half between each phrase. The music of the canon, played by the hands, sounds in parts like the shape of the chorale. It starts with six notes going down. Bach may have done this deliberately to suggest Christ coming down to earth. This sort of “symbolism” or “word-painting”, in which the actual notes of the music show the meaning of the words (or what were the words in the original hymn), is very common in Bach’s music and in a lot of other music of that time.
Again there is a canon between the hands and the chorale tune in the pedals. It is strict three-part writing (each hand only plays one note at a time, as if for a melodic instrument). This time it is a “canon at the fifth” (the right hand begins on C, the left hand imitates half a bar later starting on the F below). The canon is based on the first and second lines of the chorale. When the start of the canon comes back near the end, it is syncopated. At the very end the hands play a scale going up. Bach may have meant this to sound like angels going up to heaven, or the soul going up.
The canon this time is between the left hand and the pedals. The canon moves mostly in quavers and is based on the chorale tune. The right hand plays a free melody, and also the chorale tune in long notes at the top.
This variation has a new tune in the right hand (but some of its general shape comes from the chorale tune). It is very lively (there are often demisemiquavers, especially near the end), and is very syncopated. The bottom of the left hand plays the same tune in canon, but it only moves at half the speed of the upper part. This is called “augmentation”. The top of the left hand meanwhile has a freer part. The pedal has the chorale tune in long notes. Three bars before the end we hear the BACH motif in the left hand. These are the four notes that Bach often uses to represent his name.
The last variation becomes more and more grand and finishes in a big climax. It works well when it is played as the last variation (instead of the middle variation as in the autograph copy).
At the beginning of this variation, the canon is simply the melody of the chorale. It is played by the right and left hand, but this time the left hand plays it upside down (inversion). It is a “canon at the sixth” (the right hand starts on C, then the left hand starts on the E below). Later it becomes a canon at the third. The pedal simply plays a bass part (like a continuo instrument).
In the next section the right hand (marked “forte” (loud)) moves in fast notes while the pedal plays the chorale tune and the bottom part of the left hand plays it in canon upside down at the second (pedal starts on C, left hand canon imitates starting on B). Then the right and left hands swap round and there is a canon at the ninth.
In the last section, marked "forte", the pedal part plays the chorale tune upside down. At the very end, as the music rises to a climax, it repeats the last line of the chorale tune, finishing on the lowest pedal note: the bottom C. The hands meanwhile play on the same manual. There is a “stretto”: all the voices start the tune (or a version of the tune) quickly one after another. At the very end we hear the BACH motif again.
Bach is often said to be a “mathematical” composer. This set of variations are a good example of a piece of music in which Bach is trying to show different techniques of composing. A lot of skill is needed in order to compose complicated canons like this, making the music sound good at the same time. The description of the music may sound very complicated, but one can enjoy the music without understanding all the techniques used to compose it. However, it is always fascinating to see how Bach has put all these ideas together. 

</doc>
<doc id="219010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219010" title="Voice (polyphony)">
Voice (polyphony)

In music, voice refers to several melodic lines being sung or played at the same time. These lines are called "voices", even if they are not being sung but being played on instruments. Another word for the same thing is "part", but the word "part" can also mean a "section" of a piece, so it can be confusing.
The word "part" meaning "voice" is often used when describing polyphonic music. For example: a 3-part fugue would have three "voices". It might be sung by three people, or it might be played by three instruments, or just by one keyboard instrument playing all three parts.

</doc>
<doc id="219025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219025" title="Elf">
Elf

An elf is a mythical creature of various origins that is usually regarded as a good being that helps to make trees and nature good. It is therefore commonly associated with paganism and witchcraft (many modern witches today believe that elves are real creatures). 
Elves are usually described as a taller human but with more firmer touch to them. In the Lord of the Rings, however, elves were described as human sized (and if anything taller), hence changing the description of elves. They are sometimes known to have long, pointy ears. 
In most modern fantasy scenarios, elves are one of the 3 main races (Elves, Dwarves and Humans), although if these 3 are described as the good races, they then become one of 6 races, including orcs, goblins and trolls and/or giants. 

</doc>
<doc id="219026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219026" title="Sterling Morrison">
Sterling Morrison

Holmes Sterling Morrison Jr. (born August 28, 1942, died August 30, 1995) was an American musician (guitar), known as a founding member of the Velvet Underground.
Morrison met Lou Reed, who also played guitar, at college. They met again later in New York City, where Reed was with John Cale. Morrison joined Reed and Cale in , and the three formed a band. The band gained the name "The Velvet Underground" when another college friend, Jim Tucker, brought them a book with that title. Tucker's sister Maureen became the band's drummer.
Morrison played lead guitar, and also rhythm and bass guitars, and sang backing vocals. When Doug Yule replaced John Cale, Morrison played lead guitar full-time. Yule sometimes pushed for the lead guitar role, and Morrison and Yule did not get along well.
Even though the Velvets were well known, their financial success was limited, and Morrison became unsure about the band's future. He quit college before the Velvets formed, with only a few credits to go, but went back to City College of New York during 1970. He completed his Bachelor's degree in English, while the band played Max's Kansas City, a restaurant and bar in New York.
After Lou Reed left the band late in 1970, Morrison continued to tour with them. He had sent his to different schools, hoping to get a job as a teacher or professor. When the band visited Texas, he phoned Texas A&M University, and learned they wanted him for a teaching job. He quit the band, and taught college through the 1970s and 1980s.
Morrison later returned to New York, and became a captain. He reunited with the Velvets during the 1990s, playing shows with them in Europe and America. He became ill in 1995, saw a doctor, and found out he had , a kind of cancer. He died only a few weeks later, and not long before the Velvet Underground were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="219027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219027" title="Vanilla Twilight">
Vanilla Twilight

"Vanilla Twilight" is the second single on the album "Ocean Eyes" by electronica project Owl City. It was made into a music video that had several people, including Shaq, look at a sunrise after a snow fall.

</doc>
<doc id="219036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219036" title="Feather Falls">
Feather Falls

Feather Falls is a waterfall found on the Fall River. It is a tributary of the Middle Fork Feather River, in Plumas National Forest of Butte County, California. The falls were often said to be over 640 feet tall, however, they recently measured to stand 410 feet tall, which is what the USGS Brush Creek 7 1/2" quadrangle says. A town found nearby, Feather Falls, California, is named after this waterfall.

</doc>
<doc id="219039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219039" title="Feather Falls, California">
Feather Falls, California

Feather Falls is an unincorporated community in Butte County, California. It is found in the countryside. It lies at an elevation of 2982 feet (909 m).

</doc>
<doc id="219042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219042" title="Salween River">
Salween River

Salween River is a major river in Southeast Asia. It flows through parts of China, Thailand, and Burma for 2,815 km (1,749 mi). The river originates in the Qinghai Mountains and flows west. But then it turns east and south, flowing into the Andaman Sea at Mawlamyaing, Burma.

</doc>
<doc id="219045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219045" title="Tal Ben Haim">
Tal Ben Haim

Tal Ben Haim (; born 31 March 1982) is an Israeli football player. He plays for Portsmouth and Israel national team.
86||2||9||0||13||0||8||0||116||2
115||1||11||0||10||0||14||0||150||1
201||3||20||0||23||0||22||0||266||3
!Total||53||0

</doc>
<doc id="219047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219047" title="Hugo Viana">
Hugo Viana

Hugo Viana (born 15 January 1983) is a Portuguese football player. He has played for the Portuguese national team.
57||7
39||2
52||3
148||12
!Total||25||1

</doc>
<doc id="219048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219048" title="Bruno Vale">
Bruno Vale

Bruno Vale (born 8 April 1983) is a Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.
47||0
47||0
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219049" title="Fábio Santos Romeu">
Fábio Santos Romeu

Fábio Santos Romeu (born 16 September 1985) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Corinthians.
64||2||||||||||64||2
20||3||4||0||3||0||27||3
5||1||||||||||5||1
89||6||4||0||3||0||96||6

</doc>
<doc id="219050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219050" title="Haminu Draman">
Haminu Draman

Haminu Draman (born 1 April 1986) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Lokomotiv Moscow and Ghana national team.
4||1
31||2
6||0
41||3
!Total||38||4

</doc>
<doc id="219051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219051" title="Saša Drakulić">
Saša Drakulić

Saša Drakulić (born 28 August 1972) is a Serbian football player. He plays for Proleter Novi Sad.

</doc>
<doc id="219052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219052" title="Alen Avdić">
Alen Avdić

Alen Avdić (born 3 April 1977) is a Bosnia and Herzegovinan football player. He has played for the Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.
21||9
2||0
19||3
12||0
10||1
24||10
16||7
56||9
160||39
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="219054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219054" title="Mickaël Landreau">
Mickaël Landreau

Mickaël Landreau (born 14 May 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Lille.
449||0
449||0
!Total||11||0

</doc>
<doc id="219055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219055" title="Oleg Pashinin">
Oleg Pashinin

Oleg Pashinin (born 12 September 1974) is a former Uzbekistani football player. He has played for Uzbekistan national team.
203||2||||||||||203||2
12||2||2||0||2||0||16||2
215||4||2||0||2||0||219||4
!Total||12||0

</doc>
<doc id="219058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219058" title="Škoda Fabia">
Škoda Fabia

The Škoda Fabia is a automobile produced by Škoda Auto in two generations since 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="219060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219060" title="Škoda Superb">
Škoda Superb

Škoda Superb is a car produced by Škoda Auto from 2001 to the present day. The first generation was made from 2001 to 2008 and got a facelift in 2006. The second generation was made from 2008 to 2015 with a facelift in 2013. It entered its third generation in 2015. It comes as a hatchback or an estate. 

</doc>
<doc id="219061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219061" title="Škoda Octavia">
Škoda Octavia

The Škoda Octavia is a automobile produced by Škoda Auto in three generations since 1996. The second generation was launched in 2004, but the first generation still continues until 2010. It entered its third generation in 2013. 

</doc>
<doc id="219062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219062" title="Volkswagen Vento">
Volkswagen Vento

Volkswagen Vento was a car made by Volkswagen from 1992 through 1998. It is the European version of the Third Generation Volkswagen Jetta.

</doc>
<doc id="219068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219068" title="Akmal Shaikh">
Akmal Shaikh

Akmal Shaikh (5 April 1956 – 29 December 2009) was a British citizen, originally from Pakistan, who was executed in Urumqi, China, by lethal injection. Shaikh was the first EU national to be executed in China in 50 years. The father of five smuggled heroin to China in a suitcase on a plane. China defended its decision to put Shaikh to death and stated it had acted according to Chinese law.

</doc>
<doc id="219070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219070" title="John Coltrane">
John Coltrane

John William "Trane" Coltrane (September 23, 1926 – July 17, 1967) was an American jazz saxophonist and composer.
Coltrane played the bebop and hard bop styles of jazz early in his career, and helped start the use of modes in jazz and later was a very important part of free jazz. He made about fifty recordings as a bandleader, and appeared on many other albums, for example with trumpeter Miles Davis and pianist Thelonious Monk. As his career progressed, Coltrane's music became more spiritual. he died of liver cancer. His second wife was pianist Alice Coltrane, and their son Ravi Coltrane is also a saxophonist. 
He influenced many musicians, and is one of the most important tenor saxophonists in jazz history. He got many awards, including Special Citation from the Pulitzer Prize Board in 2007 (many years after his death) for his "masterful improvisation, supreme musicianship and iconic centrality to the history of jazz."

</doc>
<doc id="219073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219073" title="Fela Kuti">
Fela Kuti

Fela Anikulapo Kuti (15 October 1938 – 2 August 1997), or just Fela, was a Nigerian musician and composer who was very important in a genre called afrobeat. He played the saxophone, guitar, drums, keyboards and trumpet, and he sang. He was also a human rights activist. The American singer James Brown said that Kuti was one of the originators (starters) of the funk genre.
Kuti died in 1997 of Kaposi's sarcoma, an illness caused by AIDS. In 2008 a musical production called "Fela!" was created, about Kuti's life and career.

</doc>
<doc id="219074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219074" title="Requiem for a Dream">
Requiem for a Dream

Requiem for a Dream is a 2000 American drama movie. It was directed by Darren Aronofsky. It stars Ellen Burstyn, Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly, and Marlon Wayans. The movie is about people with different drug addictions in Brooklyn, New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="219075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219075" title="Home Alone 3">
Home Alone 3

Home Alone 3 is the third film in the Home Alone series. It is an American criminal comedy movie. The movie has a different household and villains than the first two films. The director was Raja Gosnell, the editor of both originl films and the star was Alex D. Linz. It was released on December 12, 1997 by 20th Century Fox. The film grossed $79,082,515 worldwide.
In this film the boy, Alex, is sick at home with the chicken pox. He must defend his home against four burglars.
A made-for-television sequel, "Home Alone 4: Taking Back the House", followed in 2002 and Home Alone 5 followed in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="219076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219076" title="Stripes (movie)">
Stripes (movie)

Stripes is a 1981 American comedy movie starring actor Bill Murray. His character was in the military.

</doc>
<doc id="219084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219084" title="Justin.tv">
Justin.tv

JustinTv or JTV was a free account broadcasting website. It was founded by Justin Kan in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="219085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219085" title="Ustream">
Ustream

Ustream is a website where you can broadcast your own show for others to see. 

</doc>
<doc id="219094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219094" title="Harvey Milk">
Harvey Milk

Harvey Bernard Milk (May 22, 1930 – November 27, 1978) was an American politician and a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors. He was the first openly gay man to be elected to public office in California. He did not focus on homosexuality or gay activism at first, but did later on in his career.
Milk moved from New York City to live in San Francisco in 1972. This was a time when lots of gay men moved to live in the Castro District of San Francisco. Milk became a city supervisor in 1977.
Milk served 11 months in office and helped gay rights in the city. On November 27, 1978, Milk and Mayor George Moscone were assassinated (murdered) by Dan White in San Francisco. White was another city supervisor who had recently resigned but wanted his job back.
Milk became an icon in San Francisco and "a martyr for gay rights", according to University of San Francisco professor Peter Novak. In 2002, Milk was called "the most famous and most significantly open LGBT official ever elected in the United States". Anne Kronenberg, his final campaign manager, wrote of him: "What set Harvey apart from you or me was that he was a visionary. He imagined a righteous world inside his head and then he set about to create it for real, for all of us." Milk was posthumously given the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama on August 12, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="219107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219107" title="John Blow">
John Blow

John Blow (born Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire, baptised 23 February 1649; died Westminster, London, 1 October 1708) was an English composer and organist. He had a great deal of influence on English music. His best pupil was Henry Purcell who was the greatest English composer of his time.
Blow was born in Newark-on-Trent. As a boy he sang in the choir the Chapel Royal (the king’s church choir). He was still very young when he started composing anthems. One of these anthems, known as the “Club Anthem” was written by Blow together with three other choirboys: Pelham Humfrey, Michael Wise and William Turner, all of whom were to become well-known composers when they grew up. The diarist Samuel Pepys heard him sing once, but Blow’s voice was breaking by then, and Pepys wrote in his diary that he made an “unpleasant sound”. 
In 1668 he became organist of Westminster Abbey. In 1674 he was made a gentleman of the Chapel Royal. When Pelham Humfrey died, Blow took over two of his jobs. He was in charge of a small choir at the king’s court (he was called “composer-in-ordinary”). He also became Master of the Children of the Chapel Royal. He stayed in that job for the rest of his life. Many of the boy choristers he taught later became great composers. They include William Croft, Jeremiah Clark and Daniel Purcell. Henry Purcell’s voice had already broken by this time, and he became an apprentice to Blow.
In September 1673 he married Elizabeth Braddock. Ten years later she died when giving birth to a child.
In 1676 Blow became one of three organists at Westminster Abbey. In 1677 he was given the title of “Doctor of Music”. In 1680 he seems to have resigned from his job as organist at Westminster Abbey so that his young pupil Henry Purcell could take his place. By 1685 he was one of the private musicians of James II. He composed a long anthem "God spake sometime in visions" for King James’s coronation.
In 1687 he became choirmaster at St Paul's Cathedral. The choir was just being reformed after the rebuilding of the cathedral following the Great Fire of London. Michael Wise had been appointed as choirmaster, but then he died, so Blow was given the job. In 1695 he became organist of St Margaret's, Westminster, and he also took his old job at Westminster Abbey again when Henry Purcell died.
In 1699 he became Composer to the Chapel Royal. This was the first time anyone had been given this title. However, he does not seem to have composed much after 1700.
Blow died on 1 October 1708 and was buried in the north aisle of Westminster Abbey, close to Henry Purcell.
Blow composed a large amount of music. He wrote the same sort of music as Henry Purcell, except that Purcell also wrote trio sonatas as well as a lot of music for the theatre. Blow wrote a large amount of church music. We know fourteen services and more than a hundred anthems by Blow. He also wrote other vocal music such as odes, and music for harpsichord and just one piece of music for the stage: "Venus and Adonis".

</doc>
<doc id="219111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219111" title="Diary">
Diary

A diary is a book which a person writes about what they have seen or heard or what they have been doing. Diaries are usually handwritten. People like to keep diaries (meaning: write a diary) for a variety of reasons: they may want to keep a record for themselves about what they have done during their life. They may sometimes want to publish it so that other people can read it. Some diaries may be important for business or military purpose. Children in schools are often asked to write a diary. This helps them to write about what they have been doing and expressing their thoughts.
Some people, such as Samuel Pepys, have become famous as a diarist. Pepys lived at an interesting time (he was alive at the time of the Great Fire of London). We know a lot about what London was like by reading his diary. Anne Frank wrote a diary while she was hiding from the Nazis.
In modern times people write blogs on the internet. This is a modern kind of diary.
The word diary can also be used for a pocket diary: a small book in which people can write down their appointments so that they can remember what they are supposed to be doing each day.

</doc>
<doc id="219131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219131" title="Classical economics">
Classical economics

Classical economics is the first modern school of economic thought. Its main developers include Adam Smith, Jean-Baptiste Say, David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus and John Stuart Mill.
Adam Smith's book "The Wealth of Nations" (1776) was the beginning of classical economics. Smith said that if everyone did what was best for themselves, the result would be best for society. Before that, economics was about the king's personal interests, and the wealth of a nation was measured by the king's treasury. Smith said what's important is what's best for the whole nation, and that wealth should be measured by the yearly income of the nation. He wanted to discover how wealth can grow, and how people could do things to support that growth. Smith's book said land, labor, and capital were the three "factors of production" and the main contributors to a nation's wealth.
Prices naturally adjust to having more or less of something: supply and demand. If there is too much of something (more supply), prices go down so that people have more reason to buy it. If a lot of people want something (high demand), there may not be enough of it (scarcity); there will be a competition among the people who want to buy it, and some people will agree to pay more to get what they want, and prices go up. 
Smith said markets should be free. At the time, some big companies (like the East India Company) were controlled by the government. Sometimes the rulers made laws that were good for themselves but not for workers or customers. For example, in the American colonies, colonists could grow cotton but were not allowed to make clothing from it. They had to ship it to England to be made into clothing, then buy it back after it was finished. Smith said this was bad for individuals and for society. He thought it was better for money to flow freely and naturally between buyers and sellers without outside interference. Money would naturally go to the sellers who made the best product at the best price. This way if people did what was best for them, it would end up being best for society as a whole, almost like an "invisible hand" was guiding everything.

</doc>
<doc id="219136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219136" title="Jeff Probst">
Jeff Probst

Jeffrey Lee "Jeff" Probst (born November 4, 1962) is an American game show host, executive producer and reporter. He was born in Wichita, Kansas, but mostly grew up in Bellevue, Washington. He is best known for being the host of the American version of the reality show "Survivor". 
On September 21, 2008 Probst won the first Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Host for a Reality or Reality-Competition Program. On September 20, 2009 he won the same award again.
Probst currently hosts the talk show "The Jeff Probst Show", which started on September 10, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="219141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219141" title="Survivor (U.S. TV series)">
Survivor (U.S. TV series)

Survivor is an American reality television game show. It came from the Swedish show "Expedition Robinson", made in 1997 by Charlie Parsons, and first shown in May 2000. Mark Burnett produces the American show. It is hosted by Jeff Probst. So far, there have been 19 seasons, with a 20th season on its way.
Each season has a group of people who have never met each other, living in a far away place. They are divided into two to four groups called "tribes". Each tribe must find food and water, make fire, and make homes for themselves, while taking part in challenges to get a reward, or (where they become safe from getting voted off). Sometimes a player will have to be removed from the game due to an injury or infection. The last two or three players face a jury, the last seven or more players voted off. The jury asks the final few questions, and then votes for the winner of the title of "Sole Survivor" and a million dollar prize.
Each season, the 16 to 20 strangers are divided into two to four teams called "tribes". The tribes are usually given some tools to survive with, such as a machete, a pot, and water canteens to hold water. The tribes are encouraged to build shelters to protect themselves. In some seasons the tribes started with some food, such as rice, given by the show, and in other seasons, the tribes have no help in the beginning. Early seasons allowed players to bring one luxury item with them. Others seasons have brought players into the game unprepared, making them start with only the clothes they are wearing and the tools that are provided.
The tribes have been divided in many different ways. Early seasons divided tribes so that they have equal amount of people from different ages and genders. Some seasons divided the tribes, by age, gender, and/or race. Usually the tribes are divided before the show starts, but some seasons have had one more players choose the tribes after the game starts.
Tribes are given different names and colors which are used on the tribe flags, challenge courses, on-screen text, and other items. Each player is given a buff, an elastic ring of material patterned with the logo for their season, that can be worn around the arm, the head. Players have to wear the buff where it can be seen at all times, so the audience can tell who's on which tribe. When the tribes are switched, the players must give up their old buff and get a new one for their new tribe.
In each season, the tribes have to compete in challenges, where the players will use strength, teamwork and problem solving. For the first half of the game, the tribes compete against each other in challenges. For the second half, after the merge, each player usually competes against each other in challenges. 
There are two types of challenges:
Sometimes they're can be a combined reward/immunity challenge.
In seasons which start with more than two tribes, there is a dissolve of the tribes, where the players will be re-divided into two tribes after one to four Tribal Councils.
In many seasons, the tribes have been switched before the merge. The members of each tribe are swapped around. Sometimes the tribes are switched by doing a random shuffle to a schoolyard pick, where two players ("captains") would start picking players for their tribe. There has also been a Tribe Switch which is done by allowing players to join the other tribe. This process usually defeats many early alliances and strategies, and can cost a player the game early, or save them from being voted off early.
When there are 8 to 12 players left in the game, the two tribes merge. When they merge, the two tribes come together to make one new tribe. From this point, Challenges are won by one person. The merged tribe also chooses a new tribe name and makes a new tribe flag with materials given by production. There was no merge in "". The Koror tribe had won every immunity challenge, and members of the other tribe, Ulong, were being voted off one by one. When there was one Ulong member left, they simply joined Koror.
In the later seasons, hidden immunity idols have been made available. These idols, usually a small object that fits with the theme of the "Survivor" location, are hidden near camp or on Exile Island, with clues on its location given, usually to a chosen player (in "Guatemala") or to exiled or kidnapped players. Once found, the player with an idol may keep it or give it to another player before the start of Tribal Council, and it may not be stolen from that player. The player doesn't have to show this idol to other players, though may use it to join alliances and for voting purposes. Other players may find out that someone has the idol by peeking into other player's personal items. In the first few seasons of the twist, only one idol was ever in play, but in "Survivor: Fiji", "Survivor: China", "Survivor: Tocantins" and "Survivor: Samoa", two hidden immunity idols were made available to the players (one at each camp). The hidden immunity idol can only be used up until and including the Tribal Council of the final four or five players, depending on the season.
The use of the idol by a player to become immune has changed through the seasons:
During "Guatemala", the hidden immunity idol was not returned to the game after its use. Since then, if the idol is played, or the player with the idol leaves the game without playing it, the idol is replaced at a new spot to be found, and new clues are given out. During "Gabon", the players all decided to throw a hidden immunity idol into the sea. In this case it was not replaced at a new spot. In some seasons, fake hidden immunity idols have been made by contestants; these idols don't work if played.
The idea of Exile Island was started in "", when a player had to stay alone on a beach due to losing the Immunity Challenge. The idea was later used again in "" and was used in every season after that, except "" and "". A chosen player is sent ("exiled") to a small island away from the main tribe camps, usually for at least a day after a reward challenge and returning at the next immunity challenge. The player chosen may be the first loser of a challenge (as was the case in ""), or a person chosen by either the winning or losing tribe while the players are divided in tribes, or an individual challenge winner in the individual phase, after the merge. In "Micronesia" and "Tocantins", one person from each tribe was sent to Exile Island. Unless stated otherwise, players who win the right to choose who goes to Exile Island may also choose to go themselves.
Also, whenever the number of players is uneven when tribes are being made (in division or switching, but not merging), the player without a tribe will be "tribeless" and sent to Exile Island after formation ("", "", and ""). In this case, the player will return and join the tribe which loses a member at the next Tribal Council.
Once chosen, the exiled player is taken to the island by boat (or given a map to the "island"). On the island, there are few tools to survive with, usually a water canteen, a machete, a pot, and a small amount of shelter. The little amount of food on Exile Island can make a player weaker, causing them to perform worse in challenges. The separation from other players can cause a player to become on outcast on their tribe. Players are often sent to Exile Island for one or both of these strategic reasons.
The person exiled gets a clue to the hidden immunity idol, which may or may not be located on the island, an "instant comfort" (as in ""), or (as in "") the right to change tribes. If the exiled player is asked to return after the Tribal Council (whether they belong to a tribe or not), they will also be safe from being voted out at that Tribal Council.
Tribal Council is held at the end of each episode. Here, the tribe votes one person out of the tribe. The first time any player visits Tribal Council, they are asked to take a torch and light it from a fire pit. They say that "this is part of the ritual of Tribal Council because fire represents life. As long as you have fire, you are still in this game. When your fire's gone, so are you". If the Jury has already been started, they are asked to enter and watch. Probst then asks the players questions about details and events since the tribe's last Tribal Council. Before the vote, if a player has been awarded individual immunity through an immunity challenge, he is then asked if he wants to give it to another player. Whoever has the immunity after this possible switch cannot be voted out.
The players then vote for another player in secret, and the player who gets the most votes must leave the game. Players cannot vote for themselves. Players also have to write neatly, and avoid using of uncommon nicknames. If the number of votes for one player is above half of the total votes, Probst will stop reading, and that player is eliminated, keeping the rest of the votes in secret to the players themselves.
As said earlier, the player(s) with the Hidden Immunity Idol(s) get the chance to play the idol at certain points at Tribal Council.
The eliminated player's fire is put out, and Probst tells them "The tribe has spoken" and "It's time for you to go." The player then leaves the Tribal Council area and says some last words that are shown at the end of the episode. The rest of the tribe members are then told to return to camp with their torches; in some seasons, this has allowed a tribe access to a source of fire, while in other seasons, the tribe is not allowed to return to camp with their torches lit if they do not yet have their own source of fire or a way of starting one.
When there is a tie (where two or more players have the same number of votes) before there are four players left, the non-tied players will vote once again, where the only possibilities for elimination are the tied players. If the second vote does not break the tie, a two minute discussion will start where the non-tied players must come to a decision as to who should be voted off. If a decision is not reached in two minutes, the tied players are safe from being voted off and the non-tied players (except anyone who has won individual immunity) choose rocks out of a bag without looking. The player who chooses the differently colored rock is eliminated.
In the event of a tie at the final four, there will be a revote (However in "Survivor: Gabon", there was no revote in the final four and it went straight to the fire-making tie breaker challenge), but if the revote does not break the tie, the tied players will compete in a challenge. In "Palau", "Panama", "Cook Islands" and "Gabon", this challenge was a fire-making contest. In "Marquesas", the random rock tiebreaker was used at the final four, which host Jeff Probst later said was a mistake.
In the very rare case that a tribe is down to two players before the merge, as in "Palau", those two will also face off in a challenge to decide who is to leave the game. This has only happened once to date.
Very rarely, a player may choose to quit the game. The player's wish is granted, for whatever reasons. If a player quits at Tribal Council, as was the case in "Pearl Islands" and "Palau", that player's torch is "laid down". Depending on the player's reasons for quitting, they may or may not get to say their final words.
In very rare cases when players have to leave the game due to injury, or completely leave the game on their own terms outside of Tribal Council, Tribal Council is usually not held, with the other tribe(s) being informed of the player leaving if still before the merge. However, there have been occasions where, after a player is removed, an immunity challenge and a Tribal Council are still held. This usually happens when the game starts with more than eighteen players.
All eliminated players except, usually, the Final 9 (in later seasons this number has changed), leave the game entirely. The rest of the players who leave the game, except the final two or three who will go on to the final vote, are the jury, a group of people who vote to decide the winner of the game. Once the Jury starts to form, the members are at every Tribal Council, but are not allowed to speak or talk to the players still in the game; they are only there to watch the questioning and voting that occurs. Jury members are there until the end of the final Tribal Council, and are not allowed to talk about their voting or issues with the remaining players, with other jury members, or the final players. This rule continues through the game and up until the winner is announced.
The last two challenges (starting on the third to last day of the game) before the Final Tribal Council have always followed a similar pattern:
Before to the second-to-last challenge, the players are usually given a small food reward (a hearty breakfast or similar meal) for making it this far. The second-to-last immunity challenge is usually a very hard, multi-part challenge, and usually is the most complex challenge of the entire season, often combining elements from previous challenges. A Tribal Council is then held to vote off one player.
Before the last challenge, the remaining players partake in a memorial activity appropriate for the theme of the show, where they pay respect to the players who have been eliminated before them. (Torches of the eliminated players are usually included in this part.) This usually leads right into the last immunity challenge, which usually focuses on balance or endurance and which can last from minutes to almost half a day. In most seasons, with three players in the challenge, winning immunity on this challenge allows that player to choose whom he or she wants to go with to the Final Tribal Council, raising their chance at winning the game. Because of this, the challenges can allow players to talk and try to make last-minute deals, giving up immunity for assurance of being taken to the Final Two. A Tribal Council is then held to vote off the last eliminated player. Only the person with Immunity votes since the other two votes would cancel each other out. At this point, the game is no longer in the remaining players' control, as the next day they face the Final Tribal Council where their fate will be decided.
A similar pattern has been used in newer seasons in which three players go to the Final Tribal Council. The final challenges and rituals take place one vote earlier in the game. The last immunity challenge is held amongst the final four players, and the winner, while assured a place in the final three, does not choose his or her competition for the prize.
On the last day of the competition, the surviving players usually either clean up, tear down, or burn down their camp as a tribute to surviving to the end of the game. They then make their way to the final Tribal Council.
During the final Tribal Council, the following events usually occur:
After this vote, the container with the votes is taken away by the host. The players are told that the vote will be revealed during the live finale, and the votes are secured until the live finale of the show when the votes are revealed and the winner is announced. Sometimes the final tribal council and finale are changed so they look like one event, until moments later the camera shows the studio audience. This is possible by re-creating on a studio the Tribal Council set from the location of filming.
Before the use of a Final 3, the jury has always been odd-numbered, ensuring that no tie would be possible. However, with every Final 3 jury, or as in the case of "Micronesia" of an even-numbered jury for a Final 2, a tie may be possible; it is unknown what tie-breaker is used to break a tie if it happens. During the finale of "Micronesia", the host had a white envelope that he said held the tie-breaker, but its contents were not revealed as there was no tie.
The player chosen as Sole Survivor gets a cash prize of $1,000,000 (prior to taxes). The Sole Survivor also gets a car given by the show's sponsor, except in "Survivor: Cook Islands". In a few seasons, the final players have also agreed to play for the tribe flag or other representative object from camp.
In addition, the final five or six contestants may have the chance to compete for a car. The winner of this challenge has never won the game, leading to the idea of a "Survivor car curse". 
Every player gets a prize for being on Survivor depending on how long he or she lasted in the game. In most seasons, the runner-up gets $100,000, and third place wins $85,000. Sonja Christopher, the first player voted off in "Survivor: Borneo", got $2,500. The prize was raised for "". The known prizes for "Survivor: All-Stars" were as follows: 2nd = $250,000; 3rd = $125,000; 4th = $100,000. Tina Wesson, the first player voted off in "Survivor: All-Stars", got $25,000. In "", the first season with tied runners-up, the two runners-up got US$100,000 each, and Yau-Man Chan got US$60,000 for his 4th place finish. The prizes for other seasons with more than sixteen contestants are unknown. 
All players also get an additional $10,000 for being on the reunion show.
There have also been additional prizes given out, outside of the usual mechanics of the show:
The United States version is produced by Mark Burnett and hosted by Jeff Probst. It is shown on Thursdays on CBS. The first season of Survivor was broadcast as a summer replacement show in 2000. Since then the show has been broadcast each U.S. television season. Each competition is called a season, but each season has a different name, and lasts from 13 to 15 episodes. Starting with "" there have been two Survivor seasons shown during each U.S. television season.
The American version of "Survivor" has been shot in many locations around the world since the first season, in warm, tropical climates.

</doc>
<doc id="219160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219160" title="Kris Allen">
Kris Allen

Kristopher Neil "Kris" Allen (born June 21, 1985) is an American singer-songwriter. He was the winner of season 8 of American Idol.

</doc>
<doc id="219163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219163" title="PGA Championship">
PGA Championship

The PGA Championship is a golf tournament, which is the last out of the men's golf Major Championships.

</doc>
<doc id="219166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219166" title="Invisible ink">
Invisible ink

Invisible ink is a type of ink that cannot be seen or read unless it is first activated. Chemical reactions, heat, or special glasses are used to make invisible ink visible. 
It is used to send secret messages or for entertainment.

</doc>
<doc id="219167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219167" title="Pee-Wee's Big Adventure">
Pee-Wee's Big Adventure

Pee Wee's Big Adventure is a movie starring Pee Wee Herman. He travels across the US to get back his stolen bicycle. The 1985 movie was directed by Tim Burton from a screen play by Paul Reubens, Phil Hartman and Michael Varhol. The music was composed by Danny Elfman.

</doc>
<doc id="219178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219178" title="Bad Kreuznach">
Bad Kreuznach

Bad Kreuznach is a town in Germany, in Rhineland-Palatinate. It has about 40.000 inhabitants.

</doc>
<doc id="219180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219180" title="Asamoah Gyan">
Asamoah Gyan

Asamoah Gyan (born 22 November 1985) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Stade Rennais and Ghana national team.
91||26||2||0||colspan="2"|-||93||26
16||1||2||0||1||0||19||1
107||27||4||0||1||0||112||27
!Total||32||16

</doc>
<doc id="219181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219181" title="Dean Ashton">
Dean Ashton

Dean Ashton (born 24 November 1983) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.
249||93||16||8||12||5||277||106
249||93||16||8||12||5||277||106
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219182" title="Tadanari Lee">
Tadanari Lee

116||24||7||1||17||3||140||28
116||24||7||1||17||3||140||28
!Total||10||2

</doc>
<doc id="219183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219183" title="Takahiro Shimotaira">
Takahiro Shimotaira

Takahiro Shimotaira (born 18 December 1971) used to be a Japanese football player. He has now retired.
316||8||18||0||52||2||386||10
316||8||18||0||52||2||386||10

</doc>
<doc id="219184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219184" title="Sandro Cardoso dos Santos">
Sandro Cardoso dos Santos

Sandro Cardoso dos Santos (born 22 March 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Changsha Ginde.
45||17||3||2||5||3||53||22
45||17||3||2||5||3||53||22

</doc>
<doc id="219185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219185" title="Raymond Domenech">
Raymond Domenech

Raymond Domenech (born 24 January 1952) is a French football player and manager. He played for France national team.
446||15
446||15
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="219186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219186" title="Acritarch">
Acritarch

Acritarchs are early microfossils, the remains, probably, of eukaryote cells. It is the resistant single-layered cell walls, or perhaps a cover secreted by cell walls, that we see in early rocks of the Proterozoic era. These structures are organic in their chemical composition, not calcium carbonate. Their precise nature is not known, but they look like the resting stages of modern dinoflagellates (the 'red tide' organisms).
Acritarchs appear in quantity in organic-rich shales and siltstone strata 1.4 to 1.6 billion years old. They include a wide range of forms, so it is not clear whether or not they are monophyletic. At about 1 billion years ago they started to increase in abundance, diversity, and especially size and number of spines. Their populations crashed during the Cryogenian period 860 million years ago (the Snowball Earth episodes). They proliferated in the Cambrian explosion and reached their highest diversity in the Palaeozoic. They survived at least until the Ordovician period.
The increased spininess possibly resulted from the need for defence against predators large enough to swallow them or tear them apart. Other groups of small organisms from the Neoproterozoic era also show signs of anti-predator defences.
A recent discovery has greatly extended our knowledge of acritarchs. Large (50μm) acritarchs have been found in silica-based rocks of Archaean age in South Africa. These rocks date to 3,200 million years ago, which makes them the second oldest life to be found as fossils. The earliest are cyanobacteria found in stromatolites.
The significance of this is that acritarchs are eukaryotes. This means that eukaryotes were present at least 1.5 billion years earlier than had been supposed. 

</doc>
<doc id="219187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219187" title="Issey Nakajima-Farran">
Issey Nakajima-Farran

Issey Morgan Nakajima-Farran (born 16 May 1984) is a Canadian soccer player who plays as a winger for Toronto FC in Major League Soccer.
0||0
45||26
90||21
135||47
!Total||19||1

</doc>
<doc id="219194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219194" title="Toshimitsu Asai">
Toshimitsu Asai

53||0||5||0||58||0
53||0||5||0||58||0

</doc>
<doc id="219195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219195" title="Sediment">
Sediment

Sediment is the matter which falls to the bottom of oceans and lakes. Compressed and gradually transformed, sediment is the basis of sedimentary rocks. The term is also used for material transported by wind or water, and deposited on the surface. In due course, this may also turn into rock. The study of how sedimentary rocks are formed is called sedimentology.
In more general use, sediment is any matter which falls to the bottom of a liquid, such as beer.

</doc>
<doc id="219199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219199" title="Barcelona Metro line 3">
Barcelona Metro line 3

Line 3, (L3) currently known as Zona Universitària - Trinitat Nova, coloured green and often simply referred to as "Línia verda" ("Green line"), is a metro line in Barcelona operated by TMB.
Station or line names shown in italics are under construction.

</doc>
<doc id="219202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219202" title="Albert Szent-Györgyi">
Albert Szent-Györgyi

Albert Szent-Györgyi (Albert Szent-Györgyi de Nagyrápolt, 16 September 1893 22 October 1986) was an Hungarian scientist. He won the 1937 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his discoveries about Vitamin C. 
He was commonly known for discovering a vitamin that our bodies cannot make, vitamin C

</doc>
<doc id="219203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219203" title="Barcelona Metro line 4">
Barcelona Metro line 4

Line 4, currently known as Trinitat Nova – La Pau, usually called "línia groga" (yellow line), is a line in the Barcelona Metro network operated by TMB.
Stations or lines shown in italics are under construction.

</doc>
<doc id="219207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219207" title="Barcelona Metro line 5">
Barcelona Metro line 5

Line 5 (L5), currently known as Cornellà Centre - Horta, its termini, and often simply called "Línia Blava" (Blue line) is line belonging to the Barcelona Metro network operated by TMB, and part of the ATM fare-integrated transport network.
It first opened in 1959. Line 5 is currently 16.6 km. long and has 23 stations, from Cornellà to Horta in the northern part of Barcelona, where it's going to be extended towards Vall d'Hebron, meeting L3.
Station and line names in italics are under construction.

</doc>
<doc id="219208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219208" title="Barcelona Metro line 6">
Barcelona Metro line 6

Line 6, coloured navy blue, (currently known as Plaça Catalunya - Reina Elisenda) is the name of a metro-like commuter train service in Barcelona operated by FGC, and part of the ATM fare-integrated transport system. It links Plaça Catalunya, the city centre, with Sarrià-Sant Gervasi. This Barcelona Metro and Metro del Vallès line shares three stations with FGC L7. 
Prior to the "integration" with the TMB network, L6 covered as an underground commuter train line the distance from downtown Barcelona to Sarrià, pretty much the same as nowadays. It has its origins in 1876, with the Barcelona-Sarrià train. It's going to be extended towards Sant Boi, through Hospital Sant Joan de Déu.

</doc>
<doc id="219211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219211" title="Coccolith">
Coccolith

Coccoliths are the microscopic plates which form chalk. They are made by one of the most important eukaryote phytoplankton. These are single celled protists whose full name is coccolithophorids or coccolithophores. The spherical skeleton of coccoliths is a "coccosphere".
Chalk makes up much of the marine strata in the Upper Cretaceous period, and is 95% to 99% made up of coccoliths, the calcium carbonate (CaCO) plates which coccolithophorids produce. 
Coccoliths were first examined by Cristian Gottfried Ehrenberg (1795–1875), who thought they were inorganic products. They were named, and identified as made by living organisms by Thomas Henry Huxley, who realised they were a major part of the rock we call chalk. The story of how the tiny cell produces its coccosphere is told by Westbroek:
Coccolithophores are a major contributor to the carbonate in deep sea sediments. In the Northeast Atlantic during the last glacial-interglacial cycle (ice age), coccoliths make up 70-80% of the total carbonate during the warm periods, and less during glacial times. 
Coccoliths are first seen at the end of the Triassic period, 200 million years ago. It is interesting that another group of tiny algae, the diatoms, make their entry into the fossil record at almost the same time. The coccolith all-time peak was in the warm inland and continental shelf seas of the Cretaceous period. They are still of huge ecological and geological importance.
"Emiliania huxlei" ("Ehux" for short) is one of the most important planktonic algae on the planet today. It is the most common coccolithophorid in the oceans of the world. It dominates in the northeast Atlantic, in the northeast Pacific and in the eastern Mediterranean. It forms gigantic blooms readily seen on satellite imagery. This blooming life-style started between ~80,000 and 50,000 years ago, and marks the start of the so called "Ehux Acme zone" in the fossil record.
Ehux is only seen in relatively young sediments, and must have evolved fairly recently. The first appearance datum (FAD) of Ehux in the sediment is used as a biostratigraphic marker. Depending on the different proxies used and the location, this entry has been dated at ~270,000 years ago using correlation with planktic foraminiferal delta-O18 records. Weaver dated it at ~242–268,000 years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="219214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219214" title="Haptophyte">
Haptophyte

Haptophytes are a phylum of algae, sometimes called the Prymnesiophyta. All or most of them are single-celled photosynthetic phytoplankton.
The cells typically have two slightly unequal flagella and a unique organelle called a haptonema. This is superficially similar to a flagellum, but differs in its arrangement of microtubules, and in its use. The name comes from the Greek "hapsis" = touch, and "nema" = thread. 
Molecular and morphological evidence places them in five orders; coccolithophores make up the "Isochrysidales" and "Coccolithales". Other groups include phytoplankton which produce the toxic algal blooms.

</doc>
<doc id="219218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219218" title="Crush 40">
Crush 40

Crush 40, formerly known as Sons of Angels, is a Japanese-American hard rock band formed in 1998. The primary lineup from 1998 to 2009 consisted of guitarist Jun Senoue and vocalist Johnny Gioeli. They became known for game soundtracks for Wave Master Entertainment, including the Sonic the Hedgehog series.

</doc>
<doc id="219231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219231" title="Macedonia (Greece)">
Macedonia (Greece)

Macedonia is a historical and geographical region in northern Greece. It is the second most populous region of Greece and usually it is referred as "Northern Greece" along with Thrace. It is situated between the Pindus Mountains and river Nestos and it borders west with Epirus and Thessaly, northwestern with Albania, north with the Republic of Macedonia, northeastern with Bulgaria and east with Thrace. Its south coasts are washed by the Aegean Sea. Macedonia is separated in three smaller peripheries: West Macedonia, Central Macedonia and East Macedonia and Thrace. It has a total population of 2,424,765 inhabitants according to the 2001 census and its total area is 34,177 km². The capital of Macedonia is Thessaloniki and has a population of about 1,000,000 inhabitants. Macedonia's national anthem is "Μακεδονία Ξακουστή" which means "Famous Macedonia".
Macedonia has many mountains and the tallest is Mount Olympus which has a high of 2,917 meters. There are also many valleys that are some of the biggest in the whole Greece. Rivers such as Aliakmon, Axios, Nestos, and Strymonas cross these valleys and drain into the Aegean Sea.
Macedonia consists 13 prefectures and sometimes it is said to be 14 because there is also a monastery region, Mount Athos, which is autonomous. 
And the population of the largest towns:

</doc>
<doc id="219233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219233" title="Holocene">
Holocene

The Holocene is the present geological epoch. It is also called the Recent epoch. It is the second stage in the Quaternary period. 
The Holocene marks the end of the previous series of ice ages in the Pleistocene. It started about 11,700 years ago when the temperatures rose quickly from the previous level.
During the early Holocene, there were many extinctions amongst larger mammals. This is attributed to a combination of human hunting and climate change.

</doc>
<doc id="219237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219237" title="Benthos">
Benthos

Benthos: the flora and fauna found at the bottom of the sea or lake. Covers quite a wide range of uses, for instance, animals in rock pools are benthic, though only a few inches below the surface. In the ocean, used to contrast organisms in the sea depths (though not actually on the bottom), with plankton, living in the upper pelagic zone. The problem is addressed by extending the pelagic zone down below the light to the "bathypelagic" and "abyssopelagic" zones. These terms, however, are mostly not used.

</doc>
<doc id="219239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219239" title="Cleidopus gloriamaris">
Cleidopus gloriamaris

The pineapplefish, "Cleidopus gloriamaris", is a species of fish. It is also known as the knightfish or the coat-of-mail fish, due to the scales on its body. Some people call it the port-and-starboard light fish, as it has a pair of bright spots that are like a ship's lights. "Gloriamaris" is from the Latin language "gloria" and "maris", means "glory of the sea".
The pineapplefish is found near Queensland, New South Wales, and Western Australia. It lives at a depth of 6-200 meters (20-660 ft).
The pineapplefish is a member of the Pinecone fish family. The pineapplefish is the largest Pinecone species, reaching up to in length.

</doc>
<doc id="219241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219241" title="Naousa">
Naousa

Naousa, former Naoussa, is a city in the region of Macedonia in Greece. It is in the west part of Imathia prefecture. Its population is 22.288 inhabitants and its area is 300,89 km². Naousa is surrounded by orchards, producing peaches, apples, cherries and other fruits. It has a long and rich history because there are many archaeological places there. There is also the site of the ancient School of Aristotle where Alexander The Great studied moral philosophy, philosophy and politics.

</doc>
<doc id="219243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219243" title="Polygyros">
Polygyros

Polygyros is a city in the area of Macedonia in Greece. It is the capital of the Chalkidiki prefecture and of the homonym municipality. It is found on the foothill of mountain Cholomon. It has a population of 6,232 people and it has a total area is 470.933 square kilometers.

</doc>
<doc id="219245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219245" title="Broşteni, Suceava">
Broşteni, Suceava

Broşteni is a town that is found in Suceava County in the country of Romania. It has an approximate population of around 11,900 people that live within a seven kilometer area of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="219276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219276" title="Jack Benny">
Jack Benny

Jack Benny (born Benjamin Kubelsky; February 14, 1894 - December 26, 1974) was an American comedian and actor. He was born in Chicago and grew up in Waukegan, Illinois. His mother was a Lithuanian immigrant; his father was a Jewish immigrant from Poland. From 1932 to 1955, Benny had a radio show. The first title of the show was "The Canada Dry Ginger Ale Program", but it was later called "The Jack Benny Program". His television program was broadcast from 1950 to 1965.
Benny died of pancreatic cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

</doc>
<doc id="219277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219277" title="Southam">
Southam

Southam is a small town in Warwickshire, England. It is often mistaken for a village, but has been a town since medieval times.
There is an ancient stone wall, called "The Holy Well".
The first battle in the English Civil War was in Southam. In August 1642, small groups of soldiers from the opposing sides accidentally met at Southam, and in the fight some were killed. They were on their way to Edge Hill, where the first big battle took place. History books usually say Edge Hill was the first fight. Later, King Charles I rode through the town and fined the people because they did not ring the church bells for him. Later still, Oliver Cromwell, who slept in the Manor House (now a pharmacy).
In the 1600s, Southam was an important resting place for horse-drawn carriages, and even in recent times had an unusually large number of inns and public houses. (Several have close in the past 20 years.) A main road that Welsh sheep farmers ('drovers') used to travel to London passed through Southam. The town was also at an important junction between Birmingham, Coventry, Daventry, Northampton, Banbury, Oxford, Leamington Spa and Warwick.
Southam never had a canal or railway built through it. This meant that it remained a small town, while other places with canals and railways grew rapidly in the 1800s. In recent years, a lot of new houses have been built, increasing the population from 2000 in 1950 to 8000+ in 2010.
There is a fine church, which dates from 1200. It was extensively restored in Victorian times, but still has lots of medieval stone work. The Manor House (now a pharmacy) is in the centre of the town. In 2008, during routine maintenance, fine wood carvings were discovered under the plaster. The carvings are of hearts and arrows, and are at least 300 years old. The company that owns the building paid for the beautify work to be fully restored.
There are small industrial estates around the town, some with important businesses, including the computer games company . There are plans for a large supermarket (Tesco or Sainsburys) to be built in the town. While this would change the character of the town even more, it could benefit people who find the current small shops and supermarkets too expensive, and provide more people with work. Some people do not want a supermarket, saying that other shops would close.

</doc>
<doc id="219279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219279" title="Rob Reiner">
Rob Reiner

Rob Reiner (born March 6, 1947) is an American actor, director, producer, and activist.
He acted in the "All in the Family" television series. He directed films, such as "This Is Spinal Tap", "The Princess Bride", "When Harry Met Sally" and "The Bucket List". 
Reiner was born to a Jewish family. He is the elder son of Carl Reiner and Estelle Reiner (nee Lebost, 1914-2008). He was born in the Bronx, New York City. He lived in New Rochelle, New York during his childhood. When he was 13, he moved to Los Angeles, California, where he attended high school and university. 
Reiner is a Democrat and attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election.

</doc>
<doc id="219281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219281" title="Survivor: Borneo">
Survivor: Borneo

Survivor: Borneo was the first season of the American reality show "Survivor". When it was first being shown, it was simply called "Survivor" but its official name has been changed to "Survivor: Borneo", so viewers can tell which season they are watching. Before the change to "Survivor: Borneo", the season was known as "Survivor: Pulau Tiga", but it was changed again to its current name so viewers would not get this season confused with the tenth season, "". The show began filming on March 31, 2000 and ended on April 20, 2000. It was shown later that year on CBS. It was set in the South China Sea on the Malaysian island of Pulau Tiga in the state of Sabah, about off the north coast of Borneo, Malaysia. The show became available on DVD on May 11, 2004.
At the beginning, the sixteen players were divided into two tribes, an orange tribe, Tagi, and a yellow tribe, Pagong, which the producers named after their beaches. When ten players were left, the two tribes merged, becoming one tribe. Players Sean Keniff and Jenna Lewis named the new tribe "Rattana". After 39 days of playing, Richard Hatch was named the Sole Survivor, winning against Kelly Wiglesworth in a 4–3 jury vote. In 2006, it was revealed that Hatch did not declare his winnings, among other earnings, in his tax return and was sentenced to 51 months in prison.
The "Survivor: Borneo" finale (last episode) got the highest ratings of any "Survivor" episode to date. Richard Hatch, Jenna Lewis, Rudy Boesch, Susan Hawk and Colleen Haskell were asked to return in the eighth season of "Survivor", "". Haskell was the only one who did not return, while Hatch, Lewis, Boesch and Hawk placed 14th, 3rd, 17th and 13th.
The game had sixteen players, divided into two tribes, Pagong and Tagi. After six players were voted off, the tribes were combined, or merged, to make one tribe, Rattana. Seven players made up the jury, who chose who would win the game, and the $1 million prize.
</div>

</doc>
<doc id="219284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219284" title="Vermont, Wisconsin">
Vermont, Wisconsin

Vermont is a town of Dane County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 839 people were living in Vermont as of 2000. Vermont has a total area of 35.8 square miles, according to the United States Census Bureau.

</doc>
<doc id="219293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219293" title="Rastacap">
Rastacap

The rastacap (also called a rastafar or toppa) is a tall, knitted, round cap, which is often brightly coloured. It comes from Jamaica and Barbados and is commonly thought of as a Rastafarian hat.

</doc>
<doc id="219296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219296" title="Amphicoelias">
Amphicoelias

Amphicoelias was a genus of sauropod dinosaur, which may have included the largest dinosaur ever discovered ("A. fragillimus"). If it truly existed, "A. fragillimus" would be the longest vertebrate by a considerable margin, and it would have a mass that rivals the heaviest animal known, the blue whale. However, because the only fossil evidence for its existence was lost shortly after being discovered in the 1870s, evidence survives only in drawings, and doubt has been expressed about their accuracy.
The fossil was found in the Morrison Formation.

</doc>
<doc id="219303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219303" title="Corneille Heymans">
Corneille Heymans

Corneille Jean François Heymans (March 28, 1892 - July 18, 1968) was an Belgian doctor. He won the 1938 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his discoveries about how breathing is regulated.

</doc>
<doc id="219304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219304" title="Christina Applegate">
Christina Applegate

Christina Applegate (born November 25, 1971) is an American actress. She was born in Hollywood, California, the daughter of record producer Robert Applegate and singer-actress Nancy Priddy (born 1941). Many people know her from playing the role of Kelly Bundy in the television series "Married... with Children" between 1987 and 1997. She has appeared in the television series, "Samantha Who?", and in the movie . 
In summer 2008, Applegate was diagnosed with breast cancer and a BRCA1 gene mutation, for which she had a double mastectomy.

</doc>
<doc id="219312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219312" title="Hayato Yano">
Hayato Yano

Hayato Yano (born 29 October 1980) is a former Japanese football player.
16||0||1||0||3||0||20||0
16||0||1||0||3||0||20||0

</doc>
<doc id="219313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219313" title="Osmar Aparecido de Azevedo">
Osmar Aparecido de Azevedo

Osmar Aparecido de Azevedo (born 23 July 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Ipatinga.
28||13
13||3
11||3
52||19

</doc>
<doc id="219314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219314" title="Kim Dong-Hyun">
Kim Dong-Hyun

Kim Dong-Hyun (born 20 May 1984) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
1||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|-||1||0
87||13||7||0||24||6||||||118||19
13||1||||||||||||||13||1
4||1||0||0||0||0||2||0||6||1
105||15||7||0||24||6||2||0||138||21
!Total||6||1

</doc>
<doc id="219315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219315" title="Fábio José dos Santos">
Fábio José dos Santos

Fábio José dos Santos (born 26 June 1973) is a former Brazilian football player.
145||37||7||1||13||2||165||40
145||37||7||1||13||2||165||40

</doc>
<doc id="219316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219316" title="Erikson Noguchipinto">
Erikson Noguchipinto

Erikson Noguchipinto (born 27 January 1981) is a Brazilian-Japanese football player. He plays for Samut Songkhram.
17||0||4||0||3||0||24||0
17||0||4||0||3||0||24||0

</doc>
<doc id="219317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219317" title="Toshiaki Haji">
Toshiaki Haji

Toshiaki Haji (born 28 August 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.
239||55||9||3||0||0||248||58
239||55||9||3||0||0||248||58

</doc>
<doc id="219318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219318" title="Shinichi Muto">
Shinichi Muto

204||13||15||1||43||4||262||18
204||13||15||1||43||4||262||18

</doc>
<doc id="219319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219319" title="Tatsuya Yazawa">
Tatsuya Yazawa

Tatsuya Yazawa (born 3 October 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.
186||16||9||2||25||3||220||21
186||16||9||2||25||3||220||21

</doc>
<doc id="219320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219320" title="Kenji Kikawada">
Kenji Kikawada

Kenji Kikawada (born 28 October 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
131||8||7||1||6||1||144||10
131||8||7||1||6||1||144||10

</doc>
<doc id="219321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219321" title="Tomoaki Seino">
Tomoaki Seino

Tomoaki Seino (born 29 September 1981) is a Japanese football player.
77||19||5||0||1||0||83||19
77||19||5||0||1||0||83||19

</doc>
<doc id="219322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219322" title="Mitsunori Yabuta">
Mitsunori Yabuta

Mitsunori Yabuta (born 2 May 1976) is a Japanese football player.
208||27||16||0||36||4||260||31
208||27||16||0||36||4||260||31

</doc>
<doc id="219323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219323" title="Hiroshi Miyazawa">
Hiroshi Miyazawa

Hiroshi Miyazawa (born 22 November 1970) is a former Japanese football player.
69||1||6||0||27||0||102||1
69||1||6||0||27||0||102||1

</doc>
<doc id="219324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219324" title="Kunihiko Takizawa">
Kunihiko Takizawa

Kunihiko Takizawa (born 20 April 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Bangkok Glass.
240||6||13||2||35||5||288||13
240||6||13||2||35||5||288||13

</doc>
<doc id="219325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219325" title="Aleksandar Živković">
Aleksandar Živković

Aleksandar Živković (born 28 July 1977) is a Serbian football player. He has played for Serbia national team.
205||30||||||||||205||30
56||7||5||0||24||4||85||11
98||16||||||||||98||16
359||53||5||0||24||4||388||57
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="219339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219339" title="Barcelona Metro line 8">
Barcelona Metro line 8

Line 8 or L8, coloured pink (termini: Plaça Espanya - Molí Nou-Ciutat Cooperativa) and ran by FGC, is part of the Barcelona Metro network. It joins Plaça Espanya, in the Sants-Montjuïc district of Barcelona with the metropolitan area cities of L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Cornellà de Llobregat and Sant Boi.

</doc>
<doc id="219340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219340" title="Barcelona Metro line 7">
Barcelona Metro line 7

Line 7 or L7 coloured brown (currently known as Plaça Catalunya - Avinguda Tibidabo), is a metro in the Barcelona Metro network that is ran by FGC. It is also called Línia de Balmes, because it climbs Carrer de Balmes uphill into Tibidabo. It shares three stations with L6. 
1: L9 and L10 under construction in this station.

</doc>
<doc id="219351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219351" title="Nea Moudania">
Nea Moudania

Nea Moudania (sometimes referred simply as Moudania) is a Greek city in the region of Macedonia located in Chalcidice and it is also the capital of Nea Moudania Municipality. The city's population is 6.475 inhabitants and the municipality's population is 17.032 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. It is a very important city because it is one of the most powerful cities in fishing with Nea Michaniona in Central Macedonia. 
Nea Moudania was built in 1922 by some emigres of Asia Minor (Anatolia). These people used to live in the city of "Moudania" (Turkish: Mudanya) and started being farmers or fishers. They were forced to leave their homes after the Treaty of Lausanne. They first came in 1923 and they developed their town quickly and became a big turistic place.

</doc>
<doc id="219352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219352" title="Whyte notation">
Whyte notation

The Whyte notation for classifying steam locomotives by wheel arrangement was devised by Frederick Methvan Whyte, and came into use in the early twentieth century encouraged by an editorial in "American Engineer and Railroad Journal". 

</doc>
<doc id="219354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219354" title="Alexandria (disambiguation)">
Alexandria (disambiguation)

Alexandria is a city in Egypt.
Alexander The Great built many cities with his name while he had a whole empire.
The name "Alexandria" may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="219355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219355" title="List of Chicago Blackhawks players">
List of Chicago Blackhawks players

The Chicago Blackhawks are a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois. They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference in the National Hockey League (NHL). The team was started in 1926 as one of the league's first American teams, joining in the same year as the New York Rangers and the Detroit Red Wings (then known as the Detroit Cougars). Because of the Blackhawks' long history, they are considered one of the NHL's "Original Six" teams—a term reserved for the six teams that made up the NHL from the 1942–43 season until the league expanded in 1967. As of March 19, 2009, 806 players have played at least one game for the team, either in the NHL regular season or in the playoffs.
The Blackhawks, known as the Black Hawks from the time they started until 1986, have won the Stanley Cup four times in their 83-year history. Charlie Gardiner, the team's goaltender for its first Stanley Cup win in 1934, became the first European-born captain—and still the only goaltender captain—to win the Stanley Cup. Johnny Gottselig became the second European-born captain to do so when the team won its second championship in 1938. Stan Mikita is the team leader in assists (926) and points (1467), and Bobby Hull is the leader in goals (604). Chris Chelios is the team leader in penalty minutes (1495). Goaltender Tony Esposito is the club's all-time leader in wins (873) and shutouts (74).
The team has had 34 players selected as captains. Each NHL team may select a captain, who has the "sole privilege of discussing with the referee any questions relating to interpretation of rules which may arise during the progress of a game". Captains are required to wear the letter "C" on their uniform for identification, which is in height. Dick Irvin was named the first captain in 1926. The current captain, Jonathan Toews, was the third-youngest captain in NHL history at the time of his selection.
 Won Stanley Cup while with the Blackhawks.

</doc>
<doc id="219358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219358" title="Alexandreia">
Alexandreia

Alexandreia, or Alexandria, is a historical Greek town in the Imathia Prefecture in the region of Macedonia. There were 19,283 people living there according to the 2001 census. 

</doc>
<doc id="219371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219371" title="Ptolemaida">
Ptolemaida

Ptolemaida, former Kailaria, is a Greek town in the Kozani prefecture in the region of Macedonia. The city is best known for its coal mines of lignite and power station. It has been also called by Greek people "The Socket of Greece" because it has very strong power stations. Its population is 28.679 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. Ptolemaida is the biggest industrial, trade, and rural city of the prefecture and one of the most developed cities in industry in Greece.
Official Website

</doc>
<doc id="219373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219373" title="Aridaia">
Aridaia

Aridaia is a Greek town in Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia. It is found in the middle of a valley north of Edessa. It has a population of 5,600 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. During Byzantine era, its name used to be "Moglena" and during the Ottoman Empire its name used to be "Subotsko". It was first founded by the emigres of Asia Minor (Anatolia) in 1923. 
Η ιστορία της Πέλλας, Αριδαία, pages 139-141, Ψάρια publications, 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="219385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219385" title="Soft palate">
Soft palate

The soft palate is a part of the mouth, at the roof of the back of the throat, above the uvula (also called Palatine uvula). When something touches there, it creates a gag reflex.

</doc>
<doc id="219386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219386" title="Squirrel monkey">
Squirrel monkey

Squirrel monkeys live in Central and South America. They grow to 25 to 35 cm, and their long tail is 35 to 42 cm. long. Squirrel monkeys are small enough to go on the smallest branches to get food. They eat fruits and insects. When fruit is scarce, they will drink nectar. Large falcons and snakes eat them so they have lots of different warning calls.

</doc>
<doc id="219387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219387" title="Survivor: The Australian Outback">
Survivor: The Australian Outback

Survivor: The Australian Outback was the second season of the United States reality show "Survivor". It was filmed at Goshen Station in northern Queensland during 2000 and was shown on TV from January 28, 2001 to May 3, 2001 on CBS. The location used was within a three hour drive from the city of Cairns and was in a wet, sub-tropical area. Nielsen Ratings says it was the highest rated show of 2001.
Fourteen episode were shown, one every week. The winner, Tina Wesson, was announced on May 3, 2001 where she won against Colby Donaldson by a vote of 4-3.
The entire season was made available on DVD on April 26, 2005.
Although the first episode was shown right after Super Bowl XXXV, the late hour made CBS want to show the first episode again later that week.
The elimination of player Michael Skupin during the sixth episode is well known for being the first case where a "Survivor" player has had to be removed because of an injury. While trying to start a fire, Skupin breathed in smoke and fainted, falling into the fire getting really bad burns to his hands. After being cared for by medical personnel, a helicopter was brought in and Skupin was removed from the game. Because of his removal, there was no Immunity Challenge, so there was no Tribal Council. Because of this, the Ogakor and Kucha tribes merged (combined) with the same number of tribe members, instead of the possible six to four (which would have happened if Ogakor lost the Immunity Challenge and gone to Tribal Council). At the first merged Tribal Council, Jeff Varner was voted off after a tie vote between the two old tribes.
During a reward trip, player and future runner-up Colby Donaldson broke an Australian law by breaking off coral from the Great Barrier Reef which could have gave him a fine of AU$110,000. The helicopter pilot in the reward trip also broke an Australian law as he flew over sea bird rookeries. Survivor's producer Mark Burnett said sorry on behalf of Colby and the production team after the season had been shown.
The game lasted 42 days, instead of 39 days. This seson also started the Survivor tradition of showing who won live, so that none of the players would know who won until the finale (last episode).
During a reward on Day 34 where the five players left were allowed to talk with their family members, old Ogakor member Keith Famie asked his girlfriend to marry him and she said yes.
After the show, fourth-place finisher Elisabeth Filarski went on to co-host talk show "The View". She, Tina Wesson, Colby Donaldson, Jerri Manthey, Alicia Calaway and Amber Brkich were asked to return in "Survivor: All-Stars". Filarski was the only one who didn't return in the "All-Stars" season. She wanted to focus on "The View", while Wesson, Donaldson, Manthey, Calaway, and Brkich placed 18th, 12th, 10th, 7th, and 1st. Brkich won against fellow player and future husband Rob "Boston Rob" Mariano who had played before in the series' fourth season, "" in a 4-3 vote.
<br>
<br>
</div>
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="219393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219393" title="Pelham Humfrey">
Pelham Humfrey

Pelham Humfrey (also: "Humphrey") (born London 1647; died Windsor 14 July 1674) was an English composer in the Baroque period. Although he died at the age of 26 he had an important influence on English composers such as William Turner and Henry Purcell. He lived at the time of the Restoration, when England was ruled by a king once more after two decades of republican rule, during which music had not been allowed in churches.
We do not know much detail about his early life. He seems to have been a choirboy in the Chapel Royal by 1660. During this time he was obviously becoming a very gifted composer. Other boys in the choir included John Blow and William Turner. As a young man he travelled to France where he heard music by French composers such as Lully and Italians such as Carissimi. This helped him to form his own style. He became a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal. He wrote some fine anthems, although the diarist Samuel Pepys thought that he was showing off. This may be because Pepys did not like the new kind of music. He married the daughter of his old choir master Henry Cooke. He became Master of the Children of the Chapel Royal. This meant that he was in charge of the children in the king's chapel choir. He was also a court composer.
He became ill and died at the age of 26. He was buried in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey.
Humfrey composed a lot of music during his very short life. It helped to form the English Baroque style. He mostly wrote church music, but he also wrote some music for the theatre.
Humfrey liked to compose music which excited people's emotions. Some of his melodies jump around in unexpected ways. There is a lot of chromaticism. Some of his best anthems include: "O Lord my God", "By the waters of Babylon" and "Like as the hart". He wrote 27 songs. Five of them are religious songs, and they are some of the best songs of that time.

</doc>
<doc id="219395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219395" title="William Turner">
William Turner

William Turner may refer to:
In fiction:

</doc>
<doc id="219400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219400" title="Dolla">
Dolla

Dolla can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="219405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219405" title="William Turner (composer)">
William Turner (composer)

"This page is about the composer William Turner. For other people called William Turner see William Turner (disambiguation page)."
William Turner (born Oxford 1651; died London 13 January 1740) was a composer and singer in the Baroque period. He lived at the same time as English composers such as Pelham Humfrey and Henry Purcell, although he lived a lot longer than they did. He is remembered today as a composer of about 40 verse anthems. As a singer, he was a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal from 1669 until his death.
Turner started being a choir boy at Christ Church, Oxford. Then he became a choir boy in the Chapel Royal in London. He wrote an anthem together with John Blow and Pelham Humfrey, known as the "Club Anthem". When his voice broke in 1666 he had three years out of the choir, but returned in 1669 and sang as a countertenor in the Chapel Royal for another 71 years until his death. He became a member of the King's Private Musick. Besides his work at the king's court he was also a vicar-choral of St Paul's Cathedral and later a lay vicar of the choir of Westminster Abbey. In 1696 he was given a doctorate of music by Cambridge University. After that he was known as "Dr Turner".
Most of his music was written before 1700. It is nearly all church music, but he did write a few pieces for the theatre. He wrote 40 anthems, three service settings and a motet. One of his best anthems is "God standeth in the congregation of Princes". It includes a very dramatic solo for bass to the words "God reigneth over the heathen".

</doc>
<doc id="219409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219409" title="Survivor: Africa">
Survivor: Africa

Survivor: Africa was the third season of the United States reality show "Survivor". It was filmed in 2001 and was shown on TV from October 11, 2001 - January 10, 2002 on CBS. It was set in Kenya's Shaba National Reserve on the African continent.
The two starting tribes were Boran and Samburu (named after the real-life Borana and Samburu tribes). In the fifth episode, after 12 days, three members from each team were sent to the other team, in what became known as the first twist in the Survivor series. The players then knew that they must be ready for the most sudden changes; future seasons would have similar twists. Later on, the two tribes merged (combined) into a new tribe, which the players named "Moto Maji" (Kiswahili for 'fire' and 'water').
This season was also the first to have a tiebreaker challenge: in , the person that had most votes against them in earlier Tribal Councils was voted out in such a situation, but in Samburu's first tribal council, Carl Bilancione and Lindsey Richter each had four votes. The two competed in a nature quiz tiebreaker, the loser of which was eliminated.
During the finale (last episode), the producers made it look like the votes were being read at the Final Tribal Council right after the votes were cast. Jeff Probst went to get the voting urn and, when he returned, it appeared he had returned to the Tribal Council site to read the votes. However, he was actually on a CBS sound stage in Hollywood (with a live audience) that was made up to look like the site. This was told after he read the votes and said who won. The players were told to try to make themselves look like they were at the last Tribal Council and the audience was told to hold any cheering or clapping until after they said who won.
There were thirteen episode, plus a mid-season recap, a live reunion/interview with Bryant Gumbel after the finale, and a "where are they now" show. The winner, Ethan Zohn, was revealed on January 10, 2002, where he won against Kim Johnson by a vote of 5-2.
Ethan Zohn, Lex van den Berghe, and Tom "Big Tom" Buchanan returned in "," where they placed 11th, 9th, and 5th.
</div>
<br>
There was some controversy about an immunity challenge in the last episode. In a "Fallen Comrades" challenge, where the players were asked questions about players in the game who had been voted out, the last question was "Which female contestant has no piercings?" The official answer, given by Kim Johnson to earn the win, was Kelly Goldsmith. Lex van den Berghe answered the question with Lindsey Richter's name, who also had no piercings, but the producers did not know this. After the producers were told about mistake, both third place finisher van den Berghe and fourth place finisher Tom Buchanan were awarded the $100,000 runner-up prize instead of the usual third and fourth place earnings.

</doc>
<doc id="219415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219415" title="Montehermoso">
Montehermoso

Montehermoso ("Montelmosu" in Extremaduran language) is a municipality in the province of Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="219420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219420" title="Jediism">
Jediism

Jediism is a new religious movement, based on the Star Wars movies.

</doc>
<doc id="219421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219421" title="Sangerhausen">
Sangerhausen

Sangerhausen is the capital of the Mansfeld-Südharz rural district in Germany. It is between Magdeburg and Erfurt. The river Gonna flows through it.

</doc>
<doc id="219423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219423" title="Miley Cyrus">
Miley Cyrus

Miley Ray Cyrus (born Destiny Hope Cyrus; November 23, 1992) is an American entertainer. She has starred in a television series ("Hannah Montana") and in four movies. She has released five albums and has written an autobiography. 
Cyrus was born Destiny Hope Cyrus in Franklin, Tennessee. Her parents are Billy Ray Cyrus and Letitia "Tish" (Finley) Cyrus. Miley was a childhood nickname. Cyrus changed her legal name to Miley Ray Cyrus in 2008. Cyrus has a younger sister, Noah Cyrus. She has a brother, Braison. She has a half-sister named Brandi on her mother's side. She has an older half-brother on her mother's side named Trace. She has an older half-brother named Christopher Cody on her father's side.
Cyrus was eleven years old when she starred in the television series, "Hannah Montana". In 2012 and 2013, Cyrus played Missi in the series "Two and a Half Men". In August 2013, Cyrus twerked at the MTV Video Music Awards program. It was the most tweeted about event in history. There were 360,000 tweets per minute.
In 2006, Cyrus released the first "Hannah Montana" soundtrack album. It has sold 4.5 million copies. It reached number one on the US "Billboard" 200. In 2007, she released a double album, "Hannah Montana 2: Meet Miley Cyrus". The first CD was a soundtrack album for "Hannah Montana", and the second CD was Cyrus' first studio album. She starred in the Best of Both Worlds Tour. As of 2013, Cyrus has released five albums: "Meet Miley Cyrus" (2007), "Breakout" (2008), "Can't be Tamed" (2010), "Bangerz" (2013), and "Miley Cyrus and Her Dead Petz" (2015). 
"Bangerz "was released on October 4 by RCA Records. So far three singles have been released from "Bangerz". "We Can't Stop" was released in June 2013. It reached number 2 in the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100. In September 2013, Cyrus released the nude music video for her next single, "Wrecking Ball". It racked up more than 19.3 million views on Vevo in 24 hours, which was a record at the time. It reached number one in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. "Wrecking Ball" was her first number-one single in the United States. In 2014, Cyrus embarked on The Bangerz World Tour.
On October 5, 2013, Cyrus presented "Saturday Night Live" for the second time.
Cyrus was a featured artist on rapper Future's November 2013 single, "Real and True". The single reached number 32 on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.
In December 2013, MTV chose Cyrus as the best artist of the year. The video for the third single from "Bangerz", "Adore You", was posted on Vevo on December 26, 2013.
Cyrus released her fifth album, "Miley Cyrus and Her Dead Petz", on the music-sharing site Soundcloud on August 30, 2015, following the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards, which she hosted.
In 2008, Cyrus voiced the part of "Penny" in the Disney computer-animated movie "Bolt". In 2009, she starred in "". In 2010, she starred in "The Last Song" and had a brief appearance in "Sex and the City 2". In 2012, she starred in "LOL" and in "So Undercover".
In 2008, Cyrus posed nude for snaps that appeared in "Vanity Fair" magazine. This adventure did not damage Cyrus's career. In early 2009, Cyrus released the autobiography, "Miles to Go". The book is a collection of family photographs, stories, and memories.

</doc>
<doc id="219424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219424" title="Survivor: Marquesas">
Survivor: Marquesas

Survivor: Marquesas was the fourth season of the United States reality show "Survivor". Hosted by Jeff Probst, it was shown on TV from February 28 - May 19, 2002 on CBS. There were thirteen episodes, plus a mid-season recap and live interview with Rosie O'Donnell after the finale (last episode). The winner, Vecepia Towery, was revealed on May 19, 2002, where she won against Neleh Dennis by a vote of 4-3.
In the beginning, the players were divided into two tribes: Maraamu and Rotu (Marquesan for 'Southern Wind' and 'Rain'). They later merged (combined) into one tribe. Kathy Vavrick-O'Brien and Rob "Boston Rob" Mariano named the new tribe "Soliantu", a name they made up that means "Sacred Allegiance to the Sun".
The Marquesas Islands were actually chosen as a backup location for "Survivor". This season was going to take place in Jordan, but they switched location due to the September 11, 2001 attacks and the political situation in the Middle East.
This was the first season where the players were not given any supplies at the beginning, such as food, water, or matches. Also, the rules of the Individual Immunity Idol were changed so that a player who won the idol in a challenge was able to give it to another player. Finally, earlier votes against a player were not counted in future Tribal Councils. As this used to be the way of deciding if a contestant was eliminated in case of a tie, a new tiebreaker was made. The controversial Purple Rock tiebreaker was used in this season alone, and resulted in the elimination of Paschal English, then with no votes against him. A small rise in the average number of viewers was seen for the season compared to the last season, "".
Vavrick-O'Brien and Mariano were chosen from this season to return in "," where they placed 8th and 2nd. Mariano returned once again in "," placing 13th.
 No reward challenge took place due to tribal switch.
Paschal's elimination marked a big controversy in the game of Survivor. In the Episode Thirteen Tribal Council, Neleh and Kathy each got two votes while Vecepia had immunity. In earlier tie situations, where a re-vote did not decide who would be voted off, votes from past tribal councils were used, and the player with the most earlier votes was eliminated. In "Marquesas", the earlier votes rule was no longer used; instead players who did not have immunity would pull rocks colored yellow and purple from a bag. The player with the purple rock would be eliminated. In this situation, Kathy and Neleh drew yellow rocks, and Paschal pulled the purple rock. Although he never got any votes in the entire game, he was eliminated due to chance. Probst later said that using the purple rock tie-breaker was a mistake at this point in the game, because the formula behind it was impossible to apply fairly with only four survivors left.
No tie happened on the show until six seasons later on "". It was during that season that the tie-breaker was revealed to be a fire-making challenge. However, Survivors who took part in the show between the "Marquesas" and "" seasons thought that the Purple Rock challenge would still be used. As a result, many players would change alliances so they're wouldn't be another tie and another chance of drawing the Purple Rock.
Since Palau, there have been four tie situations that were solved with fire-making challenges, all of which were at the Final Four stage of the game. In "", it was suggested by Cirie Fields that the purple rock tiebreaker is the tiebreaker for all ties except in the Final Four, when a challenge is used instead.

</doc>
<doc id="219427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219427" title="Survivor: Thailand">
Survivor: Thailand

Survivor: Thailand was the fifth season of the United States reality show "Survivor". It was filmed in the summer of 2002 and was shown on TV from September 19 – December 19, 2002 on CBS. It was set on the island of Ko Tarutao in Thailand. There were fourteen episodes, one being shown each week. The season started with two tribes; an orange tribe, Chuay Gahn (Thai: "to help one another") and a purple tribe, Sook Jai ( "happy heart" ). Later, they merged (combined) into one tribe, which the players named "Chuay Jai", made by mixing the names Chuay Gahn and Sook Jai. On December 19, 2002, Brian Heidik won against Clay Jordan by a vote of 4-3 to become the sole survivor.
The season had many new gameplay twists. The first happened on Day 1, when the two oldest players, Jake Billingsley and Jan Gentry, were given the power to pick their own tribes. This was the first time in "Survivor" history that the two starting teams were not chosen by the producers. The second was an offer of mutiny on Day 14, which means that the twelve players that were left could join the opposite tribe if they wanted to. No one took the offer. (The twist was used again during "", with two players switching tribes.)
The biggest twist of the season was the fake merge. When only ten players were left, the usual time for a merge, the two tribes moved onto one beach, with a feast waiting for them. The two tribes thought they were merging, and Shii Ann Huang tried to align herself with members of the other tribe. At the next challenge they went to, however, the two tribes were told that they were living on one beach, but were not merged yet. That day, Shii Ann's tribe lost immunity, and she was voted off.
Host Jeff Probst said that he didn't like this season, and called it his least favorite. He said the season was mean-spirited and had a lot of hostility and ugliness, even calling Brian, Clay, Helen, and Jan "the least likable final four ever."
Shii Ann was the only player this season to return in "", where she placed 6th.
 For the first time, the players would be bidding for items as tribes. Sook Jai and Chuay Gahn each got $1000 in American money.

</doc>
<doc id="219448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219448" title="Cryptoclidus">
Cryptoclidus

Cryptoclidus was a plesiosaur, an aquatic reptile up to 13 feet (4 m) long. It had curved, interlocking teeth, a wide skull, and large, flexible, paddle-like flippers. The fragile head and teeth could not deal with large prey. That suggests a diet of small, soft-bodied animals such as squid and small shoaling fish.
"Cryptoclidus" fossils have been found in England, France, Russia and possibly South America.
"Cryptoclidus" was named by Seeley in 1892. The type species is "C. eurymerus".

</doc>
<doc id="219450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219450" title="Goomba">
Goomba

Goombas are an enemy in the Mario series. They are short brown mushroom shaped enemies that are easily killed by jumping on their head. They appear in almost every Mario game.
Goombas first appeared in the video game "Super Mario Bros.", and was the last enemy put into the game. People stated that the Koopa Troopa was too hard an enemy, so the designers decided to introduce the Goomba as a basic enemy. When they decided to do this, however, they had very little space left in the game. They used a single picture twice to make people think the Goombas are walking, rotating it back and forth, causing it to look lopsided as it walks and giving the motion the appearance of a trot. The Goomba's resemblance to the Super Mushroom forced designers to change what the Super Mushroom does and what it looks like. They used the Goomba's ability to be jumped on and defeated to teach players how to deal with enemies and to not fear the Super Mushroom. The Goombas are designed after a kind of mushroom called shiitake. Early pictures for the "Super Mario Bros." film showed that the design of the Goombas were originally intended to be for Koopa Troopas, another kind of "Mario" enemy. A separate company from the primary makeup departments designed the Goombas in the film.
The Goomba has become an icon of the "Mario" series, both in its appearance and the concept of "stomping on them", often referenced as one of the key elements of the original "Super Mario Bros." IGN editor Craig Harris described the Goomba as a "household name" along with Koopa Paratroopas and King Koopa. Video game musician and reviewer Tommy Tallarico commented that many new converts to gaming have "never even made Super Mario smoosh a Goomba". In a criticism of video game storytelling, Gamasutra editor Daniel Cook referenced Goombas being mushrooms, but also that it was a less important fact than them being squat, to-scale with the world, and able to be squashed. In an article discussing happiness in video games, Gamasutra editor Lorenzo Wang listed the sound the Goomba makes when it's squished as one of his pleasures. IGN editor Mark Birnhaum praised the sound effects of "Super Mario Bros.", giving similar praise to the sound of the Goomba being stomped on. It was compared to the Met enemy from the "Mega Man" series, calling them the "Goomba of the Mega Man series." Crave Online editor Joey Davidson described the Goomba as the series' "everyman", describing it as both defenseless and of little threat, listing such exceptions as the giant Goombas seen in "Super Mario Galaxy". A common enemy in "Braid" has been compared to the Goomba, Gaming Age editor Dustin Chadwell calling it a "slightly skewed version of the Goomba. The Goombas were included in the Ice Capades show featuring characters from the "Mario" series.
The "Super Mario Bros." film version of the Goomba has received negative reception. IGN editor Jesse Schedeen called Bowser and his Goombas the most screwed up part of the film, commenting that it would be difficult to create a live action version of the Goomba that deviates from the original version more than this. An Entertainment Weekly article called the design creepy, stating that its "foam-latex skin had to be baked for five hours at 200 degrees to achieve that lovely reptilian effect." The facial design of the character Venom in "Spider-Man 3" was compared to the film version's of the Goomba by Crave Online, describing Venom's face as stupid, short, and rounded. Hal Hinson of the Washington Post called the Goombas "big dumb goons with shrunken little dino heads", yet also calling them the "best movie heavies since the flying monkeys in "The Wizard of Oz"".
Goomba plush toys have been created by Nintendo. In 1990, a few "Mario" characters became part of a series of McDonald's Happy Meal toys, as part of a way to promote the release of "Super Mario Bros. 3". The Mario toy set featured Mario in his Raccoon form, Luigi, a Koopa Paratroopa, and a Goomba. A plush Goomba that plays the Goomba "defeat" noise as well as the Game Over tune at certain points was released.

</doc>
<doc id="219451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219451" title="Thalassomedon">
Thalassomedon

Thalassomedon (meaning "lord of the seas") was a plesiosaur (not a dinosaur, but an extinct marine reptile from the Mesozoic Era that lived in the open oceans and breathed air). Fossils have been found in the USA. The type species, "Thalassomedon haningtoni" (named by Welles in 1943).
It had a long neck (with 63 vertebrae), a long snout, long, sharp teeth (up to 5 cm long), a short, pointed tail and four flippers. This reptile was about 40 feet (12 m) long; its skull was about 18.7 inches (47 cm) long.

</doc>
<doc id="219455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219455" title="Thomas Kahlenberg">
Thomas Kahlenberg

Thomas Kahlenberg (born 20 March 1983) is a Danish football player. He plays for Wolfsburg and Denmark national team.
97||28
130||19
0||0
227||47
!Total||28||3

</doc>
<doc id="219456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219456" title="Ricardo Alexandre dos Santos">
Ricardo Alexandre dos Santos

Ricardo Alexandre dos Santos (born 24 June 1976) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
146||16||||||||||146||16
96||13||1||0||7||1||104||14
242||29||1||0||7||1||250||30
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="219457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219457" title="Antonio Bezerra Brandão">
Antonio Bezerra Brandão

Antonio Bezerra Brandão (born 21 December 1977) is a Brazilian football player.
222||19||11||2||12||1||245||22
222||19||11||2||12||1||245||22

</doc>
<doc id="219458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219458" title="Fernando Rech">
Fernando Rech

Fernando Rech (born 13 March 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.
30||12
14||5
124||50
168||67

</doc>
<doc id="219459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219459" title="Alberto Acosta">
Alberto Acosta

Alberto Acosta (born 23 August 1966) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.
318||128
38||6
70||55
21||10
78||39
525||238
!Total||19||3

</doc>
<doc id="219460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219460" title="Gérald Passi">
Gérald Passi

Gérald Passi (born January 24, 1964) is a former French football player. He has played for the French national team.
342||66
25||3
367||69
!Total||11||2

</doc>
<doc id="219461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219461" title="Kenichiro Meta">
Kenichiro Meta

Kenichiro Meta (born 2 July 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.
241||5||10||0||5||2||256||7
241||5||10||0||5||2||256||7

</doc>
<doc id="219462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219462" title="Hiromasa Suguri">
Hiromasa Suguri

Hiromasa Suguri (born 29 July 1976) is a former Japanese football player.
231||17||5||0||8||0||244||17
231||17||5||0||8||0||244||17

</doc>
<doc id="219463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219463" title="Yosuke Kataoka">
Yosuke Kataoka

156||4||9||1||22||1||187||6
156||4||9||1||22||1||187||6

</doc>
<doc id="219468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219468" title="Dirty Harry">
Dirty Harry

Dirty Harry is a 1971 American crime movie. It was produced and directed by Don Siegel. It was the first in the Dirty Harry series. Clint Eastwood plays the main role. Eastwood acts as a San Francisco Police Department Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callaghan, trying to catch a serial killer.
Dirty Harry was followed by four sequels: "Magnum Force" in 1973, "The Enforcer" in 1976, "Sudden Impact" in 1983 (directed by Eastwood), and "The Dead Pool" in 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="219479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219479" title="Lindi Ortega">
Lindi Ortega

Lindi Ortega (born May 28, 1980) is a Canadian singer-songwriter and musician, known for her voice that has been described as a blend of Dolly Parton, Johnny Cash and Emmylou Harris. She spent nearly a decade as an independent artist in the Toronto music scene, self-releasing two albums and an EP in that time. In 2008 she was signed to Cherrytree Records / Interscope Records and released a second EP. Lindi performed at the 2009 South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas. In July 2009 Lindi was the opening act for Kevin Costner & Modern West's tour. In September 2009 Lindi performed on a cross-Canada tour as opening act for Keane's North American tour.

</doc>
<doc id="219480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219480" title="Ofra Haza">
Ofra Haza

Ofra Haza (19 November 1957 – 23 February 2000) was an Israeli singer. She has received much attention for hit songs. she was buried in the Yarkon Cemetery in Petah Tikva.

</doc>
<doc id="219484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219484" title="Nestos">
Nestos

Nestos, or Mesta, is a river in Balkans which crosses two countries. Particularly, it starts from Bulgaria, then goes to Greece and at the end it drains into the Aegean Sea. Its length is 230 km.
It starts between the southwestern area of the mountainy place called Rila and of the northwestern Rhodope Mountains in Bulgaria. Then it goes trhough the Pirin mountains and it gets a lot of water from other smaller rivers. It crosses the valley of Nevrokopi and continuous between Orvilos and Rhodope entering Greece through Drama Prefecture. After that it goes to Xanthi Prefecture and cosses a narow and long valley. Eventually at the end, it goes through Xanthi and Chrysoupoli and it drains in the Aegean Sea making a big delta. 
It is a natural border between Macedonia and Thrace. It is an important river for the people there because there is a valley so they can water their crops or drink water, take a bath, do watersports etc. Greece and Bulgaria have been arguing for many years about Nestos. After a signed agreement in 1995 the copyrights of Bulgaria are 71% and Greece's 29%. 

</doc>
<doc id="219486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219486" title="Monocentridae">
Monocentridae

Pinecone fishes are small and unusual fish of the family Monocentridae. The family contains just four species. They live in tropical and subtropical waters of the Indo-Pacific. Pinecone fishes are popular in aquariums, but are expensive and a challenge for the hobbyist.
The pineapplefish, "Cleidopus gloriamaris", is the largest species, reaching up to in length. 
Pinecone fishes live in ledges and caves, rocky and coral reefs over a hard bottom. Pinecone fishes are nocturnal.

</doc>
<doc id="219499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219499" title="Ultra Series">
Ultra Series

The is the name for all the shows produced by Tsuburaya Productions featuring Ultraman, his many Kyodai (Brothers), and the countless number of ultra beings and the Ultra Monsters. The Ultra Series is one of the tokusatsu superhero productions from Japan, along with Kamen Rider Series, Super Sentai Series, and the Metal Hero Series.
Ultraman is a Seijin from star of lightM-78. Many Ultramen are usually red and silver (although several different colored ultra's have been seen in recent years, most of them are blue colored) and have glowing yellow eyes (except for red warriors) and they have many abilities, most of them are to fire energy beams from many positions of crossed hands. The Ultra beings main weakness is that they can only stay on Earth in giant form for a small time, usually not longer than three minutes, because of the small amount of energy supply (Earth's atmosphere decreases the solar energy). This is marked by a blue light on the character's body usually called the Color Timer (but Ultraseven, 21, Nexus Anphans, and Next did not have a color timer) or "warning light," which begins to blink red with increase in blinking as his energy supply goes down (and turns from grey to red) but Red warriors like Ultraseven had orb on their head instead of color timer. During this time the Ultra beings must either find a way to recharge or finish the fight as soon as possible, or forced to turn to human form, or worse, certain death. Sometimes some ultra warriors take them back to their home planet or when reflected sun rays by the mirrors on his color timer might charge him up. Some say another reason for Ultraman to recharge is because the Earth is badly polluted by humans, so Ultraman only has three minutes on Earth, but can survive long enough in outer space. The time limit only happens inside the Earth's atmosphere but they have none of those problems in outer space. In this case, Ultramen almost always merge with a human host or create a human form for themselves in order to survive on Earth, more often than not reviving a rescently dead person with their own lifeforce (Hikari did not revive the dead person but he controlled him). Ultra beings' also appear to be near immpossible to permently kill, as several times an Ultra being has been killed only to be revived by another member of their species. In other cases a large enough amount of energy can be provided to bring them back to life, usually provided by their human allies, even after being completely destroyed, as was the case with Mebius, death at the hands of Empera Seijin, only to be revived shortly thereafter by the life energy of his allies.
Ultramen always try to avoid battles in a place where there are innocent people near them and try to cause the least amount of destruction as possible, from the side effects of their fights when fighting in the city, when and if they can not; a city like Tokyo would be destroyed.
"Ultra Q" was originally the first ultra series but it feature any ultra's without monsters and came "Ultraman". It was followed by many other series. Productions after the original series are: Ultraseven (1967, TBS), Return of Ultraman (1971, TBS), Ultraman Ace (1972, TBS), Ultraman Taro (1973, TBS), Ultraman Leo (1974, TBS), Ultraman 80 (1980, TBS), Ultraman Tiga (1996, MBS), Ultraman Dyna (1997, MBS), Ultraman Gaia (1998, MBS), and Ultraman Cosmos (2001, MBS). Recently the studio tried a bringing back the stories of the hero through the "Ultra N Project," which involved three heroes: Ultraman Noa (the "mascot" of the Ultra N Project, who appears in stage shows as well as the final episode of Ultraman Nexus) in 2003, Ultraman Nexus (2004, CBC), and ULTRAMAN (2004, Shochiku Productions). This was followed by a return to past style series in the form of Ultraman Max (2005, CBC). In the course of "Max" series, another new hero known as Ultraman Xenon was also introduced. April 2006 saw the 40th anniversary series, Ultraman Mebius, a rookie who will defeat the emperor of all Ultra Monsters, the Empera Seijin which will create a connection between the Ultra Kyodai . Another hero was also introduced: Ultraman Hikari, formerly known as Hunter Knight Tsurugi. Some series like Tiga, Dyna, Gaia, and Mebius had Gaidens (Side Stories). Tiga, Dyna, Gaia had only one gaidens for each but Mebius had 3 gaidens. First featured the story of Hikari before and after coming and leaving the earth. Second series featured the story after the final episode of Mebius. Third featured about the events happened before the events of the Movie 
The series has also been in the movie theaters, starting with "Ultraman Zearth" and "Ultraman Zearth 2," "," released in 2000, as well as "ULTRAMAN," a movie that opened in December 2004. The direct to video (releasing in market than in theaters) market also saw the release of "Ultraman Neos" in 2000, as well as special features for Ultraman Tiga, Dyna, and Gaia, who have teamed up in theatrical features (Tiga and Dyna once, as well as the three of them all together). The "Ultraman Mebius and Ultra Brothers" movie opened in September 2006.
Foreign productions include the 1987 Hanna-Barbera co-production "Ultraman: The Adventure Begins" (in Japanese, "Ultraman USA"), an animated movie; "Ultraman: Towards The Future" (in Japanese, "Ultraman Great"), an Australian 1991 production and "Ultraman: The Ultimate Hero" (in Japanese, "Ultraman Powered"), produced in the United States in 1993. Ultraman series have also been dubbed into many languages, including English, Spanish (only Ultra Q, the original Ultraman, Ultra Seven, Return of Ultraman, Ultraman Great & Ultraman Tiga were known to be translated into Spanish), Portuguese (Ultraman, Ultraseven, Return of Ultraman and Ultraman Tiga [in Brazil]), Korean, Malay, Mandarin and Cantonese. Also of note is the American English dubbed version of "Ultraman Tiga" by 4Kids Entertainment that aired in 2002. The dubbed version considerably removed the nature of the character and general mood of the series, and possibly as a result it achieved only little success. An episode of the Hoshi no Kirby anime series ("Kirby: Right Back at Ya" in America) contains an Ultraman reference, leading to the possibility that "Tiga" may have only been licensed in order to explain the reference (both shows debuted on the same day).
In 1993, Tsuburaya Productions and Toei Company co-produced "Ultraman vs. Kamen Rider," a connection with the original Ultraman and Toei's Kamen Rider Ichigo. This direct to video feature is co-copyrighted by both Toei (and its members, Toei Video and Ishimori Productions) and Tsuburaya Productions.
At present, Tsuburaya Prod. accepts 36 Ultramen as official (counting Ultraman Legend, the combined form of Ultramen Cosmos and Justice, as a separate ultra). This does not connect with Thai produced Ultramen. (The figure is 38 if Next, Noa, and Nexus are counted as separate ultra's it has been revealed in "Nexus" that all three are a single being with many modes used by different hosts.) In 2001, the "Ultra Series" was added in the Guinness Book of World Records as the record holder for the most number of spin off shows.
"An asterisk * denotes shows (or movies) that has no Ultramen."
1999 Ultra Seven Series
2001 Heisei Ultraman Side Stories
2002 Ultra Seven Series
In Japan, there have been several box sets that were released which would each contain a particular Ultra series. As of now, there are only four such box sets. The sets were released as part of the Digital Ultra movement where the shows would be re released with digital remastering.
The following are the series which have been released as such:
The "Digital Ultra" re release order of the series may not match the time order in which they were originally aired in Japan.
Ultraman's licensing rights outside of Japan have been the subject of a long legal dispute between Tsuburaya Productions and Chaiyo Productions (also called Tsuburaya Chaiyo Co Ltd) based in Thailand. Tsuburaya had previously worked together with Chaiyo on the production of two movies, "The 6 Ultra Brothers vs. the Monster Army" and "Jumborg Ace & Giant"—the latter of which featured another Tsuburaya superhero, Jumborg Ace—in 1974. Sompote Saengduenchai, founder/president of Chaiyo Productions, claimed and maintained that in 1976, the late Noboru Tsuburaya, Eiji's son, who had died in 1995, had given him and his company a contract which had given him rights to everything Ultraman outside Japanese territories in exchange for a monetary loan.
In anger of the reason that the document failed to state clearly and exactly what had been given to Tsuburaya in exchange for these rights, Japanese and Thai courts accepted this contract as real and bonding, because of the supposed hanko of the late Noboru Tsuburaya in the document. Tsuburaya Productions insisted and maintained that the contract was a fraud (due to some errors, including the some titles of the series in the document, such as "Ultra Q" being called ""Ultraman 1: Ultra Q,"" "Ultra Seven" being called ""Ultraman 3: Ultraman Seven,"" and Tsuburaya Productions being called "Tsuburaya Prod. and Enterprises," a name the company never did business under), and repeatedly opposed the issue.
In the course of the legal battle, Sompote presented photos of himself sharing his photos of Thai Buddhist stating that Eiji had based Ultraman's face on the said structure, a claim which he has continued to hold since the dispute began. No other proof supporting this claim was known to exist.
After an 8-year battle in the courts of both countries, Sompote Saengduenchai was awarded a favorable decision on April 27, 2004. The exact ruling fell into some dispute: Some said it only gave him selling rights for the first six Ultra Series ("Ultra Q" through "Ultraman Taro") and "Jumborg Ace" outside Japan, and broadcasting rights of said shows within Thailand. Other accounts, usually reported in the Thai/Asian media, said that Chaiyo had got the rights to those six shows everywhere outside Japan. The dispute could be taken as Chaiyo's side of the story, as Tsuburaya was reported in the Japanese media to continue taking more action against them.
Tsuburaya decided not to market any of the disputed six Ultra Series outside Japan until it had completely settled the rights cases with Chaiyo, although the company continued to sell all of the Ultraman programs created after Ultraman Taro, including the theatrical feature "Ultraman the Next," throughout the world. Because of the copyright dispute, sending literature on Ultraman into Singapore and Malaysia was stopped. It also resulted in a slow coming down against Thai Ultraman fans, who were assumed to be outright Chaiyo supporters.
In 2005 the American company BCI Eclipse announced they had acquired the DVD rights to the original "Ultraman" from Chaiyo. A 3-disc box set containing the first 20 episodes of the series was released on July 18, 2006, and a second 3-disc box set containing the remaining 19 episodes was released on November 7, 2006. Both sets feature the original Japanese dialogue track as well as the English dubbed version produced by United Artists for North American people. At certain times, the English dialogue track changed to the Japanese dialogue for small time. This was because BCI had used audio from older recordings in which many scenes had to be cut or shortened for the American broadcast in order to fit running time. Tsuburaya Productions still held on to the complete original English dubbing materials, which they had obtained from a warehouse in 1997, and refused to provide them for BCI. (Contrary to BCI's statements, the original English dubs were complete and uncut, except for a small cut in the conclusion of Episode 36, "Gift From The Sky.")
During the time of the legal battle, Chaiyo created three of their own Ultras: Ultraman Millennium, Dark Ultraman (an evil Ultra), and Ultraman Elite. These were not used for other reasons than stage shows and for selling. Chaiyo also created a TV series he called "Project Ultraman," un-aired as of late March 2008, a joint project in China featuring his own Ultraman and attaching Hong Kong star, Ekin Cheng to the project.
On August 23, 2006, Tsuburaya Productions created a new law for ultraman's right against Chaiyo for copyright (concerning their three original Ultraman characters), and the court case was taken to China. The Chinese courts in Beijing opened "The Ultraman Copyright Study Group" in response to the law for ultraman's right. In April 2007, the Thailand Intellectual Property Court ruled in favor of Tsuburaya Productions, ordering Chaiyo to stop making commercial profits from Chaiyo produced Ultraman characters such as Millennium, Dark, and Elite. The supporters (except for fans) were also fined THB 15,000,000 (approx. JPY 50,904,959 or USD 428,673.50 c. April 2007) plus interest and attorneys' fees. "Project Ultraman" went on a break as a result of the ruling, which said that even if Chaiyo owned the right to some of the Ultraman series, it did not own the right to Ultraman and his brothers, including the design. Chaiyo gained permission to sell the original series, but lost the right to create and market its own Ultraman, or even use the original, without Tsuburaya permission.
On February 5, 2008, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Tsuburaya Productions of Japan after they made an appeal to the initial ruling. The ruling ended the long legal battle by finding Sompote Saengduenchai was not a co creator of Ultraman. The decision ended Sompote's bid to continue his enterprise, and the court gave Sompote 30 days to stop gaining money from Ultraman. The final ruling saw Tsuburaya Productions as the main copyright owner. Sompote was also required to pay THB 10,700,000 plus interest at the rate of 7.5 per cent a year starting from December 16, 1997, when the original law for ultraman's right was filed.

</doc>
<doc id="219509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219509" title="Macedonia (region)">
Macedonia (region)

Macedonia (from Greek: Μακεδονία "Makedonίa") is a region in the southeastern Europe, in Balkans. In ancient times it was a Greek kingdom and its greatest leader was Alexander The Great. Today, its borders have changed and it has been separated in three countries: Greece with the region of Macedonia or Greek Macedonia, the country Macedonia or Vardar Macedonia and Bulgaria with Macedonia of Pirin (Blagoevgrad province).
Greece and the Republic of Macedonia have been arguing over the name Macedonia ever since the independence of the Macedonia. The Republic of Macedonia had to choose a temporary name in order to be recognized by the United Nations. The two countries have been discussing a solution for a new name that both find acceptable. Bulgaria has not taken part in the dispute but has some disagreements with Macedonia. Even though Bulgaria was the first country to recognize Macedonia with its name, it doesn't support the Macedonian ethnicity and language, but claim it's all Bulgarian. 
Macedonia (Greek: Μακεδονία - Makedonia) is a historical and geographical region in northern Greece. It is the second most populous region of Greece and usually it is referred as Northern Greece with Thrace. It is situated between the Pindus Mountains and river Nestos and it borders west with Epirus and Thessaly, northwestern with Albania, north with the Republic of Macedonia, northeastern with Bulgaria and east with Thrace. Its south coasts are washed by the Aegean Sea.
Republic of Macedonia (Macedonian: Република Македонија - Republika Makedonija) is an independent state on the Balkan peninsula in southeastern Europe. The country borders Serbia to the north, Albania to the west, Greece to the south, and Bulgaria to the east. The country's currency is the Macedonian Denar (MKD).
Blagoevgrad Province (Bulgarian: област Благоевград, oblast Blagoevgrad or Благоевградска област, Blagoevgradska oblast), also known as Pirin Macedonia (Bulgarian: Пиринска Македония, Pirinska Makedoniya), is a province (oblast) of southwestern Bulgaria. To the north and east it borders with four other Bulgarian provinces, to the south with Greece and the west with the Republic of Macedonia.

</doc>
<doc id="219512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219512" title="Survivor: The Amazon">
Survivor: The Amazon

Survivor: The Amazon was the sixth season of the American reality show "Survivor". It was filmed in 2002. There were thirteen episodes, one was shown each week on CBS from February 13 - May 11, 2003.
Sixteen players were sent to the Amazon to compete to win one million dollars. For the first time ever, the starting tribes were divided by gender. The two starting tribes were the all-female Jaburu (named after a native stork) and the all-male Tambaqui (a native fish). They later merged (combined into one tribe), which they players named "Jacaré" (Portuguese for "alligator"). It started and ended as a battle of the genders. The winner of Survivor: The Amazon was Jenna Morasca, a 21-year-old swimsuit model from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, who won against Matthew Von Ertfelda by a vote of 6-1. The season finale (last episode) included the announcement of the winner and a live reunion of all the season's players at the Ed Sullivan Theater in New York City, on David Letterman's Late Show stage which was decorated to look like the set in the Amazon.
The season is well known for having the first reality show player with a disability, the hearing impaired Christy Smith.
Another well-known moment in this season was an immunity challenge where the players would have to stand on a pole longer than everyone else. While all the players were standing on a pole, the players were told that they'd be given a bunch of different rewards for hopping off on purpose. Right away, Jenna Morasca and Heidi Strobel said that they would take off all of their clothes if they were given chocolate and peanut butter. Probst said yes, and a very naked Jenna and Heidi left the challenge and ate a plate of Oreo cookies and peanut butter. This got them a cover shot and a nude picture in a "Playboy" spread.
Jenna Morasca and Rob Cesternino returned in , where they placed 16th and 15th.
 There was no Reward Challenge.

</doc>
<doc id="219515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219515" title="Patrick Lalime">
Patrick Lalime

Patrick Lalime (born July 7, 1974) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender and current analyst on Ottawa Senators television broadcasts. Lalime played a career total of 12 seasons in the NHL. He was drafted 156th overall by the Pittsburgh Penguins in the 1993 NHL Entry Draft. He retired from playing ice hockey on July 20, 2011 so he could become an analyst on Ottawa Senators television broadcasts on RDS.

</doc>
<doc id="219517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219517" title="Giannitsa">
Giannitsa

Giannitsa, former Genitsa, is a Greek town in the southeastern part of Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia. It has a total population of 26,296 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. It is located between Mount Paiko and the plain of Giannitsa, north of the area of the drain lake of Giannitsa at a high of 40 meters. It is also the most important and developed town in Pella and one the most important towns in Macedonia.

</doc>
<doc id="219519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219519" title="Survivor: Pearl Islands">
Survivor: Pearl Islands

Survivor: Pearl Islands (also known as "Survivor: Pearl Islands — Panama") was the seventh season of the American reality show "Survivor". It was filmed in 2003 and started being shown on TV on September 18, 2003.
The show takes place on the Pearl Islands, off the coast of Panama, and had a pirate theme. The two starting tribes were Drake (named for Sir Francis Drake) and Morgan (named for Henry Morgan). Later on, the two were merged (combined) into one tribe, which the players named "Balboa". The new tribe was named after an injured snake Rupert found and used as a mascot for the Drake tribe. 
Sandra Diaz-Twine won against Scout master Lillian "Lill" Morris in a 6-1 vote.
"Survivor: Pearl Islands" became available on DVD on February 7, 2006.
This season is the only season so far which has had two of its players returning in two other seasons. Rupert Boneham returned in "" and made 4th place, then Jon "Jonny Fairplay" Dalton played again in "", and was the first person voted out that season. While neither of them won any seasons, Boneham did win $1,000,000 in "". Sandra Diaz-Twine returned in "", along with Boneham, his third time on "Survivor". Their places are unknown because the season has not been shown on TV yet.
The start of the game was announced as a surprise to the players, who were told that they would be playing in the clothes on their backs, most thinking they were getting publicity shots before the game started, and that no more supplies would be given to them. The players were split into the two tribes, Morgan and Drake, and given their running shoes, a small bag of money and a map to a close village where they would could use the money to get what they thought they needed for survival as well as a boat trip to their beach, and were told to swim the rest of the way. Drake, thanks to Sandra being able to speak Spanish and Rupert's idea to steal the untouched shoes of Morgan and use them as exchanging goods, was able to get a lot of items, while Morgan did not plan as well. A twist for this season sent one player from the tribe winning reward to steal one item from the other tribe's camp. Morgan lost most of the early Reward and Immunity challenges, leaving them three players down and with less items to work with at camp. During this time, Osten, a member of Morgan, started to say that he wanted to quit the game.
With Drake looking like they were going to continue to win, Burton started a plan to purposely lose the fourth Immunity challenge to get rid of the tribe's weaker players such as Trish and Christa. Though Rupert and others thought this was a bad idea, they did it anyway, purposely allowing Morgan to win. In a twist, Jeff Probst said that Morgan won the right to "kidnap" one Drake member through the next Reward challenge, and Morgan quickly chose Rupert. As a result, Burton was voted out at Drake's first tribal council. The change in power lead to Morgan winning the next two Immunity challenges and leaving the tribes equal, five members on each tribe.
When they arrived at their next challenge, the tribes found out that there was another twist, as the six players they had voted off before returned to the game as an "outcast tribe". In the next challenge, the outcasts tribe won against Morgan and Drake; both would have to vote off a player at separate tribal councils, while the outcasts tribe would vote in two players to return to the game in their place. Osten quit the game at Morgan's tribal council. Host Jeff Probst wasn't happy when Osten quit. The outcasts tribe chose Lil and Burton to return to the game, both, by chance, returning to their starting tribes but having immunity at the next tribal council. While Burton made up with his old tribe, Lil's return didn't make the other Morgan members too happy.
The next day, the two tribes merged (combined) into one tribe which the players named "Balboa", a name given to a sea snake that Rupert had found and tried to nurse back to health but failed. The tribe moved to Drake's beach. Burton and Rupert won individual immunities, and, along with Lil's anger, helped to voted out old Morgan members Andrew and Ryan O. Now there were more old Drake members than old Morgan members. Jon and Burton started to see Rupert as a physical threat for challenges, and wanted to vote him off, bothering Rupert's alliance members Sandra and Christa. In the next reward challenge, where family and loved ones of the players were brought to the islands, Jon had planned weeks before with his best friend to play the story of a "dead grandmother", hoping to use it to gain sympathy. Though Sandra knew he was lying, Jon successfully convinced the other players, making them to give up the reward to Jon and then having to spend one night on Morgan's old beach while Jon and his friend hung out alone, celebrating the lie's success. Jon and Burton planned to vote off the rest of the women players, voting off Tijuana and Christine. With five players left, Burton won a car reward and took Jon with him away from camp. This allowed Sandra, Lil, and Darrah to make a plan to vote off Burton by having Sandra act like she was certainly the next one to go. Burton and Jon knew the woman were probably working against them, and to his surprise, Burton was voted off at the following tribal council, leaving Jon struggling to try to win back the women's' trust. The next immunity challenge had yet another twist, as though it was a trivia quiz, the jury played also. The jury won, so none of the players left had immunity. Darrah was voted off, leaving Jon, Lil, and Sandra as the final three.
During the last immunity challenge, Sandra fell out early, so Jon to try to convince Lil to take him to the final two. Lil said no, and won the immunity challenge. Lil struggled with her decision of who to take to the last tribal council, but chose Sandra. During the last tribal council, they jury said that Lil's behavior during the game was not what people expected of a scoutmaster, and they asked questions Lil could not easily answer. Sandra was voted the Sole Survivor on a vote of 6-1. In the reunion show, she found out that if she had taken Jon to the final two, she likely would have won.
 Lillian Morris and Burton Roberts were brought back into the game on Day 20, so they are both listed as having placed in two different points in the game. The tribes they were in for a short time upon their return were the same tribes they started in.
 There was no Reward Challenge and was not yet known to the castaways.
 Both tribes lost a challenge to the Outcast Tribe made of the first 6 players voted off; as a result, both tribes had to vote out a player.

</doc>
<doc id="219520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219520" title="Clone">
Clone

A clone is any cell or individual which is identical to another. 
In biology, cloning is the process of producing one or more genetically-identical individuals. With whole individuals, it usually means the deliberate production of an identical copy. This was first achieved in mammals with the famous Dolly the sheep. Human identical twins are "natural clones". So are the offspring of asexual reproduction, and any parthenogenetic reproduction which does not involve meiosis.
Cloning is natural to some animals, but rare in mammals. An exception is the Nine-banded armadillo, which normally gives birth to identical quadruplets.
In genetics and cell biology, cloning refers especially to the DNA sequence, and by implication all the other macromolecules. 
Clones in cell lines occur, but there are some obvious provisos. Changes to the DNA in any shape or form means the daughter cells are not identical with the mother cells. Typically during development genes are switched on and off, and the daughter cells gradually become differentiated into mature tissue cells. These are not identical with the original stem cells, so they are clones only in the sense of being "derived" from the same mother cell.
The laboratory copying of a molecule to produce exact copies is also called cloning.
Although clones start off identical, they may not stay that way. Identical twins always have slightly different phenotypes.
Although monozygotic twins are genetically "almost" identical, a 2012 study of 92 pairs of monozygotic twins found that monozygotic twins acquire several hundred genetic differences early in foetal development. This is caused by mutations (or copy errors) taking place in the DNA of each twin after the splitting of the embryo. It is estimated that, on average, a set of monozygotic twins will have about 360 genetic differences that occurred early in foetal development. However, these changes may have little practical effect. In practice, identical twins look and act in a very similar way.
Another cause of difference between monozygotic twins is epigenetic modification. These are caused by differing environmental influences throughout their lives, which affects which genes are switched on or off. A study of 80 pairs of monozygotic twins ranging in age from three to 74 showed that the youngest twins have relatively few epigenetic differences. The number of epigenetic differences increases with age. Fifty-year-old twins had over three times the epigenetic difference of three-year-old twins. Twins who had spent their lives apart (such as those adopted by two different sets of parents at birth) had the greatest difference. However, certain characteristics become more alike as twins age, such as IQ and personality. This phenomenon illustrates the influence of genetics in many aspects of human characteristics and behaviour.

</doc>
<doc id="219522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219522" title="Scoutcraft">
Scoutcraft

Scoutcraft is a form of woodcraft skills used in the woods and the "backcountry." Though it has been practiced for hundreds of years, it was first called "scoutcraft" by Robert Baden-Powell and Ernest Thompson Seton, who wrote books about it about a hundred years ago. What scoutcraft is has varied throughout the years and from country to country. For example, in England, scoutcraft once included citizenship, while in America, it once included indian lore and signaling. At present, scoutcraft includes camping, hiking (walking through the woods or backcountry), backpacking (a combination of camping and hiking), orienteering (use of a map and compass to find ones way through the backcountry), pioneering (building structures out of logs using knots), first aid, and wilderness survival.

</doc>
<doc id="219526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219526" title="Mirante do Vale">
Mirante do Vale

Mirante do Vale is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 170 meters (558 feet) tall and has 51 floors. It was built in 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="219528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219528" title="Survivor: All-Stars">
Survivor: All-Stars

Survivor: All-Stars was the eighth season of the American reality show "Survivor". It was filmed in 2003 and started to be shown on TV on February 1, 2004 after Super Bowl XXXVIII. It was set on the Pearl Islands of Panama, the same place where the last season, "" had just finished. The winner of this season was Amber Brkich, who won against Rob "Boston Rob" Mariano, fellow player and future husband in a 4-3 vote. At the end of the season a twist called "" was shown live on May 13, 2004. It involved the public voting for whom they wanted to win a second million-dollar prize. Rupert Boneham won the million dollars.
Rob Mariano, Rupert Boneham, Jerri Manthey and Colby Donaldson returned in "", each on "Survivor" for a third time. Their places are unknown because the season has not been shown on TV yet.
This season became available on DVD on September 14, 2004.
Producer Mark Burnett has said that two people said no when they were asked to return in the "All-Stars" season of "Survivor" — Elisabeth Filarski Hasselbeck from "", who had just taken a job as a co-host of "The View", and Colleen Haskell of the show's , who "had moved on with her life and just genuinely didn't want to go through that again." There was a rumor that Brian Heidik, from "" was asked to return, but he would only return if he would be paid a certain amount of money for returning, no matter how far he got into the game. "" winner Sandra Diaz-Twine also says that she said no, saying that she was still from parasites that she got at Pearl Islands. Jon Dalton has says that he said no. Jenna Morasca, winner "" said that her fellow tribemate, Heidi Strobel, had also said no.
Burnett jokingly said that "the casting was really, really scientific. I got a yellow legal pad and wrote down 24 names, and [then] cut down to 18. It was that quick."
Eighteen players returned this season from earlier seasons. In the beginning, they were divided into three tribes: Chapera, Mogo Mogo, and Saboga. Each tribe was named after an island of the Pearl Islands. During the fifth episode Reward Challenge, the Saboga tribe lost the award, and its members divided between the other two tribes (called "dissolving"). During this period, an alliance between Rob M, Amber (who already had their own alliance early in the game), Rupert and Jenna L. would become dominate for Chapera. Also, during this time, two players chose to leave the game. Jenna Morasca, who was worried about her mother's health, chose to leave the game. Her mother died eight days later from cancer. Susan "Sue" Hawk left angry in episode six, one day after a problem during an immunity challenge where a naked Richard Hatch had quick but inappropriate bodily contact with her.
When ten players were left, the tribes were switched. The players grabbed a random new buff out of a bag. By chance, each player drew a buff of the opposite tribe color except Amber. When Chapera lost the next immunity challenge, Rob M. whispered a deal to Lex to save Amber, promising that he will make it up to him later in the game. Lex convinced the rest of Chapera to vote out Jerri instead of Amber. The next day, the players that were left merged (combined) into one tribe, which they named "Chaboga Mogo" (a combination of the old tribe names), and Rob M. decided to vote off Lex, even though he was breaking his promise. 
Rob's four-player alliance continued to dominate the rest of the game. When there were five players left, Rob M., Amber, Rupert, Jenna L., and Big Tom, Rob M. started an argument between Rupert and Big Tom, leading to Big Tom being voted off at the next Tribal Council, and Rupert at the next one. Rob M. won the last immunity challenge and took Amber into the final two with him. The members of the jury had different opinions, some saying that Rob M. played a strong game to get this far, while others, such as Lex, didn't like him because of his strategies. At the live show, before the reading of the votes, Rob M. proposed to Amber for her hand in marriage, and she said yes. Amber won the last vote, 4-3. As winner, Amber was given the chance to give a car to another player, and she chose Shii Ann, At the reunion, "" player Jerri Manthey tried to put herself into the controversial discussion between Tom Buchanan and Mariano. The 5000 person audience booed, so she left the reunion show angry during a commercial break.
A week later, Rupert won the "America Votes" contest, getting 85% of the 38 million votes cast, winning a million dollars himself.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="219529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219529" title="Jean-Baptiste Lully">
Jean-Baptiste Lully

Jean-Baptiste Lully (pronounce: "Loo-lee"), (born Florence, 28 November 1632; died Paris, 22 March 1687), was an Italian composer, violinist and dancer who spent most of his life working in the court of Louis XIV of France. He took on French nationality in 1661. He was the most important French composer of his time. Lully realized that music in the Italian style was not suitable for the French language, so he composed his operas in a special way. He created the tradition of French opera. He also wrote a lot of ballet music and some church music.
Lully was born in Florence, Italy. Lully did not have much education. He taught himself a lot of what he could do. He learned to play the guitar and the violin and to dance. 
In 1646 he was taken to France where he was given a job teaching Italian to a Duchess. He had the opportunity to hear a lot of good music, and, by the time he was 20, he was an excellent composer, violinist and dancer.
He started to work for Louis XIV in 1652. He composed some music for the "Ballet de la Nuit" (Night Ballet). The king liked it very much. He became composer of instrumental music to the king. His orchestra (called "Grande Bande", i.e. "large band") had 24 violins. They were not very good, so he got the king’s permission to start another group which he called "Petits Violons" ("Little Violins"). There were 16 in the group (later it became 21), and Lully trained them properly. He did not let them put too many ornaments in the music.
He became a Frenchman in 1661. The next year he became Music Master to the Royal Family and he also married. The king and queen signed the marriage document, so Lully was obviously an important man.
Lully composed lots of ballets for the King during the 1650s and 1660s. He was one of the dancers in these ballets. The king also danced. He worked with the great playwright Molière, composing music for Molière’s comedies. These include "Le Mariage forcé" (1664), "L'Amour médecin" (1665), and "Le Bourgeois gentilhomme" (1670). Together with Molière he created the Comédie-Ballet which became a great French tradition.
When the king got older he could not dance and so he became less interested in ballet. So Lully became more interested in composing operas. He earned a lot of money from this, because there was an arrangement with the king that Lully would have complete control of any music that was published in France. Lully had become a very powerful man, and many other musicians did not like this. There were a lot of arguments, especially when Lully did not allow music in puppet shows.
Lully had lots of successes in his life. He also had many love affairs, with men and women. There were several scandals, but the king always forgave him because he was a great friend. .
Late in 1686 the king had been ill, but he got better, so he asked Lully to organize a concert to celebrate the fact that he was well again. The concert was given on 8 January 1687. The orchestra played a Te Deum. Lully conducted the orchestra. Conductors did not yet use batons (sticks) in those days. Instead, Lully banged a big stick on the floor to keep the orchestra together. Suddenly, he hit his toe with his stick. The wound in the toe got an infection. The infection later became gangrene. He did not want the doctors to cut off his toe. The infection spread to the rest of the body, and he died on 22 March from gangrene.
Lully was rich when he died. He left 800.000 livres. He had five houses in Paris as well as two country houses.
Lully lived in the middle of the Baroque period. He liked fast, lively music, especially music that could be danced to. He changed people’s taste in musical style. He used a lot of instruments that had not been used in orchestras before. His friendship with Molière resulted in a new musical form, the "comédie-ballet" which combined theatre, comedy, and ballet.
Lully also created the style of French opera called "tragédie en musique" or "tragédie lyrique". Instead of having his opera music divided into recitatives and arias he often combined the two so that events in the story happened quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="219534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219534" title="Survivor: Vanuatu">
Survivor: Vanuatu

Survivor: Vanuatu - Islands of Fire (also known as "Survivor: Vanuatu" for short) was the ninth season of the American reality show "Survivor". It was filmed in Summer 2004. The game took place on Vanuatu, a group of volcanic islands in the South Pacific. 
"Survivor: Vanuatu" started being shown on TV on September 16, 2004. Also starting that day was Survivor Live, an hour-long Internet talk show hosted by the first Sole Survivor Richard Hatch and Entertainment Tonight correspondent Chris Booker. The talk show was shown every Thursday and Friday on the CBS website. It interviews players from earlier seasons and reviews the players' gameplay. 
On December 12, 2004, Chris Daugherty won against Twila Tanner by a vote of 5-2 to become the sole survivor. This seasons became available on DVD on December 5, 2006.
For the first time, not including the season before, "", there were eighteen players. In the first seven seasons, there were only sixteen. This was the second season where the starting tribes were divided by gender. It was also the first season to have an amputee (Chad Crittenden, who had lost a foot to cancer) and not one, but two open lesbians (motivational speaker Scout Cloud Lee and old "Playboy" model Ami Cusack).
The season began like "". The tribes were divided by gender. The male tribe was Lopevi, named after one of Vanuatu's volcanic islands; the female tribe was Yasur, named after Mount Yasur. On Day 11, there was a tribal switch like in other seasons, which ended up moving two people from each tribe over to the other tribe.
On Day 20, the tribes were merged (combined) into one tribe. They named the new tribe "Alinta", a name suggested by Scout meaning "people of fire."
Eliza Orlins and Ami Cusack were chosen from this season to return for "" as members of the Favorites tribe, where they placed 10th and 11th.
The players were brought into the game at a native gathering, with the natives dividing the group into men and women. The men were clearly worshiped at the ceremony, suggesting they would have better luck in the game. After the ceremony, the men were named the Lopevi tribe, and the women the Yasur tribe, and sent to find their camps in the dark. Lopevi lost the first challenge mainly due to Chris, however, the older men of the tribe started an alliance and worked to vote off one of the younger men, Brook. This would continue through the next two tribal councils that Lopevi took part in. In Yasur, a strong clique started around Ami, and the women that did not fit in were voted out. 
The tribes were switched on day 11, mixing the two tribes; later voting only strengthened Ami's alliances. On Day 19, the two tribes, now with 6 women and 4 men, merged into one tribe, which they named "Alinta". The men were quickly targeted at the next three tribal councils, leaving Chris as the only male. By this time, the players in Ami's alliance were her, Julie, and Leann, while Twila and Scout had formed a closer pairing, with Eliza as an outsider among the women. When Chris didn't win the next immunity challenge, Twila brought Chris into a plan to vote out one of Ami's group if they could bring Eliza into their foursome. Chris was successful at this, and Leann was voted out at the next tribal council. Ami and Julie soon followed, even though they had tried to vote off Chris. The final four was Chris, Eliza, Twila, and Scout. Chris won the last two immunity challenges, and took Twila with him into the final two. The jury saw Chris' power to stay in the game with the odds against him, both from the first challenge and as the last man standing, and voted him the Sole Survivor 5-2.

</doc>
<doc id="219547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219547" title="Herrerasaurus">
Herrerasaurus

Herrerasaurus was one of the earliest dinosaurs. All known fossils of this carnivore have been discovered in Upper Triassic strata dated to 231.4 million years ago (mya) in northwestern Argentina.
It is a member of the Herrerasauridae, a family of similar genera that were among the earliest dinosaurs.
"Herrerasaurus" was a lightly built bipedal carnivore with a long tail and a relatively small head. Its length is estimated at 3 to 6 meters (10 to 20 ft), and its hip height at more than 1.1 meters (3.3 ft). It may have weighed around 210–350 kilograms (463–772 lb). 
In a large specimen the skull measured 56 centimeters (1.8 ft) in length. Smaller specimens had skulls about 30 centimeters (1 ft) long.
The tail, partially stiffened by overlapping vertebral projections, balanced the body and was also an adaptation for speed.
The paleoenvironment of the Ischigualasto Formation (where it was found) was a volcanically active floodplain covered by forests with strong seasonal rainfall. The climate was moist and warm, with seasonal variations. Vegetation consisted of ferns ("Cladophlebis"), horsetails, and giant conifers ("Protojuniperoxylon"). These plants formed lowland forests along the banks of rivers. "Herrerasaurus" remains appear to have been the most common among the carnivores of the Ischigualasto Formation. 
"Herrerasaurus" lived in these jungles alongside a smaller dinosaur, the one metre long "Eoraptor", as well as "Saurosuchus", a huge quadrupedal Archosaur. There were also a number of therapsid and reptilian herbivores. The dinosaurs had not yet taken control of the land environments as they did later.

</doc>
<doc id="219550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219550" title="Jason Earles">
Jason Earles

Jason Earles (born April 26, 1977), is an American actor who is best known for playing the role of Jackson Stewart in Hannah Montana.
Jason Earles was born in San Diego, California. After his family had lived in both Ohio and Washington, they moved to Oregon. Before his family moved to southern California, they lived in Billings, Montana, where he graduated from Rocky Mountain College in 2000. He has given several pieces of Hannah Montana cast to the college's fund raisers.

</doc>
<doc id="219552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219552" title="Hayato Hashimoto">
Hayato Hashimoto

Hayato Hashimoto (born 15 September 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.
77||4||5||2||11||0||93||6
77||4||5||2||11||0||93||6

</doc>
<doc id="219553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219553" title="Kazuhisa Iijima">
Kazuhisa Iijima

Kazuhisa Iijima (born 6 January 1970) is a former Japanese football player.
256||3||22||0||35||0||313||3
256||3||22||0||35||0||313||3

</doc>
<doc id="219554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219554" title="Mikio Manaka">
Mikio Manaka

230||4||12||0||21||0||263||4
230||4||12||0||21||0||263||4

</doc>
<doc id="219555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219555" title="Yasuo Manaka">
Yasuo Manaka

274||62||26||1||32||6||332||69
274||62||26||1||32||6||332||69

</doc>
<doc id="219556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219556" title="Jean-Alain Boumsong">
Jean-Alain Boumsong

Jean-Alain Boumsong (born 14 December 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Olympique Lyonnais and France national team.
213||5
18||2
57||0
33||2
321||9
!Total||27||1

</doc>
<doc id="219557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219557" title="Pascal Chimbonda">
Pascal Chimbonda

Pascal Chimbonda (born 21 February 1979) is a Guadeloupean-French football player. He has played for Guadeloupe national team and France national team.
152||9||||||||||||||152||9
119||5||10||0||13||1||21||0||163||6
271||14||10||0||13||1||21||0||315||15
!Total||3||0
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219559" title="Yuji Ito">
Yuji Ito

Yuji Ito (born 20 May 1965) is a former Japanese football player.
313||0||14||0||31||0||358||0
313||0||14||0||31||0||358||0

</doc>
<doc id="219561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219561" title="Hogan Ephraim">
Hogan Ephraim

Hogan Ephraim (born 31 March 1988) is an English football player. He plays for Leeds United.
80||4||3||0||1||0||84||4
80||4||3||0||1||0||84||4

</doc>
<doc id="219562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219562" title="Nicky Hofs">
Nicky Hofs

Nicky Hofs (born 17 May 1983) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Vitesse.
167||43
167||43
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219578" title="Jasenovac i Gradiška Stara">
Jasenovac i Gradiška Stara

Jasenovac i Gradiška Stara is a Croatian song promoting the Ustaše. The lyrics celebrate the World War II crimes against the Serbs. The lyrics include words in the typical dialect of Herzegovina, where some of the worst atrocities against Serbs during WWII happened.

</doc>
<doc id="219582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219582" title="Motoo Kimura">
Motoo Kimura

Motoo Kimura (13 November 1924 – 13 November 1994) was a Japanese mathematician and biologist. He was known for introducing the neutral theory of molecular evolution in 1968. "Calculating the rate of evolution in terms of nucleotide substitutions seems to give a value so high that many of the mutations involved must be neutral ones".
He became one of the most influential theoretical population geneticists:
Kimura was heavily influenced by Sewall Wright; the main distinction being that Wright was mainly interested in populations, whereas the core of Motoo's work was in changes at the molecular level. Modified versions of Kimura's ideas are still in use today.
In 1992, Kimura received the Darwin Medal from the Royal Society, and the following year he was made a Foreign Member of the Royal Society.

</doc>
<doc id="219583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219583" title="Mahmoud Ahmadinejad">
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, also written Ahmadinezhad (; born October 28, 1956) is a former Iranian politician who was the sixth President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. He was president from August 3, 2005 to August 3, 2013.
Ahmadinejad became the mayor of Tehran, the capital of Iran, on May 3, 2003. He was chosen to be the president in elections on June 24, 2005. Many people think he is very religious. Because of that, the religious leadership in Iran supported him in many ways when he was elected. 
Ahmadinajad's political power comes from the Alliance of Builders of Islamic Iran, also known as "Abadgaran". This is an alliance between Islamic parties and organizations.
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has a Master of Science in Civil engineering from the Iran University of Science and Techology. He also has a PhD in transportation engineering from the same university. Hassan Rouhani was elected on June 15, 2013 as Ahmadinejad's successor and took office on August 3, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="219585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219585" title="Jesus">
Jesus

Jesus (born some time between 7 and 3 BC, died between 30 and 33 AD), also referred to as Jesus of Nazareth, is the central figure of Christianity.
Most historians agree that he was a Jew from a place called Judea, in a town called Nazareth, within what is now Israel. They also agree that he was thought of as a teacher and a healer, and that he was baptized by John the Baptist. He was crucified in Jerusalem on the orders of Pontius Pilate. The Quran claims that Jesus was a Muslim.
Stories about the life of Jesus have been recorded by different writers. The best known are four books called gospels. They form the beginning of the New Testament, a part of the Bible. Gospel means "good news". They tell a little about his birth, and mostly about his adult life: his teachings, ministry, death, and resurrection (return from death). The four Gospels are Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
Several Jewish and Roman historians, such as Flavius Josephus, Tacitus, Pliny the Younger, and Suetonius mention Jesus in their writings. They usually only mention his execution or problems between the Roman government and his followers; they do not talk about his life.
The name "Jesus" came from the Aramaic name "Yeshua", from Hebrew "Yah-shua", meaning "God is salvation (or deliverance)" in English, and was a popular name of the time. Jesus is often called "Jesus Christ" or "Christ". The word "Christ" comes from the Greek word "christos" and means "the one marked on the head with oil" or "the anointed one". In Jesus' country, anointing was done to show that a person was chosen to be a king or a leader. Jesus is also called Messiah, which comes from the Hebrew term "Moshiach", and also means "the anointed one".
The Gospels of Matthew and Luke say that before the birth of Jesus, both Mary, His mother, and the man that she was promised to, Joseph, knew that Jesus was going to be the "Messiah" or King that had been promised to the Jewish people, in the ancient Jewish books.
Luke's Gospel tells most of the story. When Jesus was born, the Roman Empire ruled most of the Middle East. The Government wanted every single family to have their name taken down to be taxed, so everyone had to go back to the place where they came from. Joseph came from the small town of Bethlehem, near Jerusalem, so even though Mary was close to giving birth to her baby, they had to travel, with thousands of other people.
When they got to Bethlehem, every room was full. Jesus was placed in a manger as there was no room for them at the inn. Shepherds who were minding their sheep on the hillside came in to see the baby, and went away singing thanks to God for the newborn king.
In the Gospel of Matthew, it says that wise men from a far country saw a new star in the sky and traveled to find the young Jesus because they knew that the Messiah was going to be born under a star, and that the star was a sign that Jesus was born to be a king.
Most Christians celebrate the day that Jesus was born as the holiday of Christmas. Although the Gospels do not say what day Jesus was born, the date chosen was of December 25, because there was already a Roman holiday on that day.
The arrival of Jesus was prophesied by John the Baptist. He baptized Jesus in the Jordan River. During the baptism, the Spirit of God, like a dove, came down upon Jesus, and the voice of God was heard. According to the Bible, the Spirit led Jesus into the desert where he fasted for 40 days. There, he resisted the Devil's temptations. Then Jesus went into Galilee, settled in Capernaum, and began to preach about the Kingdom of God. He was about 30 years old.
Jesus taught mainly by telling stories. He taught that God alone was the true king, and that people should love God and love each other as the scriptures told them to do. And he taught his followers how to pray. Jesus performed miracles that were signs of God's power, such as giving hungry people food and wine, healing sick people, and making dead people alive again. He also set people free from evil spirits. 
Jesus gathered together twelve men, known as the "Twelve Apostles", whom he chose and trained to spread his message. He had many other disciples, including many women, but because of Jewish customs, the women disciples could not travel to distant places on their own as teachers.
The Bible says Jesus became famous. He went to Jerusalem, where many were visiting the city for Passover. When they heard that he was coming, they greeted him as if he was a king. They thought he would free them from the Roman rule, but Jesus rode into Jerusalem on a donkey, as a sign that he came in peace.
Jesus did certain things which upset the Jewish religious leaders. They thought he showed disrespect for customs that the Jews had kept for many centuries. For example, Jews did no work at all on the 7th day of the week, the "Sabbath", because it was a holy day. In John's Gospel, chapter 5, there is the story of Jesus healing a crippled man. Jesus saw a man lying on a mattress. He healed the man, and told him to pick up the mattress and go home. Carrying the mattress on the Sabbath was against religious custom, so the religious leaders argued with Jesus about it. They then watched everything he did, and remembered all the things that were against the religious customs.
In Mark's Gospel, chapter 11, it says that when Jesus arrived in Jerusalem, he went to the Jewish Temple. He became angry at what he saw. There were people selling things there, and money lenders who were cheating poor people. Jesus chased away all the people who were selling things. He said the chief priests and scribes had turned the temple into a den of thieves because they were making money from the poor and taking away homes from poor women who had no other way to pay for the temple worship.
The Gospels say that the temple leaders were angry and wanted to kill him. They told the Roman government that Jesus' followers wanted him to become the king of the country and take it over. The gospels say the Roman governor thought that Jesus should be set free, but that the Jewish leaders said, "If you do that, then you are not the friend of Caesar!" (Caesar was the Roman ruler.)
The Governor sentenced him to death because his followers had claimed he was king. The Roman soldiers killed Jesus by crucifixion. He was nailed up to a high cross by his hands and feet. This was a common way for the Romans to kill rebels and criminals.
Jesus' body was buried in a tomb which belonged to one of his followers. On the day after the Sabbath, early in the morning, women went to treat the body with spice and perfumed oil. But the Gospels say that the body of Jesus was gone, and that he was seen alive afterwards. This is called the Resurrection.
Some people, like the disciple Thomas, said "I'm not going to believe this, until I have seen it with my own eyes!" But the Bible says that more than 500 people, including Thomas, saw Jesus alive again. There are many stories in the Gospels about what Jesus did after he was resurrected. Finally, the Gospel of Luke says that Jesus took his disciples to a hill, where he blessed them and told them to spread his teaching through all the world, and that then clouds came down, and he was lifted up to Heaven.
Most Christians celebrate the time that the Gospels say he died and was raised from the dead as the holiday of Easter.
The Christian Church is founded on Jesus. The things that Christians believe about Jesus are based on the four Gospels of the Bible, and on letters or "Epistles" that were written in the 1st century, explaining Jesus' teachings to his followers.
Jesus did not write these letters. They were mainly written by a Jewish man named Paul. At first he tried to stop Christianity from spreading. Then he became a Christian himself and was an important leader. As Christian churches started in different towns and countries, Paul wrote letters to them. A lot of the ideas that Christians believe are written in Paul's letters. There is also lots of instruction for running churches and families.
There are other letters in the New Testament by other writers including Peter, James, and John. These letters all help to build the beliefs that modern Christians have.
See section: Other views about Jesus
Whether or not Jesus is God has been argued about for a long time. Most Christians, including those from Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant denominations, believe Jesus was both God and man. Jesus is described in different parts of the New Testament as being "the Word of God", "the Son of God", "the Son of Man", and God himself.
These teachings, which are believed by most Christians, are not believed by many other people. The Islamic teaching is that Jesus was a prophet, but he was not part of God or the "Son of God". In Jesus' own time, many Jews became very angry at Jesus for saying that he was the "Son of God" and also because his followers said he was the "Messiah". Most Jews do not believe this.
These Bible verses tell the Christian teaching that Jesus is God:
Jesus is also referred to as "the Son of God".
All Christians believe that these verses say Jesus is God. All Christians believe that Jesus' death on the cross allows all people to be forgiven by God for their sins (bad things they have done). Most Christians believe that if a person asks God to forgive them He will do so, and they will get to live forever with him in Heaven.
Christians believe that, by the teaching of the Bible, Jesus was not only truly God but also truly human and that this was part of God's plan to bring humans closer to understanding him. 
People who do not have Christian beliefs, have different ideas about Jesus.
Verses from the Bible:-
In "Matthew's Gospel", Jesus is often called "the Son of Man". Matthew has borrowed these words from the Old Testament where they are often used to show that humankind is very far from God. In the Bible, God is often praised and thanked for helping ordinary humans, who are called "the sons of man". In Psalm 8, the writer, King David, asks God ""What is man and the son of man, that you should care so much and give him such wonderful power over the Earth and all its creatures?""
In Matthew's Gospel, 24:30 Jesus says ""..They shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of Heaven with power and great glory."" Like King David, in Psalm 8, Jesus is making a difference between his ordinary human life and his great power as the "Son of God".
One of the best-loved parts of the Old Testament is a song called Psalm 23. It starts: 
In the Gospels, Jesus often spoke about himself as being like a shepherd, caring for sheep. He called himself the "Good Shepherd" who would even give his own life, to protect his sheep. He told the Jewish people, referring to non-Jewish or "Gentile" believers, that he had "other sheep" that do not belong to this flock. (John, 21:16). In one of his last conversations with his disciple Peter, he told him, ""Feed my sheep!"", in other words ""Take care of my people."".
In Judaism, from ancient times, people are seen as sinful or bad. They need to be forgiven by God. They believed that there were two ways to get God's forgiveness, by prayer and by sacrifice. Prayer could be done anywhere, but sacrifices were done at the temple. A person would bring an animal, often a lamb, or if they were poor, a dove. They would put their hands on the animal to lay their sins on it. Then the animal would be killed, as a punishment for the sin. This type of sacrifice continued until the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed in 71 AD. Paying money to the temple was also a sort of sacrifice. When Jesus drove the traders out of the temple, they were the people who sold lambs and doves, and the people who exchanged Roman money into special temple money. 
Part of Christian belief is that Jesus Christ did not just come as a human person so that he could teach a better way of life. Christians also believe that Jesus was the "ultimate" sacrifice for the sin of humankind, that Jesus is the "Saviour": the one who is here to save. Christians believe that, unlike ordinary people, Jesus was completely pure and free from sin, but that when he died on the cross, he took on himself all the sins of every person who would believe in him, like the lamb sacrificed in the temple.
Based on John's Gospel, Christian teaching is that the death and resurrection of Jesus are the sign of his power to forgive the sins of any person who turns to him and truly asks for forgiveness. The Bible says that sinners who are forgiven should try to live a "new life" and not go back to their sinful behaviour. Christians believe that knowing about God's love helps people to live a new and better life.
These are three verses from the Bible that are important in this Christian belief:-
""God loved the world so much that he gave his only Son, so that, whoever believes might not die but have eternal life."' John's Gospel, 3:16.
Jesus said: ""I am the way, the truth and the life. If anyone comes to the Father, they must come by me!"" John's Gospel, 14:6.
""If we say we have no sins, we are fooling ourselves and not telling the truth. But if we tell our sins humbly to God, then He has promised to listen and to forgive our sins and make us clean from all our badness."" from the First Letter of John.
Some people who are not Christians believe that Jesus lived at the time that the Gospels say, but do not believe that Jesus was the "Son of God" or "Saviour". They believe that Jesus was an ordinary, but very good person, a teacher and perhaps a prophet.
Mohandas Gandhi said, "I am a Muslim, and a Hindu, and a Christian, and a Jew," even though he was born a Jain.
Muslims believe Jesus (under the name Isa) was the second-to-last Prophet (messenger of God). They believe that Muhammad was the very last Prophet. They believe that both Jesus and Muhammad were ordinary men, chosen by God to be his servant and teach the word of Islam.
Muslims do not believe that Jesus was God or "the Son of God". Islam is strictly monotheistic: it says that there is only one God. Muslims believe that Jesus cannot be part of God, because there is only one God. If someone other than God is worshiped, it is thought to be polytheism (belief in more than one god). It is also thought to be idolatry: idolizing someone other than God.
Islam teaches that Jesus did not die on the cross, but another man disguised as him went on the cross for Isa. (This is very different from Christianity. Jesus' death is a very important part of the Christian belief about salvation.) Muslims always say "peace be upon him" after saying Jesus' name as a sign of respect in short and Arabic a.s.
Muslims also accept some other teachings about Jesus. These teachings say that Jesus will return to the earth in the End Of Days; he will then destroy the false messiah or Anti-christ before the day of judgment. Muslims also accept Jesus' claims to be a healer. They believe in the many miracles he is said to have performed, like raising the dead to life and giving sight to the blind. They believe that all his miracles were granted to him from God.
The Qur'an (like the Bible), mentions the virgin birth of Jesus but then it says other things about Mary (Islamic-Maryam). The Bible says that Joseph helped Mary give birth to Jesus, but in Islam there is no Joseph. Instead, Mary walked the desert alone in labor and found a tree. The angel Gabriel (Jibreel) asked if she was hungry, then told her to shake the tree and dates fell for her to eat. Then he asked if she was thirsty and he said look down at your feet and there was water and there she gave birth to Jesus. This is why Muslims fast and how they break their fast. Mary knew she had to go back to her town and when she did, with Jesus in her arms, the people were shouting at her for adultery. Mary wanted to explain herself but the Angel told her not to speak.
Even though Jesus was a Jew and his teaching came out of the Jewish religion, most Jewish people do not believe that Jesus was the "Messiah" that is promised in the Jewish Scriptures.
In the Gospels, it tells that Jesus made the Jewish teachers very angry with his teachings. It says that part of their anger was because he told them they were "hypocrites" which means that they externally made themselves appear to be living a holy life, but internally their hearts were far from God's.
In the Gospels, the other reason that they became angry was that Jesus acted as if he was the "Messiah", and said he was the "Son of God". This meant that he was either a terrible liar, that he was mad and just imagined it, or that it was true. But Jesus did not seem to be mad. So that left only two choices. If Jesus was lying, then he was doing something badly against the Jewish religion. It was because of the claims that Jesus was the "Son of God" that some of the Jewish leaders wanted him killed and they handed him to the Roman rulers. The Romans did not care if Jesus said something that was against the Jewish beliefs. But they knew that people had also said that Jesus was "King of the Jews". The Jewish leaders claimed this was against the Roman Government's laws. Although the Roman leaders did not agree, they had him killed to prevent a possible riot.
Although, today and through history, most Jews do not believe what Christians say about Jesus, there are some Jews who do believe that Jesus was the "Messiah" promised in the Jewish Scriptures. Jews who believe this are called "Messianic Jews".
Some writers have said that perhaps Jesus never existed. Ideas have been put forward that the whole of the Gospel writing about Jesus is just a good story or myth and that Jesus perhaps never existed.
Most historians reject this view- see below.
Other writers have argued that parts of the story of Jesus are similar to other religions such as the stories of Gilgamesh and Mithras. They also claim that Christianity holds its main Holy Days at a time when there was already a Roman or Jewish festival such as Easter at the time of the Passover.
In the later part of the 20th century and in the 21st century nearly all scholars, both Christian and non-Christian agree that Jesus was a real person. Both Christian and non-Christian scholars base their studies of him on the Gospels. They are believed to have been written between 60-90 AD.
By tradition, "the Gospels" were written by four men, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John who gave their names to these books.
This is the order in which they are arranged in the New Testament of the Bible, but scholars think that it is not the order in which they were written. "The Gospel of Mark" was probably written before "the Gospel of Matthew". The four Gospels all tell the story of the Life of Jesus, but they do it from four different points of view, because they were written by different people and each writer had reasons to tell it in a different way.
Other scholars have said that leaders in the Early Christian Church made changes to the Gospel writings. These changes are said to have happened at different times, in different ways and for different reasons. For example, one story was left out of many old versions of the Gospels. It is about Jesus rescuing a woman who had committed adultery (had sex outside marriage) and was about to be killed. St. Augustine of Hippo, (354-430 AD) wrote that this was probably was left out because some church leaders thought the story might cause people to act in a sinful way. This story is in all modern Bibles and is thought to contain very important teaching for Christians. Other differences that can be found in versions of the Gospels are mostly small and do not make a difference to what is known about the life of Jesus and his teaching.
Mark's Gospel, which is thought by biblical scholars to be the earliest, has the name of a young disciple of the apostle Paul who is mentioned several times in the "Acts of the Apostles" and Paul's Letters. The Gospel was probably written in Rome and is thought by scholars to be from the memories of Jesus' follower or "disciple", Peter. It does not tell about Jesus' birth; it starts when he was 30 years old, at the time when the disciples got to know him. It shows Jesus as a man of action: going around the country, teaching and healing people.
Matthew's Gospel was written next. Matthew was one of Jesus' disciples. He was a Jewish man that was hated by other Jews because he worked for the Roman rulers as a tax collector. Matthew tells that one day Jesus saw him sitting at his desk in the market place and said "Follow me".
Most Biblical scholars believe that Matthew had read Mark's Gospel and decided to fill in some things that Mark left out, because, while Mark wrote his Gospel for the Church of Rome, Matthew wanted to write for Jewish Christians all over the Roman Empire. Matthew was a well-educated Jew, so he knew the Jewish Scriptures, (which Christians also use and call the Old Testament of the Bible). Matthew knew the scripture teachings that the Messiah, or God's anointed one would come. In his Gospel, he often mentions these teachings. He also starts off by giving a list of Jesus' ancestors because this was important to Jewish readers.
 The apostle Luke was Greek and a friend of the apostle Paul. He was a doctor. Luke came to know about Jesus from the "disciples". Luke writes about the birth and the childhood of Jesus and he says "Mary kept all these things in her heart and thought about them."
Luke was not a Jew and he writes in a way that is easy for other people who are not Jews to understand. He explains Jewish customs and laws. He wrote a second book called "the Acts of the Apostles" which tells what the disciples did after Jesus had left them.
It is believed by scholars of the Bible that John was a "disciple" of Jesus and was probably the youngest of the twelve men who were Jesus' main followers. He lived to be an old man and, because of his teaching about Jesus, he was sent to a small island, called Patmos.
John writes with one particular idea in mind. He wants to prove to the reader that Jesus is God's way of saving humans from the terrible problem of sin or "evil". John starts by telling the reader that Jesus was (and is) God. John says that Jesus is God's "Living Communication" (or "Living Word"). Every part of "John's Gospel" is written to show that Jesus came from God, taught the "Message of God" and is the way for people to understand "God's Love".
The Gospels tell many of the stories that Jesus told when he was teaching people about the way that God loved them and the way they should live. These are called parables. They include the following:
In this story from chapter 10 of Luke's Gospel, Jesus shows what it means to be a good neighbour. Near the Jews lived the people called Samaritans. They did not agree with each other about religious teaching, and were considered enemies. One day, a Jewish man was walking, when some robbers beat him up, robbed him, and left him naked and almost dead, by the road. A Jewish priest came along and saw him. He thought, "If I touch that naked bleeding man, I will be unclean and I will not be able to go to the Temple!" So he pretended that he had not seen him. Another Jew, a Holy Man, came along and acted in the same way. At last a Samaritan came along with a donkey. When he saw the wounded man he stopped. He washed his wounds with wine and olive oil. Then he put him on his donkey and took him to the nearest inn. He paid the innkeeper and said "Keep him until he is well, and whatever is owing, I will pay when I come back this way." Jesus said to the people who were listening "Which one of these people acted like a good neighbour?" They said "He that stopped and helped." Jesus said "You go and act the same way."
In this story from chapter 15 of Luke's Gospel, Jesus tells how a rich man had two sons. They would both get a share of his money, when he died. The younger son said, "Father, give me my money now, so I can go and enjoy myself, while I'm young." He took the money to the city, and spent it all on parties with his friends. Soon he had none left to feed himself. He was ashamed. He got a job caring for pigs, but he was almost starving. He said to himself, "I'll go home to my father and I will say, 'Father, I have sinned! Please let me be a servant in your house!'" When his father saw him coming, he ran along the road to put his arms around his son. The father said, "Bring the finest clothes! Kill the fattest calf to make a feast!" When the elder brother heard all this, he was angry and said, "I'm a good son to you, but you never even gave me one little goat to have a party with my friends!" The father said, "You have always been with me. I love you greatly, and all I have is yours, but my son who was lost is now found! My son who seemed to be dead is alive! Be happy with me!" Jesus said that this is the way God loves and forgives his people, when they ask for forgiveness.

</doc>
<doc id="219587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219587" title="United States">
United States

The United States of America (USA), usually referred to as the United States (US), or America is a country in North America. It is made up of 50 states, a federal district, and five territories. It is a superpower, and the US is the only superpower in the world according to some. It has great influence over world finance, trade, culture, military, politics, and technology. 
The United States is a federal republic. The federal government of the United States is set up by the Constitution. There are three branches of government. They are the "executive branch", the "legislative branch", and the "judicial branch". State governments work much like the federal government. 
The executive branch is the part of the government that enforces the law. Members of the U.S. Electoral College elect a president who is the leader of the executive branch, as well as the leader of the armed forces. The president may veto a bill that the Congress has passed, so it doesn't become a law. The President may also make "executive orders" to ensure that people follow the law. 
The president is in charge of many departments that control much of the day-to-day actions of government. For example, Department of Commerce makes rules about trade. The president chooses the heads of these departments, and also nominates federal judges. However, the Senate, part of the legislative branch, must agree with all of the people the president chooses. The president may serve two 4-year terms.
The legislative branch makes laws. The legislative branch is called the United States Congress. Congress is divided into two "houses".
One house is the House of Representatives. The Representatives are each elected by voters from a set area within a state. The number of Representatives a state has is based on how many people live there. Representatives serve two-year terms. The total number of representatives today is 435. The leader of the House of Representatives is the Speaker of the House. 
The other house is the Senate. In the Senate, each state is represented equally, by two senators. Because there are 50 states, there are 100 senators. The President's treaties or appointments of officials need the Senate's approval. Senators serve six-year terms. The Vice President of the United States serves as president of the Senate. In practice, the vice president is usually absent from the Senate, and a senator serves as president pro tempore, or temporary president, of the Senate.
Representatives and senators propose laws, called "bills", in their respective houses. A bill may be voted upon by the entire house right away or may first go to a small group, known as a committee, which may recommend a bill for a vote by the whole house. If one house votes to pass a bill, the bill then gets sent to the other house; if both houses vote for it, it is then sent to the president, who may sign the bill into law or veto it. If the president vetoes the bill, it is sent back to Congress. If Congress votes again and passes the bill with at least a two-thirds majority, the bill becomes law and cannot be vetoed by the president.
Under the American system of federalism, Congress may not make laws that directly control the states; instead, Congress may use the promise of federal funds, or special circumstances such as national emergencies, to encourage the states to follow federal law. This system is both complex and unique.
The Judicial Branch is the part of government that interprets what the law means. The Judicial Branch is made up of the Supreme Court and many lower courts. If the Supreme Court decides that a law is not allowed by the Constitution, the law is said to be "struck down" and is no longer a valid law. 
The Supreme Court is made up of nine judges, called justices, who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. One of these justices, called the chief justice, heads the court. A Supreme Court justice serves until he or she dies or resigns (quits in the middle of his or her term). When that happens, the president nominates someone new to replace the justice who left. If the Senate agrees with that choice, the person becomes a justice. If the Senate does not agree with the president's choice, then the president must nominate someone else.
Famous court cases such as "Marbury v. Madison" (which was decided in 1803) have firmly established that the Supreme Court is the ultimate interpreter of the United States Constitution and has the power to strike down any law that conflicts with it.
The United States of America consists of 50 states, 5 territories and 1 district (Washington D.C.). States can make laws about things inside the state, but federal law is about things dealing with more than one state or dealing with other countries. In some areas, if the federal government makes laws that say different things from the state laws, people must follow the federal law because the state law is not a law any more. Each state has a constitution of its own, different from the federal (national) Constitution. Each of these is like the federal Constitution because they say how each state's government is set up, but some also talk about specific laws.
The federal and most state governments are dominated by two political parties: the Republicans and the Democrats. There are many smaller parties; the largest of these are the Libertarian Party and the Green Party. People help in political campaigns that they like. They try to persuade politicians to help them; this is called lobbying. All Americans are allowed to do these things, but some have and spend more money than others, or in other ways do more in politics. Some people think this is a problem, and lobby for rules to be made to change it.
Since 2009, the president is a Democrat, so Democrats have slightly more power in the federal government. There are still many powerful Republicans who can try to stop the Democrats from doing things that they believe will be bad for the country. Also, the Democrats do not always agree with each other on what to do. And if enough people decide to vote against Democrats in the next election, then they will lose power. In a republic like the United States, no party can do whatever they want. All politicians have to argue, compromise, and make deals with each other to get things done. They have to answer to the people and take responsibility for their mistakes.
The USA's large cultural, economic, and military influence has made the foreign policy of the United States, or relations with other countries, a topic in American politics, and the politics of many other countries.
The country grew from East to West. It conquered and bought lands.
The states are divided into counties. Two states do not use the word "county". Louisiana uses the word "parish". Alaska uses the word "borough".
The United States consists of several other lands that are not states. Many of these are colonial territories, and none is on the North American continent. These five places are de facto American places:
The United States has one federal district that was split from a state:
The largest (has most people in it) city is New York. Los Angeles, Chicago, Seattle, Miami, Indianapolis, Las Vegas, Houston, Philadelphia, Boston, Denver, St. Louis, Dallas, and Pittsburgh are in the United States.
The Philippines (islands) was a possession of the United States. Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and other Pacific island nations were governed by the United States as a United Nations "Trust Territory", but are independent; the Philippines (1946), Palau (1947), Micronesia (1986), etc...
The U.S. military has bases in many countries.
The U.S. Naval base at Guantanamo Bay was rented from Cuba after that country had a Communist revolution.
The United States is the third biggest country in the world. Only Russia and Canada are bigger. Its geography varies a lot and includes:
The climate varies along with the geography, from tropical (hot and wet in summer, warm and dry in winter) in Florida to tundra (cold all year) in Alaska. Large parts of the country have warm summers and cold winters. Some parts of the United States, like parts of California, have a Mediterranean climate.
The United States has a capitalist economy. The country has rich mineral resources, with many gold, coal and uranium deposits. Farming makes the country among the top producers of, among others, corn (maize), wheat, sugar and tobacco. America produces cars, airplanes and electronics. About 3/4 of Americans work in the service industry.
The top 15 trading partners in terms of total trade are:
The United States of America has people of many different race and ethnic backgrounds. 80% of the people in the United States descend from European immigrants. Many people are descended from Germany, England, Scotland, Ireland, Africa, and Italy. 13% of the people in the United States are African-American. Most of them descend from the African slaves that were brought to America. Asian-Americans make up only 5% of the population in America but make up a bigger portion in the west coast. For example in California, Asian-Americans make up 13% of the population of that state. Hispanic-Americans or people of Latin origins make up 15% of the nation. The original peoples, called Native American, American Indians, or Amerindians and Inuit (Eskimos) are a very small group.
11% of the people in the United States are foreign born. 18% speak a language other than English at home. For people 25 and older, 80% are high school graduates while 25% have a bachelor's degree or higher.
The 2000 Census counted self-reported ancestry. It identified 43 million German-Americans, 30.5 million Irish-Americans, 24.9 million African-Americans, 24.5 million English-Americans, and 18.4 million Mexican-Americans.
The social structure of the United States has a big range. This means that some Americans are much, much richer than others. The average (median) income for an American was $37,000 a year in 2002. However, the richest 1% of Americans have as much money as the poorest 90%. 51% of all households have access to a computer and 41% had access to the Internet in 2000, a figure which had grown to 75% in 2004. Also, 67.9% of American families owned their homes in 2002. There are 200 million cars in the United States, two for every three Americans. The debt has grown to over $16,000,000,000,000.
There are many different religions in the U.S. Statistically, the largest religion is Christianity, including groups such as Catholicism, Protestantism and Mormonism. Other religions include Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Unitarian Universalism, Wicca, Druidry, Baha'i, Raelism, Zoroastrianism, Taoism and Jainism. Religions which were founded within the United States include Eckankar, Satanism and Scientology. Native American religions have various animistic beliefs. 
The United States is one of the most religious countries in the Western World, and most Americans believe in God. The number of Christians in the U.S. has gone down. 86.2% called themselves Christian in 1990 and 78.4% said this in 2007. The others include Judaism (1.7%), Islam (0.8%), Buddhism (0.7%), Hinduism (0.4%), and Unitarian Universalism (0.3%). Those who have no religion are at 16.1%. There is a large difference between those who say that they belong to a religion and those who are members of a religious body of that religion.
Doubts about the existence of a God, gods or goddesses are higher among young people. [citation needed] Among the non-religious population of the U.S., there are deists, humanists, ignotic, atheists, and agnostics.
The United States does not have an official language, the United States Congress has considered officially designating English as such for many years, since it is the most used language, and the language in which the United States Declaration of Independence and United States Constitution are written. 38 states out of 50 have English as the official language. Spanish has increased in usage in certain sectors of society, due to a flow of immigrants—especially from Mexico and Cuba. French is also a main language in parts of Louisiana because France once owned the area as a colony.
American popular culture goes out to many places in the world. It has a large influence on most of the world, especially the Western world. American music is heard all over the world, and American movies and television shows can be seen in most countries.
The American flag is made up of 50 stars on a blue background, and has 13 stripes, seven red and six white. It is one of many symbols of the United States like the Bald Eagle. The 50 stars represent the 50 states. The red stands for courage. The blue stands for justice. The white represents peace and cleanness. The 13 stripes represent the 13 original colonies.
American music is deeply influenced by African-American music, making it different from European music. Elements from folk such as the blues were changed into popular genres with big audiences. Jazz was invented by people like Louis Armstrong and Duke Ellington in the early 20th century. Country music started in the 1920s, and rhythm and blues in the 1940s.
Elvis Presley and Chuck Berry composed rock and roll pieces, and James Brown composed funk pieces. Hip hop and house music is American music. Elvis Presley, Michael Jackson, Britney Spears and Madonna have composed pieces in the US, as have artists Lady Gaga, Taylor Swift, Katy Perry, Rihanna, and Beyoncé.

</doc>
<doc id="219589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219589" title="Canada">
Canada

Canada is a country in the northern part of North America. It is bordered by the United States of America both to the south and to the west (Alaska). By area, Canada is the second largest country in the world. Canada consists of ten provinces and three territories. Ottawa is the capital of Canada. Canada became a country in 1867, but only got its constitution back from the United Kingdom in 1982. It used to be called the Dominion of Canada. 
Canada is the second largest country in the world in land area, after Russia. It has the longest border with water (coastline) of any country in the world. It is next to the Pacific, Arctic, and Atlantic Oceans. It is the only country in the world to be next to three oceans at once. It has six time zones.
Canada is made up of ten provinces and three territories. The provinces are between the 45th and 60th parallels of latitude, and the territories are to the north of the 60th parallel of latitude. Most large cities in Canada are in the southern part of the country, including Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal. There are very few people living in the northern part of Canada. 
Canada extends from the west coast, across the prairies and central Canada, to the Atlantic provinces. In the north there are three territories, stretching between Alaska and Greenland: the Yukon in the west, then the Northwest Territories, then Nunavut. Four of the five Great Lakes (Superior, Huron, Erie, and Ontario) are shared between Canada and the United States (Lake Michigan is in the USA), and they make up 16% of the Earth's fresh water. The Saint Lawrence Seaway joins the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean, allowing ocean going vessels to travel as far inland as Thunder Bay in Ontario, Canada.
Canada shares land and sea borders with the USA (the lower 48 states and Alaska), Denmark (Greenland), and France (St. Pierre and Miquelon — a small group of islands off the southern coast off the island of Newfoundland).
The geography of Canada is very different from place to place, from high alpine areas in the west, flat grasslands and prairies in the centre, and ancient shield rocks in the east. Canada contains some of the very last untouched boreal forest in the world.
The Canadian or Canadian Shield is a vast area of ancient Pre-Cambrian rocks lying in an arc around Hudson Bay, covering more than one third of Canada's land area. This is a unique land of lakes, bogs, swamps, trees, and rocks. It is a terrain that is very dangerous and difficult to traverse cross country because of lakes, bogs, swamps, trees, and rocks. Canada has 60% of the world's lakes.
Indigenous (native) people lived in what is now Canada for thousands of years before the first Europeans arrived. They are known as the First Nations and the Inuit people. The Métis have part First Nations and part European backgrounds. Together, these three groups are called "Indigenous," "Aboriginal," or "First Peoples." They used to be called "Indians" by the Europeans, but this is now considered rude. 
The Vikings were the first Europeans known to land in Canada, in what is now Newfoundland, led by the Viking explorer Leif Erikson. They did not stay there long, however. In the early 16th century, Europeans started exploring Canada's eastern coast, beginning with John Cabot from England in 1497, and later Jacques Cartier in 1534 from France. Alexander Mackenzie later reached the Pacific coast over land, where captains James Cook and George Vancouver went by sea. The Europeans also traded beaver furs to the First Nations.
Parts of Canada were settled by France, and parts by England and Scotland. In 1605, Port-Royal was built in Acadia (today called Nova Scotia) by the French, led by Samuel de Champlain, and in 1608 he started settling Quebec. The British took control of the French areas after a battle on the Plains of Abraham near Quebec City in 1759.
After the American Revolutionary War, many people in the new United States wanted to stay loyal to Britain. Thousands came north to Canada and settled in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec, and Ontario. They were called United Empire Loyalists. During the War of 1812, the United States tried to conquer Canada but were defeated.
On July 1, 1867, Canada was united under a federal government. It included the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia. Sir John A. Macdonald was the first prime minister. Manitoba, the Yukon territory, and the Northwest Territories became part of Canada in 1870. British Columbia joined in 1871, and Prince Edward Island in 1873.
There were two Red River Rebellions, in 1869-70 and 1885, both led by Louis Riel. He fought for more rights for the Métis people, a mix between French and First Nations. A railroad across the country, the Canadian Pacific Railway, finished in 1885, made it easier for Canadians to move to the west. Many Europeans came to the prairies, so Alberta and Saskatchewan became provinces in 1905.
Canadian soldiers fought in World War I for the British Empire. More Canadians died in this war than any other war. Canada became better known as a country after its success in capturing Vimy Ridge from the Germans in France in 1917. Women were given the right to vote by the end of the war, partly because of the help they gave making weapons while the men fought in Europe. In 1931, Canada became fully independent. From 1931 on the government of Canada made all decisions about Canada.
Canadians also fought in World War II. The Dieppe Raid in 1942 went very badly and most of the soldiers were killed, wounded, or taken prisoner. Canadians were important in 1944 at Normandy, and they liberated the Netherlands (freed it from the Germans).
In 1949, Newfoundland and Labrador became the 10th province of Canada. In 1956, Canadian Lester Pearson, who later became prime minister, helped end the Suez Crisis. As a result, he won the Nobel Peace Prize. In 1965, Pearson helped Canada get a new flag, the Maple Leaf. Before that, Canadians had used the Red Ensign. In 1982, Canada changed its constitution, including a new Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The main part of the Constitution is still the 1867 British North America Act.
Some French Canadians today wish to form their own country, separate from the rest of Canada. The province of Quebec held a referendum (vote) in 1980, but only about 40% wanted to separate. Another referendum was held in 1995, with almost 50% voting in favour of leaving Canada. Since then, fewer people in Quebec have wanted to leave Canada, but it is still something that is important to Quebec politics. 
Today, about 25% of Canadians speak French as their first language. Many people can speak both French and English. Although most French Canadians live in the province of Quebec, there are French-speaking communities and people all across Canada. For example, 40% of the people in the province of New Brunswick and 20% of those in Manitoba have a strong French background, as do some people in Ontario, mainly along its border with Quebec.
In 1999, Nunavut was created as Canada's third territory, out of the eastern Northwest Territories, in an agreement with the Inuit people. 
After-tax, middle-class incomes in Canada now appear to be higher than those in the United States.
Canada has a government called a constitutional monarchy. It has a monarch (meaning a king or queen is the head of that country), and is a democracy (meaning the people of that country rule it). The head of state is Queen Elizabeth II, who is officially the Queen of Canada. She appoints a Governor General to represent her in the country, however, the choice of Governor General is made by the prime minister.
The Queen's powers are mostly exercised by the Governor General, currently David Johnston. The Governor General, like the Canadian sovereign (King/Queen of Canada), is not political and remains above politics, and because of that they do not usually use their powers without the advice of the Prime Minister or other ministers.
The head of government is the Prime Minister. The current prime minister is Justin Trudeau, who replaced Stephen Harper in October 2015. Each province and territory has a premier to lead its government. The day-to-day operations of the government are run by the cabinet. The cabinet is usually formed from the largest party in Parliament.
The Parliament of Canada passes the laws of the country. The governor general, acting on behalf of the monarch, has the right to veto a law (meaning the law cannot go into effect) but this right has not been used for some time. There are five main parties in the Canadian Parliament: the Conservative Party, the New Democratic Party, the Liberal Party, the "Bloc Québécois", and the Green Party. In addition to the five parties with MPs in Parliament, there are fourteen other smaller parties registered with Elections Canada and several MPs who sit as Independents.
Below is a list of provinces and territories. They are listed by population.
Many people from other parts of the world think of Canada as a very cold and snowy place. While it is true that much of Canada is very far north, most Canadians live in the southern parts, where the weather is much milder.
Nearly two Canadians in three live less than from the U.S. border. In some cities the temperature can get very cold in the winter, especially in the inland. Warm air systems moving in from the Pacific Ocean bring more rain than snow to the Pacific coast, while colder temperatures further inland do result in snow. Most of Canada can get quite hot in the summer, often over 30 degrees Celsius.
Canadians are known to play winter sports such as ice hockey and skiing and snowboarding, and also enjoy many summer sports and games.
Canada has lots of natural resources. Its large amounts of fish have been used for centuries for food and money. Hydroelectric power (electricity by water) is abundant because of Canada's many rivers. Forests of the west are used for wood. Besides these renewable resources, Canada has metal ores and oil deposits. Also, Canada is the leading exporter of zinc, uranium, gold, nickel, aluminum, steel and lead.
Around 35 million people live in Canada. This is almost the same number as in the U.S. state of California. Most people live in the southern parts of Canada.
A large number of immigrants from almost every part of the world come to live in Canada. One example is the former Governor General of Canada, Michaëlle Jean, who came to Canada as a young child with her family from Haiti in 1968. Today, up to 1/5th of the population is an immigrant to Canada.
American citizens do not need a visa or an eTA to visit or transit Canada.
However, American citizens must carry proper travel documents and identification.

</doc>
<doc id="219592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219592" title="Islam">
Islam

Islam () is a religion that believes in one god. In Islam, Allah is always Allah, which is the Arabic word for 'the god' or 'the deity'. Therefore the Qur'an is named The Criterion, the criterion between right and wrong, good and evil. 
Some of its teachings and beliefs are written out in the Qur'an. People who follow Islam are called Muslims. They believe that the Qur'an was spoken to Muhammad by the angel Gabriel, and that it consists of words of Allah. They view Muhammad as a Prophet. Other beliefs and rules about what Muslims should do come from reports of what Muhammad taught and did. Muslims believe Muhammad was Allah's last prophet.
Muslims believe that there were many other prophets before Muhammad, including Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses and Jesus. They believe that all these prophets were given messages by God. They believe that the Qur'an (written in Arabic) is the unchanged, final word of God.
Most Muslims belong to one of two groups. The most common is Sunni Islam (75–90% of all Muslims are Sunni Muslims). The second is Shia Islam (10–20% of all Muslims are Shias – also called Shiites). 
With about 1.8 billion followers (24% of the world's population), Islam is the second-largest religion in the world. Islam is also the fastest-growing religion in the world.
The country in the world where the most people are Muslim is Indonesia.
The word "Islam" comes from the term "al-silm" which means "peace", and the word "istaslama" (استسلاما) means to "surrender" or "submission (to Allah)".
According to Islamic Tradition, there are five basic things that Muslims should do. They are called "The Five Pillars of Islam":
The Qur'an is the holy book of Islam. Muslims believe the Qur'an is the sayings of God.
Islam teaches that God told Muhammad exactly what to write in the Qur'an, with the help of an angel called Jibreel. The Qur'an teaches Muslims to follow the right path by only doing good to please God. Muslims believe Allah alone decides who goes to Jannah (Heaven), and that doing good in this lifetime will bring them closer to God. 
The Qur'an has a total of 114 chapters. In each chapter, there are many verses. Many Muslims try to memorize the entire Qur'an. A Muslim who does this is called a Hafiz or Hafez.
Other important books in Islam are the Sunnah (which tell about Mohammad's life) and the Hadith (which are collections of things that Muslims believe Mohammad said).
Muslims pray in a place of worship called the mosque. A mosque is called a "masjid" in Arabic. Most masjids have at least one dome, and some have one or more towers. But a masjid does not need to have a dome or tower. 
Muslims take their shoes off before entering the masjid to pray. Prayer is one of the most important things that a Muslim does.
The Muslim is called to prayer five times a day. This call to prayer is called Adhan. The muezzin, a man chosen to make the call to prayer, uses a loudspeaker, which carries his voice to the people nearby. The call to prayer is often done out loud, in public, in Muslim countries. Being called to prayer is a normal part of daily life for most people in Muslim countries.
Sometimes, Muslims pray on a mat, which is called a "prayer mat" or "prayer rug" in English. Common Arabic names for the prayer mat include "sajjāda" and "namazlık". 
When it is time to pray, Muslims will figure out the direction of Qibla - the direction they are supposed to pray in, towards Mecca. They then roll out their prayer mat, and say their prayers to God.
According to Islamic teachings, Muslims must say "Peace be upon him" (PBUH or pbuh) whenever they hear Muhammad's name. In this way, they show respect to Muhammad.
In 2009, a study was done in 232 countries and territories. This study found that 23% of the global population or 1.57 billion people are Muslims. Of those, between 75% and 90% are Sunni and between ten and twenty five percent are Shi'a. A small part belong to other Islamic sects. In about fifty countries, more than half of the people are Muslim. Arabs account for around twenty percent of all Muslims worldwide. Islam has three holy sites; Jerusalem, Mecca and Medina.
Most Muslims live in Asia and Africa. Around 62% of the world's Muslims live in Asia, with over 683 million followers in Indonesia, Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh. In the Middle East, non-Arab countries such as Turkey and Iran are the largest Muslim-majority countries; in Africa, Egypt and Nigeria have the biggest Muslim communities.
Most estimates indicate that the People's Republic of China has about 20 to 30 million Muslims (1.5% to 2% of the population). However, data provided by the San Diego State University's International Population Center to U.S. News & World Report suggests that China has 65.3 million Muslims. Islam is the second largest religion after Christianity in many European countries,
and is slowly catching up to that status in the Americas.
Like with other religions, over time different movements have developed in Islam. These movements are based on different interpretations of the scriptures. The following sections list the most common movements.
Many non-Muslims believe that women are oppressed and that men are superior in this religion. This belief is false. In Islam, women are treated equal to men. Men are not allowed to beat their wives. Women are required to dress modestly. Their dress code is to cover everything but their hands and face. Some women even cover their hands and faces, however that is a personal decision to protect their identity. This practice is done only because Muhammad's (pbuh) wives would do it so that nobody would recognize them. Men also have a dress code. They must cover themselves from navel to knee at least. Muslims are allowed to uncover when they are with family members, for example parents, spouses, children, siblings, etc. 
Women dress modestly to protect themselves from evil vision. Men and women in Islam are required to lower their gaze towards the other gender, unless they are one of the exceptions mentioned above, such as family members. The common analogy used is of a candy. If there was a lollipop without a wrapper and a lollipop with a wrapper, which one would you rather take? Another analogy is if you had diamonds, would you advertise them to the world or would you keep them safe? These relate to why women cover up in Islam. They don't want to advertise their bodies to the world. They would rather protect their bodies and keep them for their husbands.
Some of the first people who criticised Islam in writing were Christians, like John of Damascus (born about 676). In the medieval period, some Arab philosophers like the poet Al-Ma'arri also criticised Islam. The Jewish philosopher Maimonides compared Islamic views of morality to the Jewish approach that he himself believed in. He believed that Islam was a copy of the Jewish and Christian religions with a few minor changes. He thought these changes were made to suit Muhammad's desire for fame and his quest to start a new religion. He thought Muhammad wanted to be seen as equal to the likes of Moses and Jesus. Medieval Christian writers thought that Islamic beliefs were not valid. They tried to show Muhammad was possessed by Satan. In the 19th century, the Orientalist (eastern countries and beliefs) scholar William Muir wrote harshly about the Qur'an.
In modern times, critics also say that Islam does not tolerate the view that parts of Islamic law may be too harsh. Other critics see Muhammad's personal life negatively. Still others question how authentic the Qur'an is and if it can impose moral guidelines. 
Some people are afraid of Islam or do not like it. This is mostly because of attacks by Muslim extremists.
Some people have responded to these forms of criticism. Montgomery Watt and Norman Daniel say that some of the criticisms are the product of old myths and prejudice. Carl Ernst writes that Islamophobia has played a part in establishing what he calls "myths".
Muslim scholars like Muhammad Mohar Ali argue against claims of discrepancies in the Qur'an and allegations that Muhammad was unduly influenced by Judeo-Christian tradition.

</doc>
<doc id="219593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219593" title="Judaism">
Judaism

"This article is about the Jewish religion. For more information about the Jewish people, see Jew."
Judaism is the world's oldest Abrahamic religion. There are about 15 million followers who are called Jews. It is one of the oldest monotheistic religions, teaching the belief in one God. Both Christianity and Islam have similarities with Judaism. These religions accept the belief in one God and the moral teachings of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament), which includes the Torah or "תורה."
The laws and teachings of Judaism come from the Torah, the first five books of the Hebrew Bible and oral traditions. Some of these were first oral traditions and later written in the Mishnah, the Talmud, and other works.
The Torah is the most important holy book of Judaism. The Hebrew Bible is a collection of writings called the "Tanakh" (תנ”ך) in Hebrew. It is divided into three parts - "Torah" (תורה, Instruction), "Nevi'im" (נְבִיאִים, Prophets), and "Ketuvim" (כְּתוּבִים, Writings).
The most important teaching of Judaism is that there is one God, who wants people to do what is just and compassionate. Judaism teaches that a person serves God by learning the holy books and doing what they teach. These teachings include both ritual actions and ethics. Judaism teaches that all people are made in the image of God and deserve to be treated with dignity and respect.
These are some of Judaism’s main teachings:
The main teachings of Judaism about God are that there is a God and there is only one God. Only God created the universe and only He controls it. Judaism also teaches that God is spiritual and not physical.
Jews believe that God is one – a unity: He is one, whole, complete being. He cannot be divided into parts and people cannot say how He looks in words; they can only say how He is and what He does.
Jews believe that all goodness and morality is from God. God is interested in what people do and He watches what they do.
Judaism teaches that all people are made in the image of God. This is why people must be treated with dignity and respect. A person serves God by being like God. This means that they must do what is fair and just, show mercy, and behave with kindness and love for people.
Judaism says that God exists forever, that He is in every place, and that He knows all things. He is above nature (“supernatural”) but He is in the world and He hears people who pray to Him and can answer them. God is the main power in the universe.
Judaism teaches that God allows people to choose what to do – this is called “free will.” A person is responsible for their actions. God rewards people who do good actions and punishes people who do bad actions. God gives a person a reward or a punishment in this world, but He gives the final reward or punishment to the soul of the person after they die.
Jews believe that God made an agreement called a “covenant” with Abraham, the ancestor of the Jewish people. The Bible says that God promised to bless Abraham and his descendants if they worshipped God and were faithful to him. God made this covenant with Abraham's son, Isaac, and with Isaac's son, Jacob. God gave Jacob another name – Israel. This is how Jacob’s descendants got the name the “Children of Israel” or “Israelites.” God later gave the Torah to the Israelites through their leader, Moses. The Torah told the Israelites how to live and build their community. God gave the Israelites the Ten Commandments and other laws in the Torah.
The Jews are sometimes called the “Chosen People.” This is because the Bible says God told them “you will be to Me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation” (Exodus 19:6) and “For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, and the Lord chose you to be His own special nation out of all peoples on the earth” (Deuteronomy 14:2). Jews understand this means that they have special duties and responsibilities commanded by God. For example, Jews must build a just society and serve only God. Jews believe that this covenant works in two ways: if they follow God’s laws, He will give them his love and protection, but they are also responsible for their sins – bad actions – and not doing what God told them. Jews believe that they must teach other people that God exists and that God wants all people to do good actions. Jews believe that their job in the world is to be "a light to the nations" (Isiah 49:6) by showing the people of the world ways to make the world a better place.
Jews believe that God has given them a special job to repair the world. Their job is to make the world a better place with more good in it. They must use the things in the world to increase good and come closer to God. They call this “"tikkun olam"” – repairing the world. Jews see themselves as God’s partner to repair the world in any way they can – to find ways to lessen suffering of people and animals, to make more peace and respect between people, and protect the earth’s environment from destruction.
Jews do not try to convince other people to believe in Judaism. Jews believe they have a special job to show all peoples that God exists, but people do not have to be Jewish to follow God. All people can serve God by following the Seven Commandments (rules) given to Noah. But, Judaism accepts people who choose to change their religion to Judaism.
Jews believe that God tells them in the Torah the way of life that they must follow. The Torah says God wants the people of Israel to walk in His ways, to love Him, and to serve Him, and to keep God’s commandments (Deut. 10:12–13). Actions are more important than beliefs and beliefs must be made into actions.
These actions are called “"mitzvot"” in Hebrew (singular: a "mitzvah"). Sometimes they are called “laws,” "rules" or “commandments”. Many people think of a mitzvah as "a good act," or "a good thing to do." There are 613 "mitzvot" in the Torah. Jews believe that the Torah gives "mitzvot" for all people; all people must keep seven laws that were taught to Noah and his children after the flood. The Jews must keep 613 mitzvot, which are listed in the Torah. The rabbis counted 365 "mitzvot" that Jews must not do (negative "mitzvot"), and 248 "mitzvot" that Jews must do (positive "mitzvot"). Some "mitzvot" are for everyday life, and some are only for special times, such as Jewish holidays. Many of the 613 "mitzvot" are about the Holy Temple in Jerusalem and cannot be done now, since the Temple was destroyed.
Some of the "mitzvot" are about how people must act to other people. For example, they must give charity to a poor person, or help a person who is in danger. They must not steal or lie. These are ethical and moral "mitzvot".
Some "mitzvot" are about how people must act towards God. For example, they must respect God’s name, or not work on the Sabbath. These are religious or ritual "mitzvot". Jews believe that God tells them to do both ethical and religious acts.
Jews see "mitzvot" as acts that sanctify – bring holiness – to the world and bring people and the world closer to God. Jews do the "mitzvot" to sanctify the physical world and the things in it, such as food and drink, clothing, and natural activities such as sex, work, or seeing beautiful sights. Before doing many acts, such as eating, Jews say a blessing – a short prayer – that God makes and gives a person the things that they need for life. In Judaism, life is most holy and important. A Jew must stop doing other "mitzvot" of the Torah to help save another person’s life.
Jews believe that they must do the "mitzvot" with happiness and joy because the Bible says “Serve God with joy; come before God with singing” (Psalms 100:2). Doing a "mitzvah" helps a person come close to God and that makes the person happy. A group of Jews called the Hasidim say this is the best way to live. They say that worrying takes people away from joy and they will not see the beauty and good in the world.
Many "mitzvot" in the Torah are about the Land of Israel. The Talmud and later books call these "mitzvot" “commandments connected to the Land” because Jews can only do them in the Land of Israel. For example, Jews give gifts to the poor or the priests from their fields every year, take fruit or animals to the Temple in Jerusalem, and must stop working on the land every seven years (the “shmittah” – sabbatical year).
The Land of Israel is holy in Judaism. A Jewish belief is that God created the Earth from Mount Moriah in Jerusalem in the Land of Israel, and He is always closest to this land. Jews believe that this land is where God told the Jewish people to build a society to serve Him, and many "mitzvot" (commandments) in the Torah are about the Land of Israel.
The Jewish people believe their history as a nation begins with Abraham. The story of Abraham in the Torah begins when God tells Abraham to leave his country. He promises Abraham and his descendants a new home in the land of Canaan. This is now known as the Land of Israel. It is named after Abraham's grandson, Jacob, who was also called Israel and who was the father of the twelve tribes. This is where the name “Land of Israel” comes from. The land is also called “the Promised Land” because in the Torah, God promises to give the land to the children of Abraham (, , , ).
The rabbis of the Talmud understood from the Torah () that it is a “mitzvah” for Jews to live in the land of Israel. They saw living outside of Israel as not natural for a Jew. Jews often called the land outside of Israel "galut." This is usually translated as "diaspora" (a place where people are scattered), but the word more closely means "exile".
The story of going out of Egypt, called the Exodus, is very important in the way the Jewish people understand the world. The Torah tells how God took a group of slaves – the Israelites – saved them from slavery, and tells them how to be His partner to build the world. Jews see this story as a model for the whole world. In the future, the whole world will change, and all the people of the world will serve the one God. This will be God’s kingdom on Earth. The whole of Jewish history – and world history – is part of this process.
The prophets taught that God would send a person to the world who would help all the people of the world see that God is the maker and king of the world. This person is called the Messiah. The word Messiah comes from the Hebrew word "mashiah", which means "the anointed one". The Book of Isaiah says the Messiah will be a just king who will unite the Jewish people and lead them in God's way. The Messiah will also unite all the people of the world to serve God. People will act with justice and kindness, and the whole world will be filled with peace.
Orthodox Jews still wait for the Messiah to come. They believe that this will be a person. Other Jews believe in a future time when justice and peace will come through the cooperation of all people and the help of God.
Jews believe that to know what God wants them to do, they must study the books of Torah and its laws and do what they teach. These include both laws about how to behave to other people and how to serve God.
The two most important groups of books in Judaism are the Bible and the Talmud. The beliefs and actions of Judaism come from these books. Jewish teachers and scholars wrote more books, called commentaries. They explain and say more about what is written in the Bible and Talmud.
The Torah is the most important of all Jewish writings. The first five books of the Hebrew Bible (known to Christians as the "Old Testament") make up the Torah. The Torah contains the basic laws of Judaism and describes the history of the Jews until the death of Moses. Jewish tradition says that God told Moses what to write in the Torah, which is also called the Five Books of Moses. Religious Jews believe that Moses brought the Ten Commandments and the Torah down from Mount Sinai. The Ten Commandments are special because they were heard by all of the Jewish people at Mount Sinai. However, in traditional Judaism, all of the 613 "mitzvot" in the Torah are equally important.
Jews divide the Hebrew Bible into three parts and call it the Tanakh. The three parts are the Torah, which is the first five books; the Nevi'im, which are the books of the prophets; and the Ketuvim, meaning the Writings, which are other books of history and moral teachings.
Rabbinic Jews also believe that there is another part of the Torah besides the 5 books of Moses. It is called the Mishnah, also called the Oral Torah or Oral Law. It explains how to follow the laws written in the 5 books. There is a commentary (explanation) of the Mishnah, called the Gemara. Together, the Mishna and the Gemara make up the Talmud. Karaite Jews however believe that there is no additional Torah besides the 5 books of Moses.
Traditional Jews believe that God gave the written Torah and the oral Torah to Moses and that Moses told it to the Jewish people, and that it is the same today as it was back then. Traditional Jews also believe that all of the commandments must still be followed today.
Liberal Jews believe that the Torah was inspired by God but written by human beings. Liberal Jews believe that all of the ethical laws in the Torah must still be followed, but many ritual laws do not need to be followed today.
It is considered good in Judaism to talk about the commandments and to try to understand how to follow them. The Talmud has many stories about Rabbis who argued about the commandments. Over time, some opinions have become the rule for everyone. Some rules are still being argued about. Jews praise logical argument and looking for truth.
There is no single leader of Judaism who can decide how to follow the commandments or what to believe. Even though Jews believe different things and they disagree about the rules, they are still one religion and one people.
Jews who follow the religious rules called ""kashrut"" only eat some types of food that are prepared by special rules. Food that a Jew can eat is called "kosher" food.
Traditional Jews are very careful about kashrut. They usually cannot eat many foods in non-kosher restaurants or in the home of someone who does not keep kosher. Sometimes, this makes it hard to visit people or to do business. It is important to understand that this is part of their religion. People help avoid this problem by choosing to dine with Traditional Jews in a kosher restaurant or serve them kosher food in their home.
Liberal Jews are not so careful about kosher, although some of them may keep some rules.
There are other rules for kosher food as well.
One of the commandments is to keep the Jewish Sabbath, or "Shabbat". Shabbat starts every Friday at sunset and ends on Saturday at nightfall. Shabbat is a day of rest to thank God for making the universe.
The tradition of resting on Shabbat comes from the Torah. According to the Torah, God created the world in six days and on the seventh day, Shabbat, He rested. Many Jews go to their temple or synagogue to pray on Shabbat.
Religious Jews follow special rules on Shabbat. These rules require Jews not to do creative work on Shabbat. One reason for this is to give people a break from all the things that make them busy during the week. This helps them focus more on appreciating God, their family, and the rest of creation. Also it reminds people that God is the creator and ruler of the world; and no matter how great a person's creative power is, it cannot compare with God's creation of the universe and everything in it. Many of these categories of creative work include actions that people might not think of as work. For instance, on Shabbat a Jew cannot:
Traditional Jews are very careful about Shabbat. It is a special day. They clean their houses and prepare special food for Shabbat. They dress in their nicest clothes. They sing beautiful songs and say extra prayers in the synagogue. They have dinner and lunch with their families. Many families also invite guests for dinner and for lunch. They eat special delicious food, and sing together traditional Shabbat songs. On Shabbat afternoon people study Judaism together or just visit friends.
Liberal Jews do not follow those rules. Some do go to synagogue, visit friends, or have special meals. But they may also talk on the phone, drive cars, and go shopping.
For a very long time, most Jews in Europe believed the same basic things about Judaism. Jews in other lands had different beliefs and customs than European Jews. About 200 years ago, a small group of Jews in Germany decided to stop believing in many parts of Judaism and try to become more "modern" and more like Germans. Those Jews were called Reform Jews.
Today there are three main kinds of Judaism: Reform, Conservative, and Orthodox Judaism. There are also kinds with a smaller number of people, such as Reconstructionist Judaism, and Karaite Judaism. Each group has its own practices according to how it understands the Jewish laws. Some do not believe in keeping most of the laws. For example: Reform (also called Liberal or Progressive) Judaism does not require eating kosher food or keeping the Sabbath at all. Reform Judaism teaches Jews to focus on the ethical laws of Judaism. Conservative Judaism developed after Reform Judaism. The leaders of Conservative Judaism felt that Reform Judaism was too radical. They wanted to conserve (protect) Jewish tradition instead of reforming (changing) it. Orthodox Jews do not believe that Reform or Conservative Judaism are correct because they believe that the laws given by God are timeless, and can't be changed.
In the most recent survey of Jews in the United States in 2000-2001, it was found that 35% of American Jews say they are Reform, 27% say they are Conservative, 10% say they are Orthodox, 2% say they are Reconstructionist and 25% do not say what type they are.
In Israel, almost all Jews go to Orthodox synagogues. There are very few Reform or Conservative synagogues, but there has been an steady increase since 2009. In Israel, Jews do not call themselves Reform, Conservative, or Orthodox. Instead, they mostly call themselves "Haredi" (completely religious) "Dati" (basically religious), "Masorati" (traditional/conservative) or "Chiloni" (secular). Surveys suggest that about 20% of Israelis say they are secular, 25% say they are Dati or Haredi and 55% say they are traditional.
Names are very important in Judaism. Many Jews believe that a name not only tells you who someone is, but also tells you something about them. Names of God are very special in Judaism, so Jews do not write them or speak them fully but use other words instead. That is why some Jews write G-d, with a "-" instead of an "o."
"HaShem" Means "The Name". It is the word Jews use most often when not praying to talk about God.
"Adonai" means "My Lord." This name tells Jews about God's position. God is the King of the World, and his name Adonai lets us know that.
"Elohim" means "one who is strong enough to do everything." This name is used when talking about God's power to create or God's justice. This tells us that God is the creator and that God rules the world with just laws.
The two names above are so special that Orthodox Jews use these names only when they pray and read the Torah. When they are not praying or reading the Torah, they say "Hashem" (The Name) or "Elokim".
"God" - Some Jews write "God" by replacing the "o" with a dash, like this: "G-d". They do this because God's name is very holy so they are not allowed to throw away a piece of paper with "God" written on it. However, if by accident "God" is written, then the paper can be disposed of in a special way and buried in a special place. Others say that "God" is just an English word, not Hebrew, and so it is not holy.
"YHWH" ("Yehovah"/"Yahweh") is the most sacred name of God in Hebrew, and is not pronounced by most Jews. No one knows where the name came from, or what exactly it means. It looks like the Hebrew word "hayah," which is the verb "to be." (According to Hebrew scripture, when Moses asked God who God was, God told Moses "I am that I am/I am who I am.") Jews believe that the name YHWH shows that God is endless. Instead of trying to say it, most Jews say ""haShem"", which means "The Name." Some people pronounce this name as "Yahweh", or "Jehovah". Scholars of religion sometimes refer to "YHWH" as "the Tetragrammaton", from Greek words meaning "four letters".

</doc>
<doc id="219595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219595" title="Christianity">
Christianity

Christianity is an Abrahamic religion. People who believe in Christianity are called Christians (Greek ). It is a monotheistic religion, meaning it has only one God.. It is the largest religion in the world and is based on the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus was a carpenter and preacher in ancient Judea. He was executed by being nailed to a cross (or crucified), under Pontius Pilate, the local Roman governor at the time. His life and followers are written about in the New Testament, part of the Bible. Christians see the Bible, both the Old Testament and New Testament as sacred. The Gospels or "The Good News" are the first four books of New Testament that are about Jesus' life, death and rising from the dead.
Most Christians believe in the Trinity, which means that there are three different persons of the Godhead. The three persons of the Godhead are the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. God created the world. Jesus is the name of God the Son. Christians believe Him to be the Son of God. They believe that He was the human son of the Virgin Mary and the divine Son of God. They believe He suffered and died to free humans from their sin, and was later raised from the dead. He then went up into heaven. Christians believe that Jesus will come back to Earth to judge all mankind, both alive and dead, giving everlasting life to those who believe in him. The Holy Spirit is the spirit of God on the Earth that spoke through prophets.
Christians believe that the prophets foretold in Old Testament of Jesus as the Savior. Christians think of Jesus Christ as a teacher, a role model and someone who revealed who the Christian God was. 
Just like Judaism and Islam, Christianity is an Abrahamic religion. Christianity started out as a Jewish sect in the eastern Mediterranean. It quickly grew in number of believers and influence over a few decades, and by the 4th Century it had become the dominant religion in the Roman Empire. The Kingdom of Aksum became the first empire to adopt Christianity. During the Middle Ages, the rest of Europe mostly was Christianized. At that time, Christians were mostly a religious minority in the Middle East, North Africa, and parts of India. Following the Age of Discovery, through missionary work and colonization, Christianity spread to Africa, the Americas and the rest of the world.
Christianity has been an important part of the shaping the world. As of the early 21st century, Christianity has approximately 2.2 billion followers, which is about a third of all people of Earth.
The most basic part of Christianity is the belief in Jesus as the Son of God and Messiah (Christ). The title "Messiah" comes from the Hebrew word ("māšiáħ") meaning "anointed one". The Greek translation ("Christos") is the source of the English word "Christ".Joshua is English for the Hebrew word Yeshua. 
Christians believe that, as the Messiah, Jesus was anointed by God as ruler and savior of all people. Christians also believe that Jesus' coming was the fulfillment of messianic prophecies of the Old Testament. The Christian belief of the Messiah is much different than the contemporary Jewish concept. The main Christian belief is that, through the death and resurrection of Jesus, sinful humans can be reconciled to God. Through this, they believe they are given salvation and the promise of eternal life.
There have been many theological disagreements over the nature of Jesus over the first centuries of Christian history. But Christians generally believe that Jesus is God incarnate and "true God and true man." Jesus, having become fully human, suffered the pain and temptations of a mortal man, but he did not sin. As fully God, he defeated death and came back to life again. According to the Bible, "God raised him from the dead," he ascended to heaven, is "seated at the right hand of the Father" and will return again to fulfill the rest of Messianic prophecy such as the Resurrection of the Dead, the Last Judgment and the final creation of the Kingdom of God.
The gospels of Matthew and Luke say that Jesus was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born from the Virgin Mary. Only a little of Jesus' childhood is written in the canonical gospels, but infancy gospels were popular in antiquity. However, the time of Jesus' adulthood the week before his death is written much about in the gospels. Some of the Biblical writings of Jesus' ministry are: his baptism, miracles, preaching, teaching, and deeds.
Christians believe the resurrection of Jesus to be the main part of their faith (see 1 Corinthians 15) and the most important event in human history, because it would show that Jesus has power over death and has the authority to give people eternal life. 
Among Christian beliefs, the death and resurrection of Jesus are two main events of Christian doctrine and theology. From what the New Testament says, Jesus was crucified, died a physical death, was buried in a tomb, and rose from the dead three days later. The New Testament writes that several times Jesus appeared many times before his Twelve Apostles and disciples, and one time before "more than five hundred brethren at once," before Jesus' Ascension to heaven. Jesus' death and resurrection are remember by Christians in their worship services, and most commonly during Holy Week, which has Good Friday and Easter Sunday in the week.
Protestantism teaches that eternal salvation is a gift that is given to a person by God's grace. It is sometimes called "unmerited favor." This would mean that Salvation is God bringing humans into a right relationship with God through faith in Jesus Christ. It is the belief that one can be saved (rescued) from sin and forever death. Many Protestants believe in the "assurance of salvation"—that God can put confidence in a believer that he has truly received salvation from Jesus Christ.
Catholicism teaches that although in most cases someone must be baptized a Catholic to be saved, it is sometimes possible for people to be saved who have not fully joined the Catholic Church. Catholics normally believe in the importance of works and sacraments in getting salvation. The Catholic Church teaches that faith is important, but it also believes that salvation also requires good works and piety, such as obedience to commands, taking the sacraments, going to church, doing penance and giving alms, saying prayers, and other things, to receive eternal life.
Different denominations and traditions of Christianity believe in forms divine grace. Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy teach the complete importance of the free will to work together with grace. Reformed theology teaches the importance of grace by teaching that a person is completely incapable of self-redemption, but the grace of God overcomes even the unwilling heart. Arminianism believes in a synergistic view, while Lutheran and most other Protestant denominations teach justification by grace through faith alone.
Christianity uses the Bible, a collection of many canonical books in two parts, the Old Testament and the New Testament. It is believed by Christians that they were written by people who were inspired by the Holy Spirit, and therefore it is most often believed to be the word of God. There are some differences in Bible versions and editions throughout Christianity.
Creeds (from Latin "credo" meaning "I believe") are direct doctrinal statements or confessions, usually of religious beliefs. They started as formulas used when someone was baptised. During the Christological controversies of the 4th and 5th centuries they became statements of faith.
Some main Christian creeds are:
Many Christians accept the use of creeds, and often use at least one of the creeds given above. A smaller number of Protestants, notably Restorationists, a movement formed in the wake of the Second Great Awakening in the 19th century of the 19th century United States, oppose the use of creeds.
"Trinitarianism" is the teaching that God is three different beings; the "Father", the "Son" (Jesus Christ), and the "Holy Spirit". In the words of the Athanasian Creed, "the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God."
Trinitarianism is the group of Christians who believe in the doctrine of Trinity. Today, most Christian denominations and Churches believe this. Churches have different teachings about the Trinity. Some say the Spirit comes only from the Father. Others say the Spirit comes both from the Father and the Son. This is known as filioque. Nontrinitarianism (also called Oneness) is the beliefs systems that do not believe in the Trinity. Many different nontrinitarian views, such as adoptionism or modalism, existed in early Christianity, leading to the disputes about Christology.
Most Christians believe that human beings will receive judgement from God and are given either eternal life or eternal damnation. This includes the "Last Judgment" as well as the belief of a judgement particular to the soul after death.
There are also some differences among Christians in this belief. For example, in Roman Catholicism, those who die in a state of grace, go into purgatory, where they are cleansed before they can go into heaven.
Christians believe that at the second coming of Christ at the end of time, all who have died will be raised up from the dead for the Last Judgment, when Jesus will establish the Kingdom of God. There is also the belief of Universal Reconciliation. That is the belief that all people will someday be saved, and that hell is not forever. Christians who believe in this view are known as Universalists.
Christians have different ways to talk about the purpose of Jesus' coming: 
Worship is thought by most Christians to be a very important part of Christianity all through its history. Many Christian theologians have called humanity "homo adorans", which means "worshipping ," and so the worship of God is at the very center of what it means to be human. This would mean that because God created all humanity, Christians should worship and give praise to God.
Most Christian worship has Scripture reading, talk about Scripture from a leader, singing, prayer together, and a small time for Church work. Christians may meet in special buildings, also called Churches, or outdoors, or at schools, or anywhere Christians feel they are needed.
The main worship service in Catholic Churches is the Mass and the main worship service in many Orthodox Churches is called the Divine Liturgy. In both of these Churches, along with the other parts of worship, the Eucharist or Communion is central. Here a priest by prayer asks God to change a small amount of bread and wine into what Catholics and Orthodox believe is Jesus's real body and blood, but without changing the accidents (appearance, taste, colour, etc.) of the bread and wine. Then the people each may receive a portion. Many Protestant churches have worship services similar to the Mass, some every week, others a few times a year. Some Protestants believe Jesus is really present at the Communion service, and some believe the bread and wine are symbols to help them remember what Jesus did
The Catholic Church has developed a short ceremony, Eucharistic Benediction, worshipping Jesus present in the Eucharist. They also may visit a Church building to pray in the presence of the Eucharist, Eucharistic Adoration.
The Orthodox and Catholic Churches spirituality place importance on the use of human senses such as sight and on the use of beautiful things. Catholic spirituality often involves the use of statues and other artistic representations, candles, incense, and other physical items as reminders or aids to prayer. The Orthodox Churches also use candles, incense, bells, and icons, but not statues. Orthodox and Catholic worship also makes use of movements, such as the Sign of the Cross, made by each person touching first the forehead, then chest, one shoulder, then the other shoulder. There is also bowing, kneeling, and prostration in Catholic and Orthodox worship.
In Catholic belief and practice, a sacrament is a religious symbol or often a rite which shows divine grace, blessing, or sanctity for the Christian who receives it. Examples of sacraments are Baptism and the Mass." The word is taken from the Latin word "sacramentum", which was used to translate the Greek word for "mystery".
The two most regularly used sacraments are Baptism and Eucharist (communion). Most Catholics use seven Sacraments: Baptism, the ritual immersion of a candidate to welcome them into the church; Confirmation, the sealing of the Covenant; the Eucharist, a ritual where consecrated bread (discs of unleavened, toasted bread) and wine representing Jesus' body and blood are consumed; Holy Orders, Reconciliation of a Penitent (confession), Anointing of the Sick, and Marriage. Some Christian denominations prefer to call them "ordinances". These are the Orders from Christ to all believers found in the New Testament.
Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Eastern Christians, and traditional Protestant groups center their worship around a liturgical calendar. Some events that are part of this calendar are the "holy days", such as solemnities which honor an event in the life of Jesus or the saints, times of fasting such as Lent, and other events, such as memoria. Christian groups that do not follow a liturgical tradition often keep some celebrations, such as Christmas, Easter,and Pentecost. A few churches do not use a liturgical calendar.
These are some symbols that some denominations or individual churches may use:
Christianity has had a large history from the time of Jesus and his apostles to the present time. Christianity began in the 1st century AD as a Jewish sect but quickly spread throughout the Greco-Roman world. Although it was originally persecuted under the Roman Empire, it later became the state religion. In the Middle Ages it spread into Northern Europe and Russia. During the Age of Exploration, Christianity expanded throughout the world, and is now the largest religion of the world.
The religion had schisms and theological disputes that had as result three main branches: the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox churches, and the Protestant churches.
People who call themselves Christians may show or live their faith in different ways. They may also believe different things. Through history the three main groups or "denominations" of Christianity have been the Orthodox, the Catholic and the Protestant churches. Not all Christians use these titles. Some believe Christianity is bigger and includes others. Some believe Christianity is smaller and does not include all these churches.
Some of these groups could not agree on certain points about Christian teaching (called “doctrine”) or practice. The first split was in the 5th century after the Church Council of Ephesus. The council agreed Nestorianism was wrong. The Assyrian Church of the East did not agree and split from the rest. The argument was about the nature of Jesus. Should he be regarded as God and human in one combined nature, or in two separate natures? Most of the bishops, following the Pope (the Bishop of Rome), refused to stay in communion with any bishop who would not say "two separate natures". This was also discussed at the Council of Chalcedon, about 20 years later. The Christians who did not agree with the decision of the Council to excommunicate them, became the Non-Chalcedonian Orthodox. The largest Non-Chalcedonian Churches are the Coptic Orthodox in Egypt, the Ethiopian Orthodox, the Armenian, and some Lebanese Orthodox Churches. In general, these churches are known as Oriental Orthodox Churches. Recent discussions between the Roman Catholic Pope John Paul II and the Coptic Orthodox Pope Shenouda III concluded that they believe many of the same things after all, even though the Coptic Church does not recognise the Pope of Rome as its leader.
The third split happened in the 11th century. It is called the Great Schism. It was mostly based on personal disagreements between the Bishops of Rome and Constantinople. The disagreements were made worse because the two cultures often did not understand one another. Also, many Crusaders from Western Europe behaved badly. The Christians in Western Europe were led by the Bishop of Rome, known also as the Pope. They are called the Catholic Church. Most Christians in Eastern Europe, Russia, and the Middle East belong to the Orthodox Churches, led by the Bishops of other cities or areas.
In the 15th century the invention of the printing press made it easier for more people to read and study the Bible. This led many thinkers over the years to come up with new ideas and to break away from the Catholic Church. They started the Protestant or Reformed Churches. The most important Protestant leaders were Jan Hus, Martin Luther, and John Calvin. Later some of these groups disagreed amongst themselves so that these denominations split again into smaller groups. The main Protestant denominations today are the Baptist, Lutheran, and Calvinist Presbyterian Churches. In England, a similar protest against the Pope, first political and later religious, led to the Church of England which has bishops and officially calls itself Reformed Catholic but is often referred to as Protestant. The Anglican communion of churches includes several churches called "Episcopal" or "Episcopalian" because they have bishops. Some Anglican Churches have a style of worship that is closer to the Protestant services, others worship more like Catholics, but none of them accept the Pope, or are accepted by him. In general, the Protestant denominations differ from the Catholic and Orthodox Churches in having given up some of the traditional sacraments, having no ordained priesthood, and not having the same fondness for Mary, the mother of Jesus, that the Catholic and Orthodox churches have.
In the last two centuries, the rise of atheism and scientific challenges to the traditional Christian story of creation have caused some to believe in Creationism, as described in the Bible, and others to argue that the Bible is not literally true, but more like poetry.
With an estimated number of Christians being somewhere around to 2.2 billion, split into around 34,000 different denominations, Christianity is the world's largest religion. The Christian share of the world's population has been around 33% for the last hundred years. This has caused Christianity to spread throughout the world, mainly in Europe and North America. It is still the main religion of Europe, the Americas, the Philippines, and Southern Africa. However it is becoming smaller in some areas, some of them are; Oceania (Australia and New Zealand), Northern Europe (with Great Britain, Scandinavia and other places), France, Germany, the Canadian provinces of Ontario, British Columbia, and Quebec, the Western and Northern parts of the United States, and parts of Asia (especially the Middle East, South Korea, Taiwan and Macau).
In most countries in the developed world, the number of people going to church who claim to be Christians has been dropping over the last few decades. Some believe that this is only because many no longer use regular membership in places, for example, churches, while others believe it is because people may be thinking that religion is no longer important.
Most churches have for a long time showed that they want to be tolerant with other belief systems, and in the 20th century Christian ecumenism (the uniting of Christians from different backgrounds), advanced in two ways. One way was more cooperation between groups, such as the Edinburgh Missionary Conference of Protestants in 1910, the Justice, Peace and Creation Commission of the World Council of Churches started in 1948 by Protestant and Orthodox churches, and similar national councils, for example the National Council of Churches in Australia with Roman Catholics.
The other way was creating unions for different churches to join together. Congregationalist, Methodist, and Presbyterian churches joined together in 1925 to form the United Church of Canada, and in 1977 to form the Uniting Church in Australia. The Church of South India was formed in 1947 by the union of Anglican, Methodist, Congregationalist, Presbyterian, and Reformed churches. And other such formations have been done by different Christian groups throughout the years.

</doc>
<doc id="219602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219602" title="Survivor: Palau">
Survivor: Palau

Survivor: Palau was the tenth season of the American reality show "Survivor". "Survivor: Palau"'s first episode was shown on TV on February 17, 2005. This season became available on DVD on August 29, 2006.
Applications to be on the show had to given on June 22, 2004. About 800 people were chosen for an interview in July or August 2004. Out of these 800, 48 were chosen for an interview in Los Angeles during September 2004. From these 48 people, 20 were chosen to be on the show between October to December 2004.
It started with twenty players. Each one came, as told by the producers, dressed in street clothes which are normal for one's career — which they thought was for publicity photos — but this was the only clothing for all of the game. Tom Westman's wife told him to wear swim trunks as underwear, since she remembered the "" players, tricked into street clothes for all of that game. For the second time in "Survivor" history, the players, not the producers, chose the tribes. On the second day of the first episode, when the players chose the two tribes of nine, two players were left unchosen, and they had to leave the game. The two tribes were Ulong (named after Ulong Island, one of Palau's tourist spots) and Koror (named after the capital city of Palau).
Koror dominated from the beginning. They won every challenge, except for three reward challenges, and eventually there was only one Ulong member left. Having lived alone at Ulong, Stephenie LaGrossa got a map to Koror. When she came, she got a brown buff. While the players at the finale (last episode) said that the tribes had merged (combined), the producers say that "Palau" was the only season without a merge.
Fireman Tom Westman won against Katie Gallagher in a 6-1 vote.
Stephenie LaGrossa and Bobby Jon Drinkard returned in the next season, "", where they placed 2nd and 9th. Winner Tom Westman and LaGrossa also returned in "."
The twenty players for Palau began the game by rowing a boat to shore, with the first player of each gender to get to the shore winning immunity. However, once they were all at the beach, they got no other instructions, and tribal divisions. They began to work on a shelter for everybody. The next day, Jeff Probst said that they would now pick tribes by doing a schoolyard pick (where one person, the captain, picks one person, then the person they picked picks another person, and so on). Those who had won immunity got the first pick, and the last male and female left would leave the game. The two tribes, Koror and Ulong, then had their first reward/immunity challenge, with the winner, Koror, chose to leave the beach they were at and go to another one they had not seen.
As the challenges continued, everyone knew that Ulong was the weaker tribe, while strong leadership by Tom and Ian at Koror kept the tribe together. Ulong won no immunity challenges and only three reward challenges. Koror only had to go to tribal council and vote for one of their own once during the first 21 days as part of a double-elimination challenge. Unlike many earlier seasons, the tribes were never switched, and Ulong kept on losing players. With only two members left, Stephenie and Bobby Jon, going into tribal council, the two faced off in a fire-making challenge, with Stephenie winning. After spending one night alone, she was told to travel to Koror, and given a Koror buff as there was no need for a tribal merge.
Koror had started a main group of five: Tom, Ian, Gregg, Jenn, and Katie, and those on the outside saw them as a threat but were not able to break them. Although Stephenie made strong impression on her new tribe, Stephenie became a target due to her strength. In a twist that would used in later seasons, the first player to lose the individual immunity challenge had to spend the night alone on a separate island. Janu, the one who lost, felt she had freedom when she left, and chose to quit the game at the next tribal council, which saved Stephenie from being voted out for one more round. When Koror was down to six, Tom and Ian worried that they would fall against a possible immunity threat, Gregg, and his close ally Jenn, and started a plan with Caryn and Katie to vote out Gregg when they had the chance. Katie, feeling betrayed by Ian, became even more upset when Ian took Tom with him on a reward instead of her as he had promised. Ian tried to make Katie happy, but she still held bad feelings towards him. The final four: Tom, Ian, Katie, and Jenn, chose to allow the next vote to end in a tie between Jenn and Ian, and Ian won in the fire-making tie-breaker challenge. The last immunity challenge made players stand on buoys for as long as possible; Katie jumped off early, but both Tom and Ian stayed for more than 12 hours. Ian chose to quit the challenge, giving immunity to Tom, after Tom played on his regret for hurting Katie's feelings and breaking his promises to her, and Ian felt that dropping out would make up for the emotional damage he had done. At the last tribal council, Tom voted Ian out of the game. At the last tribal council, Tom's leadership and physical strength against Katie being too dependent on others, led the jury to vote Tom as the Sole Survivor, 6-1.
 Two players were eliminated when the tribes were chosen. The players were told that there were two immunity necklaces on the beach: one for the first man and one for the first woman to claim them. On day 2, the players were told they would divide into 2 tribes of 9 members each, with the two immunity holders making the first picks for their new tribes. Because one man and one women would not be chosen due to the numbers, they would be eliminated. Jonathan and Wanda were the two that were eliminated. Once it was completed, the power of the immunity necklaces was over.
 The vote was at first tied 2-2 between Angie and Bobby Jon, but after a second vote, Angie eliminated.

</doc>
<doc id="219603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219603" title="2009 Espoo shopping mall shooting">
2009 Espoo shopping mall shooting

Espoo shopping mall shooting was a mass shooting in the Sello shopping mall, in Espoo, near Helsinki, Finland on 31 December 2009. 
The shooter killed five people, including his ex-wife, and then killed himself. 
It is believed one of the main motives or reasons behind the shooting was the affair Shkupoll's ex-wife was having with another man who also worked in the mall. The shooter killed his girlfriend in their apartment, and police were already looking for him when he began shooting in the mall. Police say he used an illegally purchaed 9mm handgun to commit the murders.

</doc>
<doc id="219616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219616" title="Aquatic">
Aquatic

Aquatic is a term often used in biology and ecology. Literally, it means "watery", and refers to both fresh and salt-water. So aquatic plants or animals are those that live in water: ponds, rivers, oceans. Aquatic mammals include whales, dolphins, seals, walrus, and also otters, beavers, and other river forms. Aquatic birds are even more numerous: ducks, herons, waders, kingfishers, penguins. 

</doc>
<doc id="219619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219619" title="Lagoon">
Lagoon

A lagoon is a body of salt water partly separated from the sea. There is usually some sort of barrier which separates and protects the lagoon. This may be a pebble or shingle beach, sand bank, or perhaps a coral reef surrounding an island (that's called an atoll.) 
"Lagoon" refers both to coastal lagoons, and the lagoons in atolls, formed by the growth of coral reefs on slowly sinking central islands.

</doc>
<doc id="219622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219622" title="Cryogenian">
Cryogenian

The Cryogenian is a geological period, from ~850 million years ago (mya) to 635 mya. It lies in the middle Proterozoic eon before the Ediacaran period.
The period is important to both Earth science and biology because it contains the two longest and most severe ice ages of all time: 
These two snowball earth events were previously put together as the "Varangian" glaciation. They covered much, possible all, the Earth with ice. The root cause of the temperature drop may have been the removal of CO from the atmosphere by photosynthesising bacteria and eukaryotes in the previous periods. Much else happened: the supercontinent Rodinia broke up and another, Pannotia, began to form. Fossil steroids suggest the presence of early sponges, and amoeboid cells with tests (coverings) appear in the fossil record.

</doc>
<doc id="219637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219637" title="Humphrey Appleby">
Humphrey Appleby

Sir Humphrey Appleby, GCB, KBE, MVO, MA (Oxon), is a character in the British television series "Yes, Minister" and "Yes, Prime Minister". He was played by Sir Nigel Hawthorne. In "Yes Minister", he is the Permanent Secretary for the Department of Administrative Affairs (a fictional department of the British government). In the last episode of Yes, Minister, "Party Games", he becomes Cabinet Secretary, the position he retains during "Yes, Prime Minister". Nigel Hawthorne that portrays this character won the BAFTA Award for Best Light Entertainment Performance four times: 1981, 1982, 1986 and 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="219638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219638" title="Ararat, Victoria">
Ararat, Victoria

Ararat is a city in south-west Victoria, Australia. It is about west of Melbourne, on the Western Highway. It is the only town in Australia to have started by Chinese people. It is the biggest town, and the centre of the local government area called the Rural City of Ararat. The town is built between mountains with good farming lands all around it. There are about 8220 people living in Ararat.
Europens first moved into in the area in the 1840s after explorer Thomas Mitchell passed through the area in 1836. In 1841, Horatio Wills, on his way to land further south, wrote in his diary, "like the Ark we rested". He named a nearby hill Mt Ararat. The city was named after the mountain.
Gold was first discovered in May or June 1854, by Joseph Pollard at a place called Pinky Point, about to the west. Within weeks there were more than 9,000 people in the area looking for gold. A Post office opened in the area, called Cathcart, on 1 February 1856. The name was changed to Ararat on 31 August 1857. 
In April 1857, a group of 700 Chinese miners on their way to the Clunes, Victoria gold fields in central Victoria, found gold at the current site of Ararat. This was called the Canton Lead. The Chinese has been forced to walk from South Australia, more than , because the Victorian government had tried to stop Chinese people coming by ship. Within two weeks more than 20,000 people arrived at Ararat to dig for gold. European miners tried to chase the Chinese miners off the gold fields, but they stayed, and in three weeks had found more than of gold. This was the start of great growth in Ararat. The city's link to China continues as it has a sister city link with Taishan, China. By 1859, Ararat had a newspaper, hospital, churches, courthouse and a mechanics institute (meeting rooms with a library).
By 1863, most of the gold had been found, and Ararat become a town centre for the farmers in the area. French settlers planted grape vines in the area in 1863. When the railway was built to Ararat in 1875, it became an important rail junction.
Farming is the main business in the area, with farmers growing sheep, beef and wine. The Northern Melbourne Institute of TAFE has a college in Ararat; this is the Australian College of Wine. This is in the old Ararat pyschiatric hospital, called "Aradale". The town has a regional airport YARA (ARY).
The first prison, the Ararat County Gaol, was built in 1861, and was used a prison until 1887. During that time, three prisoners were hanged, and their graves can still be seen. In 1887, the prison was set up as a prison for criminals who were insane, and renamed J Ward. One prisoner was kept locked up in J Ward for more than 60 years. J Ward was closed in 1991, and is now a museum.
HM Prison Ararat was built just outside the town in 1967. It replaced the prison at Ballarat. It is a low to medium security prison with space for 382 prisoners. About 50% of the prisoners are sex offenders, while the other 50% have special needs or need protection.
Ararat is an ideal base for looking at the areas many natural attractions such as the Grampians National Park, Mt Langi Ghiran, Mt Cole, Mt Buangor State Park, Ararat Hills Regional Park and the Pyrenees Ranges. Ararat is also close to many wineries, which are part of the Grampians Wine Region.
Tourist attractions include: 
The city is built on the Western Highway which is the main road between Melbourne and Adelaide. Ararat station has V/Line buses and trains running daily to and from Melbourne, as well as The Overland train service from Melbourne to Adelaide. Since 2008 the Ararat Transit bus service has operated around the city five days a week, providing 86 services on three routes, which join up with the train services.
Ararat has an Australian Rules Football team which plays in the Wimmera Football League. The team first played in 1871, and was one of the first four teams to form the Wimmera Football Association in 1902.
The horse racing club, the Wimmera Racing Club, holds about five race meetings a year at Ararat including the Ararat Cup meeting in November.
Ararat Harness Racing Club has regular meetings at its race track in the town.
Golfers play at the Aradale Golf Club on Grano Street or at the Chalambar Golf Club on Golf Links Road.
Two Royal Australian Navy ships have been named after this town. HMAS "Ararat" (K 34), a World War II Bathurst class corvette, and HMAS "Ararat" (ACPB 89), an Armidale class patrol boat.

</doc>
<doc id="219641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219641" title="Alan Ball">
Alan Ball

Alan Ball may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="219662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219662" title="Clunes, Victoria">
Clunes, Victoria

Clunes is a town in Victoria, Australia, about 36 kilometres north of Ballarat, in the Shire of Hepburn. In 2006 there were 1605 people living in the town. Clunes was the site of the first gold rush in Victoria.
The town was home to Victoria's first gold discovery made by James Esmond. His discovery, printed in the Geelong Advertiser on 7 July 1851, started the first gold rush in Victoria. The town began a few years later. With the opening of a big gold mine, by the "Port Phillip and Colonial Mining Company", the town's population grew to over 6,000 people in the late 1880s.
Clunes post office opened on 1 October 1857 and in 1874 Clunes was joined to the Victorian railway network. Clunes station, shown in the movie Mad Max, was opened in the same year.
In 1873 mine owners tried to bring in Saturday afternoon and Sunday work. The miners refused to work the new hours and went on strike. Some days into the strike the miners started the Clunes Miners' Association. The Association used force to stop the mine owners from bringing in Chinese miners to work in the mines. They stopped the coaches and sent the Chinese back to Ballarat. This action was called the "Clunes Riots". The Clunes Miners' Association is one of the earliest beginnings of the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union.
From the 1850s through to 1893, Clunes was an important gold field in Victoria. During this time more than of gold was dug up at Clunes. Surrounded by grassland, fields and pastures, the town has kept many of its fine historic buildings until today and is one of the architecturally most intact gold towns in Victoria.
The idea of a booktown was thought up by Councillor Tim Hayes, Linda Newitt, Graeme Johnston and Tess Brady. Clunes held its first booktown on 20 May 2007. Over 50 book sellers from around Australia set up shop for the day in the town's historic buildings. The town, which had worked together to make the day, won the Hepburn Shire's Community Event of the Year. 
Now called 'Back to Booktown', Clunes holds the event every year on the first weekend in May.With more than 60 book sellers, millions of books, and 15,000 visitors, it has become the largest collection of books in any regional centre of Australia and the biggest Victorian regional book event.
In recent years Clunes has a lot of changes and rebuilding after Wesley College, Australia's biggest co-educational private school, to set up a school for its Year 9 students in the town. Opened in 2000, about 80 students live in the Wesley Clunes Residential Learning Village in the centre of town and become part of the local community for an eight-week period each term.
Because of its historic buildings, many of the outside scenes in the 2003 movie "Ned Kelly", starring Heath Ledger and Orlando Bloom, were shot in Clunes. One side of the street was decorated to look like Euroa, Victoria, and the other to look like Jeriderie, New South Wales.
Clunes also appears in the movies "Mad Max" starring Mel Gibson and the remake of the 1950s classic "On the Beach". It also appears in the Australian Broadcasting Corporation television series' "Queen Kat, Carmel & St Jude" and "Something in the Air". Clunes was once closed off to the public for the TV show "The Mole" in 2001. The mission in that episode was to direct one of the players to pick up another player in a blacked-out car. Julius Avery's 13-minute movie "Jerrycan" was made in Clunes. "Jerrycan" won the 2008 Jury Prize at the 61st Cannes Film Festival in France for short films, showing restless teenagers in rural Victoria.
The town has an Australian Rules Football team playing in the Central Highlands Football League. 
Golfers play at the Clunes Golf Club on Golf Course Road. 

</doc>
<doc id="219668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219668" title="Great Eastern Railway">
Great Eastern Railway

The Great Eastern Railway (GER) was a pre-grouping British railway company. The company's main line linked London Liverpool Street to Norwich and had other lines through East Anglia. The company was grouped into the London and North Eastern Railway in 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="219670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219670" title="Ongar railway station">
Ongar railway station

Ongar tube station is a former London Underground station in the town of Chipping Ongar, Essex. Until its closure in 1994, it was the easternmost point of the Central line, and from 1961 until its closure in 1994 it held the distinction of being the London Underground station farthest from Central London.

</doc>
<doc id="219672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219672" title="North Weald railway station">
North Weald railway station

North Weald tube station is a former London Underground station in Essex, England. It is between Epping and Blake Hall on the Central Line, serving North Weald.

</doc>
<doc id="219677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219677" title="Chipping Ongar">
Chipping Ongar

Chipping Ongar is a small market town in the civil parish of Ongar, in the Epping Forest district of the County of Essex, England. In 2001 there were 6,069 people living in Ongar civil parish. There are 3 Primary Schools; High Ongar, Shelley and Chipping Ongar Primary School.Theres lots of local shops there like sainsbrys.
http://www.chippingongar.essex.sch.uk/
Ongar is also famous for the Epping Ongar Railway which celebrated it's 150th anniversary this year.

</doc>
<doc id="219678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219678" title="Eastern Counties Railway">
Eastern Counties Railway

The Eastern Counties Railway (ECR) was an English railway company which began operating on 20 June 1839. It ran a train service from a temporary terminus at Mile End to Romford. This is now part of the Great Eastern Main Line. The line was extended the following year to a new London terminus at Shoreditch (later renamed Bishopsgate) and the line was subsequently extended to cover the 51 miles between London and Colchester. 

</doc>
<doc id="219681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219681" title="Passing loop">
Passing loop

A passing loop (also called a "passing siding", "crossing loop", "crossing place" or, colloquially, "a hole") is a place on a single line railway/tramway, often located at a station, where trains/trams in opposing directions can pass each other.

</doc>
<doc id="219682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219682" title="Epping, Essex">
Epping, Essex

Epping is a small market town and civil parish in the Epping Forest district of the County of Essex, England.

</doc>
<doc id="219683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219683" title="Loughton">
Loughton

Loughton () is a town and civil parish in the Epping Forest district of Essex. Loughton Brooke Runs through Lougton and Epping Forest (near Loughton) is what is known as a SSSI (a Site of Specific Scientific Interest)

</doc>
<doc id="219686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219686" title="Pascal Zuberbühler">
Pascal Zuberbühler

Pascal Zuberbühler (born 8 January 1971) is a Swiss football player. He has played for Switzerland national team.
454||0
13||0
15||0
482||0
!Total||51||0

</doc>
<doc id="219687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219687" title="Shin Asahina">
Shin Asahina

Shin Asahina (born 20 August 1976) is a former Japanese football player.
178||15||8||1||2||0||188||16
178||15||8||1||2||0||188||16

</doc>
<doc id="219688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219688" title="Manabu Ikeda">
Manabu Ikeda

Manabu Ikeda (born 3 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.
44||2||5||1||7||0||56||3
44||2||5||1||7||0||56||3

</doc>
<doc id="219689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219689" title="Tim Cahill">
Tim Cahill

Tim Cahill (born 6 December 1979) is an Australian football player. He plays for Everton and Australia national team.
349||89||24||6||20||4||12||3||405||102
349||89||24||6||20||4||12||3||405||102
!Total||37||19

</doc>
<doc id="219690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219690" title="Suguru Ito">
Suguru Ito

Suguru Ito (born 7 September 1975) is a former Japanese football player.
46||8||3||0||7||1||56||9
46||8||3||0||7||1||56||9

</doc>
<doc id="219691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219691" title="John van Loen">
John van Loen

John van Loen (born 4 February 1965) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.
314||104
26||3
36||9
0||0
376||116
!Total||7||1

</doc>
<doc id="219692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219692" title="Andrea Orlandi">
Andrea Orlandi

Andrea Orlandi (born 3 August 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Swansea City.
1||0||0||0||0||0||1||0
19||1||6||0||2||0||26||1
20||1||6||0||2||0||27||1

</doc>
<doc id="219693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219693" title="Ludovic Sylvestre">
Ludovic Sylvestre

Ludovic Sylvestre (born 5 February 1984) is a French football player. He plays for Mladá Boleslav.
2||0
68||7
70||7

</doc>
<doc id="219695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219695" title="Satoshi Nagano">
Satoshi Nagano

103||2||5||0||4||0||112||2
103||2||5||0||4||0||112||2

</doc>
<doc id="219717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219717" title="Railway electrification system">
Railway electrification system

A railway electrification system supplies electrical energy to railway locomotives and multiple units so that they can operate without having an on-board prime mover. Most systems supply direct current. They send the current to the train by third rail or by overhead wires. 

</doc>
<doc id="219718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219718" title="Single track (rail)">
Single track (rail)

A single track railway is one where traffic in both directions shares the same track. In the early days of railways, especially before the telegraph, operation of significant numbers of trains on a single track railway was fraught with difficulties, including delays and accidents, particularly head-on collisions.

</doc>
<doc id="219721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219721" title="Survivor: Guatemala">
Survivor: Guatemala

Survivor: Guatemala - The Mayan Empire (also known as "Survivor: Guatemala") was the eleventh season of the American reality show "Survivor", and was set inside of the ruins of the Maya civilization. The show was filmed in Yaxhá-Nakúm-Naranjo National Park near the more popular Tikal National Park, in northern Guatemala. The season started being shown on TV on September 15, 2005 on CBS. The finale (last episode) was on Sunday, December 11, 2005 on CBS. Danni Boatwright won this season. She won against Stephenie LaGrossa in a 6-1 vote.
Applications had to be given on January 14, 2005. Around March 2005, 800 people were chosen for an interview by CBS. Out of these 800, 48 people were chosen to go in Los Angeles sometime around April 2005. From these 48, 16 were chosen to be in the game this season, which was filmed from June to August 2005. Stephenie LaGrossa and Bobby Jon Drinkard from "" also returned this season. LaGrossa also returned once again in "". Her place is unknown because the season has not been shown on TV yet.
Host Jeff Probst says that temperatures seemed to be over with a lot of humidity. He talked about it during some of the challenges. Challenges like the walk through the jungle and "Mayan basketball" showed how tired all the players were. In Day 1, many of the Nakúm men were sick after the walk, and had a hard time getting better.
After the tribes were merged (combined), production put a small Immunity Idol in the Xhakúm tribe. Gary Hogeboom found it up in a tree, saving him from being voted off at that Tribal Council. Unlike later seasons, this Idol could only be used before the vote instead of after, and once it was used, it wouldn't be used anymore. However, it could be used until the Final Four.
The tribes were Yaxhá (blue buffs, living in a shelter in the jungle) and Nakúm (yellow buffs, living near the Mayan ruins). Both of these tribes were named after two old Mayan cities. When there were 10 people left, the tribes merged one tribe, which the players named "Xhakúm" (red buffs, at Nakúm's old camp), named by blending the names "Yaxhá" and "Nakúm".
Tina Scheer, a player on "", was supposed to be on the show this season, but her son had been killed in a car accident and she backed out. 
The players came on June 22 and began filming on June 27. Filming ended on August 4 and players returned home August 5. (Source from Survivor Fever)
 There was no reward challenge due to tribal switch.
Episode 1: The sixteen new players learned upon arriving in the Guatemalan jungle that Bobby Jon Drinkard and Stephenie LaGrossa from "" were returning. They were also told that their first reward challenge would be an walk to a campsite near some Mayan ruins. Nakúm won, and Yaxhá was told to find a new campsite. Yaxhá won the first Immunity Challenge, and because of his illness and injuries he got during the challenges, Jim was voted out of Nakúm (8-1).
Episode 2: Before the Reward Challenge, Blake had cramps and hyperventilation. Nakúm won fishing gear as their reward, and later won Immunity as well. Morgan was voted out because her tribe thought she was weak and lazy (8-1).
Episode 3: At the Reward Challenge, Nakúm won pillows, blankets and a tarp before going on to win their fourth challenge in a row, the Immunity Challenge. At Tribal Council, Brianna of Yaxhá was voted out because her tribe thought she was weak (7-1).
Episode 4: At the Reward Challenge, the tribes were switched; Brooke, Cindy, Judd, Margaret, Lydia, Stephenie, Rafe and Jamie were the new Nakúm and Amy, Brian, Gary, Danni, Brandon, Blake and Bobby Jon were the new Yaxhá. After the new Yaxhá tribe won the Immunity Challenge, Judd make his original Nakúm teammates upset and helped to vote Brooke out (5-3).
Episode 5: At the Reward Challenge, Yaxhá won chips, drinks and a crocodile-proof swimming cage. Nakúm won immunity and Blake was voted out for being selfish, (5-2).
Episode 6: Nakúm won their second challenge in a row, and both tribes would be going Tribal Council. As part of their reward, Nakúm had an individual Immunity Challenge, which was won by Rafe. He was also able to watch part of the Yaxhá tribal council. Margaret, due to personality problems, was voted out of Nakúm (6-1), and Yaxhá voted out Brian (5-1), because they thought they could not trust him.
Episode 7: Yaxhá won the reward of a jungle canopy zipline ride, then invited Nakúm to camp for Danni's birthday. They swam together in the crocodile-proof cage. Nakúm won the Immunity Challenge, and with Amy still having an ankle injury that she got days ago, Yaxhá thought it was best to vote her out (4-1). After the vote, the four Yaxhá members left moved to the Nakúm camp for the tribal merge.
Episode 8: It was told that there was a Hidden Immunity Idol located near the camp of the new Xhakúm tribe (the old Nakúm camp). The tribes merged (combined) into one tribe and named the new tribe "Xhakúm". At the Challenge, Jeff said that it would be both for Reward and Immunity. However, only those who didn't think they needed immunity would go to the food reward while the others played for immunity. Gary ended up winning the individual immunity, saving himself because the old Nakúm members (Stephenie, Jamie, Judd, Rafe, Lydia and Cindy) wanted to vote off Gary. With Gary safe from being voted off, they thought about voting off Bobby Jon, but Stephenie told her allies to keep him in the game, allowing him to at least make the Jury. Instead, Brandon, likely the strongest player of the old Yaxhá members, was voted off (6-4).
Episode 9: Gary found the Hidden Immunity Idol. Judd won reward (shared with Bobby Jon and Stephenie), and Jamie won immunity. Gary, whom Nakúm wanted gone, surprised the tribe with the Hidden Immunity Idol at Tribal Council. With Gary safe from the vote once again, Bobby Jon was voted out instead (6-2-1) and became the first member of the Jury. He lasted three days longer than he did on "".
Episode 10: At the very messy reward challenge, the team of Danni, Gary, Stephenie and Judd won a night away from camp and videos from home. After Rafe won Immunity, Jamie became worried about being voted out; they actually didn't want to vote him out that night, but him being too worried annoyed everyone else. They made his worst nightmare come true, voting him out (6-2).
Episode 11: Cindy won the reward challenge, and took Rafe with her on a reward of a feast, waterfall pool and massage. Rafe won Immunity again, and at Tribal Council, the old Nakúm tribe finally got to vote off Gary (6-1).
Episode 12: The final six's loved ones came to the camp after the Survivor Auction. Danni won an Immunity Challenge advantage, and Judd's wife, Cindy's twin sister and Stephenie's boyfriend were allowed to stay overnight at camp. As a result of her advantage, Danni won the Immunity Challenge. Safe with immunity, Danni also was able to turn the game around for herself by convincing Stephenie, Rafe and Lydia that Judd could not be trusted and was too much of a threat to keep around. In a (4-2) vote, Judd was sent packing, but not before he said some last words to the players left, quote "Bye, guys. Hope you get eaten by a freakin' crocodile. Scumbags."
Episode 13: After winning the Reward Challenge, Cindy was given the choice of keeping her newly won 2006 Pontiac Torrent or giving one to each of the other players left. Cindy chose to keep the car, a decision which made Rafe made. After Stephenie won Immunity, Rafe was able to get Cindy voted out (4-1).
Episode 14: In the final four, Rafe won his fourth individual immunity, and Lydia was voted out for being liked by the jury (3-1). After a two hour, 38 minute challenge, Danni won the last immunity challenge. She chose to vote out Rafe, because she thought she would have a better chance at winning the game against Stephenie. (1-0). At the live reunion and finale (last episode), Danni beat Stephenie in a (6-1) vote. Stephenie had lasted 9 days longer than she did on "".

</doc>
<doc id="219722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219722" title="English National Opera">
English National Opera

English National Opera (ENO) is an opera company based in London, England. The opera house where it performs is called the London Coliseum. It is in St. Martin's Lane, very near Trafalgar Square. It is one of the two big opera companies in London. The other big one is the Royal Opera (ROH), Covent Garden. The English National Opera is different because the operas there are always sung in English. The ticket prices are not quite as high as at the ROH.
The beginnings of the ENO go back to 1898 when Lilian Baylis gave a series of opera concerts at the Old Vic theatre. About ten years later she started a theatre company there. She put on Shakespeare's plays in a shortened form. She added a small group of dancers to the company. The Sadler's Wells Theatre opened, and the company were called the Vic-Wells Opera Company. The dancers later separated from Vic-Wells and became the Royal Ballet.
The company toured while the theatre was closed during the Second World War. At the end of the war it came back and was called Sadler's Wells Opera Company, and the theatre opened again with a performance of Benjamin Britten's "Peter Grimes". It was the first English opera since the time of Purcell to become internationally famous. 
In 1968 Sadler's Wells Opera moved from Sadler's Wells Theatre to the London Coliseum. Six years later the company was renamed "English National Opera".
Since then the ENO has put on many great opera productions. For many years the general director was Peter Jonas, the artistic director was David Poutney and the conductor (musical director) was Mark Elder.
In 2004 many improvements were made to the building. While the building was going on the ENO performed in the Barbican Centre.
Although ENO performs all operas in English, in 2005 it introduced surtitles at the Coliseum. This makes it easier for the audience to understand the words being sung.
In 2007 the conductor Edward Gardner became music director of ENO.

</doc>
<doc id="219723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219723" title="Air show">
Air show

An air show is an event at which aviators display their flying skills and the capabilities of their aircraft to spectators in aerobatics. Air shows without aerobatic displays, having only aircraft displayed parked on the ground, are called "static air shows".

</doc>
<doc id="219725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219725" title="Green belt">
Green belt

A green belt or greenbelt is a policy and land use designation used in land use planning to retain areas of largely undeveloped, wild, or agricultural land surrounding or neighbouring urban areas. Similar concepts are greenways or green wedges which have a linear character and may run through an urban area instead of around it. A green belt is basically an invisible line that goes around a certain area, stopping people from building there so that some of the wild and agricultural land can be saved.

</doc>
<doc id="219726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219726" title="Florence and the Machine">
Florence and the Machine

Florence and the Machine (also written as Florence + the Machine), is the recording name of Florence Welch and a collaboration of other artists who provide backing music for her voice. Musically Florence and the Machine's sound is generally referred to as soul-inspired indie rock. Florence and the Machine's music has received praise across the music media, especially from the BBC. This is because the BBC played a large part in Florence and the Machine's rise to prominence by promoting her as part of BBC Introducing. This led to the band playing at a number of music festivals in 2008, including Glastonbury as well as Reading and Leeds and T in the Park. The band's debut album, "Lungs" was released on 6 July 2009. It held the number 2 position for its first five weeks in the charts, behind Michael Jackson. The album has now been in the top 40 UK charts for 22 consecutive weeks.
Florence Leontine Mary Welch (born 28 August 1986 in London) is the daughter of Evelyn and Nick Welch. Evelyn Welch is a Professor of Renaissance Studies and Academic Dean for Arts at Queen Mary, University of London and author and formerly a Studio 54 regular. Nick Welch works in advertising. Welch says she is prone to "falling into severe holes” that leave her crying on the floor. Welch has been diagnosed with dyslexia and dysmetria. Welch would like to have a career similar to PJ Harvey and Björk who are "constantly creating new exciting stuff". When she was 13, Welch found comfort in the music of Hole, Nirvana, Green Day, Kate Bush, Annie Lennox, The Velvet Underground and Celine Dion. As a teenager she was the frontwoman for Toxic Cockroaches and Ashok. Feeling she was in "the wrong band" she got out of a contract with Ashok by resigning.
Welch said that "The name Florence and the Machine started off as a private joke that got out of hand. I made music with my friend, who we called Isabella Machine to which I was Florence Robot. When I was about an hour away from my first gig, I still didn't have a name, so I thought "Okay, I'll be Florence Robot is a Machine", before realizing that name was so long it'd drive me mad". In 2006 Welch's performances in small London venues as "Florence Robot is a Machine" began to attract notice.
The Machine is Florence's backing band. This is currently made up of Robert Ackroyd (guitar), Christopher Lloyd Hayden (drums), Isabella Summers ('Isabella Machine') (keyboards) and Tom Monger (harp). Previously Devonte Hynes (Lightspeed Champion and Test Icicles) was also a member.
Florence and the Machine are managed by Mairead Nash. Nash is one half of the DJ outfit Queens of Noize.
Florence and the Machine were part of the 2009 Shockwaves NME Awards tour. Welch said that she planned a "pretty theatrical" performance.
The group played at the Concerts for the Teenage Cancer Trust charity event at the Royal Albert Hall in March 2009. Florence and The Machine also supported Blur for their 26 June comeback performance at the MEN Arena in Manchester, and supported Duran Duran in July 2009.
The group performed at the 2009 Glastonbury Festival, Reading and Leeds Festivals, Electric Picnic in County Laois, Ireland and the T in the Park festival. On October 27 the group played its first official New York City show and appeared on the television programmes "Late Night With David Letterman" and "Jimmy Kimmel Live!".
Welch has said that she would like to tour the United States. However, she is fearful of becoming homesick due to the length of time it would take to tour the country.
On New Year's Eve 2009, the group appeared on the pre-recorded New Year's Eve celebration show "Hootenanny". On the show, they performed "Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up)" and "Dog Days Are Over". Welch then performed a cover of "My Baby Just Cares for Me" with Jools Holland & his Rhythm & Blues Orchestra.
Florence and the Machine have gained a large amount of support from "NME" magazine who included them in their annual NME Awards Tour for 2009. They supported White Lies, Friendly Fires and Glasvegas on the tour. "The Times" described her as "the most peculiar and most highly acclaimed female singer of the moment" and "the latest in a line of great English pop eccentrics". Allmusic described "Lungs" as "one of the most musically mature and emotionally mesmerizing albums of 2009".Spin Magazine gave "Lungs" four out of five possible stars and wrote, "You’ve gotta hand it to the girl: She always makes you feel something". The magazine named the album as the 8th best of 2009.
Welch appeared on the front cover of "The Guide" subsection to "The Guardian". She also collected the Critics' Choice Award at the BRIT Awards in February 2009. Florence and the Machine came third in the BBC's "Sound of 2009".<br> In 2009 she covered Beyoncé's song "Halo" on the BBC1 Live Lounge; host Jo Whiley stated that it was one of the best covers they have ever had in the Live Lounge. The BBC also used "You Got The Love" as the backing music to its Jenson Button Formula One 2009 season review video montage and it was used in the final episode of Gavin and Stacey.

</doc>
<doc id="219727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219727" title="Jacopo Peri">
Jacopo Peri

Jacopo Peri (born Rome, 20 August 1561; died Florence, 12 August 1633) was an Italian composer and singer. He composed the first opera ever written.
Peri was born in Rome, but studied in Florence. He had several church jobs, playing the organ and singing. He also worked at the court of the Medici family, playing instruments and composing incidental music for plays and madrigals.
In the 1590s, Peri worked for Jacopo Corsi, the most important patron of music in Florence. They felt that art at that time (music, drama, painting etc.) was not as good as the classical art that had been produced 2000 years ago in Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. They wanted to write drama like the old Greek tragedies. In music they started to write "monody", which meant a solo song with a continuo bass accompaniment. They soon started to realize that just monody on its own could become boring, so they developed it into recitative (where the story could be told) and aria (where the singers could express their feelings in song). Peri and Corsi asked the poet Ottavio Rinuccini to write some words for them and together they produced the opera "Dafne". It was probably nothing like what the Ancient Greeks would have done, but it was the first opera in modern times.
In 1600, Rinuccini and Peri wrote another opera together: "Euridice". We still have the music "Euridice", although unfortunately the music to "Dafne" has been lost.
Peri wrote several other operas, although they are not great works. However, a very great composer was around at the time. His name was Claudio Monteverdi. In 1607, he started writing operas and his operas are often performed today.
1600 is the date usually thought of as the beginning of the Baroque music period. It is a convenient date because it is when opera started.

</doc>
<doc id="219731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219731" title="Blake Hall tube station">
Blake Hall tube station

Blake Hall station is a disused station in Essex, formerly on the Central Line of the London Underground between North Weald and Ongar.

</doc>
<doc id="219733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219733" title="M11 motorway">
M11 motorway

The M11 motorway in England is a major road running almost north from the North Circular Road (A406) in South Woodford in north-east London to the A14, north-west of Cambridge.

</doc>
<doc id="219735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219735" title="Coopersale Halt railway station">
Coopersale Halt railway station

Coopersale Halt is the current terminus of the Epping Ongar Railway in the hamlet of Coopersale in Epping, Essex, England. It is located between Epping and North Weald. Future plans could see a platform and access to the railway from the Coopersale Street in the form of a halt.

</doc>
<doc id="219740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219740" title="London Underground 1960 Stock">
London Underground 1960 Stock

The London Underground 1960 Stock was a small, prototype class of electric multiple unit designed for the London Underground Central Line.

</doc>
<doc id="219744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219744" title="Martin Bell">
Martin Bell

Martin Bell, OBE, (born 31 August 1938) is a British UNICEF (UNICEF UK) Ambassador, a former broadcast war reporter and former independent politician.

</doc>
<doc id="219747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219747" title="Urban75">
Urban75

Urban75 (also sometimes referred to as u75 or urban) is a website and messageboard based in Brixton, England. It was founded in 1995 and includes various content e-zine content, as well as bulletin boards. The site was founded and is currently run by Mike Slocombe.

</doc>
<doc id="219751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219751" title="Francesco Cavalli">
Francesco Cavalli

Francesco Cavalli (born Crema, Lombardy, 14 February 1602; died 14 January 1676) was an Italian composer. He lived in the early part of the Baroque music period. His real name was Pietro Francesco Caletti-Bruni, but he is better known as Cavalli, which was the name of his patron, a Venetian nobleman. He is remembered for his operas.
Cavalli was born at Crema, Lombardy. He became a singer at St Mark's in Venice in 1616, then he was organist there, and in 1668 he became "maestro di cappella".
He began to write for the theatre in 1639. Soon after that the first public opera house opened in Venice. Cavalli became so famous that he was invited to Paris in 1660 where he performed his opera "Xerxes". He visited Paris again in 1662. He died in Venice at the age of 73.
Cavalli lived at the time that opera had just been invented by Jacopo Peri. Claudio Monteverdi composed the first really good operas. Cavalli became the most important Italian writer of operas in the middle of the 17th century. His operas use small orchestras, unlike those of Monteverdi, who was writing for the court in Mantua where there was lots of money for big orchestras. Cavalli had a good sense of drama and he wrote lovely melodies.
He wrote 57 operas, of which 27 survived. He also wrote some church music and some instrumental music.

</doc>
<doc id="219753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219753" title="Santana do Paraíso">
Santana do Paraíso

Santana do Paraíso is a Brazilian city in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area, state of Minas Gerais. Its population in 2009 was 24.695 inhabitants. Its area is 275,529 km². The city was founded in April 28, 1992.
It is limited with the municipal districts of Belo Oriente, Mesquita, Ipatinga, Caratinga e Ipaba

</doc>
<doc id="219761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219761" title="Ruston (engine builder)">
Ruston (engine builder)

Ruston was an industrial equipment manufacturer in Lincoln, England, the company's history going back to 1840. The company is best known as a manufacturer of narrow and standard gauge diesel locomotives and also of steam shovels.

</doc>
<doc id="219763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219763" title="Harsco Corporation">
Harsco Corporation

Harsco Corporation () is a diversified, worldwide industrial company based in the United States. Harsco operates in 45 countries and employs approximately 21,000 people worldwide. The company provides industrial services and engineered products that serve some of the world’s largest and most essential industries, including steel, construction, railways, and energy. The 2005 revenues totaled $2.8 billion, nearly 60% of which were generated internationally.

</doc>
<doc id="219764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219764" title="Brake van">
Brake van

Brake van and guard's van are terms used mainly in the UK and Australia for a railway vehicle that has a hand brake which can be applied by the guard. The equivalent North American term is caboose but a British brake van and a caboose are very different in appearance because the former usually has only four wheels while the latter usually has bogies.

</doc>
<doc id="219768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219768" title="Track ballast">
Track ballast

Track ballast forms the trackbed upon which railway sleepers (UK) or railroad ties (US) are laid. It is packed between, below, and around the ties. It is used to facilitate drainage of water, to distribute the load from the railroad ties, and also to keep down vegetation that might interfere with the track structure. This also serves to hold the track in place as the trains roll by. It is typically made of crushed stone, although ballast has sometimes consisted of other, less suitable materials.

</doc>
<doc id="219780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219780" title="Karmapa">
Karmapa

Karmapa is Tibetan buddhist teacher or lama. He is the first one from Tibetan lamas, who consciously incarnates in subsequent order of Buddhist masters. Karmapa is the head of Karma Kagyu- the biggest subschool or lineage of Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism. The first Karmapa Dusum Khyenpa (1204—1283) is student of Gampopa(1079-1153) .

</doc>
<doc id="219783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219783" title="Permanent way">
Permanent way

The permanent way is the elements of railway lines: generally the pairs of rails typically laid on ties ("sleepers" in British parlance) embedded in ballast, intended to carry the ordinary trains of a railway. It is described as permanent way because in the earlier days of railway construction, contractors often laid a temporary track to transport spoil and materials about the site; when this work was substantially completed, the temporary track was taken up and the permanent way installed.

</doc>
<doc id="219786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219786" title="London Underground 1962 Stock">
London Underground 1962 Stock

The 1962 Tube Stock was a type of London Underground tube train built for use on the Central line. They were used on the Central line between 1962 and 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="219789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219789" title="Scrap">
Scrap

Scrap is a term used to describe recyclable materials left over from every manner of product consumption, such as parts of vehicles, building supplies, and surplus materials. Often confused with waste, scrap in fact has significant monetary value. 
Overall, the scrap industry processes more than of recyclable material each year into raw material feedstock for industrial manufacturing around the world. One example is scrap steel.

</doc>
<doc id="219808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219808" title="Verismo">
Verismo

Verismo is a word which refers to a type of literature and a type of opera that was popular towards the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century. The Italian word "verismo" means "realism".
In literature the main verismo writers were the Frenchman Émile Zola, the Norwegian dramatist Henrik Ibsen and the Italian writer Giovanni Verga. The composer Pietro Mascagni used a story by Verga for his opera Cavalleria rusticana. This was a short, one-act opera which became extremely popular. Several composers were inspired by it and wrote similar works. The only one of these which is still regularly performed is "Pagliacci" by Ruggero Leoncavallo. These two short operas are often performed on the same evening. They are known together as "Cav and Pag". 
Verismo operas are generally based on stories about ordinary people from the working classes rather than about kings or gods or aristocrats. There is often a lot of violence in the stories as people love one another with great passions, which often leads to murder. Bizet's opera "Carmen" is typical of that kind of story, although it was composed before the verismo tradition was really popular.

</doc>
<doc id="219816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219816" title="BBC Introducing">
BBC Introducing

BBC Introducing is the brand for new music programmes across the BBC showcasing unsigned, self signed and other emerging musical talent primarily from the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="219817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219817" title="Eats, Shoots &amp; Leaves">
Eats, Shoots &amp; Leaves

Eats, Shoots & Leaves is a book written by Lynne Truss. It explains the difference between the statements "eats, shoots and leaves" and "eats shoots and leaves." It explains by the example of a panda who walks into a restaurant, eats, draws a gun and shoots at the other patrons, and then leaves, blaming the incident on the instruction of a badly punctuated wildlife manual. The purpose of the book is to explain the importance of proper punctuation.
The book was interesting to read and a great commercial success it was a best-seller. However, it had its own punctuation errors and inconsistencies, as a review in the New Yorker magazine pointed out. 

</doc>
<doc id="219827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219827" title="Survivor: Panama">
Survivor: Panama

Survivor: Panama - Exile Island ("Survivor: Exile Island" or "Survivor: Panama" for short) is the twelfth season of the American reality show "Survivor". The season was filmed in the Pearl Islands, off the coast of Panama. This location was used before in "" and "". Filming started on October 31, 2005 and the season started being shown on TV on February 2, 2006. The season finale (last episode) was on May 14, 2006 with the votes shown live from the Ed Sullivan Theater in New York.
Applications had to be given on June 17, 2005. Around August 2005, 800 people were invited for an interview by CBS. Out of these 800, 48 of them were chosen as semi-finalists to be interviewed Los Angeles in September 2005. From these 48, 16 were chosen and the show was filmed from November to December 2005.
The season had a twist that started in "" called Exile Island. Each week at least one player is sent to Exile Island after the reward challenge, and will return at the immunity challenge. The "exile" is given a single machete, a flint, a pot and a bucket of dirty water. The island also had a hidden immunity idol that could be used at tribal council after the votes have been made. This gave the person who found the idol an advantage because that person can keep the idol secret until he or she was voted off. When it's played, the person with next highest number of votes would be voted off. Terry found the idol and never needed to use it at a vote, but him having the idol seemed to influence how many other people voted.
The game started by dividing the 16 players into four tribes by gender and age: young men (Viveros, green buffs), older men (La Mina, orange buffs), young women (Bayoneta, blue buffs) and older women (Casaya, purple buffs). These four tribes were named after four islands in the Pearl Islands. During the second episode, the tribes were switched so that there would only be two tribes, Casaya, and La Mina. Bayoneta and Viveros no longer existed. The last 10 players left merged (combined) into one tribe, and called their new tribe "Gitanos" (black buffs), the Spanish word for "gypsy." One person from each of the four starting tribes were in the final four.
Tina Scheer was supposed to be in "", but she backed out due to her son's death just before that season.
On June 8, 2006 "Survivor: Panama" became available on Apple's iTunes store.
In a 5-2 vote, Aras Baskauskas won against Danielle DiLorenzo to take the $1 million prize.
Cirie Fields was chosen from this season to return in "" as part of the Favorites tribe and placed 3rd. Fields also returned once again in "", along with Danielle DiLorenzo. Their places are unknown because the season has not been shown on TV yet.
 Bruce joined Casaya after the episode 2 vote, which is why he did not vote.
 Bruce was not chosen by a tribe. He was sent to Exile Island and would join the tribe that loses a member. He joined Casaya after Melinda was voted off.
All 16 players came on what was later told to be Exile Island for the start of the game. They were divided into four tribes based on their age and gender. Then a Reward Challenge started. With Viveros, Casaya and La Mina winning, the losing tribe, Bayoneta, had to pick one of their own to stay on Exile, who would return in time for the next Immunity Challenge. Through Rock, Paper, Scissors, it was decided among the younger women that Misty would stay at Exile Island. The older tribes did well. Tina's leadership at Casaya helped everyone get chores done. La Mina built a bonfire. However, the two younger tribes could not get anything done. At the first Immunity Challenge, Misty came back from Exile Island and pretended she found the Immunity Idol hidden there, although she didn't need to say that, because Bayoneta finished first. The male tribes La Mina and Viveros finished second and third, and Casaya going to Tribal Council. Back at Casaya, Tina caught a big fish while Ruth-Marie and Melinda wanted to vote off Cirie because they thought she was weak. At Tribal Council, Tina said that her tribemates were much lazier than her, which made everyone want to vote her out. In the end, Ruth-Marie and Melinda chose to keep Cirie in the game and vote out Tina. (3-1)
After a storm, the tribes went to a Reward Challenge and were shocked to learn that the tribes would be switched. The tribes were switched so that there were only two tribes, Casaya and La Mina. Bayoneta and Viveros no longer existed. The new La Mina tribe was Austin, Dan, Misty, Nick, Ruth-Marie, Sally, and Terry. The new Casaya tribe was Aras, Bobby, Cirie, Courtney, Danielle, Melinda, and Shane. With Bruce left over because of the odd number of players, he was given immunity and was sent to Exile Island for three days until tribal council and would join the tribe that lost the next Immunity Challenge. The new La Mina Tribe won the Reward Challenge and was given a raft and fishing supplies. Although they quickly lost their new spear in deep water, La Mina won the Immunity Challenge as well. Before Tribal Council, Shane wanted to quit because of nicotine withdrawal but his new alliance of Aras, Courtney, and Danielle told him to get over it. At Tribal Council (with Bruce watching what was happening on the Jury bench), the five new Casaya members wanted vote out the older women, Cirie and Melinda, with Melinda voted out in a 5-2 vote. After Melinda was voted off, Bruce removed his old orange buff and was then given a new purple buff, joining Casaya and headed back to camp with them.
At Casaya, Bruce used extra T-shirts to make a water filtration system, meaning his tribe did not need to boil the dirty water before drinking it. It was popular with some, but Courtney didn't believe it would work. La Mina won camping essentials and the power to choose which member of Casaya would be sent to Exile Island at the Reward Challenge. They chose Bruce, thinking that him being gone would wreck the tribe. Shane's mood swings continued and started problems among his alliance. Casaya won their first Immunity Challenge, and back at La Mina, Dan and Terry got Nick and Austin to vote Misty. Her lie about getting the Hidden Immunity Idol proved to be untrue; she was voted out 5-2.
Before the Reward Challenge, Bruce, Aras and Shane returned from looking for food to find the rest of their tribe had let the fire go out. After a lesson about responsibility around the campsite, they pulled together and won the Reward Challenge for bathroom and supplies, and chose to send Terry to Exile Island, because they thought he was his team's leader. Bobby started problems with his teammates by not agreeing with how the reward should be used. La Mina tried to organzie their camp, but were having with Terry at Exile Island. Terry found the Hidden Immunity Idol, which he kept as a secret from his teammates after his return. Dan pulled in Ruth Marie as a fifth person in his alliance, but after losing another Immunity Challenge, Sally told the La Mina men that she was a more weaker player. In the end, they thought strength was more important than loyalty as Ruth Marie was voted out 4-2.
Bruce's "Zen Garden" caused problems at Casaya and Aras felt he should have been helping with camp . The tribe that won the reward challenge would get all the items that were used in the challenge: fish, rice, spices, and wine. The losing tribe will not go back to camp with nothing. They were to choose either a sack of rice or a sack of beans. La Mina lost again and Casaya chose Terry to go to Exile Island for the second time in a row. When Casaya came back to camp, they found out that their shelter was destroyed in the storm that happened during the challenge. Since the storm also got rid of their fire and they could not make another one since everything was wet, they just enjoyed what they had and ate the fish raw. Meanwhile, as La Mina ate the beans that they chose from the Reward Challenge, Austin and Nick got stomach problems. The next morning at Casaya, Danielle and Courtney found out that Bruce and Bobby spent the night sleeping in their outhouse, drinking all the wine they had won. At the Immunity Challenge, La Mina built the skull pyramid faster than Casaya, finally winning Immunity. After the immunity challenge, Shane told Bobby that Bruce was the next to go, as his tribe was worried he would join La Mina's alliance when the tribes merged (combine). He told Bobby he wasn't to go by swearing on his son's name; but, Cirie, Courtney and Danielle told him they thought Bruce could be trusted more. At tribal council, Shane voted for Aras as a "throwaway vote" as not to choose either side, the women of Casaya voted for Bobby. He was voted off in a 3-2-1-1 vote.
At La Mina's camp, while Austin and the other men looked for creatures they could eat from the ocean, Dan told Nick about his space flights at NASA. At Casaya, the women were talking about how disrespectful they thought Shane was. In a combined Reward and Immunity challenge Casaya won a barbecue and a trip to a local village, as well as the right to send someone from La Mina to Exile Island. Because the losing tribe would be going to Tribal Council, Sally, the only woman left in La Mina was sent to Exile Island and was given Immunity. She was not allowed to vote at Tribal Council. Although she was alone, she liked how her being gone would break up the men's alliance. Meanwhile, Casaya enjoyed their reward. They rode a boat to a village and gave some toys to children. Shane saw someone smoking and talked about giving up all his clothes just to smoke a cigarette. He ended up smoking after having to stop for a long time. Later the tribe enjoyed barbecue, played soccer, and partied. At Tribal Council, the four men talked about how tight their alliance was, and about the chance of a 2-2 tie vote. In the end, Terry voted with the younger men and Dan was voted off 3-1.
La Mina got treemail that they are to go to Casaya for the tribal merge. Before they came, Shane pulled his tribe together in an agreement to vote out the other Tribe in the next four Tribal Councils. While building a bigger shelter, Nick accidentally chipped Bruce's tooth with a machete, but Bruce was fine. Meanwhile, Terry tried to tell some Casaya members to vote with La Mina, but no one would say yes. At the Immunity Challenge, the survivors hung on a pole with only their hands and feet. Terry won, winning immunity. Before Tribal Council, Bruce named the new tribe "Gitanos", meaning "gypsies" in Spanish. Later that night, Nick, who they thought was the second strongest player (after Terry) was voted out. (6-4)
With Nick voted out, the old La Mina tribe tried to get some old Casaya members to vote with them. At the reward challenge, the players were split into three teams, and Bruce, Aras, and Sally won. Austin and Danielle were sent to Exile Island together, while the winners enjoyed a big breakfast in a rain-soaked bed. At the immunity challenge, the players competed in an obstacle course, with a few players getting removed from the challenge in each round. Terry ended up winning his second second immunity challenge in a row. Back at camp, the old La Mina tribe tried to get Bruce and Danielle to vote with them, the two outcasts of their alliance, to switch to the La Mina alliance. Terry told Danielle that she could have the immunity idol if she switched. At Tribal Council, Danielle and Bruce still voted with Casaya, and, with a 6-3 vote, got rid of Austin.
After another La Mina was voted off, Sally and Terry were trying very hard to keep themselves in the game. At the Reward Challenge, the team of Bruce, Courtney, Sally, and Terry won videos from home, peanut butter & jelly sandwiches, and ice-cold milk. They chose Aras to be sent to Exile Island. Back at the camp, a worried Shane told Cirie, who's a nurse, that he was "having problems" with his testicles (and stripped naked in the process). When the winning team got back, they brought some of their reward with them. At the Immunity Challenge, the players had to choose between a feast of cheeseburgers, fries, and soft drinks or the immunity challenge. Bruce, Cirie, Courtney, Danielle, and Shane chose to feast. Whereas Aras, Sally, and Terry chose to participate. Terry barely won against Aras, with Sally placing third. When the Survivors got back to camp, Sally and Terry were still trying to get members of Casaya to vote with them. Although old La Mina tried, the old Casaya members still said no, and Sally was voted out 6-2.
Terry seemed to become less happy about being outside of the Casaya alliance. In a Reward Challenge where the players voted about the other players, Courtney was shocked to find out that they thought she was the most unpopular of the tribe. By guessing what most of the tribe had chosen for their answers, Cirie won the challenge and sent Terry to Exile Island taking Aras and Danielle to share her reward. Cirie then worried about what effect her decisions might have with the other players. Back at the camp, Courtney was upset because of some of the opinions told in the challenge and Shane was upset because he hadn't been chosen by Cirie for the reward. Shane tried to ally himself with Courtney, but failed. Bruce, who had been sick for many days, had more pain. Finally, he could not take it any longer and asked for medical help. The medical team came and took him out of the game. Later that day, with the Reward winners came back, Jeff Probst brought Terry back to the camp from Exile Island and said that because Bruce was removed, there was no Immunity Challenge or Tribal Council, and Bruce would become a member of the Jury if he was in good enough shape.
The other players continued to worry about Shane's odd behavior: he had found a piece of wood and was pretending it was his BlackBerry and he was sending messages to people back home. At the Reward Challenge, Terry won a 2007 GMC Yukon, and he, Courtney and Danielle won a meal together. During their reward, Terry made a deal with Courtney and Danielle for the three of them to work together. Back at camp, Cirie went fishing and caught a big fish. After returning to camp, Danielle told Terry she was worried that if they were in the final three with Courtney, she thought he would pick Courtney to go to the final two with because she was less popular. Terry told Danielle that if either of them won the final immunity challenge, they would take the second place winner to the final two. When Courtney found out, she became upset because she felt it suggested she was being carried by other players. Terry won his fourth Immunity Challenge in a row, and the old Casaya alliance had to vote out one of their own. Shane thought the alliance wanted to vote out Danielle, but Courtney thought that her new alliance with Danielle, Terry and fourth member Cirie was voting against Aras. Cirie, who didn't like her low position in this alliance started a new alliance with Aras and Danielle to vote against Courtney. With the votes split three ways, Courtney was voted off. (3-2-1)
Players competed in a Reward Challenge of obstacles from past challenges for a visit with loved ones. The winner would choose who gets what with their loved one. Terry won and he choose himself and his wife, along with Shane and his son, Boston, to spend the night at a villa. He also chose Cirie's husband H.B. to spend the night at the camp, Aras to just get a hug from his mother and Danielle to get a few words with her mom from where she was standing. After the loved ones left, the players went to the Immunity challenge. For the fifth time in a row, Terry won immunity. Back at camp, Aras wanted to break his alliance with Shane after finding out that Shane wanted to take Courtney to the final two. Aras then made an alliance with Cirie and Danielle. In the end, Shane was voted off. (3-1-1)
Terry was accidentally tripped by Cirie's torch and yelled at her while she was taking care of the bonfire, but Aras protected her, saying that it was an accident. This left Terry further separated from the rest of the tribe. Aras, having won the Reward Challenge, chose to take Cirie on a luxurious yacht trip through the Panama Canal; but not before leaving with a argument with Terry as he said he was complaining every time he lost challenges and said "disparaging comments about women." Both Terry and Danielle were sent to Exile Island for losing the Challenge. During their trip, Aras and Cirie talked about how they wanted to be in the Final 2 together; while Danielle and Terry also talked about their fate in the game while they were on Exile Island. Soon after returning from their reward, Cirie built her first fire. In the Immunity Challenge, Cirie and Terry were putting up a good fight but Aras ultimately won the challenge, ending Terry's Immunity winning streak. Before the tribal council, Aras apologized for what he had said after the Reward Challenge, which Terry accepted. Meanwhile, Cirie and Danielle practiced making fire, since they thought this would be the tiebreaker if there was a tie. In the end, the guess proved right as the vote did end up tied between Danielle and Cirie. With Terry not wanting to give Danielle the Hidden Immunity Idol, she and Cirie will have a fire-making challenge. However right before they started, the scene was cut, ending this episode leaving the viewers hanging.
After trying many times to start fires that continue to wear out, Danielle won the fire starting tie-breaker, and Cirie was removed from the game. The next morning, Terry showed the now powerless Immunity Idol back at camp, and in a surprise Reward Challenge, he won a protein-enriched meal that would be useful for the last Immunity Challenge. The final three were taken to Exile Island to take part in a tribute to the players voted off before them. The three placed the old torches of the thirteen players on the big skull-shaped shelter in the center of the island and burned it in the process. Danielle won the last immunity after Terry fell off and Aras jumped off after getting a nod from Danielle. Danielle voted out Terry, thinking that she would have a better chance of winning against Aras, and because Aras was a fellow member of the old Casaya tribe. Aras and Danielle got celebrated with a feast the next day. While walking along the beach rocks, Aras fell and sliced open his hand and back, needing eight stitches. At the last Tribal Council, Aras and Danielle were asked questions, from who helped them the most in getting to the Final, as to why the other player deserved the million dollar prize more. Shane, who thought neither of the two deserved the million dollars, asked them to pick a number between one and a million. At the live reunion, Aras had won, in a 5-2 vote, and became the twelfth Sole Survivor.
 Sally was sent to Exile Island during the episode 6 vote, which is why she did not vote.

</doc>
<doc id="219828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219828" title="Germany">
Germany

The Federal Republic of Germany, also called Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland or just Deutschland), is a country in Central Europe. The country's full name is sometimes shortened to the FRG (or the BRD, in German).
To the north of Germany are the North Sea, the Baltic Sea, and the country of Denmark. To the east of Germany are the countries of Poland and the Czech Republic. To the south of Germany are the countries of Austria and Switzerland. To the west of Germany are the countries of France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. The total area of Germany is 357,021 square kilometres (137,847 square miles). The large majority of Germany has warm summers and cool or cold winters. In June 2013, Germany had a population of 80.6 million people. After the United States, Germany is the second most popular country for migration in the world.
Before it was called Germany, it was called Germania. In the years A.D. 900 until 1806, Germany was part of the Holy Roman Empire.
From 1949 to 1990, Germany was made up of two countries called the Federal Republic of Germany (inf. West Germany) and the German Democratic Republic (inf. East Germany). During this time, the capital city of Berlin was divided into a west and an east part. On 13 August 1961, East Germany started building the Berlin Wall between the two parts of Berlin. West Germany was one of the countries that started the European Union.
Germany gained importance as the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation, which was the first Reich, a word translated as empire. It was started by Charlemagne who became the first Holy Roman Emperor in 800 AD, and it lasted until 1806, the time of the Napoleonic Wars.
The Second Reich was started with a treaty in 1871 in Versailles. The biggest state in the new German Empire was Prussia. The rulers were called Kaisers or "German Emperors", but they did not call themselves "Emperors "of" Germany". There were many smaller states in the Empire, but not Austria. Germany stayed an empire for 50 years.
The treaty of unification of Germany was made after Germany won the Franco-Prussian War with France in 1871. In World War I, Germany joined Austria-Hungary, and again declared war on France. The war became slow in the west and became trench warfare. Many men were killed on both sides without winning or losing. In the Eastern Front the soldiers fought with the Russian Empire and won there after the Russians gave up. The war ended in 1918 because the Germans could not win in the west and gave up. Germany's emperor also had to give up his power. France took Alsace from Germany and Poland got the Danzig corridor. After a revolution, the Second Reich ended and the democratic Weimar Republic began.
After the war, there were a lot of problems with money in Germany because of the Peace Treaty of Versailles (which made Germany pay for the costs of World War I) and the worldwide Great Depression.
The Third Reich was Nazi Germany; it lasted 12 years, from 1933 to 1945. It started after Adolf Hitler became the head of government. On 23 March 1933, the Reichstag (parliament) passed the Enabling Act, which let Hitler's government command the country without help from the Reichstag and the presidency. This gave him total control of the country and the government. Hitler in effect became a dictator.
Hitler wanted to unify all Germans in one state, and did this by annexing places where Germans lived, such as Austria and Czechoslovakia; Hitler also wanted the land in Poland that Germany had owned before 1918. Poland refused to give it to him. The invasion of Poland started World War II on 1 September 1939. In the beginning of the war, Germany was winning. It managed to take over much of Europe. However, Germany attacked the Soviet Union in 1941 and, after the Battle of Kursk, the German Eastern Front began a slow retreat until war's end. On 8 May 1945, Germany gave up after Berlin was captured, Hitler had killed himself a week earlier. Because of the war, Germany lost a lot of German land east of the Oder-Neiße line, and for 45 years, Germany was split into West Germany and East Germany.
In 1989 there was a process of reforms in East Germany, which lead to the opening of the Berlin Wall and to the end of socialist rule in Germany. This events are known as the "Wende" or the "Friedliche Revolution" (Peaceful Revolution) in Germany. After that, East Germany joined West Germany in 1990. The new Germany is a part of the European Union.
Germany is a constitutional federal democracy. Its political rules come from the 'constitution' called "Basic Law" ("Grundgesetz"), written by West Germany in 1949. It has a parliamentary system, and the parliament elects the head of government, the Federal Chancellor ("Bundeskanzler"). The current Chancellor, Dr Angela Merkel, is a woman who used to live in East Germany.
The people of Germany vote for the parliament, called the "Bundestag" (Federal Assembly), every four years. Government members of the 16 States of Germany ("Bundesländer") work in the "Bundesrat" (Federal Council). The "Bundesrat" can help make some laws.
The head of state is the "Bundespräsident" (Federal President). This person has no real powers but can order elections for the Bundestag. The current president is Joachim Gauck (Independent).
The judiciary branch (the part of German politics that deals with courts) has a "Bundesverfassungsgericht" (Federal Constitutional Court). It can stop any act by the law-makers or other leaders if they feel they go against Germany's constitution.
The opposition parties are the Alliance '90/The Greens and Die Linke.
Germany is one of the largest countries in Europe. It stretches from the North Sea and Baltic Sea in the north to the high mountains of the Alps in the south. The highest point is the Zugspitze on the Austrian border, at . 
Germany's northern part is very low and flat (lowest point: Neuendorf-Sachsenbande at ). In the middle, there are low mountain ranges covered in large forests. Between these and the Alps, there is another plain created by glaciers during the ice ages.
Germany also contains parts of Europe's longest rivers, such as the Rhine (which makes up a part of Germany's western border, while Oder is on its eastern border), the Danube and the Elbe.
In Germany there are sixteen states ("Bundesländer"):
In these states there are 301 "Kreise" (districts) and 114 independent cities, which do not belong to any district.
Germany has one of the world's largest technologically powerful economies. Bringing West and East Germany together and making their economy work is still taking a long time and costing a lot of money. Germany is the largest economy in Europe. In September 2011, the inflation rate in Germany was 2.5%. The unemployment rate of Germany was 5.5% as of October 2011.
Germany is one of the G8 countries. The main industry area is the Ruhr area.
In Germany live mostly Germans and many ethnic minorities. There are at least seven million people from other countries living in Germany. Some have political asylum, some are guest workers ("Gastarbeiter"), and some are their families. Many people from poor or dangerous countries go to Germany for safety. Many others do not get permission to live in Germany. 
About 50,000 ethnic Danish people live in Schleswig-Holstein, in the north. About 60,000 Sorbs (a Slavic people) live in Germany too, in Saxony and Brandenburg. About 12,000 people in Germany speak Frisian; this language is the closest living language to English. In northern Germany, people outside towns speak Low Saxon.
Many people have come to Germany from Turkey (about 1.9 million Turks and Kurds). Other small groups of people in Germany are Croats (0.2 million), Italians (0.6 million), Greeks (0.4 million), Russians, and Poles (0.3 million). There are also some ethnic Germans who lived in the old Soviet Union (1.7 million), Poland (0.7 million), and Romania (0.3 million). These people have German passports, so they are not counted as foreigners. A lot of these people do not speak German at home.
Christianity is the biggest religion; Protestants are 38% of the people (mostly in the north) and Catholics are 34% of the people (mostly in the south). There are also many Muslims, while the other people (26.3%) are either not religious, or belong to smaller religious groups. In the eastern regions, the former territory of the GDR (known as the "DDR" in German), only one fifth of the population is religious.
Germany has one of the world's highest levels of schooling, technology, and businesses. The number of young people who attend universities is now three times more than it was after the end of World War II, and the trade and technical schools of Germany are some of the best in the world. German income is, on average, $25,000 a year, making Germany a highly middle class society. A large social welfare system gives people money when they are ill, unemployed, or similarly disadvantaged. Millions of Germans travel outside of their country each year.
The english Wikipedia webpage Immigration to Germany has a bit of information, including information for asylum seekers and refugees. Warning: Mainly in 2015 there has been massively wrong information especially in some african, arabic etc. media channels concerning the conditions of coming to and living in Germany. False promises of money, easy living and easy jobs were made.
Germany's constitution says that all people can believe in any religion they want to, and that no one is allowed to discriminate against somebody because of the person's religion.
In ancient times Germany was largely pagan. Roman Catholicism was the biggest religion in Germany up to the 15th century, but a major religious change called the Reformation changed this. In 1517, Martin Luther said that the Catholic Church used religion to make money. Luther started Protestantism, which is as big as the Catholic religion in Germany today. Before World War II, about two-thirds of the German people were Protestant and one-thirds were Roman Catholic. In the north and northeast of Germany, there were a lot more Protestants than Catholics. Today, about two-thirds of German people (more than 55 million people) call themselves Christian, but most of them do not practice it. About half of them are Protestants and about half are Roman Catholics. Most German Protestants are members of the Evangelical Church in Germany. The previous Pope, Benedict XVI, was born in Germany.
Before World War II, about one percent of the country's people were German Jews. Today, Germany has the fastest-growing group of Jewish people in the world. Many of them are in Berlin. Ten thousand Jews have moved to Germany since the fall of the Berlin Wall; many came from countries that were in the Soviet Union. Schools teaching about the horrible things that happened when the Nazis were in power, as well as teaching against the ideas of the Nazis, has helped to make Germany very tolerant towards other people and cultures, and now many people move there from countries that may not be so tolerant.
About three million Muslims live in Germany, 3.7% of the total population. The country also has a large atheist and agnostic population, and there are also Jain, Buddhist and Zoroastrian communities. The 20th century has also seen a neopagan revival.
Germany has a long history of poets, thinkers, artists, and so on. There are 240 supported theaters, hundreds of orchestras, thousands of museums and over 25,000 libraries in Germany. Millions of tourists visit these attractions every year.
Germany has created a high level of gender equality, disability rights, and accepts homosexuality. Gay marriage is somewhat legal in Germany. Germany was rated the second most valuable country in the world, and a global poll showed that Germany has the most positive influence on the world.
Germany is also known for their food. Their food varies from region to region. For example, in the southern regions, such as Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, they share their type of food with Switzerland and Austria. Everywhere in Germany, meat is eaten as a sausage. Even though wine use is increasing, the national alcoholic drink is beer. The number of Germans who drink beer is one of the highest in the world. German restaurants are also rated the second-best, with France rated first place.
Football is the most popular sport in Germany. The national team has won the FIFA World Cup 4 times (1954, 1974, 1990 and 2014), and appears in the finals a lot. The team also has had the most Euro titles than any other country. The top football league in Germany is Bundesliga. Also, the German Football Association ("Deutscher Fußball-Bund") is the largest in the world. Some of the world's best Footballers came from Germany. These would include Miroslav Klose, Oliver Kahn, Gerd Müller, Michael Ballack, Bastian Schweinsteiger, Franz Beckenbauer, and so on. Plus, many tournaments have taken place in Germany. The most recent was the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup. The Audi Cup takes place in Germany every year in Munich.
Germany is also known for its motor sports. The country has made companies like the BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, etc. Successful German racing drivers include Michael Schumacher and Sebastian Vettel.
Successful tennis players have also come from Germany, including Steffi Graf and Boris Becker. More recently, Sabine Lisicki reached the Women's Singles final at Wimbledon in 2013.
Lastly, Germany is one of the best countries in the Olympic Games. Germany is the third in the list of the most Olympic Games medals in history (mixed with West and East Germany medals). The country finished first place in the 2006 Winter Olympics, and second in the 2010 Winter Olympics. Germany got fifth place in the 2008 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="219830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219830" title="Harry Potter">
Harry Potter

The Harry Potter books are a popular series of fantasy books written by J. K. Rowling. The character Harry Potter is the hero in the stories.
Harry Potter is a boy who was born from two loving parents, Lily and James Potter. Harry, like his parents, is a wizard. When Harry was one year old, his parents were killed by a dark (evil) wizard named Lord Voldemort. Voldemort had heard a prophecy that his greatest enemy would be a boy who sounded like Harry. It is later revealed that the prophecy also could have been Neville Longbottom. Voldemort fails to kill Harry and disappears. After the deaths of his parents, he was raised by his non-magical aunt, uncle, and cousin and they didn't treat him well. As a child, he did not know he was a wizard. He eventually discovers that there are many magical people, living secretly and hiding from non-wizards (known as "Muggles"). When Harry turned eleven, he received a letter inviting him to go to a boarding school called Hogwarts for young witches and wizards. Each book tells the story of one year of his life at the school. At school, he meets Ron and Hermione, his two best friends, along with many other characters. Voldemort tries several times to return, before finally succeeding in the fourth book. The series revolves around Harry trying to defeat Voldemort for good.
There are seven books. A series of eight movies based on the novels has been made by Warner Bros. They started making the movies in 2001. The first one was released on November 16th 2001. The second, third, fourth, and fifth were released respectively on 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2007. The sixth movie, Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince, was released on July 7, 2009. The final movie was divided into two parts. The first part, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1", was released in late November, 2010. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 was released in July, 2011.
Please note that the following Wikipedia post may reveal spoilers.
"Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Parts I & II," is a new play based on a new story by J.K Rowling, Jack Thorne, and John Tiffany. It is billed as being the "eighth story, nineteen years later." It stars Jamie Parker as Harry, Noma Dumezweni as Hermione, and Paul Thornley as Ron.
The play officially opens July 30, 2016 at the Palace Theatre in London.

</doc>
<doc id="219832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219832" title="Spain">
Spain

Spain is a country in Southern Europe. It is in the Iberian Peninsula near Portugal and Gibraltar. France and the country of Andorra are on its northeast side, where the Pyrenees mountains are.
The people of Spain are called "Spaniards". Most people there speak Spanish (in Spanish, "Castellano", from "Castilla", or "Español") but there are other languages in different parts of the country. They are Catalan, Basque, and Galician, Leonese, Aragonese, Aranese Occitan and even Portuguese. The religion of most of the people in Spain is Roman Catholic.
Since 1975, Spain has had a "king" who only does what the constitution allows him to. For example, the king can declare a war, but only if the Government asks him to do so. The parliament is called "Las Cortes Generales", and has two bodies: "El Congreso" (The Congress) and "El Senado" (The Senate) and it is chosen by the Spanish people by voting. This kind of government is called a constitutional monarchy. The King of Spain is Felipe VI. The Prime minister is Mariano Rajoy.
The government and the king's palace are in Madrid, the capital of Spain.
Spain has more than five hundred thousand square kilometres of land. It is smaller than France, but it is bigger than Sweden or Germany. Almost fifty million people live in Spain.
Spain has 17 parts called autonomous communities (this means that they can decide upon some affairs themselves). Each part has its own government.
People have lived in Spain for a long time. There have been people living there since the Stone Age. Some of the first people to live there were Iberians and Celts, and the Phoenicians made a few cities there to get tin and silver to trade. Later, the Roman Empire controlled Spain for about five hundred years; then as the Roman Empire broke up, groups of Germanic people called Visigoths, Suebi, Alans and Vandals moved into the Iberian Peninsula and took it over.
In 711, the Umayyads took over, and later groups from North Africa, called the Moors, ruled most of Spain for eight hundred years, they called the land Al-Andalus. They were Muslims, and Muslim Spain was the farthest western point of Islamic civilization. This civilization was quite advanced at architecture and urban planning. The Moors were very wealthy because they controlled the gold trade from the Ghana Empire in West Africa. They built many beautiful buildings in all the land they controlled. Many of their large buildings still stand in cities in Andalusia, such as in Seville, Granada, and Cordoba.
Muslim Spain was multicultural and tolerant; Jews, Christians and Muslims lived side by side. There was also a large Slavic population ("saqaliba") near the Mediterranean coast. Though these people were at first brought in to be slaves, some of them became generals (as did some Mamluks in another caliphate) and some generals became rulers of their own cities ("taifas") for a short time. The Caliphate of Córdoba fell apart in the early 11th century and Muslim rulers sometimes fought each other when they weren't fighting the Christians. Muslim Spain was focused on learning. The greatest library system outside Baghdad was also there.
The Kingdom of León, the most important in early Spanish Middle Ages, was born in 910. This Kingdom developed the first democratic parliament (Cortes de Llión) in Europe in 1188, where the third state was represented, and developed an economic system in 1202 where the monetary system was fixed. After 1301, León had the same King as the Kingdom of Castile, and kept as an independent territory until 1833, when Spain was divided into regions and provinces.
In 1492, they took the last part of Spain that still belonged to the Moors, Granada. Boabdil, the last Moorish King of Granada, surrendered to King Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile on 2 January 1492. It was Ferdinand and Isabella of Castile who now ruled all of Spain.
Before this, there were a number of Christian countries in what is now called Spain. Two of these countries, Castile and Aragon, came together when Ferdinand II of Aragon married the queen Isabella of Castile. It is very important to know that the King ruled as much as the Queen.
In the same year, 1492, they sent Christopher Columbus to sail across the Atlantic Ocean. Columbus found the islands of the Caribbean Sea.
When other European sailors explored, like Hernán Cortés and Francisco Pizarro, they found out that there were two continents there - North America and South America. Spain sent many soldiers and businessmen to North and South America, and they took over very large parts of those two continents. This empire did not make Spain a rich country, for most of the money had to be spent in wars. Many of these wars were fought against other European countries who were trying to take over parts of the Americas.
Meanwhile, at home, the Muslim manuscripts had been either burnt or taken to other countries. Jews had also been expelled from Spain. Some Jews remained but they had to become Christians. Among the few things kept and respected in Spain were in music: harmony and stringed instruments. The buildings that had been built by the Moors were kept, and many Muslim religious buildings (mosques) were turned into churches. Some Jewish religious buildings were also turned into churches. Many Arab words became part of the Spanish Language.
The grandson of Ferdinand and Isabella, Charles, at the death of his grandfather inherited Castille and Aragon, he also inherited many territories at the death of his grandfather Maximilian I of Austria. Charles received from Maximilian the Austria state and the territories of Burgundy. He was named Charles I in Spain, but he was elected as the emperor of the Sacred German Empire, and was called Charles V in this territory. This made the empire bigger than ever. However, it was not a single country, but many independent countries with a single King. At first many Spaniards did not want Charles be their king, so they fought against him. However, he won.
Charles did not like the Protestant Reformation that was happening in Europe, and fought against it.
In the 18th century some of the parts of that large empire became their own countries, or were taken over by new countries, such as the United States of America.
Spain (and other European countries) was invaded by Napoleon of France. Spain, Britain and Europe sent its troops to defend the peninsula, since it was so weak.
There was not much peace in Spain during the first part of the 20th century. Some Spaniards tried to set up a government chosen by the people (a democracy), and they made Alfonso XIII leave the country. However, in 1936, two different groups of Spaniards went to war over whether the government should be a democracy, in the Spanish Civil War (although those on the side of the Republic were largely socialist or anarchist), or take orders from one person. In 1939, those who wanted democracy were defeated, and a nationalist dictator named Francisco Franco took over the government.
Francisco Franco died on 20 November 1975. He had decided that Spain should have a monarchy again, and he chose Juan Carlos, the grandson of Juan of Bourbon who had been forced to leave the country, to be king and Adolfo Suárez to become its first Prime Minister. But the king and Suárez did not rule as a dictator; instead, they chose to set up a democracy.
On 23 February 1981 a group of people who had supported the now dead General Franco tried to take control of the democratic Spanish Parliament by force, they entered the building and fired guns in the air. It was seen live on Spanish television and there was widespread fear that this might be the start of another civil war. However, Juan Carlos I, quickly appeared on television and broadcast to the nation that they should remain calm. The persons responsible for the attempt to take over the country were arrested.
Now Spain is a modern democratic country, and does business with many countries around the world. It is the eighth largest economy in the world and is an important part of the European Union.
On 2 June 2014, Juan Carlos I announced that he would abdicate in favour of his son, Felipe VI. The date of abdication and handover to Felipe occurred on 19 June 2014. He and his wife kept their titles.
Ancient religions in Spain were mostly pagan. Today, however, at least 94 percent of Spain is Roman Catholic. Spanish mystic Teresa of Ávila is an important figure within Catholicism. The second largest Christian group is Orthodox. Other religions represented include Muslim, Baha'i Buddhists, Jain, Zoroastrianism and Unitarian Universalism. The country also has large atheist and agnostic communities.
The middle of Spain is a high, dry, flat land called La Meseta. In La Meseta it can be very hot in the summer and cold or very cold in the winter. Spain also has many mountain ranges. The Mount Teide (Tenerife, Canary Islands), the highest mountain of Spain and the islands of the Atlantic (it is the third largest volcano in the world from its base). In the north there is a range of mountains called "Los Picos de Europa" (The European Peaks). Here it is very cold in winter with a lot of snow but with gentle warm summers.
In the south-east of the country is a range of mountains called "La Sierra Nevada" (The Snowy Mountains). This range of mountains contains the highest mountain in mainland Spain, Mulacen, at 2952 metres. La Sierra Nevada is very popular in winter for winter sports, especially skiing. Snow remains on its peaks throughout the year. The south coast, has a warm and temperate climate, not very hot or very cold. Since Spain is in the south of Europe, it is very sunny. Many people from Northern Europe take their vacations in Spain, enjoying its beaches and cities.
Spain has a border with Portugal in the west and borders with France and Andorra in the North. In the south, it borders Gibraltar, a British territory. The Spanish territories of Ceuta and Melilla are in North Africa and border onto Morocco.
Spain is divided into Autonomous Communities, which means that they have their own regional governments. They are Andalucía (capital city Seville), Aragon (capital city Zaragoza), Asturias (capital city Oviedo), Balearic Islands (capital city Palma de Mallorca), Basque Country (capital city Vitoria), Canary Islands (capital cities Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas), Cantabria (capital city Santander), Castilla-La Mancha (capital city Toledo), Castile and Leon (capital city Valladolid), Catalonia (capital city Barcelona), Extremadura (capital city Merida), Galicia (capital city Santiago de Compostela), La Rioja (capital city Logrono), Madrid Community (capital city Madrid), Murcia Community (capital city Murcia), Navarra (capital city Pamplona) and the Valencia Community (capital city Valencia).
In Spain, many people live in cities or close to cities. The ten biggest city areas are:
While Spanish is the most spoken language in the country, other languages like Catalan, Basque or Galician are also spoken in a few territories.

</doc>
<doc id="219834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219834" title="World War I">
World War I

World War I (or the First World War) was a global war which began on July 28, 1914 and lasted until November 11, 1918. The war lasted exactly four years, three months and 14 days. 
Most of the fighting was in Europe, but soldiers from many other countries took part, and it changed the colonial empires of the European powers. Before World War II began in 1939, World War I was called the Great War, the World War or the 'war to end all wars'. 135 countries took part in World War I, and more than 15 million people died while fighting. 
World War I was fought by most of the countries of Europe. The actual fighting was on many different fronts. The Western Front was where most of the fighting between Germany and the Allies happened. Most of the fighting here was trench warfare. 
The Eastern Front was fought in Central and Eastern Europe and was one of the main places where World War I took place. The fighting on the Eastern Front was not trench warfare like it was on the Western Front, but instead depended on having front lines of soldiers ready to fight the enemy. The other fronts that had a lot of fighting include the Middle Eastern Front and the Italian Front. Fighting also took place in Africa, China, and at sea as well as in the air.
The war was ended by the signing of many different treaties, the most important being the Treaty of Versailles.
World War I was the first major war where tanks, aeroplanes, and submarines or underwater boats (U-boats) were used as weapons.
In the organization, one person who strongly supported Serbian power sent men to kill Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. They all failed to kill him with grenades while he passed through a large crowd but one of these men, a Serbian student named Gavrilo Princip, shot him and his pregnant wife with a pistol.
Austria-Hungary blamed Serbia for the assassination. Germany, which supported Austria-Hungary, said that they should make a list of things that Serbia should do as punishment for killing the Archduke. Austria-Hungary was very strict with these rules, possibly because they wanted an excuse to start the war. Though Serbia agreed to most of the ten things on the list, they could not agree to them all. Austria-Hungary then declared war on Serbia. This quickly led to a full-scale war. Both countries' allies became involved in the war.
Russia joined the war on Serbia's side because the people of Serbia were Slavic, like Russia, and the Slavic countries had agreed to help each other if they were attacked. Since Russia is a large country it had to move soldiers closer to the war, but Germany feared that Russia's soldiers would also attack Germany. Russia did not like Germany because of things Germany had done in the past to become stronger. Germany declared war on Russia, and began to carry out a plan created long before to fight a war in Europe. Because Germany is in the middle of Europe, Germany could not attack to the east towards Russia without weakening itself in the west, towards France. Germany's plan involved quickly defeating France in the west before Russia was ready to fight, and then moving her armies to the east to face Russia. Germany could not quickly invade France directly, because France had put a lot of forts on the border, so Germany invaded the neighboring country of Belgium to then invade France through the undefended French/Belgian border.
Great Britain then joined the war because Great Britain had agreed to help Belgium if it were ever attacked by someone else.
Soon most of Europe became involved.
Germany was friends with Austria-Hungary. Russia was friends with Serbia. The German government was afraid that because Austria-Hungary had attacked Serbia, Russia would attack Austria-Hungary to help Serbia. Because of this, Germany felt it had to help Austria-Hungary by attacking Russia first, before it could attack Austria-Hungary. 
The problem was that Russia was also friends with France, and the Germans thought the French might attack them to help Russia. So the Germans decided that they could win the war if they attacked France first, and quickly. They could mobilize very quickly. They had a list of all the men who had to join the army, and where those men had to go, and the times of every train that would carry those men to where they would have to fight. France was doing the same thing, but could not do it as quickly. The Germans thought that if they attacked France first, they could 'knock France' out of the war before Russia could attack them.
Russia had a big army, but Germany thought that it would take six weeks to mobilize and a long time before they could attack the Central Powers. That wasn't true, because the Russian Army mobilized in ten days. Also, the Russians drove deep into Austria.
Great Britain was allied with Belgium, and became quickly involved in the war. Germany attacked Belgium to reach Paris before Russia could mobilize and open up a second front against them. On August 4, 1914, Britain declared war against Germany in support of Belgium. Britain had the biggest empire (it ruled over a quarter of the world). If Germany conquered France, it might take Britain and France's colonies and become the most powerful and biggest empire in the world. 
Britain was also worried about Germany's growing military power. Germany was developing its large army into one of the most powerful in the world. The British Army was quite small. The British Royal Navy was the largest and best in the world, and in the 19th century that was enough to keep other naval powers from attacking. Germany was a land power, and Britain was a sea power. But now the Germans were building a large navy. This was seen as a threat to Britain. However, the decision to declare war was taken under its alliance with Belgium in the Treaty of London (1839). The Government might have decided differently. No-one foresaw how long the war would last, and what the terrible costs would be.
The Ottoman empire (Turkey) went into the war because it was allied to Germany and two Turkish warships manned by German Navy personnel bombarded Russian towns. 
Britain also fought against Turkey because the Ottoman Empire was supporting Germany; it had no real bad feelings against the Turks. However, by fighting the Turks in the Mesopotamia region (in what is now called Iraq), in the Arabian Peninsula and other places, Britain was able to defeat them with help from the British Indian Army. Later, after the War ended, Britain was able to get some areas from the old Turkish empire which was breaking up, and to add them to the British Empire.
Greece went into the war because its leader supported the Allied cause. Greece and Serbia had become independent, but many Greeks still lived in lands that were once Greek but were now in the Turkish Ottoman Empire. Having recently won the Balkan Wars, the Greeks especially wanted to control other land to the north that was under Bulgarian and Turkish rule, so they declared war. Turkey killed most of the Greek army as the Greeks tried to regain parts of Turkey. Another war started when the Greeks bombed a train. Turkey swept Greece back into their own territory. From then on the Greeks never again declared war, while Turkey had one of the biggest armies in the world.
Bulgaria, like Greece and Serbia, was owned by Turkey before, got its freedom and took a lot of Turkish land. When Bulgaria took this land, a short time before the war, the Serbians and Greeks felt cheated because the Bulgarians got a lot of land which they felt was Greek or Serbian. The Greeks and Serbians took back Bulgarian land and irritated Bulgaria, which made Bulgaria become friends with Turkey. They declared war on Serbia and Greece. Serbia and Greece won.
Romania was on the side of the Central powers until 1916, when they were forced into the war by the Allied powers.
Most people thought the war would be short. They thought the armies would move around quickly to attack each other and one would defeat the other without too many people getting killed. They thought the war would be about brave soldiers — they did not understand how war had changed. Only a few people like Lord Kitchener said that the war would take a long time.
Germany's generals had decided that the best way to defeat France was to go through Belgium using a plan called the "Schlieffen Plan". This was invented by the German Army Chief of Staff, Alfred Von Schlieffen. They could then attack the French army at the north side and the south side at the same time. The German Army went into Belgium on August the 4th. On the same day, Great Britain started a war on Germany, because Britain was a friend of Belgium. The British had said some time before, in 1839, that they would not let anyone control Belgium, and they kept their promise.
When the Germans got to the Belgian city of Liège, the Belgians fought very hard to stop them from coming into the city. The Germans did finally push the Belgians out of the city, but it had taken longer than the German generals had planned. Then the Germans attacked the north side of the French army. The French and the British moved men up to fight the Germans. They could do this because the Belgians had fought so long at Liège. But the Germans pushed the French back at the frontiers, and the British held the Germans back at Mons, but afterwards they also fell back to join up with the retreating French army, until they were stopped at the river Marne. This was the First Battle of the Marne or "Miracle of the Marne.
In the East, the Russians had attacked the Germans. The Russians pushed back the Germans, but then the Germans defeated the Russians at the Battle of Tannenberg.
Trench warfare killed great numbers of soldiers. New weapons, such as machine guns, and long-range artillery had an increased rate of fire that cut down huge numbers of soldiers during mass charges, a tactic leftover from older warfare. The men on both sides took spades and dug holes, because they did not want to be killed. The holes joined up into trenches, until the lines of trenches went all the way from Switzerland to the North Sea. In front of the trenches, there was barbed wire that cut anyone who tried to climb over it, and land mines that blew up anyone who tried to cross. Late in the war, poison gas was also an important weapon.
The new machine guns, artillery, trenches and mines made it very difficult to attack. The generals had fought many wars without these, so they ordered their armies to attack in the old style of marching in rows- allowing the enemy to shoot them down easily. At the Battle of the Somme in 1916 60,000 British men died in a single day. It was one of the bloodiest days in the history of the British army. Late in the war the British and French invented tanks and used them to attack entrenched Germans but could not make enough of them to make a big difference. The Germans invented special Sturmabteilung tactics to infiltrate enemy positions, but they also were too little, too late.
The British used whistles to communicate to other soldiers, so before they shelled the German trenches, they would sound the whistle. However, the Germans caught on to this tactic after a while, so after the shelling, when the British soldiers came to finish off the German soldiers, the Germans were ready with their machine guns, because they knew the British were coming.
Airplanes were first used extensively in World War I. Airplanes were not used very much in fighting before World War I. It was the first war to use airplanes as weapons. Airplanes were first used for reconnaissance, to take pictures of enemy land and to direct artillery. Generals, military leaders, were using airplanes as an important part of their attack plans at the end of the war. World War I showed that airplanes could be important war weapons.
Airplanes in World War I were made of wood and canvas, a type of rough cloth. They did not last for a long time. They could not fly very fast at the beginning of the war. They could only fly up to 116 kilometers per hour, or 72 miles per hour. At the end of the war they could fly up to 222 kilometers per hour, or 138 miles per hour. But they could not fly as fast as planes today. Guns were put on planes for the first time during the war. Pilots, people who fly the plane, used the guns to shoot enemy planes. One pilot used metal sheets, pieces of metal, to armor his airplane. Other pilots began using metal sheets, too. Pilots also made their airplanes better with machine guns, guns that shoot bullets much faster. Machine guns made fighting harder and more dangerous between airplanes.
Pilots had to wear certain clothes when flying an airplane in World War I because they flew high where the air is cold. The pilot's clothes kept them warm and protected them from the wind and cold. Pilots wore a leather coat to protect their bodies. They wore a padded helmet and goggles, large glasses with special lenses, to protect their head and face. They wore a scarf around their neck. The scarf kept the wind from blowing against their neck when they turned their head.
The German leaders decided to use submarines. These submarines were named U-boats, from the German word Unterseeboot (meaning underwater boat). The U-boats attacked passenger ships such as RMS Lusitania carrying civilians to Great Britain, and did not follow the laws of war. The Germans thought America was selling weapons to the British only, and not being neutral. "Neutral" means a country is not involved in the war. But many American and British noncombatants were killed by the submarines. 
Germany also wrote a secret telegram note to Mexico in code suggesting that the two countries work together to attack the United States. This note is called the Zimmerman Telegram because the person who sent it was named Arthur Zimmerman. It offered Mexico land in the southwestern United States that the United States took in previous wars. Spies from the United Kingdom found out about the note and told the United States. American people became angry and many decided that they wanted their country to enter the war against Germany. For these and other reasons, on April 6, 1917 the United States declared war against Germany and became part of the Allies.
The defeat of Russia on the Eastern Front (World War I) caused unrest inside the Empire. 
In 1917, there was a revolution in Russia. The Tsar Nicholas II had to say he would not be Tsar any more, and that the people should have power. At first it was thought that Russia would fight harder now that the Tsar was gone. However, the Russian people didn't want to fight anymore, because there was not sufficient food, appropriate armament, or adequate roads to supply its army. The war had been putting burdens on them, and many of them were poor and hungry. They began to hate their new government because it wouldn't stop the war.
Then, there was the October Revolution. Two factions fought to rule over Russia. The Mensheviks lost against the Bolsheviks. The leader of the Bolsheviks was Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924) a Communist who followed the ideas of Karl Marx. The new government asked the Germans for peace and signed a peace treaty called Brest-Litovsk with the Central Powers in March 1918 at the city of Brest-Litovsk. The Germans and Russians stopped fighting. This gave Germany land in Eastern Europe and the Baltic Sea.
After the war, the Germans had to agree to the Treaty of Versailles. Germany had to pay approximately $31.5 billion in reparations. They also had to take responsibility for the war. Part of the treaty said the countries of the world should come together to make an international organization to stop wars from happening. This organization was called the League of Nations. The United States Senate didn't agree with this, even though it was the idea of the US president, Woodrow Wilson. Woodrow Wilson tried to tell the American people that they should agree, but the United States never joined the League of Nations. Problems with the Treaty in Germany would later lead to the Second World War.

</doc>
<doc id="219837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219837" title="World War II">
World War II

World War II (WWII), also called the Second World War, was a global war. It took place from 1939–1945. Most of the world's countries, including all the great powers, fought as part of two military alliances: the Allies and the Axis. The war was fought as a "total war", meaning all resources a country had were used in the war, even those that didn't belong to the army, such as factories. It involved more countries, cost more money, and killed more people than any other war in human history. Between 30 and 50 million people died. The majority were civilians.
The start of the war is usually said to be the German invasion of Poland on 1st September 1939. Some sources count the Japanese invasion of China on 7 July 1937, as the start. The United States reacted to the Japanese invasion of China by placing an embargo on Japan. France and Britain reacted to the German invasion of Poland by declaring war on Germany. By 1941, most of Europe was under German control. Only Britain remained fighting against the Axis in North Africa, the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic. In June 1941, the Axis Powers invaded the Soviet Union, starting the largest theatre of war in history. This would harm the Axis military power greatly. In December 1941, Japan attacked Western colonies in the Pacific.
The Japanese victories were stopped in 1942, and the European Axis victories were also stopped by 1943, both in North Africa and in the Soviet Union. After that, the Allies started to fight back from all sides. The Axis lost North Africa and, starting in 1943, were forced to defend Italy. In 1944, the Allies invaded France, heading towards Germany, while the Soviets kept closing in from the East. Germany surrendered in May 1945. Japan formally surrendered on 2 September 1945. The war ended with the Allied victory.
After the war, the United Nations was set up to develop support between countries and to prevent future wars. The Cold War took place between the two superpowers, the Soviet Union and the United States, but they did not fight each other in an actual war. Decolonization of Asia and Africa, where those countries controlled by European countries were given their independence, happened as well. This was because European power was weakened from the war. Economic recovery and the political integration (the process of uniting countries) were among other results of the war.
The countries that joined the war were on one of two sides: the Axis and the Allies.
The Axis Powers at the start of the war were Germany, Italy and Japan. There were many meetings to create the alliance between these countries. Finland, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Thailand joined the Axis later. As the war continued, some Axis countries changed to join the Allies instead.
The Allied Powers were the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth members, France, Poland, Yugoslavia, Greece, Belgium and China at the start of the war. In June 1941, the Soviet Union joined the Allies, after Germany attacked it. On 11 December 1941, four days after Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, the United States joined the Allies.
World War I had greatly changed the way of diplomacy and politics in Asia, Europe, and Africa with the defeat of the Central Powers. Empires which sided with the Central Powers were destroyed. The Russian Empire, which did not side with the Central Powers, died as well. The war also changed the borders in Eastern Europe, with many new countries born. The war led to strong irredentism and revanchism in Europe. These senses were especially strong in Germany, which had no choice but to sign the Treaty of Versailles. The Germans also had 13% of their homeland area and all colonies taken away, and they had to pay back a very large sum of money to the Allies. The size of their army and navy was also limited, while its air force was completely banned. Lenin died and Stalin succeeded him as leader of the Soviet Union.
In Italy, nationalists were unhappy with the outcome of the war, thinking that their country should have gained far more territory from the past agreement with the Allies. The fascist movement in the 1920s brought Mussolini to the leadership of the country. He promised to make Italy a great power by creating its colonial empire.
After the Kuomintang (KMT), the governing party of China, unified the country in the 1920s, the civil war between it and its past ally Communist Party of China began. In 1931, Japan used the Mukden Incident as a reason to take Manchuria and set up its puppet state, Manchukuo, while the League of Nations could not do anything to stop it. The Tanggu Truce, a ceasefire, was signed in 1933. In 1936, the KMT and the communists agreed to stop fighting against each other to fight Japan instead. In 1937, Japan started a Second Sino-Japanese War to take the rest of China.
After the German Empire was disestablished, the democratic Weimar Republic was set up. There were disagreements between the Germans which involved many political ideologies, ranging from nationalism to communism. The fascist movement in Germany rose because of the Great Depression. Adolf Hitler, leader of the Nazi Party, became the Chancellor in 1933. After the Reichstag fire, Hitler created a totalitarian state, where there is only one party by law. Hitler wanted to change the world order and quickly rebuilt the army, navy and air force, especially after Saarland was reunited in 1935. In March 1936, Hitler sent the army to Rhineland. The Spanish Civil War began in July 1936. The war ended with the nationalist victory, supported by Italy and Germany.
In March 1938, Germany sent its army into Austria, which had only a little reaction from European countries. Shortly after that, the Allies agreed to give Sudetenland, part of Czechoslovakia, to Germany, so that Hitler would promise to stop taking more land. But the rest of the country was either forced to surrender or invaded by March 1939. The Allies now tried to stop him, by promising to help Poland if it was attacked. Just before the war, Germany and the Soviet Union signed a peace agreement, agreeing that they would not attack each other for ten years. In the secret part of it, they agreed to divide Eastern Europe between them.
World War II began on 1st September 1939, as Germany invaded Poland. On 3 September, Britain, France, and the members of the Commonwealth declared war on Germany. They could not help Poland much and only sent a small French attack on Germany from the West. The Soviet Union invaded eastern Poland soon after Germany, on 17 September. Finally, Poland was divided.
Germany then signed an agreement to work together with the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union forced the Baltic countries to allow it to keep Soviet soldiers in their countries. Finland did not accept the Soviet call for its land, so it was attacked in November 1939. With peace, the world war broke out. France and Britain thought that the Soviet Union might enter the war on the side of Germany and drove the Soviet Union out of the League of Nations.
After Poland was defeated, the "Phoney War" began in Western Europe. While British soldiers were sent to the Continent, there were no big battles fought between two sides. Then, in April 1940, Germany decided to attack Norway and Denmark so that it would be safer to transport iron ore from Sweden. The British and French sent an army to disrupt the German occupation, but had to leave when Germany invaded France. Chamberlain was replaced by Churchill as Prime Minister of United Kingdom in May 1940 because the British were unhappy with his work.
On 10 May, Germany invaded France, Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg and quickly defeated them by using blitzkrieg tactics. The British were forced to leave mainland Europe at Dunkirk. On 10 June, Italy invaded France, declaring war on France and the United Kingdom. Soon after that, France was divided into occupation zones. One was directly controlled by Germany and Italy, and the other was unoccupied Vichy France.
By June 1940, the Soviet Union moved its soldiers into the Baltic States and took over them, followed by some parts of Romania. Although there had been some collaboration between the Soviet Union and Germany earlier, this event made it serious. Later, when the two could not agree to work more closely together, relationships between them became worse to the point of war.
Then Germany began an air battle over Britain to prepare for a landing on the island, but the plan was finally canceled in September. The German Navy succeeded in destroying the British ships transporting goods in the Atlantic. Italy, by this time, had begun its operation in the Mediterranean. The United States, which had not joined the war on either side, started to help the Allies. By helping to protect British ships in the Atlantic, the United States found itself fighting German ships by October 1941, although this was not a formal war.
In September 1940, Italy began to invade British-held Egypt. In October, Italy invaded Greece, but it only resulted in an Italian retreat to Albania. Again, in early 1941, an Italian army was pushed from Egypt to Libya in Africa. Germany soon helped Italy. Under Rommel's command, by the end of April 1941, the Commonwealth army was pushed back to Egypt again. Other than North Africa, Germany also successfully invaded Greece, Yugoslavia and Crete by May. Despite these victories, Hitler decided to cancel the bombing of Britain after 11 May.
At the same time, Japan's progress in China was still not much, although the nationalist and communist Chinese began fighting each other again. Japan was planning to take over European colonies in Asia while they were weak, and the Soviet Union could feel a danger from Germany, so a non-aggression pact (which was an agreement that both countries would not attack each other) between the two was signed in April 1941. However, Germany kept preparing an attack on the Soviet Union, moving its soldiers close to the Soviet border.
On 22 June 1941, the European Axis countries attacked the Soviet Union. During the summer, the Axis quickly captured Ukraine and the Baltic regions, which caused huge damage to the Soviets. Britain and the Soviet Union formed a military alliance between them in July. Although there was great progress in the last two months, when winter arrived, the tired German army was forced to delay its attack just outside Moscow. It showed that the Axis had failed its main targets, while the Soviet army was still not weakened. This marked the end of the blitzkrieg stage of the war.
By December, the Red Army facing the Axis army had received more soldiers from the east. It began a counter-attack that pushed the German army to the west. The Axis lost a lot of soldiers but it still saved most of the land it received before.
By November 1941, the Commonwealth counter-attacked the Axis in North Africa and got all the land it lost before. However, the Axis pushed the Allies back again until stopped at El Alamein.
In Asia, German successes encouraged Japan to call for oil supplies from the Dutch East Indies. Many Western countries reacted to the occupation of French Indochina by banning oil trading with Japan. Japan planned to take over European colonies in Asia to create a great defensive area in the Pacific which would let it free to get resources. But before any future invasion, it first had to destroy the American Pacific Fleet in the Pacific Ocean. On 7 December 1941, it attacked Pearl Harbor as well as many harbors in several South East Asian countries. This event led the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Western Allies and China to declare war on Japan, while the Soviet Union remained neutral. Most of the Axis nations reacted by declaring war on the United States.
By April 1942, many South East Asian countries: Burma, Malaya, the Dutch East Indies and Singapore, had almost fallen to the Japanese. In May 1942, the Philippines fell. The Japanese navy had many quick victories. But in June 1942, Japan was defeated at Midway. Japan could not take more land after this because a large part of its navy was destroyed during the battle.
Japan then began its plan to take over Papua New Guinea again, while the United States planned to attack the Solomon Islands. The fight on Guadalcanal began in September 1942 and involved a lot of troops and ships from both sides. It ended with the Japanese defeat in early 1943.
On the Eastern Front, the Axis defeated Soviet attacks during summer and began its own main offensive to southern Russia along Don and Volga Rivers in June 1942, trying to take over oil fields in Caucasus and a great steppe. Stalingrad was in the path of the Axis army, and the Soviets decided to defend the city. By November the Germans had nearly taken Stalingrad, however the Soviets were able to surround the Germans during winter and forced the heavily lost German army in the city to surrender in February 1943. Even though the front was pushed back further than it was before the summer attacks, the German army still had become dangerous to an area around Kursk.
In August 1942, because of the Allied defense at El Alamein, the Axis army failed to take the town. A new Allied offensive, drove the Axis west across Libya a few months later, just after the Anglo-American invasion of French North Africa forced it to join the Allies. This led to Axis defeat in the North African Campaign May 1943.
In the Soviet Union, on 4 July 1943, Germany started an attack around Kursk. Many German soldiers were lost because of the Soviets' well-created defenses. Hitler canceled the attack before any clear outcome. The Soviets then started their own counter-attack, which was one of the turning points of the war. After this, the Soviets became the attacking force on the Eastern Front, instead of the Germans.
On 9 July 1943, affected by the earlier Soviet victories, the Western Allies landed on Sicily. This resulted in the arrest of Mussolini in the same month. In September 1943, the Allies invaded mainland Italy, following the Italian armistice with the Allies. Germany then took control of Italy and disarmed its army, and built up many defensive lines to slow the Allied invasion down. German special forces then rescued Mussolini, who then soon created the German-occupied client state, Italian Social Republic.
In early 1944, the Soviet army drove off the German army from Leningrad, ending the longest and deadliest siege in history. After that, the Soviets began a big counter-attack. By May, the Soviets had retaken Crimea. With the attacks in Italy from September 1943, the Allies succeeded in capturing Rome on 4 June 1944, and made the German forces fall back.
On D-Day, 6 June 1944, the Allies began the invasion of Normandy, France. The code name for the invasion was "Operation Overlord". The landings were successful, and led to the defeat of the German forces in France. Paris was liberated in August 1944 and the Allies continued eastward while the German front collapsed. On 22 June, the great Soviet offensive, codenamed "Operation Bagration", almost destroyed the German Army Group Centre. Soon the Germans were forced to defend Ukraine and Poland. Arriving Soviet troops caused uprisings against German government in Eastern European countries, but all of those failed to succeed unless helped by the Soviets. Then another Soviet offensive forced Romania and Bulgaria to join the Allies. Communist Serbs partisans under Josip Broz Tito retook Belgrade with some help from Bulgaria and the Soviet Union.
Operation Market-Garden was the combined aerial invasion of the Netherlands launched on September 17th with the purpose of seizing a series of bridges that ultimately included the bridge at Arnhem which spanned the Rhine itself. Market was the airborne aspect, Garden was the ground invasion itself that ultimately reached the Rhine, not being able to take the bridge itself.
In the Eastern Front, on 22 June, the great Soviet offensive, codenamed "Operation Bagration", almost destroyed the German Army Group Centre. Soon the Germans were forced to defend Ukraine and Poland. Arriving Soviet troops caused uprisings against German government in Eastern European countries, but all of those failed to succeed unless helped by the Soviets. Then another Soviet offensive forced Romania and Bulgaria to join the Allies. Communist Serbs partisans under Josip Broz Tito retook Belgrade with some help from Bulgaria and the Soviet Union. By early 1945, the Soviets attacked many German-occupied countries: Greece, Albania, Yugoslavia and Hungary. Finland switched to the side of the Soviets and Allies.
On 16 December 1944, the Germans tried for the last time to win on the Western Front by attacking the Allies in the Ardennes, Belgium, known as the Battle of the Bulge, which was also the last major German attack of the war, yet it failed every target. But it also made clear that the Allies could not be won in a short period of time, as predicted, because of immense German defense efforts.
By March 1945, the Soviet army moved quickly from Vistula River in Poland to East Prussia and Vienna, while the Western Allies crossed the Rhine, and in Italy, they pushed forward, while the Soviets attacked Berlin. The western forces would eventually link up with the Soviets at the Elbe river on 25 April.
Hitler committed suicide on 30 April 1945, two days after Mussolini's death. In his will, he appointed his navy commander, Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz, to be the President of Germany. Opposing Hitler's will to have Germany continue fighting, Dönitz eventually surrendered.
German forces in Italy surrendered on 29 April. Germany surrendered to the Western Allies on 7 May, known as V-E Day, and was forced to surrender to the Soviets on 8 May. The final battle in Europe was ended in Italy on 11 May.
In the Pacific, American forces arrived on the Philippines in June 1944. And by April 1945, American and Philippine forces had cleared much of the Japanese forces, but the fighting continued in some parts of the Philippines until the end of the war. British and Chinese forces advanced in Northern Burma and captured Rangoon by 3 May. American forces then took Iwo Jima by March and Okinawa by June. Many Japanese cities were destroyed by Allied bombings, and Japanese imports were cut off by American submarines.
The Allies wanted Japan to surrender with no terms, but Japan refused. The United States then dropped two atomic bombs over Hiroshima (6 August) and Nagasaki (9 August). On 8 August, the Soviets invaded Manchuria, quickly defeating the primary Imperial Japanese Army there. On 15 August, Japan surrendered to the Allies. The surrender documents were formally signed on board the "USS Missouri" on 2 September 1945, ending the war.
The Allies managed to occupy Austria and Germany. Germany was divided into western and eastern parts, under the Western Allies and Soviet control, respectively. The Allies began denazification, removing Nazi ideas from history, and most high-ranking Nazis were captured and brought to a special court. Germany lost a quarter of the land it had in 1937, with the land given to Poland and the Soviet Union. The Soviets also took some parts of Poland and Finland, as well as three Baltic countries.
The United Nations was formed on 24 October 1945, to keep peace between countries in the world. However, the relationship between the Western Allies and the Soviet Union had worsened during the war and, soon after the war, each power quickly built up their power over controlled area. In Western Europe and West Germany, it was the United States, while in East Germany and Eastern Europe, it was the Soviet Union, in which many countries were turned into Communist states. The Cold War started after the formation of the American-led NATO and the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact.
In Asia, Japan was put under American occupation. In 1948, Korea was divided into North and South Korea, each claiming to be the legal representative of the Koreans, which led to the Korean War in 1950. Civil war in China continued fighting in 1946, and resulted with the KMT retreating to Taiwan in 1949. The communists won the mainland. In the Middle East, the Arab disagreement on the United Nations plan to create Israel marked the beginning of conflicts between the Arabs and Israel.
After the war, decolonization took place in many European colonies. Bad economies and people wanting to rule themselves were the main reasons for that. In most cases, it happened peacefully, except in some countries, such as Indochina and Algeria. In many regions, European withdrawal caused divisions among the people who had different ethnic groups or religions.
Economic recovery was different in many parts of the world. In general, it was quite positive. The United States became richer than any other country and, by 1950, it had taken over the world's economy. It also ordered the Marshall Plan (1948–1951) to help European countries. German, Italian, and French economies recovered. However, the British economy was badly harmed and continued to worsen for more than ten years. The Soviet economy grew very fast after the war was over. This also happened with the Japanese economy, which became one of the largest economies in the 1980s. China returned to the same production level as before the war by 1952.
There is no exact total number of deaths, because many were unrecorded. Many studies said that more than 60 million people died in the war, mostly civilians. The Soviet Union lost around 27 million people, almost half of the recorded number. This means that 25% of the Soviets were killed or wounded in the war. About 85% of the total deaths were on the Allies side, and the other 15% were on the Axis. Mostly, people died because they were sick, hungry to death, bombed, or killed because of their ethnicity.
The Nazis killed many groups of people they selected, known as "The Holocaust". They exterminated Jews, and killed the Roma, , , homosexuals and other groups. Around 11 to 17 million civilians died. Around 7.5 million people were killed in China by the Japanese. The most well-known Japanese crime is the Nanking Massacre, in which hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians were raped and murdered. There were reports that the Germans and Japanese tested biological weapons against civilians and prisoners of war.
Although many of the Axis's crimes were brought to the first international court, crimes caused by the Allies were not.
Other than the Holocaust, about 12 million people, mostly Eastern Europeans, were forced to work for the German economy. German concentration camps and Soviet gulags caused a lot of death. Both treated prisoners of war badly. This was even the case for Soviet soldiers who survived and returned home.
Japanese prisoner-of-war camps, many of which were used as labour camps, also caused a lot of deaths. The death rate of Western prisoners was 27.1%, seven times that of prisoners under Germans and Italians. More than 10 million Chinese civilians were made slaves and had to work in mines and war factories. Between 4 and 10 million people were forced to work in Java.
Between 1942 and 1945, Roosevelt signed an order which made Japanese Americans go to internment camps. Some Germans and Italians were included too.
The Allies agreed that the Soviet Union could use prisoners of war and civilians for forced labor. Hungarians were forced to work for the Soviet Union until 1955.
Before the war, in Europe, the Allies had a larger population and economy than the Axis. If colonies are included, the GDP of the Allies then would be two times of that of the Axis. While in Asia, China had only 38% higher GDP than the Japanese if their colonies are counted.
The Allies' economy and population compared with the Axis' lessened with the early Axis victories. However, this was no longer the case after the United States and Soviet Union joined the Allies in 1941. The Allies were able to have a higher production level compared with the Axis because the Allies had more natural resources. Also, Germany and Japan did not plan for a long war and had no ability to do so. Both tried to improve their economies by using slave laborers.
As men went off to fight, women were forced to take over many of the jobs they left behind. At factories, women were employed to make bombs, guns, aircraft, clothes and parachutes. In Britain, thousands of women were sent to work on farms as part of the Land Army. Others formed the Women's Royal Naval Service to help with building and repairing ships. Even Queen Elizabeth II worked to aid the war effort. By 1945 some weapons (made in the factories) were run almost entirely by women.
In the beginning, women were rarely used in the labour forces in Germany and Japan. However, Allied bombings and Germany's change to a war economy made women take a greater part.
In Britain, women also worked in gathering intelligence, at Bletchley Park and other places.
Furthermore, the impact of the mass evacuation of children should not be underestimated and had a major impact on the lives of mothers during the war years.
Germany had two different ideas of how it would occupy countries. In Western, Northern, and Central Europe, Germany set economic policies which would make it rich. During the war, these policies brought as much as 40% of total German income. In the East, the war with the Soviet Union meant Germany could not use the land to gain resources. The Nazis used their racial policy and murdered a lot of people they thought non-human. The Resistance, the group of people who fought Germany secretly, could not harm the Nazis much until 1943.
In Asia, Japan claimed to free colonised Asian countries from European colonial powers. Although they were welcomed at first in many territories, their cruel actions turned the opinions against them within a short time. During the occupation, Japan used 4 million barrels of oil left behind by the Allies at the war's end. By 1943, it was able to produce up to 50 million barrels of oil in the Dutch East Indies. This was 76% of its 1940 rate.
The war brought new methods for future wars. The air forces improved greatly in fields such as air transport, strategic bombing (to use bombs to destroy industry and morale), as well as radar, and weapons for destroying aircraft. Jet aircraft were developed and would be used in worldwide air forces.
At sea, the war focused on using aircraft carriers and submarines. Aircraft carriers soon replaced battleships. The important reason was they were cheaper. Submarines, a deadly weapon since World War I, also played an important part in the war. The British improved weapons for destroying submarines, such as sonar, while the Germans improved submarine tactics.
The style of war on the land changed from World War I to be more moveable. Tanks, which were used to support infantry, changed to a primary weapon. The tank was improved in speed, armour and firepower during the war. At the start of the war, most commanders thought that using better tanks was the best way to fight enemy tanks. However, early tanks could harm armour just a little. The German idea to avoid letting tanks fight one another meant tanks facing tanks rarely happened. This was a successful tactic used in Poland and France. Ways to destroy tanks also improved. Even though vehicles became more used in the war, infantry remained the main part of the army, and most equipped like in World War I.
Submachine guns became widely used. They were especially used in cities and jungles. The assault rifle, a German development combining features of the rifle and submachine gun, became the main weapon for most armies after the war.
Other developments included better encryption for secret messages, such as the German Enigma. Another feature of military intelligence was the use of deception, especially by the Allies. Others include the first programmable computers, modern missiles and rockets, and the atomic bombs.

</doc>
<doc id="219838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219838" title="Rubeus Hagrid">
Rubeus Hagrid

Rubeus Hagrid is a teacher and groundskeeper at Hogwarts, friend of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. He is also a "half-giant." His father was not a giant, whereas his mother, Fridwulfa, who died whilst he was young, was a giantess. He has a half-brother named Grawp. In the movies, Hagrid is played by Robbie Coltrane. Martin Playfield appears as a young Hagrid in "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets".
Hagrid was expelled from Hogwarts after The Ministry of Magic thought he had opened the Chamber of Secrets, but he had been framed by Tom Riddle and so was allowed to remain at the school as gamekeeper. The government broke his wand and banned him from doing magic when he was expelled, but he keeps pieces of the wand in his pink umbrella. 
Hagrid is also friends with Madame Maxime, it is not known if they were together in a romantic way.
Hagrid keeps several pets.

</doc>
<doc id="219843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219843" title="Rodney Stuckey">
Rodney Stuckey

Rodney "Norvell" Stuckey is a professional National Basketball Association player for the, Detroit Pistons. He went to Eastern Washington University. He went to Kentwood High School, in Kent, Washington. He was born on, April 21, 1986 in Seattle, Washington. He was drafted by the Detroit Pistons in the 1st round (15th pick, 15th overall) of the 2007 NBA draft. His jersey number is 3. He is 6'5", and is 205 pounds. He was the 2007-08 NBA All-Rookie (2nd). He plays the guard position.
On March 5, 2010, Stuckey had a seizure on the bench during a game and collapsed in his trainer's arms, and was taken to the hospital. However, he was reported to be doing well not long after going to the hospital, and returned to next play in a game on March 19.

</doc>
<doc id="219855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219855" title="Alou Diarra">
Alou Diarra

Alou Diarra (born 15 July 1981) is a French football player. He plays for Girondins Bordeaux and France national team.
215||15
0||0
215||15
!Total||24||0

</doc>
<doc id="219856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219856" title="Gaël Givet">
Gaël Givet

Gaël Givet (born 9 October 1981) is a French football player. He plays for Blackburn Rovers.
200||8||||||||||28||1||228||9
14||0||4||0||0||0||colspan="2"|-||18||0
214||8||4||0||0||0||28||1||246||9
!Total||12||0

</doc>
<doc id="219857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219857" title="Brad Jones">
Brad Jones

Brad Jones (born 19 March 1982) is an Australian football player. He plays for Middlesbrough.
67||0||11||0||1||0||4||0||83||0
2||0||||||||||||||2||0
69||0||11||0||1||0||4||0||85||0
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219858" title="Sebastián Viera">
Sebastián Viera

Sebastián Viera (born 7 March 1983 in Florida, Uruguay) is an Uruguayan football player. He plays for Larissas and Uruguay national team.
58||0
75||0
0||0
133||0
!Total||15||0

</doc>
<doc id="219859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219859" title="Christian Bolaños">
Christian Bolaños

Christian Bolaños (born 17 May 1984) is a Costa Rican football player. He has played for Start and Costa Rica national team.
138||10
24||3
0||0
162||13
!Total||31||1

</doc>
<doc id="219860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219860" title="Mido">
Mido

Mido (born 23 February 1983) is an Egyptian football player. He plays for West Ham United and Egypt national team.
19||4||||||||||||||19||4
21||11||||||||||||||21||11
40||21||||||||||||||40||21
8||4||||||||||||||8||4
22||7||||||||||11||2||33||9
8||0||||||||||4||0||12||0
85||22||10||2||6||4||4||0||105||28
188||68||10||2||6||4||19||2||223||76
!Total||51||19

</doc>
<doc id="219861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219861" title="Angelo Carlos Pretti">
Angelo Carlos Pretti

Angelo Carlos Pretti (born August 10, 1965) is a former Brazilian football player.
149||76||11||8||0||0||160||84
149||76||11||8||0||0||160||84

</doc>
<doc id="219862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219862" title="Rudi Vata">
Rudi Vata

Rudi Vata (born 13 February 1969) is a former Albanian football player. He has played for Albania national team.
19||4
60||4
49||9
89||2
24||3
241||22
!Total||59||5

</doc>
<doc id="219863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219863" title="Zamalek Sporting Club">
Zamalek Sporting Club

Zamalek Sporting Club is a sport club in Egypt. It is located in Cairo.
"'Total number of cups: 86"
Trophies and years are approved as the Egyptian football Federation site http://www.efa.com.eg , Zamalek SC Facebook Page https://www.facebook.com/ZSCOfficial

</doc>
<doc id="219866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219866" title="IK Start">
IK Start

IK Start is a Norwegian football club. It was founded on 19 September 1905.
"As of 1 September 2009." 

</doc>
<doc id="219871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219871" title="The Ladykillers (2004 movie)">
The Ladykillers (2004 movie)

The Ladykillers is a 2004 American crime comedy movie. It is set in Mississippi and stars Tom Hanks. It was directed by the Coen brothers. It is a remake of the original 1955 movie of the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="219873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219873" title="Bill Paxton">
Bill Paxton

William "Bill" Paxton (born May 17, 1955) is an American actor and movie director. He was in the movie "Twister", as "Bill Harding", with co-star, Helen Hunt. Alan Ruck and Philip Seymour Hoffman co-starred. He is the father of actor John Paxton.
Paxton was born on May 17, 1955 in Fort Worth, Texas. Paxton was in the crowd waving when President John F. Kennedy emerged from the Hotel Texas in Fort Worth, on the morning of his assassination, November 22, 1963. There are pictures at the Sixth Floor Museum in Dallas where 8-year-old Paxton can be seen lifted above the crowd.

</doc>
<doc id="219875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219875" title="Alias (TV series)">
Alias (TV series)

Alias was a long running action television series that lasted 5 seasons before ending. The starring lead actress was Jennifer Garner. A co-starring actor was Mike Vartan.

</doc>
<doc id="219876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219876" title="Fred Willard">
Fred Willard

Frederic "Fred" Willard (born September 18, 1939) is an American actor, comedian, voice actor and writer. His best known movie roles include "This Is Spinal Tap" (1984), "Waiting for Guffman" (1997), "American Wedding" (2003), "A Mighty Wind" (2003), "" (2004), "Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle" (2004), "WALL-E" (2008), "Youth in Revolt" (2009) and "" (2013). He had also appeared in television series such as "Everybody Loves Raymond", "The Simpsons" and "Modern Family".
Willard was born in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He has been married to Mary Lovell since 1968. They have a daughter, Hope. In July 2012, he was arrested after "engaging in a lewd act" in an adult movie theater.

</doc>
<doc id="219879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219879" title="Oslofjord">
Oslofjord

The Oslofjord () is one of Norway’s most popular recreation area. It is 100 kilometres in length. It is a short distance from Oslo by ferry.
The fjord carries shipping to and from Oslo. The northern part of Oslofjord splits into several smaller fjords, including Sande Bay and Bunne Fjord.

</doc>
<doc id="219884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219884" title="Bo Outlaw">
Bo Outlaw

Charles "Bo" Outlaw (born April 13, 1971; also known as Bo Outlaw) is a retired basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Los Angeles Clippers, Orlando Magic, Phoenix Suns, and Memphis Grizzlies. He played in his last NBA game in 2007. Before playing in the NBA, he played college basketball at South Plains College and the University of Houston.

</doc>
<doc id="219885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219885" title="Bill Murray">
Bill Murray

Williams James "Bill" Murray (born September 21, 1950) is an American comedian and actor. He has played in some drama roles but he usually does comedy. He was in the movies "Groundhog Day", "Ghostbusters", "Stripes", "Lost in Translation", and "The Jungle Book". Murray is known for his work on "Saturday Night Live" and "Ghostbusters". He also plays charity golf with professional golf players.
Murray was born in Wilmette, Illinois. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Loyola Academy and Regis University (dropped out). 
Murray was married to Margaret Kelly from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. Then he married Jennifer Butler from 1997 until they divorced in 2008. Murray has six children.

</doc>
<doc id="219892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219892" title="Artificial pacemaker">
Artificial pacemaker

A pacemaker is a device that helps to regulate your heart. It uses electrical pulses. If your heart is beating too fast, the pacemaker slows it down. If your heart slows down, the pacemaker will slightly speed it up, so that it goes back to a normal heart beat.

</doc>
<doc id="219897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219897" title="West Macedonia">
West Macedonia

West Macedonia is one of the thirteen peripheries of Greece. It is also one of the 3 parts of the region of Macedonia and particularly the western. It contains 4 perfectures: Florina, Kozani, Kastoria and Grevena. It borders with Thessaly and Epirus to the west and Central Macedonia to the east. It also borders with two countries in the north: Albania and the Republic of Macedonia. It has a total population of 303,857 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. Its capital and biggest city is Kozani.
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="219900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219900" title="Skydra">
Skydra

Skydra () is a town and municipality of Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia in Greece. It has a total population of 5,081 inhabitants in the town and 15,654 inhabitants in the municipality.
During the Ottoman Empite until 1926 Skydra was known with the name Vertikop or Vartikop. The name was derived from the Turkish or Slavic languages. It was named like that because of a river that crossed these places. 

</doc>
<doc id="219910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219910" title="Listen to Your Heart">
Listen to Your Heart

Listen to Your Heart is a popular electronica/female vocals song. Roxette, sang this song. Different musical artists have made cover versions of this song.

</doc>
<doc id="219917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219917" title="Gary Jules">
Gary Jules

Gary Jules (born March 19, 1969) is an American singer-songwriter. He is best known for his cover of the Tears for Fears song, "Mad World" that was used in the movie, "Donnie Darko".

</doc>
<doc id="219920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219920" title="Brass band">
Brass band

A brass band is a musical group that is made up of only brass instruments (such as the trumpet, tuba, and trombone) and a drum section.
There are several different types of brass bands. One of the more popular types of brass band is the British brass band. A British brass band usually has 25 or 26 players that play: cornets, flugelhorns, tenor horns, euphoniums, tenor trombone, bass trombone and tuba.

</doc>
<doc id="219922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219922" title="1st millennium BC">
1st millennium BC

The 1st millennium BC was the last millenium before the Common Era. It started on January 1, 1000 BC, and ended on December 31, 1 BC. There was no year 0 and no year 0 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="219934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219934" title="Bird nest">
Bird nest

A bird nest is a place where a bird lays its eggs. There are all kinds of nests, from cup nests to digging holes in the ground to simply stuffing some leaves inside the "o" of a McDonald sign. The word can be used as a noun or a verb, as in – a bird "nests" in a "nest". They are in all kinds of sizes: some can be as big and heavy as a car, like an old eagle's nest, while some can be tiny as a , like the nest of a Bee Hummingbird.
Usually, the female builds the nest, and the male helps her. In some species, though, the male does nothing, and in others, the male builds the nest and the female does nothing.
Many birds "glue" their nests together with materials like spider webs, silk, mud, and even their own saliva (spit). Most nest builders like to put soft things "inside" their nest. Some birds even put herbs and spices in their nest. Scientists think these herbs help fight off bacteria in a way they can't completely understand yet.
The "cup nest" is probably the most common bird nest. Its name tells you that a cup nest is shaped like a cup or bowl. Many songbirds built cup nests. These nests can be built in the branches of a tree, like in the crack where one branch joins another: however, some can simply stick the nest right onto the branch of a tree. They use lots of materials that act like sticky glue – mud, rotten wood, dung, spider webs, and caterpillar silk. . They sometimes even use their own saliva mixed with food to keep the nest firmly stuck on the branch.
Cup nesters use all kinds of materials to build a nest: twigs (tiny branches), grass, leaves, moss; and they use all sorts of materials to keep it from falling apart. Most cup nesters use rough, material for the outside (this gives protection and camouflages the rest), and put soft, cozy material like moss, fur, feathers, and cotton on the inside.
Many cup nesters enjoy nesting very close to the ground in low bushes – sometimes they will even nest in potted plants on a . Some of them actually just build their nests on the ground. Sparrows, cardinals, and many other song birds (called "passerines"), like to nest near the ground, far away from owls, hawks, and Blue Jays that may eat their babies.
There are several types of cup nests. A suspended cup nest is attached to the branch at the top and sides but then drops like a bag down below. It really looks more like a vase than a cup. The bird is almost hidden when she warms her eggs. The mother bird can sit down on the branch above the nest and bend down to feed her baby birds. Orioles are very famous for building amazingly long bags that hang far below the branch.
The smallest cup nests are made by hummingbirds. They can be as tiny as a , like the Bee Hummingbird's nest. That tiny nest holds eggs that are as tiny as peas. The "largest" cup nest is probably the stork's. His nest can be nine feet deep and six feet wide. The stork's nest is so big that smaller birds actually make nests in its cracks, holes, and branches.
"Adherent nests" adhere (stick) to buildings, trees, cliffs, or other vertical structures. Swallows can build an almost perfectly round nest out of mud. Some species make cup-shaped nests, while others make jug-like nests with little holes in the sides. They put little balls of mud in their mouth and mix it with their saliva, making a special clay. As it dries, it becomes hard.
Bird saliva is very good for making glue: in fact, some species of swiftlets make their whole nest out of simply saliva. The male regurgitates (throws up) a long, thin strand of saliva from under its tongue. This saliva is used to be made into a half-cup nest which sticks to a cave wall (swiftlets like to build their nests in caves and grottos) and dries quickly. This saliva nest is thought to be a delicacy (something "really" yummy to eat) in China, and it is very expensive. They put it into a soup called Bird's Nest Soup.
A "platform nest" are built mostly by raptors (birds that eat , like eagles and hawks). They are usually huge and very, very high up - on the sides of cliffs, maybe, or high up in a big tree. It takes months and months making these nests, adding branch by branch. They often return to the same nest year after year and continue to build it. It is because of this that platform nests get "so big": a Bald Eagle's nest, for example, can weigh as much as a ton (about the same weight as a small car). It is so heavy it can sometimes hurt the tree it is built in.
A few water birds (like grebes and loons) build platform nests right on the water, where they can float. The nests don't move, though, because they are anchored to plants that are attached to the bottom of the body of water. These birds build nests on water because they don't walk well on land, so they find a shallw (not deep) part of the water to build their nests. Then, they do not "walk" to their nests - they "swim" to it. When the babies are ready, they simply jump into the water and begin their aquatic (water) life.
"Earth-hole nests" are nests that are inside the earth. They are burrows (tunnels) on the ground or in the sides of cliffs. They like using abandoned rabbit holes, too. The Burrowing Owl only uses already dug holes for its nest.
Puffins, for instance, dig a tunnel that is usually two to three feet long. At the end they make a nest of feathers and grass and lay their eggs. They are able to do this because of their sharp bill and claws. A puffin can work for hours to make its tunnel. Kingfishers, too, digs or burrows its hole. It can burrow up to six feet into the side of a cliff and lay its eggs there.
Many birds nest right on the ground. After carving out a little hole, ground and mound nesters line the nest with grass or other materials. Geese even pick feathers from their breasts and make a nice downy bed for their eggs. Most ducks, geese, and quail like the ground for nesting. Penguins nest on the ground, too, pushing rocks around the nest to keep it from washing away with flood waters. Usually, males make ground nests.
The Trumpeter Swan makes a big mound nest, and flamingos make mounds, too. Flamingos make their mounds completely out of mud. They can be up to 18 inches high and 12 to 20 inches in width.
These nests are barely a nest at all – just a small depression in the ground or a pile of dead leaves to lay eggs on. These scrape-nesting birds usually have eggs that match the color of dead leaves or rocks. This is needed because these eggs are in danger of being eaten by animals like rats, raccoons, snakes, and others that eat eggs.
Many scrape nesters actually tries to distract creatures that might be dangerous by pretending they have a broken wing and trying to distract it. This makes a predator chase the mother bird, and leave the eggs.

</doc>
<doc id="219935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219935" title="Car bomb">
Car bomb

A car bomb is a bomb device that is hidden within a vehicle. It is usually driven into places that have large groups of people. Terrorists use car bombs more than any other organization. The car with the bomb attached to it will explode. This will usually cause fires and small pieces of metal which cause most of the damage.

</doc>
<doc id="219948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219948" title="Mancini">
Mancini

Mancini (born 1 August 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Milan.
68||16||15||0||colspan="2"|-||83||16
193||41||33||11||41||8||267||60
261||57||48||11||41||8||350||76
!Total||9||0

</doc>
<doc id="219949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219949" title="Darren Ambrose">
Darren Ambrose

Darren Ambrose (born 29 February 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Crystal Palace.
188||26||12||3||12||3||19||2||231||34
188||26||12||3||12||3||19||2||231||34

</doc>
<doc id="219950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219950" title="Mazinho Oliveira">
Mazinho Oliveira

Mazinho Oliveira (born 26 December 1965) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
62||13||||||||||62||13
49||11||||||||||49||11
108||53||16||13||31||11||155||77
219||77||16||13||31||11||266||101
!Total||10||2

</doc>
<doc id="219951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219951" title="Charles N'Zogbia">
Charles N'Zogbia

Charles N'Zogbia (born 28 May 1986) is a French football player. He plays for Wigan Athletic.
131||10||10||0||8||0||21||1||170||11
131||10||10||0||8||0||21||1||170||11

</doc>
<doc id="219952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219952" title="Karim Benzema">
Karim Benzema

Karim Benzema (born 19 December 1987) is a French football player. He plays for Real Madrid and France national team.
112||43||19||12||19||12||150||67
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
112||43||19||12||19||12||150||67
!Total||27||8

</doc>
<doc id="219954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219954" title="Lim You-Hwan">
Lim You-Hwan

Lim You-Hwan (born 2 December 1983 ) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
13||0||1||0||1||0||colspan="2"|-||15||0
85||5||2||0||26||0||4||1||117||6
98||5||3||0||27||0||4||1||132||6
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219955" title="Regillio Simons">
Regillio Simons

Regillio Simons (born 28 June 1973) is a former Dutch football player.
269||42
7||2
276||44

</doc>
<doc id="219956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219956" title="Alemão (born in 1984)">
Alemão (born in 1984)

Carlos Adriano de Jesus Soares, better known as Alemão (10 April 1984 – 8 July 2007), was a Brazilian football player.
31||8||||||||||31||8
68||35||1||0||5||2||74||37
99||43||1||0||5||2||105||45

</doc>
<doc id="219958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219958" title="Paulo Antônio de Oliveira">
Paulo Antônio de Oliveira

Paulo Antônio de Oliveira (born 16 July 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
60||12||||||||||60||12
13||4||||||||||13||4
127||66||1||1||11||1||139||68
200||82||1||1||11||1||212||84

</doc>
<doc id="219959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219959" title="Akhrik Tsveiba">
Akhrik Tsveiba

Akhrik Tsveiba (born 10 September 1966) is a former Ukrainian-Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team, Ukraine national team and Russia national team.
127||1||||||||||127||1
21||0||||||||||21||0
90||1||||||||||90||2
75||2||7||0||12||0||94||3
313||4||7||0||12||0||332||4
!Total||25||2
!Total||1||0
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="219960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219960" title="Dmitri Radchenko">
Dmitri Radchenko

Dmitri Radchenko (born 2 December 1970) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.
110||34||||||||||110||34
32||14||||||||||32||14
150||26||||||||||150||26
22||4||2||1||4||1||28||6
10||4||||||||||10||4
324||82||2||1||4||1||330||84
!Total||2||0
!Total||33||9

</doc>
<doc id="219961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219961" title="Javier Irureta">
Javier Irureta

Javier Irureta (born 1 April 1948) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
344||70
344||70
!Total||6||0

</doc>
<doc id="219963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219963" title="Kasper Schmeichel">
Kasper Schmeichel

Kasper Schmeichel (born 5 November 1986) is a Danish professional association football player.
64||0||0||0||1||0||1||0||66||0
15||0||1||0||1||0||colspan="2"|-||17||0
79||0||1||0||2||0||1||0||83||0

</doc>
<doc id="219964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219964" title="Carlton Cole">
Carlton Cole

Carlton Cole (born 12 November 1983) is an English footballer. He plays for West Ham United and England national team.
185||38||14||5||10||5||4||0||213||48
185||38||14||5||10||5||4||0||213||48
!Total||6||0

</doc>
<doc id="219968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219968" title="Ko Jeong-Woon">
Ko Jeong-Woon

Ko Jeong-Woon (born 27 June 1966) is a South Korean professinal athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

</doc>
<doc id="219969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219969" title="Edin Mujčin">
Edin Mujčin

Edin Mujčin (born 14 January 1970) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He has played for Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.
292||42||||||||||292||42
33||3||1||1||8||0||42||4
325||45||1||1||8||0||334||46
!Total||24||1

</doc>
<doc id="219970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219970" title="Néstor Gorosito">
Néstor Gorosito

Néstor Gorosito (born 14 April 1964) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.
318||73
97||13
6||3
421||89
!Total||19||1

</doc>
<doc id="219971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219971" title="Marcelo Lipatín">
Marcelo Lipatín

Marcelo Lipatín (born 28 January 1977) is an Uruguayan football player.
40||10
15||7
6||1
1||0
45||20
42||2
52||13
201||53

</doc>
<doc id="219973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219973" title="Hennie Meijer">
Hennie Meijer

Hennie Meijer (born February 17, 1962) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for the Dutch national team.
411||148
11||2
422||150
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="219975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219975" title="Shaka Hislop">
Shaka Hislop

Shaka Hislop (born 22 February 1969) is a former Trinidad and Tobago football player. He has played for Trinidad and Tobago national team.
370||0
10||0
380||0
!Total||||

</doc>
<doc id="219976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219976" title="Hélder Postiga">
Hélder Postiga

Hélder Postiga (born 2 August 1982) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Sporting Portugal.
135||41
19||1
16||2
11||2
181||46
!Total||33||11

</doc>
<doc id="219977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219977" title="Tetsuya Abe">
Tetsuya Abe

Tetsuya Abe (born 24 June 1983) is a former Japanese football player.
5||0||0||0||0||0||5||0
5||0||0||0||0||0||5||0

</doc>
<doc id="219991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219991" title="Víctor Fernández">
Víctor Fernández

Víctor Fernández (born 28 November 1960) is a Spanish football manager. He has managed a number of teams including Porto of Portugal.

</doc>
<doc id="219992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219992" title="Miguel Ángel Lotina">
Miguel Ángel Lotina

Miguel Ángel Lotina (born 18 June 1957) is a Spanish football manager. During his career he has managed several Spanish teams, including currently Deportivo La Coruña.

</doc>
<doc id="220010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220010" title="NHL Winter Classic">
NHL Winter Classic

The NHL Winter Classic is an annual event held by the National Hockey League where regular-season games are played outdoors.

</doc>
<doc id="220012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220012" title="List of Stanley Cup Finals appearances">
List of Stanley Cup Finals appearances

This is a list of Stanley Cup Finals appearances, which lists those teams that have played in the Stanley Cup Final series since the current play-off format was adopted in 1915. Before this, from 1894 to 1914, the Cup was won by challenge or league championship. Since 1927, the Stanley Cup Final series also determines the National Hockey League (NHL) championship.
Unless marked otherwise, teams played in the NHL exclusively at the time they competed for the Stanley Cup. A bolded year denotes a Stanley Cup win.
Five active teams have yet to make a Stanley Cup Finals appearance. Three of these teams have remained in the same location since their inceptions:
The other two teams have relocated and have not made the Finals in either location:
Five relocated teams that have won the Stanley Cup in their current locations and never appeared in the Finals in their former locations:
Listed after the team name is the name of the affiliated league(s) when the team competed for the Stanley Cup. A bolded year denotes a Stanley Cup win
1. The Toronto Maple Leafs won the Cup in 1918 as the Toronto Blueshirts, and in 1922 as the Toronto St. Patricks.
2. The Chicago Blackhawks were known as the Chicago Black Hawks prior to the 1986–87 season.
3. The Dallas Stars totals include two losses as the Minnesota North Stars.
4. The Anaheim Ducks totals include one loss as the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim.
5. The modern Ottawa Senators (1992–) are the namesake of the original Senators (1883–1954). <br>
6. The Montreal Canadiens and the Seattle Metropolitans totals include the 1919 Stanley Cup Finals that ended with a no-decision because of the Spanish flu epidemic.
7. The original Senators became the St. Louis Eagles (NHL) and the amateur senior Ottawa Senators (QAHA) in 1934.
8. The Vancouver Millionaires were known as the Vancouver Maroons from 1922 afterwards.
9. The Victoria Cougars were known as the Victoria Senators, Victoria Aristocrats and Spokane Canaries prior to 1922.</small>

</doc>
<doc id="220020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220020" title="Denzel Washington">
Denzel Washington

Denzel Washington (born December 28, 1954) is an American actor, director, and producer. He has won many awards during his acting career. In 2001 he became only the second African American man to win the Academy Award for "Best Actor". He has been in 43 feature films. He has won two Oscars. 
Washington played Malcolm X in the 1992 movie "Malcolm X". He played Whip Whitaker in the 2012 film "Flight".

</doc>
<doc id="220030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220030" title="Filip Vandewal">
Filip Vandewal

Filip Vandewal (31 May 1981) is a Belgian cinematographer.
Filip graduated from the Brussels movie school RITS in 2003. Movies he has worked on have been screened at several international movie festivals including Cannes Film Festival and Clermont-Ferrand. He was the cinematographer on "De laatste zomer" ("Last Summer"), a movie directed by Joost Wijnant. Filip now lives in Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="220037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220037" title="Doddinghurst">
Doddinghurst

Doddinghurst is a village and civil parish in south Essex. It is 3 miles (5 km) to the north of Brentwood.

</doc>
<doc id="220040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220040" title="Railway semaphore signal">
Railway semaphore signal

One of the earliest forms of fixed railway signal is the semaphore. These signals display their different indications to train drivers by changing the angle of inclination of a pivoted 'arm'.

</doc>
<doc id="220050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220050" title="Thecodontosaurus">
Thecodontosaurus

Thecodontosaurus (meaning "socket-toothed lizard") was a very early dinosaur that lived during the Upper Triassic, a time when the Earth was relatively warm and much of the land was dry and desert-like. This was around the time that the dinosaurs were just starting to appear.
Fossils of "Thecodontosaurus" have been found in southwest England (near Bristol) and Wales, which were probably dry and desert-like when "Thecodontosaurus" lived. "Thecodontosaurus" was first described by H. Riley and S. Stutchbury in 1836, and named by Morris in 1843. 
Modern cladistic work has not been conclusive. "Thecodontosaurus" was earlier put under the Prosauropoda. More recently was suggested that "Thecodontosaurus" and its relatives came before the prosauropod-sauropod split. "Thecodontosaurus" is sometimes placed in a very basal position among the sauropodomorph dinosaurs. New reconstructions show that its neck is proportionally shorter than those in more 'advanced' early sauropodomorphs.

</doc>
<doc id="220059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220059" title="Eric Holder">
Eric Holder

Eric Holder (born January 21, 1951) is an American attorney. He served as the Attorney General of the United States, under President Barack Obama from 2009 to 2015. He is the first African-American to hold that post. Before being named as Attorney General, he was the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia under President Clinton and help pick Joe Biden as Obama's running mate. Holder was born in the Bronx.
On September 25, 2014, the Justice Department said Holder would resign as soon as his successor is confirmed. He was succeeded by Loretta Lynch on April 27, 2015.

</doc>
