<doc id="18638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18638" title="Little Rock, Arkansas">
Little Rock, Arkansas

Little Rock is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Arkansas.

</doc>
<doc id="18639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18639" title="Hartford, Connecticut">
Hartford, Connecticut

Hartford is the capital city of the U.S. state of Connecticut. It is only 24 miles from Springfield, Massachusetts. Hartford has the third most people in the state behind Bridgeport and New Haven. It is an important center of Insurance. Airline service is provided from Bradley International Airport. 
Hartford has an American Hockey League team called the Connecticut Whale, a rugby team called the Hartford Wanderers and a United Football League team called the Hartford Colonials. Hartford also used to have a National Hockey League team called the Hartford Whalers that played in the NHL from 1979 to 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="18640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18640" title="Dover, Delaware">
Dover, Delaware

Dover is the capital city of the U.S. state of Delaware. It is the county seat of Kent County, which is in the middle of the state. Dover had 36,047 people in 2010.
William Penn founded Dover as the court town for newly established Kent County in 1683. Penn was the proprietor of the territory generally known as the "Lower Counties on the Delaware." In 1717, a special commission of the Delaware General Assembly laid out the city. The capital of the state of Delaware was moved here from Newcastle in 1777 because of its central location and relative safety from British raiders on the Delaware River. Because of an act passed in October 1779, the assembly elected to meet at any place in the state they saw fit, meeting successively in Wilmington, Lewes, Dover, Newcastle, and Lewes again, until the capital moved to Dover permanently in October 1781. The city's central square, known as The Green, was the location of many rallies, troop reviews, and other patriotic events. Today, The Green remains the heart of Dover's historic district and is the location of the Delaware Supreme Court and the Kent County Courthouse.
Dover was most famously the home of Caesar Rodney, the popular wartime leader of Delaware during the American Revolution.
Dover and Kent County were deeply divided over the issue of slavery, and the city was a "stop" on the Underground Railroad. It was also home to a large Quaker community that encouraged a sustained emancipation effort in the early nineteenth century. There were very few slaves in the area, but a majority of people wanted to keep slavery legal until the Civil War.
The main north–south highway through Dover is U.S. Route 13, which runs through the main commercial strip of Dover on the multi-lane, divided Dupont Highway. An alternate route of U.S. Route 13, U.S. Route 13 Alternate, passes through downtown Dover on Governors Avenue. The Delaware Route 1 turnpike, which provides the main route to Wilmington and the Delaware beaches, passes to the east of Dover. It ends near the Dover Air Force Base and DE 1 continues south on Bay Road. U.S. Route 113 formerly ran along Bay Road from Milford to US 13 near the State Capitol Complex, however it was decommissioned in 2004 to avoid the concurrency with DE 1 between the Dover Air Force Base and Milford. Delaware Route 8 is the main east–west route through Dover, passing through downtown on Division Street and West Dover on Forrest Avenue. It continues west toward Maryland to provide access to the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. Dover is one of only four state capitals not served by an interstate highway.
Dover Air Force Base is inside the southeast corporate limits of Dover, however the closest sizable civilian airport to Dover is the New Castle Airport in New Castle. The closest airports with commercial air service to Dover include the Wicomico Regional Airport in Salisbury, Maryland, the Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport in Baltimore, Maryland, and the Philadelphia International Airport in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Dover is on a former Pennsylvania Railroad line, which is now served by Norfolk Southern. At one time Dover had a daily Amtrak passenger service; however, the line now is just used for local freight. The closest passenger rail station is the Amtrak station in Wilmington.
DART First State provides weekday local bus service throughout Dover, speading from the Water Street Transfer Center in downtown. They also provide inter-county service to Wilmington and Georgetown and seasonal service to Rehoboth Beach.
Greyhound Lines are provided as inter-city bus transportation.
Dover has Delaware State University, a land-grant university and Delaware's only historically black university, and Wesley College. It is also home to the Terry Campus of the Delaware Technical & Community College and that college's administrative offices. Dover also has satellite locations of the University of Delaware and Wilmington University.
Three public high schools serve Dover residents. Caesar Rodney High School, in the Caesar Rodney School District (just outside the city in Camden); Dover High School, in the Capital School District; and Polytech High School, in the Polytech School District (in Woodside).
The Dover Air Force Base Middle School is on the grounds of the Dover Air Force Base. This school is unusual in that it is run by the Caesar Rodney School District and not the Department of Defense.

</doc>
<doc id="18641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18641" title="Boise, Idaho">
Boise, Idaho

Boise is the capital city of the U.S. state of Idaho. It is also the county seat of Ada County.
Although different people believe different stories about the origin of the name, it is generally accepted that the name "Boise" originates from the French word "boisée" which means "wooded".

</doc>
<doc id="18642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18642" title="Springfield, Illinois">
Springfield, Illinois

Springfield is the capital city of the U.S. state of Illinois. It is close to the center of the state. In the 2000 census, Springfield had more than 110,000 people living in it.
The state Capitol, in the middle of Springfield, is where the General Assembly (the state's legislature) meets and where the governor's office is. The Capitol is a big building with a dome that can be seen from many miles away. Springfield also has an old capitol, which is now a historic site.
Springfield was the home of Abraham Lincoln before he was elected president in 1860. Lincoln was a lawyer and practiced law many places in Illinois. His office is near the old capitol. When he died, his body was brought back to Springfield. His home, his law office, his tomb are all open to the public. Springfield also has a new building with a museum and library dedicated to him and his presidency.
Springfield has two Interstate highways: I-55 and I-72. I-55 runs from Chicago to Springfield and then through St. Louis, Missouri. Springfield also has many smaller roads to other cities.

</doc>
<doc id="18643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18643" title="Indianapolis">
Indianapolis

Indianapolis is the capital city and largest city in the state of Indiana, in the United States. In the 2000 census, it had more than 790,000 people living in it, making it one of the 15 largest cities in the country. It is the home of the Indianapolis Colts football team and the Indiana Pacers basketball team. Each May, the city hosts the "Indianapolis 500" car race.

</doc>
<doc id="18644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18644" title="Des Moines, Iowa">
Des Moines, Iowa

Des Moines is the capital city of U.S. state of Iowa.
Des Moines was started in 1843 where the Raccoon River and Des Moines River meet. Des Moines became the capital of Iowa in 1857.
Today, Des Moines is the largest city in Iowa with a population of 194,163 as of 2005. 
Des Moines has many insurance companies in the city. It is also the location of the Iowa State Fair that happens every year.
The band Slipknot is from Des Moines.
Men's roller derby team Your Mom Men's Roller Derby is based out of Des Moines. 

</doc>
<doc id="18645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18645" title="Topeka, Kansas">
Topeka, Kansas

Topeka () is the capital city of the U.S. state of Kansas. Topeka is the county seat of Shawnee County, and is in the northeast part of the state. Topeka had 127,473 people at the 2010 census.
Topeka was established in 1854 when nine men founded the Topeka Town Association. At an election in November 1861, the people of Kansas chose Topeka as the permanent capital of the state.
The name "Topeka" is composed of three words from the Kaw, Omaha, and Iowa Native American tribes. The first, "to", means "potato". The second, "pe" (short for "pekae") is an adjective meaning "good". The third, "okae", means "to dig". Thus, the name "Topeka" means "a good place to dig potatoes". The name was chosen because "[i]t was a novel name of Indian origin, euphonious [pleasing] of sound and simple".
Charles Sheldon and Charles Fox Parham, both important people in the history of American Christianity, were preachers in Topeka. Many historians believe that the modern Pentecostalism movement started in Monroe's church in 1901. Sheldon was a preacher in Topeka around the same time, who is famous for coming up with the phrase "What would Jesus do?"
"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka" was a lawsuit that went before the United States Supreme Court in 1954. Several families sued the public school board in Topeka for the right for black students to go to the same schools as white students. The Supreme Court decided that school districts could not make students go to different schools because of their race. Today, the government has a museum in Topeka about "Brown v. Board of Education" and civil rights for African-Americans.

</doc>
<doc id="18647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18647" title="Baton Rouge, Louisiana">
Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Baton Rouge is the capital and second-largest city of the U.S. state of Louisiana. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).
On July 17, 2016, three police officers were shot dead.

</doc>
<doc id="18648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18648" title="Augusta, Maine">
Augusta, Maine

Augusta is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maine. 18,560 people live in Augusta. 

</doc>
<doc id="18649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18649" title="Saint Paul, Minnesota">
Saint Paul, Minnesota

Saint Paul is the capital city of the U.S. state of Minnesota. It is across the Mississippi River from Minneapolis. When people talk about both cities, they call them the Twin Cities.

</doc>
<doc id="18650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18650" title="Jackson, Mississippi">
Jackson, Mississippi

Jackson is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Mississippi.

</doc>
<doc id="18651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18651" title="Jefferson City, Missouri">
Jefferson City, Missouri

Jefferson City is the capital of the U.S. state of Missouri. It is also county seat of Cole County. (The Jefferson City metropolitan area includes all of Callaway and Cole counties.) As of the 2010 census, the population was 43,079. Jefferson City was named after Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States.
Jefferson City is on the northern edge of the Ozark Plateau on the southern side of the Missouri River near the geographic center of the state, in a region known as Mid-Missouri. It is at the western edge of the Missouri Rhineland, one of the major wine-producing regions of the Midwest.
In pre-Columbian times, this region was home of an ancient people known only as the Mound Builders. By the time European settlers began arriving, the Mound Builders had vanished into history. The contemporary indigenous peoples were called the Osage Indians. When the Missouri Territory was organized in 1812, St. Louis was the seat of government. St. Charles next served as the capital.
The new state legislature decided to build a new capital city in the middle of the state in 1821. They named it after Thomas Jefferson, who was still alive. A village was already there called Lohman's Landing. For years the village was little more than a trading post located in the wilderness about midway between St. Louis and Kansas City. In 1826 the Missouri legislature first met here and in 1839 the settlement was incorporated as a city.
Jefferson City was selected as the site for a state prison and, in 1836, the Missouri State Penitentiary was opened. The prison was home to a number of infamous Americans, including: former heavyweight champion Sonny Liston, assassin James Earl Ray, and bank robber Charles "Pretty Boy" Floyd.
During the American Civil War, Jefferson City was occupied by Union troops. Many of the people in the state supported the Union, although Missouri's Little Dixie section along the river in western counties was strongly Confederate.
German immigrants created vineyards in small towns on either side of the Missouri River, especially on the north from Jefferson City east to Marthasville outside St. Louis. Known as the Missouri Rhineland for its vineyards, first established by German immigrants in the mid-19th century, this area has become a part of the agricultural and tourist economy.
Jefferson City is located at (38.572954, -92.189283). According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which, is land and (3.61%) is water.
Jefferson City is served by the Jefferson City Public School District, which operates Jefferson City High School, Simonsen 9th Grade Center, Lewis and Clark Middle School and Thomas Jefferson Middle School, and eleven elementary schools. The district is currently considering building a second high school. There are 4 private elementary schools: St. Joseph's Cathedral, St. Peter, Immaculate Conception, and Trinity Lutheran.Calvary Lutheran, Helias Catholic, and Lighthouse Preparatory Academy are Jefferson City's private high schools.
Lincoln University is a public historically black university with open enrollment and certificate, associate, bachelor, and graduate programs. Columbia College, Linn State Technical College, William Woods University, Metro Business College, and Merrell University also have locations in Jefferson City with varying degree levels and options.
Jefftran operates a public bus system year-round. Jefferson City is one of four state capitols in United States that are not served by an interstate highway. Only four other state capitols nationwide share in this oddity. Interstate 70 passes by the city to the north, in Columbia. U.S. Highways in the city include U.S. Route 50, U.S. Route 54, and U.S. Route 63. Also Route 179 and Route 94 run through the city, giving it four highways that intersect with I-70. Jefferson City is also home to an Amtrak station.

</doc>
<doc id="18652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18652" title="Helena, Montana">
Helena, Montana

Helena is the capital city of the U.S. state of Montana.

</doc>
<doc id="18653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18653" title="Carson City, Nevada">
Carson City, Nevada

Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada. At the 2010 United States Census, Carson City had a population of 55,274.
Settlers who lived present-day Carson City named the area "Washoe", after the Washoe Native Americans who lived there. John C. Frémont and his party of explorers were the first European Americans to visit the Carson City area in 1843. Frémont named a river flowing through the valley Carson River for Christopher "Kit" Carson, who served as a scout on Frémont's expedition.
When Nevada became a state in 1864 during the Civil War, Carson City was confirmed as Nevada's permanent capital. Abraham Curry, the founder of Carson City, reserved an area equivalent to four city blocks (10 acres or 4.04 ha) at the center of the town for the future state capitol building. When the Capitol building was built ten years later, it was located there. The fourth session of the state legislature met in the still-incomplete building at the beginning of 1871. Construction was completed by May 1, 1871.
There are three major highways in the city US Route 395, US Route 50 and Interstate 580.
Carson City's first bus system, called Jump Around Carson, opened in October 2005. There is almost no ground public transportation to other cities. Passenger train service stopped in 1948. Greyhound Lines stopped bus service there in 2006. Amtrak stopped their bus to Sacramento in 2008. Greyhound and Amtrak have busses to Reno, Monday to Friday.
Carson Airport is in the northern part of the city. Reno-Tahoe International Airport, away, has domestic commercial flights.

</doc>
<doc id="18654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18654" title="Austin, Texas">
Austin, Texas

Austin is the capital city of the U.S. state of Texas. The University of Texas at Austin is there.
Austin is frequently called the "Live Music Capital of the World."
Austin was first called Waterloo in 1835. In 1839, it was chosen to be the capital city of The Republic of Texas and named for Stephen F. Austin. The University of Texas at Austin was founded in 1883.
Austin has a semi-arid climate ("Bsh" in the Koeppen climate classification) with hot summers and mild winters.
The mayor of Austin is Lee Leffingwell.
Austin also has a city council with seven members.
Many businesses have their main offices in or near Austin, including AMD, Dell, Freescale Semiconductors, PayPal, and Whole Foods.
Formula One has made an agreement with the city of Austin to host the Formula 1 United States Grand Prix. A new racetrack will be built to host the race. The last United States Grand Prix was in 2007 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

</doc>
<doc id="18655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18655" title="Montpelier, Vermont">
Montpelier, Vermont

Montpelier 
is a city in the U.S. state of Vermont that serves as the state capital. It is also the shire town (county seat) of Washington County. As the capital of Vermont, Montpelier is the site of the Vermont State House, seat of the legislative branch of Vermont government. The Vermont State House has a golden dome. The population was 7,855 at the 2010 census. By population, it is the smallest state capital in the United States. The Vermont History Museum and Vermont College of Fine Arts are in Montpelier.
The state legislature made Montpelier the state capital in 1805. 

</doc>
<doc id="18656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18656" title="Concord, New Hampshire">
Concord, New Hampshire

Concord is the capital city of the U.S. state of New Hampshire. The land which Concord now occupies along the banks of the Merrimack River was settled thousands of years ago by Native Americans. The broad sweeps of the river valley, good soil for farming, and easy transportation on the Merrimack made the site of Concord equally inviting to English-speaking settlers in the eighteenth century. Settled by immigrants from Massachusetts in 1725, the community grew in prominence during the eighteenth century. Some of Concord's earliest houses remain today at the north end of Main Street. In the years following the American Revolution, the City's central location made it a logical choice for the state capital, and in 1808 Concord was named the official seat of state government. Today the 1819 State House is the oldest state capitol in which the legislative branches meet in their original chambers.
This area's first settlement in 1659 was named Penacook, for the Indian name Pannukog, meaning crooked place or bend in the river. The first land grant was in 1725, and the town was incorporated as Rumford in 1733. The name was changed to Concord in 1765 upon resolution of a bitter boundary dispute between Rumford and Bow. Its central location was the logical choice for state capital, and Concord was so named in 1808. The State House, built in 1818 and first occupied in 1819, is the oldest in continuous use in the country. In 1853, the State granted Concord a city charter. It was in Concord that the Abbotts built the famous Concord Coach, modeled after the coronation coach for King George III. Granite quarrying has been another major industry, and Concord's quarries supplied granite for the US Library of Congress. Concord was home to Franklin Pierce, 14th President of the United States, following his presidency.
Concord had the tenth largest numeric change in population, totaling 12,777 over 50 years, from 27,988 in 1950 to 40,765 in 2000. The largest decennial percent change was a 22 percent increase between 1980 and 1990; all other decades increased by ten percent or less. The 2005 Census estimate for Concord was 42,336 residents, which ranked third among New Hampshire's incorporated cities and towns.

</doc>
<doc id="18657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18657" title="Trenton, New Jersey">
Trenton, New Jersey

Trenton is the capital city of the U.S. state of New Jersey. It is the county seat of Mercer County. Trenton is in the middle part of New Jersey, along the Delaware River.

</doc>
<doc id="18658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18658" title="Santa Fe, New Mexico">
Santa Fe, New Mexico

Santa Fe (; Tewa: Ogha Po'oge, ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico. It is the fourth-largest city in the state. It is the seat of Santa Fe County. Santa Fe (literally 'holy faith' in Spanish) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census. It is the principal city of the Santa Fe, New Mexico Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and is part of the larger Santa Fe-Española Combined Statistical Area. The city's full name when founded was "La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís" ("The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi").
In 1912, New Mexico became the United States of America's 47th state, with Santa Fe as its capital.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 37.4 square miles (96.9 km), of which, 37.3 square miles (96.7 km) of it is land and 0.1 square miles (0.2 km) of it (0.21%) is water.
Santa Fe is at 7,199 feet (2134 m) above sea level, making it the highest state capital in the United States.
Santa Fe has many world-class museums. Many are around the historic downtown Plaza or close by:
Others are on Museum Hill:

</doc>
<doc id="18659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18659" title="Albany, New York">
Albany, New York

Albany ( ) is the capital city of the U.S. state of New York, the seat of Albany County, and the central city of New York's Capital District. Roughly north of New York City, Albany sits on the west bank of the Hudson River, about south of its confluence with the Mohawk River.
Prior to the recession of the 1990s, Albany was home to two Fortune 500 companies: KeyBank and Fleet Bank. Both banks have since moved or merged with other banks.
It is home to the AHL ice hockey team the "Albany Devils".
Albany is served by the Albany International Airport.
The Empire State Plaza has many state agency office buildings. It fills almost any view of Albany. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller and architect Wallace Harrison led its construction between 1965 and 1978. The complex is a big example of late American modernism in architecture. It remains a controversial building project both for displacing city residents and for its architectural style. The most recognizable part of the complex is the Erastus Corning Tower. The tower is the tallest building in New York outside of New York City. The 19th-century New York State Capitol at the opposite (north) end of the plaza is the seat of the New York State Legislature and the home of the Governor of New York, currently Andrew Cuomo.
Albany's initial architecture incorporated many Dutch influences, followed soon after by those of the English. The Quackenbush House, a Dutch Colonial brick mansion, was built c. 1736; Schuyler Mansion, a Georgian-style mansion, was built in 1765; and the oldest building currently standing in Albany is the 1728 Van Ostrande-Radliff House at 48 Hudson Avenue. Albany's housing varies greatly, with mostly row houses in the older sections of town, closer to the river. Housing type quickly changes as one travels westward, beginning with two-family homes of the late 19th century, and one-family homes built after World War II in the western end of the city.
Albany City Hall was opened in 1883. The New York State Capitol was opened in 1899 (after 32 years of construction) at a cost of $25 million, making it the most expensive government building at the time. Albany's Union Station, a major Beaux-Arts design, was under construction at the same time; it opened in 1900. In 1912, the Beaux-Arts styled New York State Department of Education Building opened on Washington Avenue near the Capitol. It has a classical exterior, which features a block-long white marble colonnade. The 1920s brought the Art Deco movement, which is illustrated by the Home Savings Bank Building (1927) on North Pearl Street and the Alfred E. Smith Building (1930) on South Swan Street, two of Albany's tallest high-rises.
Architecture from the 1960s and 1970s is well represented in the city, especially at the W. Averell Harriman State Office Building Campus (1950s and 1960s) and on the uptown campus of the SUNY Albany college (1962–1971). The state office campus was planned in the 1950s by governor W. Averell Harriman to offer more parking and easier access for state employees. The uptown SUNY campus was built in the 1960s under Governor Rockefeller on the site of the city-owned Albany Country Club. Straying from the popular open campus layout, noted American architect Edward Durell Stone designed the SUNY Albany campus from 1954-1956 with a centralized building layout with administrative and classroom buildings at center surrounded by four student housing towers. The design called for much use of concrete and glass, and the style has slender, round-topped columns and pillars reminiscent of those at Lincoln Center in New York City.
Government
Economy
Culture
Travel

</doc>
<doc id="18660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18660" title="Raleigh, North Carolina">
Raleigh, North Carolina

Raleigh (pronounced , ) is the capital and the second largest city in the state of North Carolina as well as the county seat of Wake County. Raleigh is known as the "City of Oaks" for its many oak trees. This area of the state called the "Triangle." It is called this because there are a total of three cities near each other; besides Raleigh, there are also the cities of Chapel Hill and Durham in the area. Some other towns nearby are Cary, Apex, Wake Forest, Garner, Holly Springs, and Carrboro. It has about 405,000 people and is growing quickly. The population of the city and nearby area is about 1 million.
Raleigh was started in 1770. In 1788, it became North Carolina's state capital. The first state fair happened in 1853 and has kept on happening. Raleigh was not hurt by the Civil War. It did not grow much after the Civil War.
In the early 1900s, Raleigh had streetcars, but they got rid of them later. Raleigh got its first TV station in 1956. In 1959, the Research Triangle Park was built. This caused people to move to the area for the jobs. In the late 1900s, Interstate 40 and Interstate 440 (freeways)were built, helping traffic. Since the late 1900s, Raleigh has grown quickly.
Raleigh is in north-central North Carolina. It is in a hilly area.
Raleigh has a mild climate. The summers are hot, with an average high of about 90°F (32°C). The winters are cool, with an average high of about 50°F (10°C). It snows about twice a year with a total of six inches (15 centimeters). Raleigh also gets around 45 inches of rain.
Raleigh has a lot of good transportation. Some freeways are Interstate 40, I-440, and I-540. Some highways are U.S. Route 1, 64, and 70, and N.C. highway 50. Raleigh also has a Amtrak station and a big airport.
Raleigh has a lot of museums. North Carolina State University is also in Raleigh.
Raleigh is pretty rich, but there are some poor areas. The region also has a lot of suburban developments, but there are some crowded areas.

</doc>
<doc id="18661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18661" title="Bismarck, North Dakota">
Bismarck, North Dakota

Bismarck is the capital city of the U.S. state of North Dakota. It is also the county seat of Burleigh County. As of the census held in the year 2010, its population was 61,272. The population of its metropolitan area was 108,779.
Bismarck was founded in 1872. It has been North Dakota's capital since it gained statehood in 1889.
Bismarck is situated on the east bank of the Missouri River, directly across the river from Mandan. The two cities make up the core of the Bismarck-Mandan Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The North Dakota State Capitol, the tallest building in the state, towers over the central part of Bismarck. The state government employs more than 4,000 in the city. As a hub of retail and health care, Bismarck is the economic center of a large portion of south-central North Dakota and north-central South Dakota.

</doc>
<doc id="18662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18662" title="Columbus, Ohio">
Columbus, Ohio

Columbus is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Ohio. It is in the middle of the state. The Ohio State Buckeyes and Columbus Blue Jackets play there. In 2010 there were 787,033 people.
Columbus is the third largest city in the American Midwest, and the fifteenth largest city in the United States of America. It is the county seat of Franklin County. The city has expanded and annexed portions of adjoining Delaware County and Fairfield County. It is named for explorer Christopher Columbus. The city was founded in 1812 at the confluence of the Scioto and Olentangy rivers. It became Ohio's state capital in 1816. The city has a diverse economy based on education, government, insurance, banking, fashion, defense, aviation, food, clothes, logistics, steel, energy, medical research, health care, hospitality, retail, and technology.
Columbus has many technology companies. It has the world's largest private research and development foundation, the Battelle Memorial Institute; CAS, or Chemical Abstracts Service, the world's largest clearinghouse of chemical information; NetJets, the world's largest fractional ownership jet aircraft fleet; and The Ohio State University, the nation's largest campus.
In 2008, "MarketWatch" named Columbus as the 7th best place to do business in the nation. In 2011, the city had five corporations named to the U.S. Fortune 500 list including Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, American Electric Power, Limited Brands, Momentive Specialty Chemicals, and Big Lots. Major foreign corporations operating or with divisions in the city include Germany-based Siemens and Roxane Laboratories, Finland-based Vaisala, Tomasco Mulciber Inc., and A Y Manufacturing, as well as Switzerland-based ABB Group and Mettler Toledo.

</doc>
<doc id="18663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18663" title="Oklahoma City">
Oklahoma City

Oklahoma City is the capital city of the U.S. state of Oklahoma, and the largest city in the state. As of 2006, the population of the city was about 537,734. The Oklahoma City bombing happened in Oklahoma in 1995. Oklahoma City has an NBA team called the Oklahoma City Thunder. It is the county seat of Oklahoma County.

</doc>
<doc id="18671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18671" title="Casablanca (disambiguation)">
Casablanca (disambiguation)

Casablanca can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18674" title="Wichita, Kansas">
Wichita, Kansas

Wichita is the largest city in the U.S. State of Kansas.
Wichita is the 49th largest city in the United States with about 354,865 people in the year 2005. It is in Sedgwick County, which is in the south-central part of the state.
Many parts of airplanes are made in Wichita. Also, Wichita State University is in the city.
Official sites
More information

</doc>
<doc id="18675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18675" title="Casablanca (movie)">
Casablanca (movie)

Casablanca is a 1942 American movie set in the Moroccan city of Casablanca during World War II. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman and Paul Henreid in lead roles.
From the time of its debut, it has been called one of the greatest movies ever made. Critics have loved it for the romantic performances of Bogart and Bergman.

</doc>
<doc id="18680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18680" title="The Godfather">
The Godfather

The Godfather is a 1972 American movie directed by Francis Ford Coppola. It is based on Mario Puzo's novel of the same name, and stars Marlon Brando and Al Pacino. The story of the movie takes place from 1945 to 1955.
It has been considered one of the best movies about the Mafia. In addition, many have called it the best movie of all time; it also appears on many such lists, including AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (where it was ranked at number three).
"The Godfather" won three Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Actor (for Marlon Brando, who refused the award), and Best Adapted Screenplay. 
A sequel, "The Godfather Part II", was released in 1974 and won another Best Picture Oscar. It was the only sequel to do so until 2003's "". The third movie in the Godfather trilogy, "The Godfather Part III", came out in 1990. The critics thought it was not as good as the other two movies.

</doc>
<doc id="18690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18690" title="Venus flytrap">
Venus flytrap

The Venus flytrap, "Dionaea muscipula", is a carnivorous plant (a plant that feeds on small animals, such as insects). Carnivorous plants grow in soil that has little nitrogen. They get nitrogen from the insects they trap.
The Venus flytrap is one of a very small group of plants that can snap shut very quickly. When an insect or spider crawls along the leaves and touches a hair, the trap closes "only if a different hair is touched within twenty seconds of the first touch". The two-touch trigger means that little energy is wasted on things that are not food.
The Venus flytrap is a small plant, with small leaves. Its clam-shaped leaves look rather like flowers, and so they attract insects. When they are open, they are red and smell sweet. They have stiff hairs on each edge. Inside the leaves, there are very sensitive, tiny hairs which cause the leaves to snap shut when they are touched. Two hairs must be touched to make the leaves close. This makes it more likely that the thing that touched its hair is living.
The Venus flytrap feeds on insects, such as ants, beetles, woodlice, worms, flies, grasshoppers, and moths.
First it traps the insect inside its leaves, and then lets out a liquid that helps digest the trapped animal. The plant consumes the insect and takes the nitrogen from the insect's body.
The Venus flytrap makes sugar by photosynthesis. The insects give it nutrients which it cannot get from the waterlogged soil. With the nutrients it can build up enzymes and other molecules which need trace elements as well as sugars and amino acids.
Venus flytraps were first discovered in North America on the coast of North and South Carolina, where it grows wild near the Cape Fear River. However, people anywhere can grow Venus flytraps in pots. Venus flytraps in pots need water and soil without calcium or nitrogen in it. It is named after the Roman goddess of love, Venus.

</doc>
<doc id="18701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18701" title="Prime number">
Prime number

A composite number is a natural number of a particular kind. Any natural number is equal to 1 times itself. If the number is equal to any other numbers multiplied, then the number is a composite number. The smallest composite number is 4, because 2 x 2 = 4. 1 is not a composite number. Every other number is a prime number. The prime numbers are the numbers other than 1 which are not equal to "m" x "n" (except 1 x itself). The smallest prime number is 2. There is no largest prime number. The next smallest prime numbers are 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, and so on.
The way that the prime numbers occur is a difficult problem for mathematicians. When a number is larger, it is more difficult to know if it is a prime number. One of the answers is the Prime number theorem. One of the unsolved problems is Goldbach's conjecture.
There is a simple method to find a list of prime numbers. Eratosthenes created it. It has the name Sieve of Eratosthenes. It catches numbers that are not prime (like a sieve) and lets the prime numbers pass through.
The method is always the same:
As an example, if this is done up to the number 10, the numbers 2, 3, 5 and 7 are prime numbers, and 4, 6, 8, 9 and 10 are composite numbers.
This method or algorithm takes too long to find very large prime numbers. But it is less complicated than methods used for very large primes, like Fermat's primality test (a primality test is to test whether a number is prime or not) or the Miller-Rabin primality test.
Prime numbers are very important in mathematics & computer science. Some real-world uses are given below. Very long prime numbers are hard to solve. It is difficult to find their prime factors, so most of the time, numbers that are probably prime are used for encryption and secret codes.

</doc>
<doc id="18703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18703" title="Igloo">
Igloo

An igloo (or iglu) is a shelter (a place for people to stay warm and dry) made from blocks of snow placed on top of each other, often in the shape of a dome (like half of a hollow ball). They were used in winter as temporary shelters by hunters when they were away from their regular homes.
They were most often built in places where a lot of snow covers the land for weeks or months at a time, such as the far north of Canada and Greenland. Most igloos are built by native Inuit people (sometimes called "Eskimoes"). As they learned to build them better, sometimes people would build larger igloos that would last longer and hold more people, even for dancing.

</doc>
<doc id="18708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18708" title="Dust (disambiguation)">
Dust (disambiguation)

Dust is fine, solid particles of matter.
Dust may also mean:
For articles on how the word "dust" is used as a technical term in physics, astronomy, cosmology, and
environmental science, see:

</doc>
<doc id="18710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18710" title="The Phantom of the Opera">
The Phantom of the Opera

The Phantom of the Opera () is a French novel by Gaston Leroux. It was published in 1910. An English edition came out a year later.
The book was adapted to a musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber in 1986. The musical was made into a movie in 2004.
Movie versions include one starring Lon Chaney in 1925, one from 1943 with Claude Rains, another from 1962 with Herbert Lom, and "The Phantom of the Paradise" (1974). The story has been adapted to made for television movies several times.

</doc>
<doc id="18712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18712" title="Fleet, Hampshire">
Fleet, Hampshire

Fleet is a town in Hampshire, United Kingdom and tends to be a dormitory town serving London and Reading.
Fleet has one shopping center, and a music shop just off the High Street and many small, fun attractions.
There are a number of pubs there with some character, and even two small nightclubs. It has a lot of green, and is good for rambling but there is the danger of a field being an army firing range.
Its local business parks seem to be a focus for many CAD companies serving the local military in Fleet, Aldershot, and Farnborough. Notably there are AutoDesk and PTC.
There are also many good schools especially Heatherside Infant and Juniors and Court Moor!
It has its own train station on the London-Basingstoke line. It also has bus services running to and from local towns, including Reading. The local bus company did go bust a few times, notably at the same time as the major plague of train accidents and strikes in early 2002 - where combined with large snow deposits, made travel in or out of the town impossible or at least very unpleasant. Anyone who lived on the London-Basingstoke line will remember people being crammed into the guard-vans of the train after waiting 90 minutes, or being stuck between stations for what seemed like days.

</doc>
<doc id="18715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18715" title="Hentai">
Hentai

Hentai is a Japanese word that literally means "strange appearance", but also means "perverted". Hentai, because of this, is a word used by countries outside of Japan to show porn and sex-related anime, manga and video games. The word is not used to mean this in Japan. In Japan, terms such as "ecchi" are used.
The word hentai is sometimes used to apply to cartoon characters that are not anime characters. Hentai is the anime version of porn. There is on screen sex, often very graphic and very imaginative. Since hentai is anime, the performers are not bound by physical laws. Makers of hentai often use this in very creative ways. Some of the acts performed in hentai would be physically impossible. Some of the performers are often impossible themselves. Fairies, monsters, and even new and strange creatures are stars of hentai. Monsters and demons with tentacles are seen so often that “tentacle porn” is its own sub-category of hentai.
Most of the hentai (anime)-films in the late 1990s to the present day are based on Ero-Games, where the only actual goal is to date the girls in the game and have sex with one of them. The games feature various character-types, like a bookworm, a tough girl, a younger girl, and a tomboy. Ero-games can include highly taboo themes, such as (coprophilia or dismemberment and pedophilia) and sometimes slightly less taboo subjects, such as (incest, rape). Some examples of these kind of game-to-hentai-anime conversions are Immoral Sisters, Isaku, Pia Carrot, Five Card, Bible Black, Words Worth, Night Shift Nurses, and Milk Junkies.
Famous hentai films include:

</doc>
<doc id="18730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18730" title="Snowboarding">
Snowboarding

Snowboarding is a sport that is much like skiing. A person stands on a "snowboard" and rides down a mountain covered with snow. A snowboard is a flat board with bindings that hold your feet in place while gliding down the mountain. It is different from skiing because both feet are on one board - like surfing.
Some snowboarders like to ride over jumps and do tricks. 
The snowboard was born in the seventy's through the imagination of several different Americans. 
The original idea was born in 1965 through Sherman Poppen. He invented the ‘’snurfer ‘’, which was made of two skis fixed together, as a gift to his daughter. It soon became very popular, so he licensed it to the Brunswick Corporation who sold about a million over the next 10 years. 
In the mid 1970's Dimitrije Milovich created a snowboard inspired by the surfing board called the 'Winterstick'. Finally, in 1977 Jake Burton Carpenter helped by Tom Sims and Chuck Barfoot created the first snowboard model, which made them very rich.
During the eighty's, the sport became very popular. In 1982 the first National Snowboard race was held in Vermont at Suicide Six. The number of windsurfering and snowboarding stations grew very fast everywhere there was snow and mountains.
Snowboarding was first recommended to join the Olympic program in 1996 by the Olympic council in Atlanta. Two years later, some competitions like the Big slalom and the Half-pipe took place in The Olympic Nagano games.
Snowboarders must wear hot and good quality clothes against the cold temperature. They wear also some ski goggles to protect their eyes from reflection of the sun on the snow, against the snow and the wind that can be very hurtful. It is essential to have a good view during the ride. The board that they used has to be fitted by squares on all its length that allow snowboarders to practice this sport even if there is not a lot of snow. Also, the snowboard is equipped with binding to provide snowboarders solidity and stability. The security attach have to be firmly tied on the binding and clip on one of your boots adapted to this sport. Wearing a helmet is strongly recommended.
There are two possible positions on the board. First of all, there is the regular one. With this position, your right foot is placed in the back. The second one is called goofy where you have to put your left foot in the back. The choice between those two positions is personal to everyone. Contrary to what everybody can thinks, goofys are not necessary left-handed or regulars right-handed. In fact, seventy-five percent of the people are regulars. Because the board make a curve in the front and in the back, it can glide on the two sides. In addition, the board called twin-tips is perfectly symmetric, so it allows windsurfers to glide in switch (when the favorite foot is in the back) or in normal-foot (when the favorite foot is in the front).

</doc>
<doc id="18735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18735" title="Aquamarine">
Aquamarine

Aquamarine is a gemstone, named for its blue-green color, which looks like some shallow seas. It is a type of beryl. The color aquamarine is named for the gemstone.

</doc>
<doc id="18736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18736" title="Trinitrotoluene">
Trinitrotoluene

TNT (Trinitrotoluene) is an explosive similar to dynamite (based on nitroglycerin).
Sometimes TNT is used to mean dynamite, or dynamite is used to mean TNT, because they can both be used in similar ways. If a person has been involved in a crime using TNT, scientists track it down by testing the hair molecules or clothing molecules to see if TNT particles are found on clothing or hair. It stays on your hair EVEN if you clean the TNT particles in your hair! TNT Is a form of dynamite and very explosive if handled incorrectly. Caution should be taken when using TNT.

</doc>
<doc id="18744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18744" title="Spore">
Spore

Spores are the way fungi and some non-seed plants (ferns and mosses) reproduce. They are also made by bacteria for long-term survival. Some protozoa also make long-term survival spores.
The spores of seed plants are single cells that grow into a pollen grain or the gametophyte inside the ovule. The structure of seeds in higher plants is more complicated than spores. The main 'innovation' of seeds is their nutrition for the developing embryo, which spores do not have.
Fungi (for example, mushrooms) produce spores, which may be asexual or sexual. The asexual spores have inside them the genetic material to make a whole new organism identical to its parent. 
Conidia are asexual, non-motile spores of a fungus; they are also called mitospores due to the way they are generated through the cellular process of mitosis. They are haploid cells genetically identical to the haploid parent, can develop into a new organism if conditions are favorable, and serve in dispersal.
Asexual reproduction in Ascomycetes (the Phylum Ascomycota) is by the formation of conidia, which are borne on specialized stalks called conidiophores. The morphology of these specialized conidiophores is often distinctive of a specific species and can therefore be used in identification of the species.
Bacterial spores are extremely resistant. Spores of tetanus and anthrax, for example, can survive in the soil for many years. The origin of these spores was discovered in the 19th century, when a biologist noticed, under the microscope, a small, round, bright body inside bacterial cells. This survived even when the bacteria were boiled for five minutes. This killed the bacteria, but not the spores. They germinated when conditions were right.
Plants have alternation of generations. One of the generations is the sporophyte, which produces spores by meiosis, and the other is the gametophyte with produces gametes.

</doc>
<doc id="18746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18746" title="Radiohead">
Radiohead

Radiohead are an English rock band from Abingdon, Oxfordshire. The lead singer and lyrics writer of the band is Thom Yorke, who also plays guitar and piano. Thom is known for his high voiced singing style and the band is known for their different style of rock music.
The band has five members, and three of them play guitar. In their early years, Radiohead was known for their layered and heavy guitar sound. In later years, the band began using other instruments too, and creating more electronic sounds. The band still performs live and attracts large crowds of fans to sold-out concerts, even though they play many different styles of music.
Most bands from England are not successful outside their home country of the UK. But Radiohead is successful in the UK and also in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Australia, Israel, Japan and other parts of Asia. Radiohead does not sell as much as the biggest pop artists in the world, but they are recognized by fans and music critics. Lots of people and magazines have called their albums some of the best ever made. They have created nine album's so far, the most recent being, "A Moon Shaped Pool" (2016)
Radiohead started in 1985. The members of the band went to school together at Abingdon School, a boys' school in Abingdon, Oxfordshire. The band first called themselves "On a Friday". The band would usually rehearse on Friday in their school's music room. 
On A Friday signed a contract with EMI, a large record label, in 1991. They changed their name to "Radiohead". This name came from the song "Radio Head" on the album "True Stories" by Talking Heads. They released their first EP, called "Drill", in May 1992. It was not very popular. Radiohead started work on their first album. It was called "Pablo Honey" and it was recorded in 1992 in a studio in Oxford. They released their first single, "Creep", late in 1992. They released "Pablo Honey" in February 1993. The album did not become popular, but "Creep" did, and the band got a lot of fans because of it. At the time, Radiohead's style of music was not very popular, and people said it sounded like Nirvana, but was not as good. They said that other Britpop bands, like Suede, were better. "Creep" was played on the radio at a lot of colleges around the world, however. When Radiohead went on tour in the United States in early 1993, the music video for "Creep" was being played a lot on MTV.
Radiohead made an EP in 1994. This was called "My Iron Lung", and contained the title single, and seven songs known as B-sides (because they were not on a full length album). The main song, "My Iron Lung", was about the way fans had reacted to their song "Creep". The band was happy the song had been a hit, because otherwise they might not have been able to continue the band. But the band, especially Thom Yorke, were reluctant to be celebrities. They were already disturbed by the workings of the music industry. They felt they had no control over things. "Creep" was popular, so they felt under pressure to make more similar songs. They hated the way "Creep" was the only Radiohead song anyone listened to at their concerts, yet it was all that was keeping them popular and afloat in the record industry. The "iron lung" was a metaphor for such a "life support".
Their second normal album, "The Bends", came out in 1995. The song "My Iron Lung" was on it, along with 11 new ones. The band released four more songs as singles: "Fake Plastic Trees", "High and Dry", "Just" and "Street Spirit [Fade Out]". None of these songs were as popular as "Creep" around the world. Radiohead was now a one-hit wonder to many people in America. Songs from "The Bends" did not get played on the radio very much there. But the album became very popular in Radiohead's home of the UK. It also got excellent reviews from music critics, unlike the band's first album. Many said it was one of the best rock records in memory. The album was produced by John Leckie, a veteran at EMI's Abbey Road studios. As a young man Leckie had assisted on Pink Floyd albums in the 1970s.
The band's lineup was the same for "The Bends". Thom Yorke and Ed O'Brien played rhythm and auxiliary guitar; Thom sang and Ed sang backup. Phil Selway played drums and percussion. Colin Greenwood played bass guitar. Radiohead's lead guitarist was Jonny Greenwood, Colin's younger brother. Jonny was also younger than any of the other members. Jonny was the only member of the band who did not graduate from university. He was also the only member who had attended music school. Jonny had had to leave university after a few months to join Radiohead on a tour when they became popular. But he played in an orchestra when he was young, and he had a knowledge of classical and experimental music and jazz. Thus, Jonny became the band's musical expert. At this stage he already played many instruments, such as keyboard.
It was Jonny's complex and cathartic guitar solos in songs like "Just" and "The Bends" that soon began to attract notice. So did his simpler playing in other songs. The circle of Radiohead fans began to grow. Thom Yorke's lyrics also began talking about larger more political themes during this time. Mostly, they were still about personal disappointments, loves, losses, depression, unease, and anger. But Thom wrote songs like "Fake Plastic Trees" and "Street Spirit" which found the source of the unease in the larger structure of society, not the individual.
Radiohead's style of music had gotten more mature, according to most people, without changing too much. Some others felt their songwriting had improved so much it was no longer unrecognizable. The band used more keyboards and acoustic guitar this time, and made a more subtle atmosphere. But electric guitars were the main instrument used on the record. Some of Radiohead's influences this time were: the post-punk band Magazine, the singer-songwriter Jeff Buckley, Morrissey's (former Smiths singer) "Vauxhall & I", and the music of R.E.M. That band had inspired Radiohead from the beginning. Radiohead would get a chance to tour with them in summer 1995, after releasing the album. Lead singer Michael Stipe became a friend and mentor to Thom, and also a public fan of Radiohead. In 1995 he said "they're so good, they're scary".
The band's influences had expanded once more by the time of their next album "OK Computer".
With "OK Computer", the band started the next section of their career. They started using more sounds from electronic music. They released the album "Kid A" which had a lot less use of guitar than on previous albums, but was still called one of their best albums (with some people calling it their best). An album of songs recorded during this time, but that did not appear on "Kid A" was released, called "Amnesiac". In 2003 they released the album "Hail To The Thief" which was a return to a sound with more guitars and less use of electronic sounds. In 2007 they released "In Rainbows". It was first released for free on the band's website, then released properly on January 1, 2008.
Radiohead has been nominated five times at the BRIT Awards.
Radiohead has received three awards from fourteen nominations at the Grammy Awards.
Radiohead has received one Ivor Novello Award.
Radiohead has received four Mercury Prize nominations.
Radiohead has received one award from ten nominations at the MTV Video Music Awards.
Radiohead has received one nomination at the PLUG Awards.
Radiohead has received two awards from the Q Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="18747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18747" title="Ladino language">
Ladino language

Ladino (also called Judeo-Spanish) is a Jewish language that is very close to the Spanish language from which it originates. It has many old Spanish words and Hebrew words.
During the Middle Ages, many Jews lived in Spain. These Jews were called Sephardic Jews or "Sephardim" (in Hebrew). They were forced to leave Spain after the country was taken over by Christians, and they brought this old Spanish with them to the countries they ran away to. Today some Sephardic Jews still speak Ladino in Israel, Turkey, Bulgaria, the United States, and other countries.
Like many other Jewish languages, Ladino, which as an endangered language, is in danger of language death and thus could become an extinct language. Most native speakers are old, because many of them who emigrated to Israel, did not pass on the language to their children or grandchildren. In some Sephardic Jewish communities in Latin America and elsewhere, there is a threat of dialect levelling, meaning extinction by assimilation into modern Spanish.
Ladino is written using the Latin alphabet and in Israel using the Hebrew alphabet.
Ladino should not be confused with the Ladin language, which is related to the Swiss Romansh and Friulian languages and is mostly spoken in the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol region of Northern Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="18750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18750" title="Guns N' Roses">
Guns N' Roses

Guns N' Roses is a popular American hard rock band. The band was formed in Los Angeles, California, USA. The five original members of the band were Axl Rose (lead vocals), Slash (lead guitar), Izzy Stradlin (rhythm guitar, backing vocals), Duff McKagan (bass, backing vocals), and Steven Adler (drums). The band's most known songs are "Welcome to the Jungle", "Paradise City", "Sweet Child O'Mine", "Patience", "Live and Let Die", "November Rain", "Knockin' on Heaven's Door", "Don't Cry", and "Civil War".
The music they made was different from the rock music that was popular in the 1980's. They played harder rock music. It was also closer to traditional rock. Because of this, many music fans became interested in Guns N'Roses. Guns N'Roses was created in Los Angeles in June, 1985. By singer W. Axl Rose, guitarists Tracii Guns and Izzy Stradlin, bassist Ole Beich and drummer Rob Gardner. Axl's old band was named Hollywood Rose, and Tracii's old band was named L.A. Guns. They joined the two names and got the name Guns N' Roses. 
In 1985, Guns N' Roses went to Seattle to perform. Tracii Guns and Rob Gardiner could not attend the show. Rose called guitarist Slash and drummer Steven Adler, who were his friends. He asked them for help. They agreed, and became permanent members. On the way back to Los Angeles, the five members wrote the lyrics for 'Welcome to the Jungle' which became one of their most famous songs. Then in 1990 Drummer Steven Adler got fired from the band because of his drug abuse. He was replaced by Cult Drummer Matt Sorum.
Slash, McKagan and Sorum were in Velvet Revolver with Stone Temple Pilots frontman Scott Weiland and Wasted Youth guitarist Dave Kushner, until Scott passed away.
Since parting ways with the "Appetite for Destruction"-line up, Rose has remained a constant member and many line ups have changed since. The band recently released a new album, titled "Chinese Democracy", which had been delayed for over ten years, to mixed reactions. In 2016, Slash and Duff rejoined the band.

</doc>
<doc id="18756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18756" title="1839">
1839


</doc>
<doc id="18759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18759" title="Lake Chaubunagungamaug">
Lake Chaubunagungamaug

Lake Chaubunagungamaug, or Lake Webster is a lake in the United States. It is in the state of Massachusetts. The lake is also known by the much shorter name of "Webster Lake", but some people prefer the long name Chargoggagoggmanchauggagoggchaubunagungamaugg, which is the Native American name for the lake. The name is the longest place name in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="18764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18764" title="Hans Enoksen">
Hans Enoksen

Hans Enoksen (born 1956) was the Prime Minister of Greenland. He was the Prime Minister of Greenland from 2002-2009.

</doc>
<doc id="18765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18765" title="Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit">
Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit

Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit ("You Our Ancient Land"; ) is the national anthem of Greenland. It was written by Henrik Lund, and it became the national anthem in 1916.

</doc>
<doc id="18768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18768" title="Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story">
Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story

Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story is a 2004 American comedy movie, released by 20th Century Fox. It is set in Las Vegas, Nevada and stars Ben Stiller, Rip Torn and Vince Vaughn.
A little-known gym, Average Joe's, tries not to go out of business by playing a game of dodgeball against a more expensive rival, Globo's Gym.

</doc>
<doc id="18769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18769" title="Ben Stiller">
Ben Stiller

Ben Stiller (born November 30, 1965) is an American actor, comedian, voice actor, screenwriter, movie director, and producer. He is best known for his roles in "There's Something About Mary", "Zoolander" (2001), "Meet the Parents" (2001) (and its 2004 sequel "Meet the Fockers").
Stiller has also starred in "Flirting with Disaster" (1996), "Duplex" (2003) and "" (2004) among others. One of the first movies he starred in was Steven Spielberg's "Empire of the Sun" (1987) "Tropic Thunder" (2008).
He directed "Reality Bites" (1994) and "The Cable Guy" (1996).
Stiller was born in New York City in 1965. His father, Jerry Stiller, is from a Jewish family that immigrated from Poland and Galicia, in Eastern Europe. His mother, Anne Meara, who is of Irish Catholic background, converted to Reform Judaism after marrying his father. The family celebrated both Hanukkah and Christmas, and Stiller had a Bar Mitzvah. He has said that he is "half Jewish and half Irish Catholic." Stiller's parents frequently took him on the sets of their appearances, including "The Mike Douglas Show" when he was six. He stated in an interview that he considered his childhood unusual: "In some ways, it was a show-business upbringing—a lot of traveling, a lot of late nights—not what you'd call traditional."
 

</doc>
<doc id="18772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18772" title="Sieve of Eratosthenes">
Sieve of Eratosthenes

The Sieve of Eratosthenes is a simple test to check if a number is a prime number.
If someone wants to check for a certain number "n" to be prime, they do as follows:
Do the following:
Repeat this for all numbers until you reach the square root of "n".
If "n" has been crossed out it is not prime.

</doc>
<doc id="18773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18773" title="Benjamin Franklin">
Benjamin Franklin

Benjamin Franklin (January 17, 1706 – April 17, 1790) was an American statesman and scientist. He has also been known as "the First American". He was a very important person in the American Revolution and helped make the Thirteen Colonies one nation. As a leader of the Enlightenment, he influenced European scientists. He even was the first thing many Europeans associated with America at the time. His successful diplomacy in France was an important factor in the United States' win over Great Britain.
Franklin was born in Boston. After two years of school he stayed home as an apprentice in his father's candle-making shop. Two years after starting to work at his father's shop, he went to work at his brother James' printing shop. While working there, Franklin secretly wrote articles for the newspaper and labelled them as being by "Mrs. Silence Dogood". He quarrelled with his brother and ran away to Philadelphia, then to London and then back to Philadelphia.
Franklin loved books and reading. Franklin, at the age of 21, established the colonies' first circulation library for all interested citizens. He became rich and famous as a printer, publisher and writer. Later, he sold his businesses and became busy with science and politics.
Benjamin Franklin was a very important person in early American politics. He was a leader in the city of Philadelphia, where he did many important things. He was the President of the Academy and College of Philadelphia. Later he became a councilman, a Justice of the Peace, later a representative of the city. In 1757 he went to live in London as agent for Pennsylvania and later for other colonies. He also started one of the first public libraries in Philadelphia.
He was in the Continental Congress, which led the country during the Revolutionary War, and he helped write the United States Declaration of Independence. He controlled the postal service as Postmaster General. As ambassador to France he helped persuade the French to join the war against Great Britain. He helped negotiate the peace, too. Later, he was part of the group that made the Constitution of the United States.
Franklin called himself a printer, but is also known for his writings. Among some of the more well known are Poor Richard's Almanack, and the Pennsylvanian.
Franklin was a scientist who studied experiments in an effort to improve or correct them. One of his greatest contributions was in the theory of electricity.
Most people see Franklin as one of history's greatest inventors. He invented the lightning rod and bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other things.
Franklin died in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from pleurisy, aged 84.
Although Franklin owned slaves, towards the end of his life he freed them, and became an abolitionist.
The city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (where he lived) marked his three hundredth birthday in 2006. Many streets and a few towns are named for him.
A picture of Franklin has been on the United States' hundred-dollar bill since 1928. He was also on the fifty-cent coin for a short time.

</doc>
<doc id="18781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18781" title="Noble Eightfold Path">
Noble Eightfold Path

In Buddhism, the Noble Eightfold Path (Pali: "ariya atthangika magga") is the path to the end of suffering. It is the fourth part of the Four Noble Truths. It can be summed up in three categories: wisdom ("pañña"), virtue ("sila"), and concentration ("samadhi"). It asks for the Right view and the right intention, as well as other things. It also asks for the right speech.
Here is a description of the path:

</doc>
<doc id="18785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18785" title="Gone with the Wind">
Gone with the Wind

Gone with the Wind is a 1936 novel by Margaret Mitchell. It tells the story of Scarlett O'Hara, and her adventures in the American South (and in the plantation of Tara) during the Civil War. During the book, she falls in love with Rhett Butler, a city gentleman. It is one of the most famous books of its time, and was made into a movie with the same name.
The title takes its name from the lines an Ernest Dowson poem: "I have forgot much, Cynara! gone with the wind." (This line also appears in the book.)
Critics and historians have disagreed with its views of Confederacy and the American South before the Civil War. But it is true to the events of the time, and also has a well-written account of the fall of Atlanta in 1864.
The book won the Pulitzer Prize on May 3, 1937.
In 1991, Alexander Ripley wrote its official sequel, "Scarlett". Three years later, it was made as a television miniseries.
In 2001, the copyright holders of the original book tried to stop sales of Alice Randall's "The Wind Done Gone". (The book retold Mitchell's story from a slave's point of view.) The resulting lawsuit allowed the book to be published; it was seen, based on rules in the First Amendment, as a parody.

</doc>
<doc id="18792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18792" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies is a list of the top one hundred movies in American cinema. It was made by the American Film Institute in 1998. The television station CBS aired the list's special.
Movies that were on the list:

</doc>
<doc id="18798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18798" title="Flag of Greenland">
Flag of Greenland

The Flag of Greenland was designed by Greenlander Thue Christiansen. It features two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk at the center. The top half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white. 
Its local name in the Greenlandic language is "Erfalasorput", which means "our flag", but Aappalaartoq (meaning "the red") is also used for both the Greenlandic flag and the Dannebrog. Today Greenlanders display both the Erfalasorput and the Dannebrog, often side-by-side.
Greenland first thought of the idea of a flag of its own in 1973, when five Greenlanders proposed a green, white and blue flag. The following year, a newspaper printed eleven design proposals (all but one of which was a Nordic Cross), and polled the people to determine the most popular. The Dannebrog was better liked than any. Little came of this effort.
In 1978, Denmark granted home rule to Greenland, making it an equal member of the Danish Kingdom. The home rule government asked for flag proposals, receiving 555. 293 were made by Greenlanders. 
Out of all the designs, the current red-and-white design by Christiansen narrowly won over a green-and-white Nordic cross by a vote of fourteen to eleven. Christiansen's red-and-white flag was officially adopted on June 21, 1985.
To honor the tenth anniversary of the Erfalasorput, the Greenland Post Office issued commemorative stamps and a leaflet by its creator. He described the white stripe as representing the glaciers and ice cap; the red stripe, the ocean; the red semicircle, the fjords; and the white semicircle, the icebergs and pack ice. The design is also reminiscent of the setting sun half-submerged below the horizon and reflected on the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="18799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18799" title="Greenlandic language">
Greenlandic language

Greenlandic can be divided into three dialects:
Kalaallisut or, in English, Greenlandic, is the name given to the standard dialect and official language of Greenland. This standard national language is now taught to all Greenlanders in school, regardless of their native dialect. It reflects almost exclusively the language of western Greenland and has borrowed a great deal of vocabulary from Danish, while Canadian and Alaskan Inuit languages have tended to take words from English or sometimes French and Russian. It is written using the Roman alphabet. The dialect of the Upernavik area in northwest Greenland is somewhat different in sound from the standard dialect. 
Tunumiit oraasiat, (or Tunumiisut in Kalaallisut, often East Greenlandic in other languages), is the dialect of eastern Greenland. It differs sharply from other Inuit language variants and has roughly 3,000 speakers.
Avanersuaq is the dialect of the area around Qaanaaq in northern Greenland. It is sometimes called the Thule dialect or North Greenlandic. This area is the northernmost settlement area of the Inuit and has a relatively small number of speakers. It is reputed to be fairly close to the North Baffin dialect, since a group of Inuit from Baffin Island settled in the area during the 19th and early 20th centuries. It counts under 1,000 speakers.

</doc>
<doc id="18802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18802" title="Earthworm">
Earthworm

An earthworm is an invertebrate animal with a long, stretchy body and no legs. It is a type of annelid. 
There are 5,500 known species of worms. They can be found everywhere, except in polar or dry climates. Their sizes vary: they can be between two centimeters and about three meters in length. The biggest known earthworm is the giant Gippsland earthworm, found in Australia. It is usually about 80cm in length, but can grow to about 3 meters.
The most common earthworm (in Europe, and most other temperate climate regions) grows to a size of about 20-25 cm when extended.
Most earthworms can regrow lost segments, assuming the worm has not had too much damage. This capability varies by species.
Long ago, all animals looking like worms were lumped together by John Ray and by Linnaeus in their classifications. Later, biologists found that some were in quite different groups. Roundworms and flatworms are different phyla. Inchworms are a type of caterpillar, and the slow-worm is a legless lizard.
The average earthworm is a reddish brown color, with a pointed posterior and anterior end. There are no eyes or other discerning facial features, only a simply opening for a mouth. Earthworms have long, segmented bodies, covered in microscopic setae, or bristles, which help to anchor and pull the worm via longitudinal muscle contractions. Earthworms have no lungs, and absorb oxygen directly through their skin. In order to do this, they must stay moist, and do so by lubricating their skin with glands along their bodies.
Earthworms are invertebrates, lacking a skeleton. To support and shape the body, they are filled with coelomic fluid. Earthworms sometimes appear to have a "belt" or "saddle" around their bodies; this is a clitelum, a structure containing maturing eggs.
Earthworms typically live in damp (but not wet), loose soil. They can also be found in loose leaf litter, and after it rains they can be found on the surface as they are forced out of the water-logged soil. Many gardeners welcome earthworms, as they aerate and enrich the soil with their droppings. They are quite happy in compost, gorging themselves on decaying vegetable matter. An earthworm's burrow can be seen by the pile of dark, sand-like droppings, or casts, surrounding the entrance.
Earthworms are hermaphrodites, meaning they each contain male and female gametes. During mating, both worms exchange sperm and have eggs fertilized. The belt-like swollen area on the earthworm’s body, commonly called the "saddle" or "belt", is called a clitelum. It secretes a slimy substance that forms capsules which protect the eggs (sperm cells and eggs merge inside the capsule and form embryos). Inside, 1-20 eggs mature, taking between 60 and 90 days to hatch, depending on environmental factors such as humidity and temperature. An earthworm takes up to a year to fully mature, and in the wild they can live from 4 to 8 years.
The typical earthworm diet is decaying matter, leaf litter, microbial fungi, and other microscopic organisms. Earthworms are important to the environment, breaking down organic matter and passing it through their gut as newly enriched soil. An earthworm has no teeth, so it swallows grit to help grind food in its multi-chambered gut. As an earthworm burrows and feeds, it aerates the soil and adds nutrients from deeper soil layers to upper layers, making easier new plant growth in the process. For this reason, they are valued by farmers and gardeners worldwide. 

</doc>
<doc id="18803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18803" title="Wire">
Wire

Wire is a long, thin and flexible piece of metal. Wires are made in many different metals and sizes, and are used for many purposes. Wire rope has been used for centuries. 
Electrical wire is wire used to carry electricity. When people touch wire that is carrying electricity, they get shocked, which is bad, so the outside coating of electrical wires is colored. Most electric wires are black, but some wires have a differently colored coating. Different colors indicate different purposes, for example, in the United States, green or bare is a ground (earth) wire, white is a neutral wire, and black, blue, red, brown, yellow, and orange are hot (live) wires.
A wiretap is when law enforcement puts a device into a phone or other electronic device to hear what suspected criminals are going to do. 
Copper wire is the best known type of wire, but wire can also be made out of aluminum or other metals. If we did not have wiring almost all of our electronics would not be working or available.

</doc>
<doc id="18804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18804" title="Whistle">
Whistle

A whistle is a thing to make a high sound, or the act of making a similar sound with a person's breath through their lips. 

</doc>
<doc id="18805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18805" title="Whip">
Whip

A whip is a long strand of leather or other fabric with a hard handle. When a person shakes a whip fast, it makes a loud "crack" sound, because it has broken the sound barrier. It is used for directing or hitting animals or people.

</doc>
<doc id="18806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18806" title="Die Toten Hosen">
Die Toten Hosen

Die Toten Hosen is a German punk band from Düsseldorf, Germany. They are one of the most popular punk bands from Germany. Their career started in 1982. Their first album was released in 1984 and named "Opel-Gang".
Most of their songs are in German. Some are in English and in a few other languages such as Spanish. They have many fans in German-speaking countries but also they have many fans in South America and other parts of Europe. 
The band consists of the following members:

</doc>
<doc id="18809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18809" title="Balalaika">
Balalaika

The balalaika is a musical instrument from Russia. The Balalaika family includes the piccolo balalaika, prima balalaika, sekunda balalaika, alto balalaika, bass balalaika and contrabass balalaika. They all have three strings. There are many ways to tune balalaika; the most common tuning is E-E-A. The prima balalaika is played with the fingers, the sekunda and alto either with the fingers or a pick depending on the music being played. The basses and contrabasses, which have legs that rest on the floor, are played with leather picks.
Early pictures of the balalaika show it had between two and six strings, like some Central Asian instruments. Frets on earlier balalaikas were made of animal gut and tied to the neck so that they could be moved around by the player.
The balalaika was improved by a Russian, Vasily Vasil'yevich Andreev. He had heard peasants on his farm playing badly made instruments. Andreev wanted to improve the instrument and use it for concerts. He spent the rest of his life working on this instrument with help from two violin makers and a carpenter. They improved the soundboard, which made it louder. He came up with the idea of the prima balalaike, sekunda, alto, bass and controbass balalaika. He then spent several years writing and arranging music for groups of balalaikas to play. The first public performance by the Ensemble of Balalaika Players took place in 1888.
After the Russian Revolution, the Communist Party encouraged the playing of the instrument and large balalaika orchestras were started.

</doc>
<doc id="18810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18810" title="Klezmer">
Klezmer

Klezmer is a kind of music. It was made by the Jews of Eastern Europe, and it is a mix of Russian, Greek and Romanian folk music, based on and Jewish prayer music. 
In old times, it was played during Jewish weddings and religious festivals, and it was made for dancing. The most common klezmer instruments are the clarinet and the violin, because they are the best to play in the sad klezmer style.

</doc>
<doc id="18812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18812" title="New South Wales">
New South Wales

New South Wales is one of the states of Australia. It the oldest state in Australia and is sometimes called the "Premier State". Of all Australian states, New South Wales has the most people. An inhabitant of New South Wales is referred to as a New South Welshman. The capital city of New South Wales is Sydney. Sydney is the biggest city in Australia. 
The name New South Wales came from the journal of Lieutenant James Cook (later Captain Cook), who sailed up the east coast of Australia in 1770. He thought that the land looked like the south coast of Wales. He named it "New Wales" but then changed the name in his journal to "New South Wales".
New South Wales was founded (begun) in 1788, by the British who set up a small colony which became known as Sydney Town, and grew into the city of Sydney. The British colony of New South Wales originally included more than half of the Australian mainland, as well as New Zealand, Lord Howe Island and Norfolk Island. During the 19th century large areas were separated to form the British colonies of Tasmania, South Australia, Victoria, Queensland and New Zealand.
New South Wales has four main geographical areas:
The state is bordered on the north by Queensland, on the west by South Australia, and on the south by Victoria. Its coast faces the Tasman Sea. New South Wales contains two Federal Territories: the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), and the Jervis Bay Territory.
New South Wales' three big cities are Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong which all lie along the coast. Other settlements include Albury, a large town which borders with Victoria; Broken Hill, the most westerly large town; Dubbo; Orange, Bowral, Bathurst, home of the Bathurst 1000; Port Macquarie, Tamworth, home to the country music festival; Armidale, Inverell, Lismore, Nowra, Gosford, Griffith, Queanbeyan, Leeton, Wagga Wagga, Goulburn, where a lot of Australia's fruit is grown and Coffs Harbour, a popular tourist destination.
The population of New South Wales at the end of June 2007 was 6.89 million people. Population grew by 1.1% over the preceding year, lower than the national rate of 1.5%.
62.9% of NSW's population is based in Sydney.

</doc>
<doc id="18813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18813" title="Hemp">
Hemp

Hemp ("Cannabis sativa" subsp. "sativa") is a plant and the fibers made from it. It is a subspecies of the "Cannabis sativa" plant. It is usually used to make cloth and other textiles, and ropes.
Hemp is one of the oldest plants humans have grown and used. Hemp was domesticated in Asia over 10,000 years ago. It was already used to make clothes, ropes, and an early form of paper. The seeds were eaten, and the plant had medicinal uses. From there the use of hemp spread. In Europe, hemp was at least used 5,500 years ago. It is one of the earliest domesticated plants recorded. It is quite strong and does not need many pesticides (to keep away bugs) and no herbicides. Linen and hemp were the most important fiber plants in Europe for a long time.
Hemp is similar to marijuana, but contains very little THC, the chemical that makes people feel good while using marijuana. Unlike marijuana (now legal in Colorado), hemp is completely legal in the United States, France, Spain, Indonesia, England, and Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="18816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18816" title="1000s">
1000s

The 1000s is the first decade of the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="18817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18817" title="1010s">
1010s


</doc>
<doc id="18818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18818" title="1157">
1157


</doc>
<doc id="18819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18819" title="1512">
1512


</doc>
<doc id="18820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18820" title="Lung">
Lung

The lung is an organ in many vertebrates (animals having a "spine", or backbone). It gives blood oxygen from the air, and takes away carbon dioxide. Most vertebrates have 2 lungs.
In animals, the lungs are the area where gas exchange takes place. Without gas exchange, oxygen would not pass into the blood from the lungs so the body cells would not be able to receive the oxygen needed for respiration.
The alveoli are moist to allow oxygen to move from the lung through the alveoli into blood vessels and red blood cells. Carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the alveoli. The oxygen-filled blood goes back to the heart and the carbon dioxide in the alveoli is pushed out of the lungs and into the air we breathe out.
Birds lungs do not have alveoli, instead they have millions of para-bronchi. These para-bronchi end up in tiny capillaries or very small blood vessels and they pass close to the body's blood vessels, so diffusion can occur and the oxygen and carbon dioxide is exchanged. The oxygen and carbon dioxide in birds lungs are continuously diffused into and out of the blood, not like in mammals where diffusion can only happen in the alveoli.
Reptile lungs open and close because of the ribs surrounding them pressing down on them and then opening up with the help of muscles. The liver is also attached to the bottom of the lungs and when a muscle which is attached to the liver pulls, the liver moves away from the lungs and pulls them, making them bigger.
Frog lungs are very simple compared to most other lungs, they are simply balloons, with moist outsides allowing for diffusion. But frogs do not move around much and so do not need lots of oxygen, but they can also take in oxygen through their moist outer skin if a big demand of oxygen is needed (e.g. Fight or Flight).

</doc>
<doc id="18822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18822" title="Kansas City">
Kansas City

Kansas City is the name of two cities in the United States of America.

</doc>
<doc id="18827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18827" title="Rock music">
Rock music

Rock music is a genre of popular music. It developed during and after the 1960s in the United Kingdom and the United States. It originally started in the 1940s and 1950s with the start of rock and roll. Rock and roll grew out of rhythm and blues and country music. Rock music is related to a number of other genres such as blues and folk. It has influences from jazz, classical and other music genres.
Musically, rock mostly uses the electric guitar as part of a rock group with bass guitar and drums. Rock music is song-based. It has a 4/4 beat and it has verse-chorus form. However, rock has become very different and it is hard to say what its common musical instruments are. Like popular music, rock music lyrics are mostly about "romantic love". They can also have social or have political themes, however. Rock focuses on musical skill, live performance, and it tries to be more real than pop music.
By the late 1960s, a number of different rock music below-genres had come out. These included hybrids like blues rock, folk rock, country rock, and jazz-rock fusion. From these forms, the counterculture developed psychedelic rock. New genres that came from this scene included progressive rock, glam rock and heavy metal. Progressive rock made the music more artistic. Glam rock focused on showmanship and what you can see. Heavy metal which focused on loudness, power and speed. In the second half of the 1970s, punk rock both intensified and reacted against some of these trends to produce a raw, energetic form of music characterized by overt political and social critiques. Punk caused other below-genres to come about into the 1980s, including New Wave, post-punk and eventually the alternative rock movement. From the 1990s, alternative rock began to be the most popular type of rock music. It broke through into the mainstream in the form of grunge, Britpop, and indie rock. More merging of below-genres have since emerged. These include pop punk, rap rock, and rap metal, as well as conscious attempts to revisit rock's history, including the garage rock/post-punk and synthpop revivals at the beginning of the new millennium.
Rock music has also helped cultural and social movements. This led to large sub-cultures including mods and rockers in the UK and the "hippie" culture that spread out from San Francisco in the US in the 1960s. Similarly, 1970s punk culture made the goth and emo subcultures. Rock music has the same folk tradition as the protest song. Rock music has been involved with political activism. It has also made changes to social attitudes towards race, sex and drug use. It is often seen as an expression of youth revolt against adult consumerism and conformity.

</doc>
<doc id="18829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18829" title="Cream">
Cream

Cream (also called milkfat, milk fat, and butterfat) is the fatty part of regular milk. Skimmed milk (or skim milk) is milk sold with some or nearly all of the fat removed. Cream is usually used in coffee to make it lighter in taste.

</doc>
<doc id="18836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836" title="Time dilation">
Time dilation

Time dilation is a physics concept about changes in the passage of time, as related to relativity. The time dilation is a combination of time quickening when further from a strong gravitational field plus time slowing at faster speed, and the total effects have been confirmed by clocks on some spacecraft.
In Albert Einstein's theories of relativity, there are two types of time dilation: 
The formula for determining time dilation in special relativity is:
where
It could also be written as:
where
A simple summary is that more time is measured on the clock at rest than the moving clock; therefore, the moving clock is "running slow".
When both clocks are not moving, relative to each other, the two times measured are the same. This can be proven mathematically by
For example:
In a spaceship moving at 99% of the speed of light, a year passes. How much time will pass on earth?
Substituting into :formula_1
So approximately 7.09 years will pass on earth, for each year in the spaceship.
In ordinary life today, time dilation had not been a factor, where people move at speeds much less than the speed of light, the speeds are not great enough to produce any detectable time dilation effects. Such vanishingly small effects can be safely ignored. It is only when an object approaches speeds on the order of (as 10% the speed of light) that time dilation becomes important.
However, there are practical uses of time dilation. A big example is with keeping the clocks on GPS satellites accurate. Without accounting for time dilation, the GPS result would be useless, because time runs faster on satellites so far from Earth's gravity. GPS devices would calculate the wrong position due to the time difference if the space clocks were not set to run slower on Earth to offset the quicker time in high Earth orbit (geostationary orbit).

</doc>
<doc id="18848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18848" title="Supreme Court of the United States">
Supreme Court of the United States

The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the United States of America. Because of this, the Court leads the Judicial Branch of the United States Federal Government. It is the only U.S. court established by the United States Constitution, and its decisions are supposed to be followed by all other courts in the United States. The Court meets in its own building in Washington, D.C. However, until 1935, the Supreme Court met in the United States Capitol. 
The number of judges—called "justices"—on the Supreme Court has changed over time. There are 9 justices on the court now: one Chief Justice and eight Associate Justices. Courts are unofficially named for the Chief Justice; the current Court is called the "Roberts Court" after Chief Justice John Roberts.
The Supreme Court chooses which cases it will decide on. Many people ask the Supreme Court to decide their cases, but the court refuses most of them. For the Supreme Court to decide a case, the case must be about federal law or be about the laws of more than one state. Cases must first be decided by a federal District Court and a federal Court of Appeals or by a state supreme court. Even after that, the Supreme Court can choose not to decide a case for any reason. There are some cases which start in the Supreme Court and which the Supreme Court must decide, but they are very rare.
The justices serve for life unless they want to retire earlier or are impeached. If a justice retires, he or she can still be asked to serve as a judge on a federal Court of Appeals. New justices are nominated (picked) by the President of the United States, and then must be approved by the Senate. Usually, the President tries to pick someone who is not too old and who he thinks shares his legal or political beliefs. Sometimes, the judges have surprised people when they turn out to be more liberal or conservative than expected.
The current Justices are:

</doc>
<doc id="18859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18859" title="Fall (motion)">
Fall (motion)

A fall is a movement that happens due to gravity, such as when something rolls off a table and falls down to the floor. Falling is a common cause of people's injuries, especially for elderly people and for people who do sports and other leisure activities.
In some cases, elderly people become less steady on their feet. If elderly people fall to the ground, they are at a greater risk of having serious injuries, such as breaking their hip.
During sports and other recreational activities such as bicycling or skateboarding, people are more likely to fall. Some bicyclists and skateboarders wear protective clothing to protect their body in the event of a fall, such as a helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads.
There is also an expression "falling in love," which means when two people begin to feel romantic love or emotional attachment to each other.

</doc>
<doc id="18860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18860" title="Autumn">
Autumn

Autumn is the season after summer and before winter. In the United States this season is also called fall. In the Northern Hemisphere, it begins with the autumnal equinox in September and ends with the winter solstice in December. In the Southern Hemisphere, it runs from the autumnal equinox in March to the winter solstice in June.
In many places in the temperate zone, autumn is a time for harvesting most crops. Deciduous trees (trees that lose their leaves every year) lose their leaves, usually after turning yellow, red, or brown. In many countries, autumn is the time a new school year starts. In the UK, the period of school between the start of September and the end of December is known as the 'Autumn Term'.
When it is autumn in the Northern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Southern Hemisphere. When it is autumn in the Southern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Northern Hemisphere. On the Equator, autumn is very much like spring, with little difference in temperature or in weather. Autumn is a time when most animals are looking for food so they can store up for winter, because they soon will be going into hibernation. The weather gets colder and more windy. In Autumn the hours of daylight and the hours of night are the same. In autumn the weather changes all the time. The weather turns cooler and often windy and rainy.

</doc>
<doc id="18861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18861" title="Fall">
Fall

Fall has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="18862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862" title="Holocaust denial">
Holocaust denial

Holocaust denial is the claim that The Holocaust did not happen, or was not as bad as most people think it was. History experts agree that during World War II, the Nazis did kill millions of people during the Holocaust, including many people in concentration camps. They agree that there is more proof in writing, pictures, and places about the Holocaust than any other great killing of people. Holocaust deniers usually call themselves "Holocaust revisionists." They use these words to make their beliefs sound true to people who do not know this history. They say that the Holocaust is a hoax made up by Jewish people working together. 
It is against the criminal law to deny the Holocaust in many European countries, especially in Germany. Some Holocaust deniers, like Ernst Zündel, have been charged with crimes.
These are Holocaust deniers' most common arguments:
Holocaust denial also includes these claims:
History experts agree that the Holocaust happened. They agree that Holocaust deniers use bad research, misunderstand things, and sometimes make things up to support their claims.
Many things together prove that the Holocaust did happen:

</doc>
<doc id="18863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863" title="John Locke">
John Locke

John Locke (; 29 August 1632 – 28 October 1704), known as the "Father of Liberalism", was an English philosopher and physician. His writings influenced Voltaire and Rousseau, a lot of Scottish Enlightenment thinkers, as well as the American revolutionaries. He is mentioned in the American Declaration of Independence.
Locke's theories were usually about identity and the self. Locke thought that we are born without thoughts, and that knowledge is instead determined only by experience.
Locke's father, who was also named John Locke, was a country lawyer. He had served as a captain in the early part of the English Civil War. His mother, Agnes Keene, was a tanner's daughter and was thought to be very beautiful. Both mother and father were Puritans. 
Locke was born on 29 August 1632, in a cottage by the church in Wrington, Somerset, about twelve miles from Bristol. He was baptized when he was born. After that, his family soon moved to Pensford.
In 1647, Locke was sent to Westminster School in London. During this time he was being sponsored by Alexander Popham, a member of the Parliament. After finishing his studies there, he went into the Christ Church. Although Locke was a good student, he did not like the schedule of the time spent there. He did not like the classical subjects taught at the university, and wanted to learn more about modern philosophy. Through his friend Richard Lower, whom he had met at the school, Locke learned about medicine.
Locke was awarded a bachelor's degree in 1656 and a master's degree in 1658. In 1666, he met Lord Anthony Ashley Cooper, who had come to Oxford seeking treatment for his liver disease. Cooper was impressed with Locke and asked him to come.
Locke had been looking for a job and in 1667 moved into Shaftesbury's home at Exeter House in London, to serve as Lord Ashley's personal physician. In London, Locke continued his studies on medicine.
Locke's medical knowledge was put to the test when Shaftesbury's liver disease became worse until Shaftesbury was about to die. Locke used the advice of several physicians and persuaded Shaftesbury to go to an operation. Shaftesbury lived through the operation and thanked Locke for saving his life.
Shaftesbury, as a member of the Whig movement, was a big influence on Locke's political ideas. However, after Shaftesbury began to fall from favor in 1675, Locke decided to travel across France. He came back to England in 1679. At this time, due to Shaftesbury's insists, Locke wrote the "Two Treatises of Government". While it was once thought that Locke wrote the Treatises to defend the Glorious Revolution of 1688, recent scholarship has shown that the work was composed before this even started.
However, Locke ran away to the Netherlands in 1683. This is because people became suspicious of him being involved in the Rye House Plot. In the Netherlands, Locke had time to return to his writing, spending a great deal of time re-working the Essay. Locke did not return home until after the Glorious Revolution. Locke came with William of Orange's wife back to England in 1688.
Locke's close friend Lady Masham invited him to join her at the Mashams' country house in Essex. Although his time there was marked by variable health from asthma attacks, he nevertheless became an intellectual hero of the Whigs. During this period he discussed matters with such figures as John Dryden and Isaac Newton.
He died in 28 October 1704, and is buried in the churchyard of the village of High Laver, east of Harlow in Essex, where he had lived in the household of Sir Francis Masham since 1691. Locke never married nor had children. 
Events that happened during Locke's lifetime include the English Restoration, the Great Plague of London and the Great Fire of London. He did not quite see the Act of Union of 1707, though the thrones of England and Scotland were held in personal union throughout his lifetime. Constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy were in their infancy during Locke's time.

</doc>
<doc id="18864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18864" title="Marcha Real">
Marcha Real

La Marcha Real (English translation: "The Royal March") is the national anthem (country's song) of Spain. It is one of the few national anthems in the world (our planet Earth) to have only music, and no words.
Let's sing together,
with different voices,
and only one heart.
Long live Spain!
from the green valleys,
to the vast sea,
a hymn of brotherhood.
Love the Motherland,
which embrace
the free peoples
below its blue sky.
Glory to the sons,
who have given to history,
justice and greatness!

</doc>
<doc id="18867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18867" title="Satellite (artificial)">
Satellite (artificial)

A satellite is an object that orbits another object. In space, satellites may be made by man, or they may be natural. The moon is a natural satellite that orbits the Earth. Most man-made satellites also orbit the Earth, but some orbit other planets, such as Saturn, Venus or Mars, or the moon.
The idea of a man-made satellite has been around for a long time. When Isaac Newton was thinking about gravity, he imagined the "thought experiment" called Newton's cannonball. He wondered what would happen if a cannonball was shot from a tall mountain. If fired at just the right speed (and ignoring the friction of air), he realized it would orbit the Earth. Later, Jules Verne wrote about a satellite in 1879 in a book called "Begum's Fortune".
The English science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke is given the credit of inventing the idea of the "communications satellite" in 1945. He described in detail the possible use of space stations for mass communication, how to launch satellites, what orbits they could use, and the benefits of having a network of world-circling satellites. 
The world's first artificial satellite, the Sputnik 1, was launched by the Soviet Union on October 4, 1957. This surprised the world, and the United States quickly worked to launch their own satellite, starting the space race. Sputnik 2 was launched on November 3, 1957 and carried the first living passenger into orbit, a dog named Laika. The United States launched their first satellite, called "Explorer 1" on January 31, 1958. The UK launched its first satellite in 1962. 
Since then, thousands of satellites have been launched into orbit around the Earth. Some satellites, notably space stations, have been launched in parts and assembled in orbit.
Artificial satellites come from more than 50 countries and have used the satellite launching capabilities of ten nations. A few hundred satellites are currently working, but thousands of unused satellites and satellite fragments orbit the Earth as space debris. The largest satellite is the International Space Station, which was put together by several different countries (including the organizations of NASA, ESA, JAXA and RKA). It usually has a crew of six astronauts or cosmonauts living on board. It is permanently occupied, but the crew changes. The Hubble Space Telescope has been repaired and updated by astronauts in space several times.
There are also man-made satellites orbiting something other than the Earth. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter is one of those orbiting Mars. Cassini-Huygens is orbiting Saturn. Venus Express, run by the ESA, is orbiting Venus. Two GRAIL satellites orbited the moon until December 2012. Several satellites have orbited the Sun for years and one is to be added in 2017.
Man-made satellites have several main uses:
Most of the man-made satellites are in a low Earth orbit (LEO) or a geostationary orbit. To stay in orbit, the satellite's sideways speed must balance the force of gravity. Satellites in low orbit are often less than one thousand kilometers above the ground. Close to the Earth, in LEO, the satellites must move faster to stay in orbit. Low orbits work well for satellites that take pictures of the Earth. Many do jobs that call for high orbital inclination (they swing above and below the equator), so they can communicate, or look at other areas. It is easier to put a satellite in low Earth orbit, but the satellite appears to move when viewed from Earth. This means a satellite dish (a type of antenna) must be always moving in order to send or receive communications with that satellite. 
Medium orbit works well for GPS satellites - receivers on Earth use the satellite's changing position and precise time (and a type of antenna that does not have to be pointed) to find where on Earth the receiver is. But constantly changing positions does not work for satellite TV and other types of satellites that send and receive a lot of information. Those need to be in geostationary orbit. 
A satellite in a geostationary orbit moves around the Earth as fast as the Earth spins, so from the ground it looks like it is stationary (not moving). To move this way, the satellite must be straight above the equator, and 35,786 kilometers (22,236 miles) above the ground.

</doc>
<doc id="18869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18869" title="Césarville-Dossainville">
Césarville-Dossainville

Césarville-Dossainville is a French village in the "département" of Loiret and the "région" of Centre.

</doc>
<doc id="18870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18870" title="La Marseillaise">
La Marseillaise

La Marseillaise is the national anthem of France.
It was written by Rouget de Lisle in Strasbourg on April 26, 1792. It was first called ""Chant de guerre pour l'armée du Rhin"" ("Marching Song of the Rhine Army").
Composers have often quoted La Marseillaise in their music, for example Tchaikovsky uses it in the 1812 overture.

</doc>
<doc id="18874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18874" title="Nashville, Tennessee">
Nashville, Tennessee

Nashville is the capital city of the U.S. state of Tennessee. It is on the Cumberland River in Davidson County. Nashville is the home of the Grand Ole Opry, the Country Music Hall of Fame, and many major record labels.
Nashville has 569,891 people in it (according to the 2000 census), making it the second biggest city in Tennessee after Memphis. A resident of Nashville is called a "Nashvillian".
The City of Nashville and Davidson County joined in 1963 as a way for Nashville to fight the problems of urban sprawl. The joint metropolitan government offers services such as police, firefighting, electricity, running water, and waste water disposal.
Nashville sports teams include:

</doc>
<doc id="18875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18875" title="Salem, Oregon">
Salem, Oregon

Salem (IPA: [ˈseɪ lm̩]) is the capital city of the state of Oregon in the United States of America, and county seat of Marion County. As of 2003 it has 142,940 people living in it. It is in the Willamette Valley.

</doc>
<doc id="18876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18876" title="Harrisburg, Pennsylvania">
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

Harrisburg is the capital city of Pennsylvania, one of the four U.S. states called a "Commonwealth" of the United States. As of the 2010 census, the city has 49,528 people living in it.
Harrisburg is the county seat of Dauphin County and is on the Susquehanna River, 105 miles (169 km) northwest of Philadelphia.

</doc>
<doc id="18877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18877" title="Olympia, Washington">
Olympia, Washington

Olympia is the capital city of the state of Washington, in the United States of America. It became a city on January 28, 1859. As of the 2010 census, it has 46,478 people living in it. The people of Olympia are called "Olympians". Olympia is the county seat of Thurston County.
Olympia is located at 47°2'33" North, 122°53'35" West (47.042418, -122.893077).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total size of 48.0 km² (18.5 mi²). 43.3 km² (16.7 mi²) of it is land and 4.7 km² (1.8 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 9.77% water.
Olympia is on the water (Puget Sound) and close to dark green forests and high mountains (the Olympic Mountains and Mount Rainier). On most days of the year the sky is full of clouds and it rains, but sunny weather is more common in July, August, and September.
Many people in Olympia work for the government of the State of Washington. Every year, state representatives and state senators come to Olympia to make laws and to pass a budget for the state government.
Olympia is the home of the Olympia Farmers Market and The Evergreen State College.
Every April, the people of Olympia celebrate the "Procession of the Species,". It is a parade. Many Olympians, of all ages, dress up to look like animals, birds, fish, plants, and even insects, and walk in the parade. Some also play drums or dance the samba.

</doc>
<doc id="18880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18880" title="Invertebrate">
Invertebrate

Invertebrate is a kind of animal that does not have a spinal column or "backbone". It is the opposite of vertebrate, that means if an animal is not a vertebrate (fish, reptile, amphibian, bird, or mammal), it is an invertebrate.
The main phyla (groups) of invertebrate animals are:
Insects have no bones, but they have a skeleton on the outside of their bodies that scientists call an exoskeleton. It is like skin, only it is hard.
There are 18 more groups of invertebrates, mostly minor: see List of animal phyla.

</doc>
<doc id="18881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18881" title="Sugar, We're Goin Down">
Sugar, We're Goin Down

"Sugar, We’re Goin' Down" is the first single from the "From Under the Cork Tree" album, by Fall Out Boy and it was the song that made them famous. It was released in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="18884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18884" title="Lawrence of Arabia">
Lawrence of Arabia

Lawrence of Arabia is a British epic movie from 1962, based on the life of T. E. Lawrence. It stars Peter O'Toole as the title character, along with Omar Sharif and Alec Guinness. The opening scene of the movie shows Lawrence dying in a motorcycle accident. The movie then goes into a series of flashbacks (past events) from his life. 
The 1982 movie "Gandhi" follows "Lawrence of Arabia's"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s story pattern: after the main character dies at the start, it moves into a series of flashbacks from Gandhi's life.
"Lawrence of Arabia" won seven Academy Awards, one of them for Best Picture.
Considered one of the greatest movies ever made, it has appeared on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list (as the number five selecion).
A director's cut of the movie, running at 216 minutes, has no women talking in it.

</doc>
<doc id="18892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18892" title="Glyphosate">
Glyphosate

Glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide used in agriculture for the control of weeds, shrubs, and grasses. One brand name it is sold as is Monsanto's "Roundup". It is also used in genetically modified crops.

</doc>
<doc id="18896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18896" title="Pudding">
Pudding

Pudding is a popular dessert and snack. It tastes sweet, and comes in many flavors. The most common kind of pudding is chocolate. Some other kinds are vanilla, butterscotch, banana, and pistachio. Most pudding today is made out of milk, sugar, flavoring, and flour. Eggs can be used, too. If you do not want to make the pudding, you do not have to. The grocery store sells pudding that is already made. One of the most popular makers of pudding in the United States is Jell-O.
In Britain, the word "pudding" is often used for any dessert, especially a dessert made with flour and eggs and cooked by steaming, boiling or baking, e.g. treacle pudding, chocolate pudding or Spotted Dick (pudding with raisins or currants). There are also milk puddings such as rice pudding or semolina.
Confusingly, "steak and kidney pudding" is a savoury dish, similar to "steak and kidney pie" but with a softer pastry.

</doc>
<doc id="18897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18897" title="Sigmund Freud">
Sigmund Freud

Sigmund Freud (Moravia, 6 May 1856 – London, 23 September 1939) was an Austrian neurologist (a person who treats the nervous system). He invented the treatment of mental illness and neurosis by means of psychoanalysis.
Freud is important in psychology because he studied the unconscious mind. The unconscious part of the mind cannot be easily controlled or noticed by a person.
In 1860 his family moved with their little boy to Vienna. He did well in school and became a doctor. Freud married Martha Bernays in 1886. They had six children.
Freud lived in Austria in the 1930s. After the Anschluss, Germany and Austria were combined. Because he was Jewish, he received a visit from the Gestapo. Freud and his family did not feel safe anymore. Freud left Vienna and went to England in June 1938.
Freud developed a theory of the human mind (its organisation and operations). He also had a theory that human behaviour both conditions and results from how the mind is organised. 
This led him to favor certain clinical techniques for trying to help cure mental illness. He theorised that personality is developed by a person's childhood experiences.
Freud began his study of medicine at the University of Vienna at the age of 17. He got his M.D. degree in 1881 at the age of 25 and entered private practice in neurology for financial reasons. 
Freud hoped that his research would provide a solid scientific basis for his therapeutic technique. The goal of Freudian therapy, or psychoanalysis, was to bring repressed thoughts and feelings into consciousness in order to free the patient from suffering distorted emotions.
Classically, the bringing of unconscious thoughts and feelings to consciousness is brought about by encouraging a patient to talk in free association and to talk about dreams.
In November 1880 Breuer was called in to treat a highly intelligent 21-year-old woman (Bertha Pappenheim) for a persistent cough which he diagnosed as hysterical. He found that while nursing her dying father she had developed a number of transitory symptoms, including visual disorders and paralysis and contractures of limbs, which he also diagnosed as hysterical. 
Breuer began to see his patient almost every day as the symptoms increased and became more persistent. He found that when, with his encouragement, she told fantasy stories her condition improved, and most of her symptoms had disappeared by April 1881. However, following the death of her father in that month her condition deteriorated again. Breuer recorded that some of the symptoms eventually remitted spontaneously, and that full recovery was achieved by inducing her to recall events that had precipitated the occurrence of a specific symptom. This recovery is disputed.
Freud famously proposed that unconscious memories of infantile sexual abuse were at the root of the psychoneuroses. However, patients were generally unconvinced that Freud's clinical procedure indicated actual sexual abuse. He reported that even after a supposed "reproduction" of sexual scenes the patients assured him emphatically of their disbelief.
As a medical researcher, Freud was an early user and proponent of cocaine as a stimulant as well as analgesic. He wrote several articles on the antidepressant qualities of the drug and he was influenced by friend and confidant Wilhelm Fliess, who recommended cocaine for the treatment of "nasal reflex neurosis". 
Freud felt that cocaine would work as a cure for many conditions and wrote a well-received paper, "On Coca", explaining its virtues. He prescribed it to his friend Ernst von Fleischl-Marxow to help him overcome a morphine addiction acquired while treating a disease of the nervous system. Freud also recommended cocaine to many of his close family and friends. 
Reports of addiction and overdose began to come from many parts of the world. Freud's medical reputation became somewhat tarnished because of this early ambition. Furthermore, Freud's friend Fleischl-Marxow developed an acute case of 'cocaine psychosis' as a result of Freud's prescriptions, and died a few years later. Freud felt great regret over these events.
Freud made arguments about the importance of the unconscious mind in understanding conscious thought and behavior. 
However the unconscious was not discovered by Freud. Historian of psychology Mark Altschule concluded, "It is difficult—or perhaps impossible—to find a nineteenth-century psychologist or psychiatrist who did not recognize unconscious thought as not only real but of the highest importance". Freud's advance was not to uncover the unconscious but to devise a method for systematically studying it.
Freud called dreams the "royal road to the knowledge of the unconscious in mental life". This meant that dreams illustrate the "logic" of the unconscious mind. Freud developed his first topology of the psyche in "The Interpretation of Dreams" (1899) in which he proposed that the unconscious exists and described a method for gaining access to it. The preconscious was described as a layer between conscious and unconscious thought; its contents could be accessed with a little effort.
One key factor in the operation of the unconscious is 'repression'. Freud believed that many people repress painful memories deep into their unconscious mind.
Freud hoped his model was universally valid and so turned to ancient mythology and ethnography for comparative material. Freud named his new theory the Oedipus complex after the famous Greek tragedy "Oedipus Rex" by Sophocles. "I found in myself a constant love for my mother, and jealousy of my father. I now consider this to be a universal event in childhood." Freud said. Freud sought to anchor this pattern of development in the dynamics of the mind. Each stage is a progression into adult sexual maturity, characterized by a strong ego and the ability to delay gratification (cf. "Three essays on the theory of Sexuality"). 
He used the Oedipus conflict to point out how much he believed that people desire incest and must repress that desire. The Oedipus conflict was described as a state of psychosexual development and awareness. 
Freud originally thought child sexual abuse was a general explanation for the origin of neuroses, but he abandoned this so-called "seduction theory". He noted finding many cases in which apparent memories of childhood sexual abuse were based more on imagination than on real events. 
During the late 1890s Freud, who never abandoned his belief in the sexual cause of neuroses, began to emphasize fantasies built around the Oedipus complex as the primary cause of hysteria and other neurotic symptoms. Despite this change in his explanatory model, Freud always recognized that some neurotics had in fact been sexually abused by their fathers. He explicitly discussed several patients whom he knew to have been abused.
Freud also believed that the libido developed in individuals by changing its object, a process called "sublimation". He argued that humans are born "polymorphously perverse", meaning that any number of objects could be a source of pleasure. He further argued that, as humans develop, they become fixated on different and specific objects through their stages of development – first in the oral stage (exemplified by an infant's pleasure in nursing), then in the anal stage (exemplified by a toddler's pleasure in evacuating his or her bowels), then in the phallic stage. 
Freud argued that children then passed through a stage in which they fixated on the mother as a sexual object (known as the Oedipus Complex) but that the child eventually overcame and repressed this desire because of its taboo nature. The repressive or dormant latency stage of psychosexual development comes before the sexually mature genital stage of psychosexual development.
In his later work, Freud proposed that the human psyche could be divided into three parts: Id, ego, and super-ego. Freud discussed this model in the 1920 essay "Beyond the Pleasure Principle", and fully elaborated upon it in "The Ego and the Id" (1923). The Id is the impulsive, child-like portion of the psyche that operates on the "pleasure principle" and only takes into account what it wants and disregards all consequences. 
The term "Ego" entered the English language in the late 18th century. "Ego" is Latin for 'I'. It attempts to balance the desires of the Id with reality. It tries to act ways that will bring benefit in the long term, rather than bring grief.
The term "Id" ('the It' or 'the Thing') represents the primitive urges to possess, conquer, dominate and achieve pleasure. It can be seen very clearly in young children, who have not yet learnt to mask their feelings.
The Super-ego is the moral component of the psyche, which makes a clear distinction between right and wrong, and makes no allowance for special circumstances.
The rational Ego attempts to get a balance between the impractical hedonism of the Id and the equally impractical moralism of the Super-ego; it is the part of the psyche that is usually reflected most directly in a person's actions. 
When overburdened or threatened by its tasks, the Ego may employ defense mechanisms including denial, repression, and displacement. The theory of ego defense mechanisms has received empirical validation, and the nature of repression, in particular, became one of the more fiercely debated areas of psychology in the 1990s.
Freud believed that humans were driven by two conflicting central desires: the life drive which is called "Eros" (survival, propagation, hunger, thirst, and sex) and the death drive (Thanatos). 
Freud recognized the death drive only in his later years and developed his theory of it in "Beyond the Pleasure Principle".
Freud acknowledged the tendency for the unconscious to repeat unpleasurable experiences in order to desensitize, or deaden, the body. This compulsion to repeat unpleasurable experiences explains why traumatic nightmares occur in dreams, as nightmares seem to contradict Freud's earlier conception of dreams purely as a site of pleasure, fantasy, and desire. 
On the one hand, the life drives promote survival by avoiding extreme unpleasure and any threat to life. On the other hand, the death drive functions simultaneously toward extreme pleasure, which leads to death. Freud addressed the conceptual dualities of pleasure and unpleasure, as well as sex/life and death, in his discussions on masochism and sadomasochism. The tension between life drive and death drive represented a revolution in his manner of thinking.
There are four main charges against the orthodox view of Freud. They are:
Anthony Clare, psychiatrist and broadcaster, described Freud as a "ruthless and devious charlatan", and that "many of the foundations stones of psychoanalysis are phoney".

</doc>
<doc id="18906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18906" title="Snack">
Snack

A snack is a small amount of food eaten between meals. It can be any kind of food that you do not eat in large amount. People eat snacks if they are hungry between meals. For example, eating potato chips after lunch but before dinner is eating a snack. Other foods that can be eaten as snacks are fruit, candy, muffins, ice cream, and popcorn.

</doc>
<doc id="18907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18907" title="Providence, Rhode Island">
Providence, Rhode Island

Providence is the capital and most populous city of Rhode Island. It was one of the first cities established in the United States. It is located in Providence County. It is the third largest city in the New England region. In the 2010 census, the city proper population was 178,042. The area is the 37th largest metropolitan population in the country, with an estimated MSA population of 1,600,856. This is more people than the population of Rhode Island due to the area reaching into southern Massachusetts. Providence is at the mouth of the Providence River, at the head of Narragansett Bay. The city's small footprint is crisscrossed by streets at odd angles and has a rapidly changing distribution of residents.
Providence was founded in 1636 by Roger Williams, a religious exile from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He named the area in honor of "God's merciful Providence" which he believed was responsible for revealing such a haven for him and his followers to settle. The official name of the state includes the name of the city, "Rhode Island and Providence Plantations". After being one of the first cities in the country to industrialize, Providence became noted for its jewelry and silverware industry. Today, the City of Providence is home to eight hospitals and seven institutions of higher learning, which has shifted the city's economy into service industries, although it still retains significant manufacturing activity.
From colonial times to the mid-19th century, the Rhode Island General Assembly rotated meetings between the state's five county court houses. After 1853 the state legislature stopped meeting at the Kent, Washington and Bristol county courthouses, but continued to alternate its sessions between Providence State House and the Newport State House in Newport. Early in the 20th century, Providence became the only capital of the state.
I-95 runs from north to south through Providence. I-195 connects the city to eastern Rhode Island and southeastern Massachusetts, including New Bedford, Massachusetts, and Cape Cod. I-295 encircles Providence while RI 146 provides a direct connection with Worcester, Massachusetts. The city's Iway project is moving I-195 to free up land and to reunify the Jewelry District with Downcity Providence. I-195 currently separates these two neighborhoods. The project is estimated to cost $446 million and be completed in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="18908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18908" title="Columbia, South Carolina">
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia is the capital and largest city of the U.S. state of South Carolina. As of the 2010 Census, it had an urban population of 549,777. It is the county seat of Richland County, but a small portion of the city is in Lexington County. It is home to the University of South Carolina.
Just east of the city is Fort Jackson, the U.S. Army's largest and most active initial entry training installation,
Columbia is on the fall line from the Appalachian Mountains. The fall line is the spot where boats cannot travel any farther upstream, and is also the spot farthest downstream where falling water can usefully power a mill.
The state capital was Charleston on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. In 1786, the legislature decided to move the capital to the center of the state, and the site of Columbia was chosen for its location on the river just 13 miles (21 km) northwest of South Carolina's geographic center. The State Legislature first met there in 1790. After remaining under the direct government of the legislature for the first two decades of its existence, Columbia was incorporated as a village in 1805 and then as a city in 1854. Columbia received a large stimulus to development when it was connected in a direct water route to Charleston, by the Santee Canal. This canal connected the Santee and Cooper Rivers in a 22-mile (35 km) section. It was first chartered in 1786 and completed in 1800, making it one of the earliest canals in the United States. With increased railroad traffic, it ceased operation around 1850.
Columbia was one of the first planned cities in the United States. It is known for its wide streets.
On February 17, 1865, during the Civil War, a fire destroyed much of Columbia was destroyed while being occupied by Union troops under the command of General William Tecumseh Sherman.
The 20th century saw Columbia emerge as a regional textile manufacturing center. In the 1920s, Columbia businessmen constructed a large dam on the Saluda River to make hydroelectric power. The dam, using the native red clay soil and bedrock, was the largest earthen dam in the world when it was completed in 1930. Lake Murray which was formed by the dam is 41 miles (66 km) long, and 14 miles (23 km) wide at its widest point. At the time when the lake was finished, it was the world's largest man-made reservoir. The company that built the dam grew to become SCANA Corporation, one of Columbia's largest employers.
The city of Columbia has recently accomplished a number of redevelopment projects and has several more planned. The historic Congaree Vista, a district running from the central business district toward the Congaree river, features a number of historic buildings that have been rehabilitated.
The Central Midlands Regional Transit Authority (CMRTA), operates mass transit in the greater Columbia area including Cayce, West Columbia, Forest Acres, Arcadia Lakes, Springdale, and the St. Andrews area. CMRTA operates express shuttles, as well as bus service serving Columbia and its immediate suburbs. The authority was established in October 2002 after SCANA released ownership of public transportation back to the City of Columbia. Since 2003, CMRTA provides transportation for more than 2 million passengers, has expanded route services, and introduced 43 new ADA accessible buses offering a safer, more comfortable means of transportation. CMRTA has also added 10 natural gas powered buses to the fleet.
The Central Midlands Council of Governments is in the process of investigating the potential for rail transit in the region. Routes into downtown Columbia originating from Camden, Newberry, and Batesburg-Leesville are in consideration, as is a potential line between Columbia and Charlotte connecting the two mainlines of the future Southeastern High Speed Rail Corridor.
Columbia's central location between the population centers of South Carolina has made it a transportation focal point with three interstate highways and one interstate spur.
The city and its surroundings are served by Columbia Metropolitan Airport (IATA:CAE; ICAO:KCAE). The city is served daily by Amtrak and Greyhound Lines buses.
Columbia has the main campus of the University of South Carolina, which was chartered in 1801 as South Carolina College and in 1906 as the University of South Carolina. The university has 350 degree programs and enrolls more than 27,500 students throughout 15 degree-granting colleges and schools. It is an urban university in downtown Columbia, just south of the Capitol.
Other colleges are: Allen University, Benedict College, Columbia College, Columbia International University, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary and Midlands Technical College.

</doc>
<doc id="18909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18909" title="Pierre, South Dakota">
Pierre, South Dakota

Pierre (pronounced "peer") is the capital city of South Dakota, a state of the United States of America. As of the 2010 census, it had a population of 13,646. Pierre is the county seat of Hughes County. Started in 1880 on the Missouri River across from Fort Pierre, Pierre has been the state capital since 1889.
Pierre lies on rough river bluffs overlooking the Missouri River. It is a few miles away from Lake Oahe, one of the largest man made lakes in the world and a very popular fishing destination.
Two airlines serving Pierre Regional Airport provide non-stop flights to Denver and Minneapolis-St. Paul.
The nearest interstate highway is Interstate 90, which is about 34 miles south of Pierre via U.S. Highway 83. Pierre is one of only four state capitals not served by an interstate highway.

</doc>
<doc id="18910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18910" title="Charleston, West Virginia">
Charleston, West Virginia

Charleston is the capital city of West Virginia, a state of the United States of America. It is where the Elk and Kanawha Rivers join in Kanawha County. As of the 2000 census, Charleston has 53,421 people living in it, which makes it the largest city in the state. It is the county seat of Kanawha County.

</doc>
<doc id="18912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18912" title="Madison, Wisconsin">
Madison, Wisconsin

Madison is the capital city of Wisconsin, a state in the United States of America. As of the 2000 census, it has a population (people living in it) of 221,735, making it the second largest city in Wisconsin. It is the county seat of Dane County. Madison is also home to the University of Wisconsin.

</doc>
<doc id="18913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18913" title="Cheyenne, Wyoming">
Cheyenne, Wyoming

Cheyenne is the capital and largest city of Wyoming, a state of the United States of America. As of September 2005, it had an estimated population (number of people living in it) of 55,362. It is the county seat of Laramie County. Cheyenne was founded in 1867 and the current mayor of Cheyenne is Richard Kaysen. 

</doc>
<doc id="18914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18914" title="Cheyenne">
Cheyenne

Cheyenne might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18929" title="Jeannie Longo">
Jeannie Longo

Jeannie Longo (born October 31, 1958 at St. Gervais-les-Bains in Haute-Savoie, France) is a female French cyclist.
One of the greats of cycling, Jeannie's list of achievements follows:

</doc>
<doc id="18931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18931" title="Buckminster Fuller">
Buckminster Fuller

Richard Buckminster "Bucky" Fuller (July 12, 1895 – July 1, 1983) was an American architect, engineer, author, designer, inventor, systems theorist, and futurist.
Fuller published more than 30 books, inventing and popularizing terms such as "Spaceship Earth", and "Synergetics". 
He also developed numerous inventions, mainly architectural designs. The best known of which is the geodesic dome. Carbon molecules known as fullerenes were later named by scientists for their resemblance to geodesic spheres.

</doc>
<doc id="18935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935" title="Bill Harry">
Bill Harry

Bill Harry is an English author, from Liverpool. He went to college with John Lennon and Stuart Sutcliffe, who were members of The Beatles. They promised to make Liverpool famous with Lennon's music, Sutcliffe's paintings and Harry's writing. They did not get far together, but each member later became well-known.
Harry founded "Mersey Beat", a newspaper about the local music scene in Liverpool, in 1961. He was the first person to write news articles about the Beatles.
Over the years, Harry has been on over four hundred television and radio shows in Britain, America, Europe and Asia. Shows he has been on include "Good Morning", "Good Morning America", BBC News, Sky News, CNN, ITV and many television documentaries and movies about the Beatles. The British Council had him represent them for their Beatles exhibitions in Hong Kong. Harry has also been a guest at Beatles conventions in Britain, Europe and America.
Harry moved to London in 1966, when he was a music journalist for "Weekend Magazine", and columnist for the Fleetway magazines "Marilyn" and "Valentine". 
He was given an award by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors for everything he has done for the music business in his lifetime.
In London, Harry worked with many entertainers. His job as their publicist was to deal with the media.

</doc>
<doc id="18949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949" title="Paul Bremer">
Paul Bremer

Lewis Paul Bremer III is an American author and politician. He was born on September 30, 1941. He was named "Director of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance" on May 6 for Iraq in 2003, after the war..
Bremer was born in Hartford, Connecticut. He grew up in New Canaan, Connecticut. He went to school at Phillips Academy and graduated in 1959. Then he went to Yale University. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1963. In 1996, he received a masters degree from Harvard University. His degree was in business. He also received a degree in Paris.
In 1967, he joined the United States foreign service. At first he worked in Kabul, Afghanistan. He also worked in Blantyre, Malawi from 1968 to 1971. He worked for the United States State Department for 23 years. During that time, he worked for six different Secretaries of State, including Alexander Haig. A Secretary of State is the top government official in the U.S. State Department. A secretary of state is appointed by the United States President. He also worked as a deputy chief at an American embassy in the country of Norway. A deputy chief is a person in charge at the embassy.
In 1983, President Ronald Reagan appointed Bremer to the position of Ambassador to the Netherlands. He also became "Ambassador at Large for Counter Terrorism." 
Bremer retired in 1989. Then he spent the next 15 years working in private (non-government) companies. One of the companies he worked for was Kissinger Associates (a company that was run by someone who used to be a Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger). He also served as a board member for several corporations. A board member is someone who makes big or strategic decisions on how a company should operate. Mr. Bremer has served on the board for corporations such as Air Products and Chemicals Incorporated, Akzo Nobel NV (a Dutch company), and Marsh Crisis Consulting Company. 
Bremer speaks many languages besides English. He speaks Arabic, French, Dutch, Norwegian, Persian, German, and Spanish.
Bremer is married to named Frances Winfield. They were married in 1966. They have two adult children and two grandchildren. 
After he worked in Iraq, Bremer wrote a book. The title of the book is "My Year in Iraq: The Struggle to Build a Future of Hope". The book was published in January 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="18958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958" title="1770s">
1770s


</doc>
<doc id="18959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18959" title="1530s">
1530s


</doc>
<doc id="18961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18961" title="William P. Frye">
William P. Frye

William Pierce Frye (September 2, 1830–August 8, 1911) was a United States politician from Maine. He served in both the United States Senate and House of Representatives.

</doc>
<doc id="18964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18964" title="Headache">
Headache

A headache is when your head hurts. It is not when you hit your head with something and made it hurt that way, but when your head hurts from inside.
A headache can be caused by one of several things, which are listed here:
The 2nd Edition of the International Headache Classification (ICHD-2) defines more than 220 different types of headaches in three categories:
A headache can also be used as a figure of speech, to describe something that is very difficult to do.
Many headaches can be relieved with analgesics like aspirin.
In many cases headaches can be relieved naturally. Many methods such as massaging the temples near the eye, exercising your eyes ( blinking, palming,) and walking can all help relieve the tension of headaches. Maintaining a healthy diet, with rich proteins and iron, can keep your brain awake and healthy. One of the main factors is drinking plenty of water. These natural techniques tend to give you long-term relief whilst medication can often give you short term relief.
There are many medicines which can treat mild headaches, such as Paracetamol, Co-codamol, and Ibuprofen; but you should always consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking any.

</doc>
<doc id="18965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18965" title="Fever">
Fever

A fever is when a person's body temperature is hotter than 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit). Normal body temperature for humans varies based on a variety of factors, including age and level of physical activity. It is typically cited as 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 F), but naturally varies from person to person by at least .5 degrees Celsius. The actual measurement of body temperature will vary based on the location of the measurement. For a temperature taken from under the tongue, the measurement may be lower. Rectal temperatures will read about 0.3 C (0.55 F) higher, and armpit temperatures will read about the same amount lower.
When people are ill, their body's immune system fights the disease, and so the body temperature rises. Fever is a defensive measure of the body against the germs: the life cycles of the germs are disrupted when the body temperature rises.
About 38 °C (100.4 F) degrees is called a low-grade fever, and above 39 °C (103 F) degrees is a high-grade fever.
Children usually have a higher fever than adults; their immune system is less mature. Infants have the highest normal temperature, which decreases as people age. Some animals, especially small ones like rabbits and cats, also have a higher normal temperature than humans.
Sometimes, high-grade fever can be a medical emergency. At or above 42 °C (107.6 F) organs start taking damage that may not be repairable. While most fevers are caused by Infection, whether bacterial or viral, some fevers can be caused by cancers, including leukemia, lymphoma, and renal cell carcinoma.

</doc>
<doc id="18967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18967" title="Peoria, Illinois">
Peoria, Illinois

Peoria is a city on the Illinois River in the U.S. state of Illinois. In the 2000 census, Peoria had more than 110,000 people living in it. It is the home of the Peoria Rivermen ice hockey team. One of Peoria's largest businesses is Caterpillar, a company that makes bulldozers, mining trucks, and other kinds of tractors.
Many people drive in and out of Peoria on Interstate 74. People also drive around Peoria on Interstate 474. Peoria is 157 miles (257 kilometers) southwest of Chicago, Illinois.
Peoria has become famous as a representation of the average American city because of its demographics and its perceived mainstream Midwestern culture. On the Vaudeville circuit, it was said that if an act would succeed in Peoria, it would work anywhere. The question "Will it play in Peoria?" has now become a metaphor for whether something appeals to the American mainstream public.

</doc>
<doc id="18969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18969" title="Sedative">
Sedative

A sleeping pill (people also call it sedative) is a drug that people take to help them sleep. It calms them, and makes them very relaxed. 
There are different kinds of sedatives:
Some sedatives can act very fast, usually in 10-15 minutes. Those who consider taking sedatives should talk with their doctor, who can give them the sedatives which are best for them.
Most sedatives are highly addictive, so people need a prescription from their doctor to get sedatives.
If they take sleeping pills for a longer time, they can get addicted. Getting rid of the addiction is very hard to do. Addiction means that people who take the drug cannot stop taking it, without bad consequences (as described below). It's like people who want to stop smoking, but who cannot.
People who have taken sedatives may seem dull, and sleepy. Since sleeping pills act on their ability to react, those who have taken such pills should not do the following:
Some people are addicted to sedatives. When they stop taking the sedatives, they may experience the following
Some addictions can also be psychological; when the users stop taking the drug, they may feel depressed.

</doc>
<doc id="18971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18971" title="Epilepsy">
Epilepsy

Epilepsy is a chronic condition of the brain. It is characterized by seizures that do not seem to have an obvious cause. To the outside viewer, these seizures show as episodes of heavy shaking. Depending on the seizure, the shaking may be short and difficult to detect or it may be longer.
People with epilepsy are sometimes called "epileptic", but it is the fit or seizure that is "epileptic". 
Many people have died from seizures.
There are many different forms of seizures, and there are also many different forms of epilepsy. Most forms of epilepsy cannot be cured. In most cases, drugs can make life easier for those suffering from it. In very few cases, (which are difficult treat), surgery may help. In some cases, only eating special things (called a diet) may help. A special diet has been developed; it is called Ketogenic diet. When it was developed, it was mainly used to treat certain children with epilepsy, before good drugs became available. Today, it is used to treat certain cases where drugs do not seem to help. 
Certain forms of the disease disappear after a time, they do e.g. only occur in childhood. Epilepsy is not "one" condition. Rather, it stands for a number of health problems that all show in the same ways.
The condition is very common; about one percent of people worldwide (65 million) have epilepsy. Nearly eighty percent of all cases occur in developing countries. Epilepsy becomes more common as people age. In the developed world, onset of new cases occurs most frequently in infants and the elderly. In the developing world this is in older children and young adults. Between five and ten percent of all people will have an unprovoked seizure by the age of eighty. The chance of having a second seizure is between forty and fifty percent.
The condition has many forms, but generally the following is true:
In most cases, epilepsy is caused by scars in the brain. Some forms of the condition are caused by genetic disorders, which may be passed on from the parents to the children. Very often, the actual cause for an epileptic seizure is lack of sleep, too much alcohol, or other things that cause stress.
Many countries in the world say there are special rules for people who have epilepsy. They need to be without a seizure for some time before they may drive a car. They also need to take drugs to treat their illness. In many countries, such people may not drive buses, taxis or trucks.
People having an epileptic seizure face a number of problems. The most common ones are:
In many cases, risky behaviour can provoke seizures. Such risk factors include
In many cases,a person who is able to cope with stress, who sleeps enough, and who does not drink too much can reduce the risk of having a seizure.

</doc>
<doc id="18972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18972" title="Trout">
Trout

A trout is a kind of teleost fish that belongs to the Salmoninae subfamily of the Salmonidae family. There are many different kinds of trout. They belong to the same family as the salmon. 
Most trouts are fresh water fish. They live in clear streams, rivers and lakes in America, Europe, and Asia. 
To distinguish a trout from other species, look for a second dorsal fin (or adipose fin). Also, look for spots in mature trout and parr marks in the young.

</doc>
<doc id="18973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18973" title="Tijuana">
Tijuana

Tijuana ( or ; ) is a city in Mexico. It is in the north of the country and across the border from California in the United States. It is the largest city in Baja California. Tijuana is well known destination for US Tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="18974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18974" title="Tampa, Florida">
Tampa, Florida

Tampa is a city in Florida, a state of the United States. It has a population of about 340,000 people as of 2008. Tampa is the 53rd largest city in the USA.
Tampa is the home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Tampa Bay Lightning and Tampa Bay Storm.

</doc>
<doc id="18975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18975" title="Diana Krall">
Diana Krall

Diana Krall (born November 16, 1964) is a Canadian jazz singer and pianist from Nanaimo, British Columbia.
Krall began to play the piano when she was four years old. She began to play in restaurants when she was 15. When she was 17, she won a Vancouver Jazz Festival scholarship (student money award) to study music at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. She later moved to Los Angeles to study with Jimmy Rowles. In 1990, she moved to New York City.
Krall's 1996 album "All For You," was a tribute (way to honour someone) to the Nat King Cole trio. It was on the "Billboard" jazz charts for 70 weeks. The album was considered for a Grammy Award. She won a Grammy in 1999 for "Best Jazz Musician of the Year". Her 2001 album "The Look of Love" was #1 in Canada. It also won the Juno Award as Canadian album of the year. Her 2002 album "Live in Paris" won the Grammy for Best Vocal Jazz Record. Also in 2002, Krall won the Juno for Canadian artist of the year. Her version of the Tom Waits song "Temptation" made #1 on the World Jazz Charts in 2004.
Krall married British musician Elvis Costello in December 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="18985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18985" title="Juno Award">
Juno Award

The Juno Awards are awards given to Canadian musical artists and bands, similar to the United States' Grammy Awards. The Juno awards were first presented in 1970. 
The categories for the Juno Awards are:

</doc>
<doc id="18986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18986" title="Half-Life 2">
Half-Life 2

Half-Life 2 is a first person shooter video game created by the company Valve Corporation and released in 2004. This game is the sequel to the original Half-Life video game which came out in 1998. It is sold through the "Steam" sales system also developed by Valve. (Steam is a gaming platform where all games made by Valve can be played.) It is also available in The Orange Box, along with and (sequels to Half-Life 2), Portal, and Team Fortress 2. is currently in development. Half Life 2 is based on a game engine called Source. There have been many other Source-based games, such as Portal, Team Fortress 2, and .
Half-Life was a very popular video game, and Half-Life 2 was also very popular. Many reviewers believe Half-Life 2 is better than Half-Life and one of the best games ever made. It took six years to create Half-Life 2 (from 1998 to 2004). It was supposed to be released in 2003, but it was not ready. Many fans were very angry and said Valve lied to them. However, it did release the next year (2004). It had much better graphics than Half-Life. It also had more complicated non-player characters and more of a story.
In Half-Life 2, the player is Gordon Freeman (the same character as in Half-Life). It begins about 10 or 20 years after Half-Life. The Combine, a group of evil aliens, took over Earth and made humans their slaves. Gordon Freeman wakes up on a train in a place named City 17. He finds the resistance, some humans who fight the Combine. In the game, he must help them and fight with them. The game ends with Gordon Freeman stopping Doctor Breen, the evil human who is helping the Combine.
There are many important characters in this game other than Gordon Freeman. Some are Eli Vance, who worked at Black Mesa with Gordon Freeman before the Combine came. He is part of the resistance. Alyx Vance is Eli's daughter. She travels with Gordon in part of the game. Doctor Mossman also worked at Black Mesa. She works with the resistance, but is also a traitor who helps Doctor Breen. Barney Calhoun was a guard at Black Mesa. Now he leads the resistance.

</doc>
<doc id="18987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18987" title="The Texas Chainsaw Massacre">
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre

The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is a 1974 American horror movie, based on real events. It was directed by Tobe Hooper and stars Marilyn Burns.
It was followed by several sequels and a 2003 remake from New Line Cinema.

</doc>
<doc id="18988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18988" title="Encryption">
Encryption

Encryption allows information to be hidden so that it cannot be read without special knowledge (such as a password). This is done with a secret code or cypher. The hidden information is said to be encrypted.
Decryption is a way to change encrypted information back into plaintext. This is the decrypted form. The study of encryption is called cryptography. Cryptanalysis can be done by hand if the cypher is simple. Complex cyphers need a computer to search for possible keys. Decryption is a field of computer science and mathematics that looks at how difficult it is to break a cypher.
A simple kind of encryption for words is ROT13. In ROT13, letters of the alphabet are changed with each other using a simple pattern. For example, "A" changes to "N", "B" changes to "O", "C" changes to "P", and so on. Each letter is "rotated" by 13 spaces. Using the ROT13 cipher, the words "Simple English Wikipedia" becomes "Fvzcyr Ratyvfu Jvxvcrqvn". The ROT13 cipher is very easy to decrypt. Because there are 26 letters in the English alphabet, if a letter is rotated two times by 13 letters each time, the original letter will be obtained. So applying the ROT13 cipher a second time brings back the original text. When he communicated with his army, Julius Caesar sometimes used what is known as Caesar cipher today. This cipher works by shifting the position of letters: each letter is rotated by 3 positions.
Most kinds of encryption are made more complex so cryptanalysis will be difficult. Some are made only for text. Others are made for binary computer files like pictures and music. Today, many people use the asymmetric encryption system called RSA. Any computer file can be encrypted with RSA. AES is a common symmetric algorithm.
Most types of encryption can theoretically be cracked: an enemy might be able to decrypt a message without knowing the password, if he has clever mathematicians, powerful computers and lots of time. The one-time pad is special because, if it is used correctly, it is impossible to crack. There are three rules that must be followed:
If these three rules are obeyed, then it is impossible to read the secret message without knowing the secret key. For this reason, during the Cold War, embassies and large military units often used one-time pads to communicate secretly with their governments. They had little books ("pads") filled with random letters or random numbers. Each page from the pad could only be used once: this is why it is called a "one-time pad".
Encryption is often used on the Internet, as many web sites use it to protect private information. On the Internet, several encryption protocols are used, such as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), IPsec, and SSH. They use the RSA encryption system and others. The protocol for protected web browsing is called HTTPS.
URL encryption mostly uses the MD5 Algorithm. Various algorithms are used in the internet market depending upon the need.

</doc>
<doc id="18989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18989" title="Gelsenkirchen">
Gelsenkirchen

Gelsenkirchen is a city in Germany in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is about north of Cologne in the so called Ruhr Area.
About 269,000 people live there. In the past it was dominated by coal mining and steel industry. The city is famous for its football (soccer) club FC Schalke 04.

</doc>
<doc id="18990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18990" title="Pseudoscience">
Pseudoscience

Pseudoscience ("false science") is an idea that looks like science, but is not. Pseudoscience may fail one or more parts of science. Sometimes, pseudoscience are ideas that are thought to be wrong.
Essentially, pseudoscience is any idea about how nature works that is generally not accepted as true by the mainstream scientific community. An idea can be considered pseudoscientific for any number of reasons. The word pseudoscience literally means "false science." Creationism and Astrology are both well known pseudosciences.
Pseudoscience is often considered immoral by scientists not because its claims are undemonstrated, but because they are sometimes presented as facts and/or real. An average person might not recognize the differences in credibility between a television program about psychics supposedly reading people's thoughts versus one that presents evidence for and against global warming.
Ideas (more properly "hypotheses") about how nature works may be considered pseudoscientific for many reasons. Sometimes, the hypothesis is just simply wrong, and can be demonstrated to be wrong. An example of this is the belief that the Earth is flat, or the belief that human female skeletons have one more rib than men do. Ideas such as these are considered pseudoscientific because they are just simply wrong.
Sometimes, scientists agree that a certain idea may be true, but could never be demonstrated to be true, even in principle. For example, some people believe that the Earth and the universe came into existence last Thursday. They believe that when the universe came into existence last Thursday, it was created with the "appearance" of being many thousands or even millions of years old. According to these believers, even our memories of two weeks ago are actually just the false memories that came along with the creation of the universe, which took place last Thursday. Such a belief is considered pseudoscientific because it is not falsifiable—scientists cannot even imagine an experiment that could shed light on whether this belief is true or false.
Other types of pseudoscience are considered pseudoscientific because they are based on deception, even though the idea being used is not impossible. Examples of this are people who claim to have build time travel devices, antigravity devices, or teleporters. Scientists simply do not have the technology to build such things in modern times, even though they may be able to someday.
Some ideas are "arguably" pseudoscientific. This means that some mainstream scientists consider the idea pseudoscientific and some do not. Certain ideas about how the stock market behaves fall into this category.
Pseudoscience is not exactly the same thing as biased research, where the scientist has some bad motive (such as personal gain, fame, or financial profit) for promoting their findings. It is also not the same as an untested hypothesis, which is an idea that scientists cannot test yet because they do not have the money or technology to do so. The theories of quantum gravity are untested hypotheses: scientists can easily imagine experiments to test them, but they just do not quite have the technology to do so at this time.

</doc>
<doc id="18991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18991" title="West Coast">
West Coast

West Coast could mean several places:
It can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19002" title="Nuclear missile">
Nuclear missile

Nuclear missiles are missiles (rockets that land on the earth or hit something in the air, the water, or whatever) with atomic bombs inside. 
In the time of Cold War the USA and the Soviet Union were enemies and thought the other side was going to attack them. To dissuade the other side from attacking, both sides built many nuclear missiles to ensure Mutual assured destruction. This meant a country that attacked would be destroyed. Treaties were made to reduce the numbers of missiles to make everyone safer.

</doc>
<doc id="19007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19007" title="Pituitary gland">
Pituitary gland

The pituitary gland is at the base of the brain between the eyes. It is an important part of the endocrine system. The gland is attached to the hypothalamus and gives out hormones. It controls a whole range of vital functions.
The pituitary gland consists of two parts: the anterior pituitary and the posterior pituitary. It is functionally linked to the hypothalamus by the pituitary stalk (also called the 'infundibulum'). 
The hypothalamus releases factors down the pituitary stalk to the pituitary gland where they cause the release of pituitary hormones. Although the pituitary gland is known as the 'master' endocrine gland, both of the lobes are under the control of the hypothalamus.
Endocrine cells of the anterior pituitary are controlled by regulatory hormones released by neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus.
The gland releases several kinds of hormones.
The endocrine cells of the anterior pituitary are controlled by neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus. The anterior pituitary cells synthesizes and secretes these important endocrine hormones: 
The two gonadotropins;
Here one hormone is produced:
The posterior pituitary is actually an extension of the hypothalamus. Neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus have axons that go right down into the posterior pituitary. The posterior pituitary stores and secretes the hormones produced by these neurosecretory cells:
Oxytocin is one of the few hormones to create a positive feedback loop. For example, uterine contractions stimulate the release of oxytocin from the posterior pituitary, which, in turn, increases uterine contractions. This positive feedback loop continues throughout birth labour.

</doc>
<doc id="19008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008" title="Miskolc">
Miskolc

Miskolc is the third largest city of Hungary and the capital of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Its population is 178.950.
Miskolc is in the north-eastern part of the country, east from the Bükk mountains, in the valley of the river Sajó and the streams Hejő and Szinva. Its area is 236.68 km².
The first known people who lived in this area are the Celts. The Hungarians came here in the end of the 9th century. The area was named after the Miskóc family who were its owners, and it was first mentioned in 1210. The family lost a war against King Charles I and the king took away their properties.
A castle was built in Diósgyőr (a town near Miskolc; it is now a part of the city) in the 13rd century. It was the favourite castle of King Louis I who lived in the 14th century. 
When Hungary was in a war with the Ottoman Empire, the Ottomans burned down Miskolc in 1544. The Austrians also burned the city down in 1707 because Prince Francis Rákóczi, who started a freedom fight against the Austrians, lived in Miskolc for a while. 
In 1724 Miskolc became the capital of the county. The city developed. In the 18th and 19th centuries the people built many important buildings: schools, churches and a theatre. In the 1786 census (when they count the people) 14.719 people lived in Miskolc and there were 2414 houses.
After the first World War Miskolc became more important, because Hungary had to give Kassa, the other important city of the area, to Slovakia. Miskolc became a centre of iron industry. In 1945 Miskolc and Diósgyőr became one city. In 1949 a university was founded in Miskolc. Lots of people moved to Miskolc because they could find new jobs in the city. In the 1980s more than 200.000 people lived here. It was the second largest city in Hungary (the first was the capital Budapest). Now Miskolc is the third largest, the second is Debrecen.
Since the 1990s the iron industry is less successful and lots of people lost their jobs. 
Miskolc is now an important cultural city and tourists like it too. The theatre holds an opera festival every year. The most beautiful parts of the city are Tapolca (with a famous warm water bath in a cave), Lillafüred (with a hotel which looks like a palace and is called Palace Hotel) and the castle of Diósgyőr.
The Avas is a hill (234 m / 780 ft high). There is a TV tower, an old church (the oldest building in Miskolc) and a large housing estate (high houses with lots of flats) on Avas.
The Downtown is the centre of Miskolc. The most important street is the Széchenyi street which is often called Main street. There are lots of nice old buildigs and lots of shops here.
Diósgyőr has a castle, some factories and housing estates. 
The University of Miskolc is a new university because it was founded in 1949. Most universities in Hungary are older and have old buildings in the downtowns. The University of Miskolc has a whole city part for itself, the buildings of the university and the houses in which the students live are in a lare park.
Lillafüred is a small village outside Miskolc, but it belongs to the city. The Palace Hotel, some caves and a nice waterfall are here.
Tourists like Miskolc-Tapolca because of its famous Cave Bath where people can bathe in warm water inside of a large cave. The houses here are expensive.

</doc>
<doc id="19010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19010" title="Boeing">
Boeing

The Boeing Company ( ) (NYSE: BA) is an American company which makes aircraft and defense items. The company was started in 1916 by William E. Boeing in Seattle, Washington. Boeing has grown to become very big. It bought its main rival, McDonnell Douglas, in 1997. Boeing moved its headquarters from Seattle to Chicago, Illinois in 2001. Boeing is made up of many smaller parts. These parts are called divisions. The divisions are Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA); Boeing Defense, Space & Security (BDS); Engineering, Operations & Technology; Boeing Capital; and Boeing Shared Services Group.
Boeing is one of the biggest aircraft manufacturers in the world. It is the second-biggest defense contractor in the world as of 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="19012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19012" title="Uterus">
Uterus

The uterus or womb is the part of the female body in which babies grow for nine months during pregnancy. The uterus is just under the fallopian tubes, between the hips. The plural of uterus is 'uteri'.

</doc>
<doc id="19013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19013" title="Satanism">
Satanism

Satanism is a word that has several different meanings. It can describe different religions and philosophies. 
Sometimes the word "Satanism" is just used to say that the person using it does not like a group, but the group themselves do not think of themselves as Satanists. Used like this, it is just used to say the speaker disapproves of a group. A lot of groups, like Pagans, or even Protestants have in the past been called Satanists by some people.
The word is often used by people who do not know much about or do not like Satanists, who think that Satanism means worshipping an evil being called Satan, and that Satanists want him to win in a war against good represented by "God". This is not true of most Satanists. For them Satan is only a symbol for the freedom to be themselves, also the word satan is used as symbol for man's inner desires and for knowledge. These people like the writings of Anton LaVey and are sometimes called LaVeyan Satanists. There are several modern Satanic groups of different types, but the most well known is the Church of Satan created in 1966 by Anton LaVey who also wrote The Satanic Bible. Even though these types of satanists are atheists, meaning they do not believe in a higher being, they do practice magic. They believe that there is no afterlife so your actions on earth do not matter. 
Other types of Satanist do worship Satan. They are called theistic or traditional Satanists, because they believe their religion is older. They think their religion is similar to that of Witches.

</doc>
<doc id="19020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19020" title="Decatur, Illinois">
Decatur, Illinois

Decatur is a city in the American state of Illinois. In the 2000 census, there were more than 80,000 people living in it. Many people drive in and out of Decatur on Interstate 72. There is a shopping mall in nearby Forsyth, a suburb of Decatur.
Decatur is the county seat of Macon County. Macon County was the home of the young Abraham Lincoln, later U.S. President, for a short time. The place where the Lincoln family built a log cabin and spent the winter of 1829-1830 is now a state park, the "Lincoln Trail Homestead State Park."

</doc>
<doc id="19023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023" title="Elba">
Elba

Elba () is third largest island of Italy, after Sardinia and Sicily. The land area of the island is about 224 square kms. The coastline is about 147 km. The highest mountain is Monte Capanne at 1018 metres (3340 feet). Elba and the other islands (Gorgona, Capraia, Pianosa, Montecristo, Giglio and Giannutri) of the Tuscan Archipelago are protected in the National Park of the Tuscan Archipelago. The French island of Corsica lies about 50 km to the west. Recently,the island has become famous for its wine.
The island is divided into eight communes: Portoferraio, Campo nell'Elba, Capoliveri, Marciana, Marciana Marina, Porto Azzurro, Rio Marina and Rio nell'Elba. The island has a population of about 30 000 people.
The island was well known in to the last century for the iron resources. Mines were created by the Etruscans first and (after 480 BC) the Romans. After the end of the Roman Empire, the island knew barbarians and Saracens. In the early 11th century it became a part of the Republic of Pisa. In 1398, was sold to the Visconti family of Milan. After a few years, the island was acquired by the Appiani, Lords of Piombino, who kept it for two centuries. In 1546 part of the island was controlled by Cosimo I de' Medici. He fortified Portoferraio and renamed it "Cosmopoli". In 1577, the rest of the island was returned to the Appiani. In 1603 Philip II of Spain captured Porto Azzurro and built two fortresses there.
In 1802 the island became a part of France. Following the Treaty of Fontainebleau, French emperor Napoleon I was exiled to Elba after his forced abdication in 1814 and arrived at Portoferraio on May 3, 1814 to begin his exile there. He was allowed to keep a personal guard of six hundred men. Napoleon stayed on Elba for 300 days before he escaped and returned to France on February 26 for the Hundred Days. Thanks to Napoleon Elba is well-known around the world. In the Congress of Vienna the island was given to the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. In 1860 it became part of the new unified Kingdom of Italy.
French troops landed on Elba on June 17 1944, freeing the island from the Germans in World War II.
There is an airport on the island, the "Airport Marina di Campo", that can connect the island with the big cities of: Friedrichshafen, Munchen and Zürich.

</doc>
<doc id="19025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19025" title="1799">
1799


</doc>
<doc id="19026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19026" title="Saint Helena (disambiguation)">
Saint Helena (disambiguation)

Saint Helena can mean:
See also: St Helens; St. Helena Parish, Louisiana

</doc>
<doc id="19029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19029" title="1162">
1162


</doc>
<doc id="19030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19030" title="1704">
1704


</doc>
<doc id="19031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19031" title="North Africa">
North Africa

North Africa is the Northern part of Africa. It is usually made up of these countries:
Most of north Africa is desert, which means it is very dry and does not rain very much. The predominant ethnic groups are Arabs and Moors (mixed Africans and Arabs). The biggest religion is Islam, meaning that most of the people are Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="19033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19033" title="Sanskrit">
Sanskrit

Sanskrit is an ancient Indian language. It is a sacred language of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism, as well as the origin of most of the Indian languages, in Indo Aryan as well as Malayalam. Today, about 14,000 people in India use it as their daily language. It is one of the 22 official languages of India, and is an official language of the state of Uttarakhand.
Sanskrit is a standardized dialect of Old Indo-Aryan. Its linguistic ancestry can be traced back to Proto-Indo-European. The Indo-Aryan migration theory proposes that the Indo-Aryans migrated from the Central Asian steppes into South Asia during the early part of the 2nd millennium BC, bringing with them the Indo-Aryan languages. The main script used to write Sanskrit is Devanāgarī, though it can be written in various scripts of Indian languages. 
William Jones, who was working as a judge in India at the time, was studying Sanskrit when he realized how similar Sanskrit was to Latin and Greek. It was then when he would discover the relationship among the Indo-European languages. 
Sanskrit literature includes poetry and drama. There is also scientific, technical, philosophical and religious texts. Sanskrit continues to be widely used as a ceremonial language in Hindu religious rituals and Buddhist practice in the form of hymns and chants. 

</doc>
<doc id="19054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19054" title="Dementia">
Dementia

Dementia is a group of diseases with symptoms, which affect the way people think and interact with each other. It can often be linked to a disease or damage done to the brain. Very often, short-time memory, mind, speech and motor skills are affected. Certain forms of dementia cause a change in the personality of the sufferer. A person suffering from dementia will lose certain skills and knowledge they already had. This is the main difference to other conditions affecting the mind. People who suffer from learning problems, or lower intelligence will never acquire certain skills, people suffering from dementia will lose skills they have acquired. Dementia is more common in older people. Certain forms of dementia can be treated, to some extent. The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, which accounts for between 50 and 60 percent of all cases. Other types include vascular dementia and lewy body dementia.
Famous people who suffered from dementia include Augusto Pinochet, the Chilean leader, and also Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist.
People who see the following worsen may suffer from dementia:
Behavioral changes may include: 
Some types dementia are reversible. This means the damage can be undone. Other types are irreversible. This means that they cannot be undone. Irreversible dementia is usually caused by an incurable disease, such as Alzheimer's disease. 
Reversible causes of dementia also include diffuse axonal injury after injuries to the head or the brain, known medically as Traumatic brain injury.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease causes a dementia that gets worse quickly, over weeks or months, and is caused by prions. On the other hand, other forms like encephalopathy or delirium may develop relatively slowly, over the years.
The two leading causes of dementia are Alzheimer's disease and Multi-infarct disease. Glioma related tumors are another kmown cause. Alcohol dementia, is sometimes associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, and is caused by long-term or uncontrolled, heavy alcohol abuse.
Possible metabolic causes are such as liver failure or kidney failure; and chronic subdural hematoma. Possible other causes may include brain infection by illnesses like meningitis leading in cases to viral encephalitis drug toxicity (e.g. anticonvulsant drugs). 

</doc>
<doc id="19056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19056" title="Elasticity (physics)">
Elasticity (physics)

Something that is elastic can be stretched or deformed (changed) and returned to its original form, like a rubber band. It tries to come back to its first shape. The "strain" is how much the shape is changed.
This idea was first suggested by Robert Hooke in 1675.

</doc>
<doc id="19058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19058" title="Harmonica">
Harmonica

A harmonica is small musical instrument that is played with the mouth by blowing into holes in its side. Harmonicas are cheap and easy to play. Harmonicas produce their musical sounds from the vibrations of reeds in the harmonica's metal case. Harmonicas are used in blues music, folk music, rock and roll music, and pop music. A special type of harmonica, the chromatic harmonica, is used in jazz and classical music. Harmonicas are made in several different keys: G, A♭, A, B♭, B, C, D♭, D, E♭, E, F, and F♯. Each key can play a different range of notes.
Harmonicas are played by blowing or sucking air into one side. On this side, there are many holes. Each hole has a different note. Different notes are played when you blow or suck air.
Another type of harmonica is the chromatic harmonica. More songs can be played on it than a regular harmonica, because chromatic harmonicas can play more different notes. Chromatic harmonicas have a button which moves a sliding bar. By pressing the button, the player can play a larger range of notes. 
The harmonica is called many different names, such as: mouth organ, mouth harp, Hobo Harp, French harp, Reckless Tram, harpoon, tin sandwich, blues harp, Mississippi saxophone, or simply harp.

</doc>
<doc id="19060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19060" title="Straits of Florida">
Straits of Florida

The Straits of Florida (or Florida Straits) is a strait between the Florida Keys and Cuba.

</doc>
<doc id="19064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19064" title="Electron microscope">
Electron microscope

An electron microscope is a scientific instrument which uses a beam of electrons to examine objects on a very fine scale. In an optical microscope, the wavelength of light limits the maximum magnification that is possible. As electrons have a smaller wavelength, they can achieve a higher magnification, and can see very small objects - typically around 1,000 times smaller than those seen in an optical microscope. The outline of objects, as revealed by the flow of electrons, is changed into a picture using visible light for people to see.
A beam of electrons is sent towards the specimen - some electrons are reflected, while some pass through. Those that pass through are detected and used to form an image of the specimen at a magnification of about 500,000 times. This microscope is more powerful than a light microscope.
Similar to a Transmission Electron Microscope, but the reflected electrons are detected. By measuring the reflected electrons, some information about the surface of the specimen can be gathered.
A narrow beam of electrons is moved across the specimen and a picture is built up piece by piece by detecting how the electrons are reflected or absorbed as it moves.
It combines the high magnification of TEM with the better surface detail of SEM. It can be used to perform complex analysis on the specimen, which cannot be done using TEM alone.

</doc>
<doc id="19066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19066" title="Insomnia">
Insomnia

Insomnia is when people cannot sleep. A person with this problem is called an "insomniac". Insomnia can mean a problem with getting to sleep or a problem with staying asleep. Insomnia is a and not a disease or illness.
There are at least three different types of insomnia:
There are many causes of insomnia. Some of them are:
There are drugs available that can help treat the different kinds of insomnia. In some cases, there are also certain herbs that can help. A third way that seems to help is a type of therapy that aims at changing the behaviour of those affected.

</doc>
<doc id="19069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19069" title="Airbus A320 family">
Airbus A320 family

The Airbus A320 family is a family of jet airliners. It only has two rows of seats, which means it is a narrow-body plane. The family is made by Airbus and it is made up of the A318, A319, A320 and A321, as well as the ACJ business jet. The A320 family is made in Toulouse, France, and Hamburg, Germany. Since 2009, a plant in Tianjin in the People's Republic of China has also been making aircraft for Chinese airlines. In June 2012, Airbus said that it would start making some A319, A320, and A321 planes in Mobile, Alabama. The planes in the family can hold up to 220 passengers and they have a range of . The range depends on the model.
The first plane in the A320 family was the A320, which was launched in March 1984. It first flew on 22 February 1987 and the first A320 was delivered in 1988. The family got bigger over time, and there are now three other aircraft in the family: the A321 (first delivered 1994), the A319 (1996) and the A318 (2003). The A320 was the first airliner to have fly-by-wire flight control systems. It was also the first commercial airliner to have side-stick controls. (A side-stick is a small joystick which is used to fly the plane instead of a yoke.)
On 1 December 2010, Airbus announced a new version of the plane, called the A320neo. With the A320neo, new engines will be used (the CFM International LEAP-X and the Pratt & Whitney PW1000G) and some improvements have been made to the outside of the plane. Winglets have also been added, which Airbus calls "Sharklets". The A320neo will use 15% less fuel than the current A320. Virgin America is the A320neo's launch customer. As of 31 December 2011, 1,196 A320neo aircraft have been ordered by 21 airlines, which makes it the fastest-selling commercial aircraft in history.
As of June 2013, 5,635 Airbus A320 family aircraft have been delivered, and 5,443 of these are still being used. As well as this, 4,014 planes are on order. The A320 family's main rivals are the Boeing 737, 717, 757 and the McDonnell Douglas MD-80.
The A320 was the world's first commercial jet to use a small joystick, also called a "sidestick", to fly it instead of a normal yoke (a steering-wheel like device). This matched the new digital 'fly-by-wire' system, the first use of this in a civilian aircraft, which makes the A320 much easier and safer to fly.
The A320 also has a full "glass-cockpit", where most instruments in the cockpit (the front part of the plane where the pilot is) have been replaced by television screens. Most of the technology first used on the A320 has been used in other Airbus aircraft made afterwards. Other manufacturers, like Boeing, have also used much of the technology like a glass-cockpit and fly-by-wire in the Boeing 777.
The A319, A320 and A321 have engines made by two different companies; International Aero Engines (IAE) supply the V2500 and CFM International provide the CFM56. Over 54% of A320s in the air today have CFM engines.
The significantly smaller A318 has either Pratt and Whitney PW6000 engines or CFM56-5. The PW6000 was not as good as expected and this may have reduced the number of sales; several airlines cancelled their orders before the more efficient CFM engine arrived.
The A320 has been shortened to produce the A319 and stretched to produce the A321. Recently it was shortened even more to make the A318. However this version has not sold as well and the only large operator is Frontier Airlines.
These different versions are known as "A320 derivatives". When talking about all of them, they are known as the "A320 family" or "A32x".
Changes in size are done by removing or adding sections of fuselage (the part of the aircraft passengers sit in) and adjusting the power of the engines. Airbus try to keep the airplanes the same where possible, to reduce operating costs.
Pilots only need one licence (called a type rating) to fly all A320 derivatives.
The A320 has been very reliable in service. Many early problems were caused by pilots not being use to the new "glass cockpit" and "fly-by-wire", but these no longer happen. In recent years, the A320 has had a number of problems involving its front undercarriage. The following accidents are some of those which have occurred since 1988:
Seven incidents of nose gear malfunction, including JetBlue Airways Flight 292.
This information comes from: Airbus.

</doc>
<doc id="19070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19070" title="Priest">
Priest

A priest or priestess is a person who is allowed to do religious rites. Their office or position is the priesthood, a word which can also be used for such persons collectively. In most religions and cultures in history there have been priests, although they have a lot of different names, and follow different rules. .
A priest is a member of a church that has been told to look after his (spiritual) community. He is the head of a parish.
To become a Catholic priest, you are required to study Theology. The Orthodox and Protestant Churches also have laymen as clergy.
Catholic priests are not allowed to marry meaning that they have to be celibate. Orthodox priests can be married, but they must not marry after they become a priest. Anglican priests can get married before or during the time they are a priest.
The Catholic Church does not allow women to become priests. However, some Anglican Churches allow women to be priests.
Higher priests are called Bishops and Archbishops in the Anglican Church. John Sentamua and Rowan Williams are the archbishops of York and Canterbury. In some denominations only men can become priests.
The Orthodox Church has a higher priest called a Patriarch. The Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, like the Roman Catholic Church has a Pope, Pope Tawadras.
Many Protestant churches have ministers or pastors instead of priests.
In Japan there are Buddhist priests and nuns, Shinto priests and priestesses as well as clergy in the Christian traditions.

</doc>
<doc id="19072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19072" title="Red Sea">
Red Sea

The Red Sea, also known as the Gulf of Arabia, is a sea between the Arabian Peninsula of Asia in the northeast and Africa in the southwest. It is a part of the Indian Ocean. The Red Sea is about 2200 km long, but its width is less than 330 km. Many ships go through the Red Sea, because the Suez Channel connects the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea and Bab-el-Mandeb at the opposite end is a gate to the Indian Ocean. Ports of the Red Sea are, for example, Suez, Port Sudan, Massawa, Yanbu al-Bahr, Jeddah, Aqaba and Eilat. 
It is named that because it sometimes looks red from the red algae. The water of Red Sea has more salt and is clearer than water of most other seas because almost no rivers run into it. The weather is dry and warm around the Red Sea and for this reason many people from Europe and other parts of the world come for their holiday to the Red Sea. Some of them are divers, who swim under the sea level, to see rich coral reefs and fish. Holiday places, for example, are Sharm el-Sheikh, Eilat or Hurghada. The countries next to the Red Sea are Egypt, Sudan, Eritrea, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Israel.
According to the book of Exodus, God parted it for Moses and the Israelites so they could escape from the Egyptian Army.

</doc>
<doc id="19073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19073" title="List of country calling codes">
List of country calling codes

The following is a list of country calling codes. These are area codes for telephone numbers.
Places in NANPA (North American Numbering Plan Area) have been given area codes as if they were all areas inside one country.
0

</doc>
<doc id="19075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19075" title="Charles Lindbergh">
Charles Lindbergh

Charles Augustus Lindbergh (February 4, 1902 – August 26, 1974), known as "Lucky Lindy" and "The Lone Eagle", was a pioneering United States airplane pilot. He became famous for making the first solo non-stop flight across the Atlantic Ocean in 1927. 
Lindbergh was born in Detroit, Michigan. His parents were Swedish immigrants. He grew up in Little Falls, Minnesota. His father, Charles August Lindbergh, was a lawyer and later a U.S. congressman, who was against the United States entering into World War I. His mother was a teacher. While he was young, he was interested in machines. In 1922 he joined a pilot training program with Nebraska Aircraft, bought his own airplane, and became a stunt pilot. In 1924, he started training as a pilot with the United States Army Air Corps. 
After finishing first in his class, Lindbergh took his first job as pilot of an airmail route in St. Louis. He flew the mail in an airplane.
In April 1923, while visiting friends in Lake Village, Arkansas, Lindbergh made his first ever flight over Lake Village and Lake Chicot.
Lindbergh gained fame around the world as the first pilot to fly solo (alone) and non-stop across the Atlantic Ocean. He flew from Roosevelt Airfield (Nassau County, Long Island), New York, USA to Paris, France on May 20-21, 1927 in his single-engine airplane "The Spirit of St. Louis". He needed 33.5 hours for the trip. When he arrived back in the United States, many warships and aircraft escorted him to Washington, D.C. where President Calvin Coolidge gave him the Distinguished Flying Cross. 
Lindbergh's act won him the "Orteig Prize", which was 25,000 US dollars. A parade was held for him on 5th Avenue in New York City on June 13, 1927. At the end of the year, he was named "Time"'s first Man of the Year. 
He served on a variety of national and international boards and committees, including the central committee of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in the United States. 
Lindbergh's Medal of Honor recognized that he had done something unique. This is one of only two medals given for conduct during peacetime.
The words of Lindbergh's citation explain:.
For displaying heroic courage and skill as a navigator, at the risk of his life, by his nonstop flight in his airplane, the "Spirit of St. Louis," from New York City to Paris, France, 20-21 May 1927, by which Capt. Lindbergh not only achieved the greatest individual triumph of any American citizen but demonstrated that travel across the ocean by aircraft was possible.
Lindbergh married Anne Morrow in 1929. In 1932 he made headlines again, when his baby son, Charles Lindbergh III, was kidnapped and murdered. Bruno Hauptmann was convicted of the crime and later put to death in the electric chair. The Lindberghs later moved to Europe. He died of lymphoma on August 26, 1974 in Hawaii.
Lindbergh is honored in aviation for mapping out polar air-routes, flying at high altitudes, and decreasing fuel use. 
Lindbergh's legacy is, in part, his unique solo flight which changed public opinion about the value and significance of aircraft and air travel. In greater part, his legacy developed from what he did with his status and fame. He used his celebrity to advance aviation across the world.
A developing Lindbergh legacy is in life sciences.

</doc>
<doc id="19076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19076" title="Pilot">
Pilot

A pilot is a person that drives a vehicle (form of transportation) such as an airplane, spacecraft, or boat. All types of pilots must pass a number of tests and obtain a license before they can operate the vehicle. The pilot of a flying machine is usually in charge for the whole trip. A ship pilot usually only guides the ship through an especially difficult place such as a harbor. 

</doc>
<doc id="19077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19077" title="Charles August Lindbergh">
Charles August Lindbergh

Charles August Lindbergh, Sr. (January 20, 1859 – May 24, 1924), was a United States Congressman for 6th District of Minnesota from 1907 to 1917. He was the father of Charles Lindbergh.

</doc>
<doc id="19078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19078" title="Faroe Islands">
Faroe Islands

The Faroe Islands or Føroyar (that meaning "Sheep Islands") are a group of eighteen islands in the north Atlantic Ocean between Scotland, Norway, and Iceland.
They are a part of the Kingdom of Denmark, but have had local (autocratic) rule since 1948, and people in the Faroe Islands have had the right to do business with people from all countries since 1856. Most government matters are controlled by the Faroese government, except for military defense.
The Faroes have similarities to Iceland, Shetland, the Orkney Islands, the Outer Hebrides and Greenland. The island group, or archipelago, left Norway in 1815. The Faroes have their own representatives in the Nordic Council.
Administratively, the islands are divided into 34 municipalities within which there are 120 or so cities and villages. Traditionally, there are also the six "sýslur" ("regions"; Norðoyar, Eysturoy, Streymoy, Vágar, Sandoy and Suðuroy).
The Faroe Islands are eighteen islands off the coast of Northern Europe, between the Norwegian Sea and the north Atlantic Ocean. Its area is 1,399 square kilometres (540 sq. mi), and has no major lakes or rivers. There are 1,117 kilometres (694 mi) of coastline, and no land boundaries with any other country. The only island that does not have anybody living on it is Lítla Dímun.
Fish, raising sheep, and tourism are important parts of the economy of the Faroe Islands. The economy was in trouble around 1990. Unemployment decreased in the later 1990s. It was down to about 6% at the end of 1998. By June 2008 unemployment had declined to 1.1%, before rising to 3.4% in early 2009. However, since fishing is so important to the economy, if there are problems with fishing, the economy could be in trouble Since 2000, new business projects have been created in the Faroe Islands to attract new investment. The introduction of Burger King in Tórshavn was widely publicized but no one knows how things will go for this company. Trades on the islands are easy by the bridges or the tunnels that connect 80% of the population in the islands.
The national holiday Ólavsøka, is on 29 July. It commemorates the death of Saint Olaf. The celebrations are held in Tórshavn. They start on the evening of the 28th, and go until 31 July.
The official part of the celebration starts on the 29th, with the opening of the Faroese Parliament. In the day there is a procession with many people from the churches in the islands.
The Nordic House in the Faroe Islands () is the most important cultural institution in the Faroes. It supports Nordic and Faroese culture, locally and in the Nordic region. The House is managed by a director changed every four years.
In the islands there are many artists and musicians, with the most famous listed below:
Musicians:
Bands:
In the Islands,there are music festivals,where international musicians participating, like
Traditional Faroese food is mainly based on meat and potatoes and uses few fresh vegetables. A very important meat in the islands is lamb, the first ingredient of many dishes. Other typical dishes from the islands are fresh fish, blubber, whale, seabirds, and Faroese puffins and their eggs.
The climate is defined as Maritime Subarctic, with not hot summers, and with cold winters. Usually there is fog or a heavy wind that causes air traffic problems.
Many species of birds live sometimes in the islands, like Eider, Starling, Wren, Guillemot, and Black Guillemot. Only a few species of wild land seals live in the Faroe Islands today, the Grey Seals. Sometimes tourists can see whales,in the waters near the islands.
Grey Seals are very common around the Faroese shores. The natural vegetation of the Faroe Islands is like in the Scottish islands or in Ireland. It is mostly wild flowers, grasses, moss and lichen.

</doc>
<doc id="19079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19079" title="Faroese language">
Faroese language

Faroese is the Germanic language of the Faroe Islands spoken by about 70,000 people. The language came from Old Norse which was spoken in the Middle Ages. Faroese is the most similar to Icelandic. The alphabet has 29 letters that come from the Latin alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="19080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19080" title="Laura Ingalls Wilder">
Laura Ingalls Wilder

Laura Ingalls Wilder (February 7, 1867 - February 10, 1957) was an American writer. She is best known as the author of "Little House on the Prairie" series of books. A TV series, "Little House On the Prairie", was inspired by the story of her life as told in her books. The series starred Melissa Gilbert as Laura and Michael Landon as Charles 'Pa' Ingalls.

</doc>
<doc id="19081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19081" title="Mestizo">
Mestizo

Mestizo (meh-STEE-tzo) is a Spanish term for a person who is of mixed European (usually Spanish) and Native American ancestry. 
Mestizos have existed since the time when Spain controlled what is now Latin America. A mestizo was usually the son of a Spanish father and a Native American mother. Mestizos form the largest part of the population in some Latin American nations, a large minority of mestizos makes up most of the population in Mexico, which is the Spanish-speaking nation with the largest population in the world.
During the colonial era, many Native Americans were converted to Roman Catholicism and began using the Spanish language instead of their traditional one. This was because of the concept that existed in the Spanish colonies which gave more "value" to European people over Native Americans and Africans. Because of this, many Native Americans gained better social status by calling themselves "mestizos" instead of "Native American."

</doc>
<doc id="19083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19083" title="Royal Air Force">
Royal Air Force

The Royal Air Force (sometimes called RAF, its acronym), is the air force of the United Kingdom. The RAF began in 1918 when the Royal Flying Corps (spoken as 'core') and the Royal Naval Air Service joined together. It is the oldest air force in the world. The first man to lead the RAF was Hugh Trenchard. The RAF have many bases across the world, including the UK, Falkland Islands, Cyprus and Gibraltar. Some examples of the UK bases are RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland, RAF Valley in Wales, RAF Aldergrove in Northern Ireland and RAF Linton-on Ouse in England. The RAF has very new planes including the Eurofighter Typhoon, Panavia Tornado and the BAe Systems Hawk. The Hawk is used to train fast-jet pilots.
The RAF was very busy during World War II. A lot of important planes were built for the RAF during that time. The Supermarine Spitfire, Hawker Hurricane and Avro Lancaster bomber were aircraft which helped defend Britain during the Battle of Britain. The RAF lost a lot of pilots and aircraft because they were shot down by the "Luftwaffe", the German Air Force.

</doc>
<doc id="19085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19085" title="Tequila">
Tequila

Tequila is a Latin American drink from Mexico that contains alcohol. It is made from a plant called agave. It contains about 40 percent alcohol, and is often used in bars and nightclubs to make mixed drinks such as the "tequila sunrise" or the Margarita. 

</doc>
<doc id="19087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19087" title="The Book of One Thousand and One Nights">
The Book of One Thousand and One Nights

The Book of One Thousand and One Nights is an old cycle (or group) of stories that mostly come from Arabia and Persia, and a few also from India, Central Asia and China. All these stories were later collected together. There are different layers of the stories:

</doc>
<doc id="19092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19092" title="Coup d'état">
Coup d'état

A coup d'état (pronounced []), or just coup ([]) for short, is the removal of a head of state and/or head of government from power (overthrow). Unlike a revolution, which usually takes large numbers of people to take over, a coup can be done by a small number of people. Even one person can cause a coup who, Idi Amin for example, controls the country's army. Coups can also be done by other countries, such as the 1953 Iranian coup d'état. One well-known failed coup was the Beer Hall Putsch, where Adolf Hitler tried to take over the government of the state of Bavaria in Germany.
The term comes from French for "a (sudden) blow (or strike) to a state".
Informally, "coup" is sometimes used to refer to takeovers, or wins, in places other than government, such as inside a company or corporation.

</doc>
<doc id="19110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19110" title="Walt Disney">
Walt Disney

Walter Elias Disney (December 5, 1901 - December 15, 1966) was an American business magnate, animator, cartoonist, producer, screenwriter, entrepreneur, and voice actor. Disney was an important person in the American animation industry and throughout the world. He is regarded as an international icon, and philanthropist. He is well known for his influence and contributions to the field of entertainment during the 20th century. Along with his brother Roy Disney, he was the founder of Walt Disney Productions. The corporation is now known as The Walt Disney Company. 
As an extraordinary animator and entrepreneur, Disney was well-known as a film producer and a showman, as well as an innovator in animation and theme park design. He and his staff created some of the world's most well-known fictional characters including Mickey Mouse. He provided the original voice for Mickey Mouse. He received four honorary Academy Awards and won 22 Academy Awards from a total of 59 nominations, including a record four in one year. It gave him more awards and nominations than any other person in history. Disney also won seven Emmy Awards. He gave his name to the Disneyland, and Walt Disney World Resort theme parks in the United States, as well as international resorts like Tokyo Disney Resort, Disneyland Paris, and Hong Kong Disneyland.
He died on December 15, 1966 from lung cancer in Burbank, California. A year later, construction of the Walt Disney World Resort began in Florida. His brother Roy Disney inaugurated the Magic Kingdom in 1971.
Disney was born on December 5, 1901 at the address of 2156 North Tripp Avenue in Hermosa, Chicago, Illinois. His father Elias Disney had Irish-Canadian ancestry and his mother, Flora Call Disney had German and English ancestry.
His great-grandfather, Arundel Elias Disney, had emigrated from Gowran, County Kilkenny, Ireland where he was born in 1801. Arundel Disney was a descendant of Robert d'Isigny, a Frenchman who had traveled to England with William the Conqueror in 1066. The d'Isigny name was anglicized as "Disney" and the family settled in a village now known as Norton Disney, south of the city of Lincoln, in the county of Lincolnshire.
Disney's best-known creation is the cartoon character, Mickey Mouse. Disney even provided the voice for Mickey Mouse for many years. Donald Duck is another famous creation. Minnie Mouse and Pluto are also his creations. Disney was once fired from a newspaper company in Kansas City, Missouri because of his lack of creativity.
Walt Disney began as a cartoonist in the 1920s. He created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit but lost ownership of the character due to a contract problem. He then created Mickey Mouse. Walt Disney started the Walt Disney Studios and created the first full length animated movie when he created Snow White and the Seven Dwarves. The movie was a huge success. The money from the movie helped Disney create many more cartoons and movies. He earned 32 academy awards. Disney once refused an offer from Alfred Hitchcock to make a movie at Disney World after Hitchcock filmed "Psycho". 
In the 1950s Walt Disney created Disneyland in Anaheim, California. Disneyland was the first modern theme park. Disney also bought the land for Walt Disney World Resort in Florida. Disney did not see Walt Disney World finished though because he died before it opened. Both Disneyland and Walt Disney World (and now other Disney theme parks) are famous for their design, level of detail, being very clean, and animatronics.
Disney died of lung cancer and was cremated in 1966.
After Disney's death, many rumors were spreading that Disney's body was not cremated, but it was cryogenically frozen, and that his frozen corpse was stored beneath the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disneyland. Those rumors were false. Disney experts and people from his family said that Walt did not want to be frozen.

</doc>
<doc id="19125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19125" title="Eucharist">
Eucharist

The Eucharist, also called holy communion, the sacrament, or the Lord's supper, is a kind of religious ritual in many Christian churches. It started when Jesus Christ told his followers to eat bread and drink wine in memory of him, at the Last Supper. 
According to the Roman Catholic Church, the Eucharist is the true presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. During a Mass, through the act of transubstantiation, the bread and wine offered change, and are no longer bread and wine. They become the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ. The bread and wine do not change appearance, but they are the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ, which Catholics in good standing (not in the state of mortal sin) come and receive Christ—they consume Him. This follows what was said by Christ "Eat my Body and Drink my Blood" (John ch.6). Most Protestant denominations believe that this was meant as a symbol, while the Catholic Church bases its beliefs on the tradition handed down through the church. 
First century St. Ignatius of Antioch, disciple of the beloved disciple John, in speaking of "the heretics plaguing the church" in their day, wrote: "They abstain from the Eucharist because they do not confess that the Eucharist is the flesh of our Savior Jesus Christ" (Smyrnaeans, 7).
From the second century, St. Justin Martyr wrote:
"This food we call Eucharist, which no one is allowed to share except the one who believes that our teaching is true, and who has been washed with the washing that is for the remission of sins, and unto regeneration, and so lives as Christ has handed down. For we do not receive these as common bread and common drink; but just as Jesus Christ our Savior, having been made flesh by the word of God, had both flesh and blood for our salvation, so likewise we have learned that the food over which thanks has been given by the prayer of the word which comes from him, and by which our blood and flesh are nourished through a change, is the Flesh and Blood of the same incarnate Jesus" (The First Apology).
In most Protestant churches, not including Lutheranism, the sacrament of communion involves eating small wafers or Matzos and drinking wine or grape juice, and not believing that it is the actual body and blood of Jesus, but as a very important symbolic observance, and fulfillment of what Christ commanded. Some churches offer it daily, some weekly, some monthly, and some a few times a year.
Unlike the Catholic teaching, Lutherans teach that the bread and wine is Jesus' body and blood, but is bread and wine also (consubstantiation).
In the Latter Day Saints or "Mormon" Church, followers eat small pieces of bread and drink water. They believe that this is a symbol of the body and blood of Jesus, and they call it the Sacrament. They also believe that it helps them to make the promises of baptism all over again.

</doc>
<doc id="19128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19128" title="Stroke (disambiguation)">
Stroke (disambiguation)

Stroke can mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="19131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19131" title="Little House on the Prairie">
Little House on the Prairie

Little House on the Prairie is a book written by Laura Ingalls Wilder in 1935. It is one part of series of books about Wilder's childhood in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Kansas during the late 19th century. The books have been made many times into movies and television series. Some other writers have also written books about Laura and her relatives.
 

</doc>
<doc id="19133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19133" title="Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano">
Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano

Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano is an Italian choir of children. It was created in Bologna in 1963 by Mariele Ventre. The children had to help singing children at Zecchino d'Oro festival. In 1995, Mariele Ventre died and the choir has a new director - Sabrina Simoni - and a new name - "Piccolo Coro "Mariele Ventre" dell'Antoniano".

</doc>
<doc id="19135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19135" title="Ward Cunningham">
Ward Cunningham

Howard G. "Ward" Cunningham (born May 26, 1949) is an American computer programmer. He started the first wiki website on March 25, 1995, and is considered the inventor of that software. He currently lives in Beaverton, Oregon.
Ward Cunningham got a Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and computer science from Purdue University, and then got his master's degree in computer science from there as well. he has worked for Tektronix Computer Research Laboratory, the Eclipse Foundation, and Microsoft, among other places. In 2009, he joined AboutUs, an editable guide to websites.

</doc>
<doc id="19136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19136" title="Chain">
Chain

A chain is like a rope, but made up of several elements called links.

</doc>
<doc id="19137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19137" title="Rope">
Rope

A rope is made out of several threads. The material can be organic, like flax, or it can be small threads of steel (in case of a steel rope, wire or cable). A rope can be used to lift, or pull things, like pulling a ship into a harbour with another ship, or fixing the ship so it does not move away.

</doc>
<doc id="19138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19138" title="The X-Files">
The X-Files

The X-Files is an American science fiction television series set in Maryland. It ran from its creation in 1993 until 2002, lasting for nine seasons. On January 24, 2016, a new season began airing. The series is about two FBI agents, Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Fox Mulder (David Duchovny). Together, they work to find answers to strange cases. Many of these cases have to do with aliens and the paranormal.
"The X-Files" was a very popular show; it is the second longest running science fiction show behind "Stargate SG-1". It also won awards like the Emmy Awards and the Golden Globe Awards.
The plot of the show has to do with finding the answer to mysteries, or X-Files. Mulder believes that the answers to many of these mysteries have to do with aliens and the paranormal, while Scully believes that the answer can be found using science. Sometimes, there are monsters that are introduced into the show. Episodes with monsters in them are called "Monster-of-the-week" episodes.
There is a plot in the show about Mulder's sister, Samantha Mulder. She was taken by aliens when she was little. Mulder spends a lot of time looking for her. In season seven, Mulder finds out that both the aliens and the government took his sister for experiments. They wanted to make an alien-human hybrid and used Samantha as a test subject.
Mulder and Scully believe that there is a part of the government that is helping the aliens. They find out this is true. The part of the government that helps the aliens is called "The Syndicate." The Syndicate helps the aliens to take over Earth.
Eventually, Mulder is taken by the aliens and is replaced in the series by John Doggett, another FBI agent. Doggett and Scully then work together in season eight. In season nine, Scully is replaced by Monica Reyes.
In 1998, a movie called "" was made. In the plot of the series, it is between seasons five and six. It is mainly about aliens. It was directed by Rob Bowman.
Another movie, called "", was made in 2008, six years after the season ended. The movie is more like a horror story than a story about aliens. It was directed by Chris Carter. It earned $20,982,478 in the US, earned $47,386,956 in countries outside the US, and in total earned $68,369,434.

</doc>
<doc id="19139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19139" title="Patent">
Patent

A patent gives an inventor the right to stop other people making or using their invention. If someone makes or uses that invention without being allowed to, the inventor can sue that person in court to make them stop. The inventor can sell the patent to another person or company.
A patent lasts for up to 20 years, depending on the country. After that, anyone can copy the invention. 
Each country has its own patents. China gives Chinese patents. India gives Indian patents. The United States gives United States patents. An inventor can get a patent in any country the inventor wants. An inventor can get patents in many different countries for the same invention. Each patent in each country costs money.
The rules for patents are similar for most countries.
To get a patent, the inventor must ask the government by describing the invention in writing. This is called a patent application. The inventor can write the patent application, but it is usually written by a person trained to write patent applications. This person is called a patent agent or, if the person is a lawyer, a patent attorney.
The government does not usually just give the inventor a patent. Instead, the government tries to confirm whether the idea is actually new. This is called patent examination. The government will try to find books, stories, or other patents that show that the idea was not new. The inventor, or his or her patent attorney, then tries to show how the inventor's idea is different from anything that the government finds.
If the government finds that the inventor's idea is new, it will give the inventor a patent. The government will also send the inventor a copy of his or her patent application with a special seal. This copy is the patent.
The inventor must also pay the government a tax to get a patent. Usually, an inventor pays money to ask for the patent, and the inventor pays money when he or she gets a patent. In some countries, the owner of a patent must also pay money to keep the patent. Some can be cheap and some can be expensive.
The owner of a patent can stop other people from using their idea. If someone other than the patent owner uses the patent, this is called infringing a patent. If the owner knows that someone is infringing his or her patent, the patent owner can ask a court to stop them. If the court agrees that the other person was using the patent, the court can make that person pay a fine to the patent owner.
The patent owner can give other people permission to use their patent. This is called a license. The person that wants to use another person's patent will usually pay money to the patent owner.
Patents most often cover products or processes that contain ‘new’ functional or technical ideas. They are concerned with how things work, how they are made or what they are made of. Patents cover many different things such as electronics, medicines, agriculture and transport – anything in fact from a small detail in an electric switch to an entire power station.
Usually, to get a patent there are three rules that the idea needs to follow:
Often a product is marked with a text saying 'patent pending’ or 'pat. pending', which means that a patent has been asked for (part of) the product. Then people are warned that they should not copy the invention. 
Patents are usually very long. They include a number of smaller parts. A patent usually includes a section that briefly describes the idea called the abstract. It also may include a section that describes other people's inventions and how the inventor's idea is different called the "background of the invention."
The patent also includes a long description of the idea itself called a "detailed description." In this section, the inventor tries to describe every detail of his or her invention.
The patent also has a number of pictures called the "figures." The figures are usually drawn by people called draftsman that are trained to draw in a special way. The pictures are labeled with numbers to show different parts of the invention.
At the end of most patents is a section called the claims. These are usually numbered. They include a short statement that lists all of the things needed for the invention. A court will use the claims to decide if another person is "infringing the patent."

</doc>
<doc id="19140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19140" title="The Wizard of Oz">
The Wizard of Oz

The Wizard of Oz is an American musical movie. It was produced by MGM and released by RKO in 1939. The movie is based on the children's book "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" by L. Frank Baum. This book was published in 1900. The book and movie are about a little girl's adventures in the land called Oz. 
The song "Over the Rainbow" won the Academy Award for Best Original Song. The movie was first televised in 1956. It became an annual Thanksgiving television special for many years. The movie was named the most-watched motion picture in history by the Library of Congress.
In 1998, the movie was sixth on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. The movie has been chosen for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.
Dorothy (Judy Garland) lives on a drab Kansas farm with her Auntie Em and Uncle Henry (Clara Blandick and Charlie Grapewin). A powerful storm sweeps her away to the Land of Oz. She accidentally kills a wicked witch. She wants to go home, but only the Wizard of Oz (Frank Morgan) can send her home. She must go to the Emerald City to see him. She sets off on the Yellow Brick Road wearing the witch's ruby slippers. She makes three friends on the road: a Scarecrow, a Tin Man, and a Cowardly Lion (Ray Bolger, Jack Haley, and Bert Lahr).
On the way to Emerald City, the friends are tormented by The Wicked Witch of the West (Margaret Hamilton). She is the sister of the witch Dorothy killed. She wants the ruby slippers. Dorothy won't give the slippers to the witch. The friends arrive in Emerald City. The Wizard sends them off to kill the witch. The friends are captured by the witch. Dorothy throws a pail of water over the witch. The witch melts.
In the Emerald City, the four friends are welcomed as heroes. The Wizard prepares his hot air balloon to take Dorothy back to Kansas. The balloon takes off without her. A good witch called Glinda (Billie Burke) tells Dorothy she can go home by just clicking the heels of the ruby slippers together and thinking about home. She does this. She wakes up in her bed. Her adventures have been a dream.

</doc>
<doc id="19142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19142" title="Assassination">
Assassination

Assassination is the murder of an important or popular person. Usually the person is a political leader, like the head of a country or a political party. Assassinations are usually done for political reasons or for payment. A person who assassinates someone is called an assassin.
Throughout history, assassinations have happened for many different reasons. Sometimes assassinations have been used to take over governments. Other times, assassinations have been used to kill military leaders during wars, or for religious reasons. Some assassins want revenge, or just want to be famous.
Assassinations have happened ever since people started living in group societies.
The Old Testament of the Bible talks about assassinations in the Books of Judith, Kings, Samuel, and Chronicles.
An ancient Indian writer named Chanakya, who lived from about 350 283 BC, wrote a lot about assassinations in a book called "Arthashastra". One of his students later assassinated some of his enemies, including two of Alexander the Great's generals.
Famous victims of assassinations include Philip II of Macedon (336 BC), Alexander the Great's father, and Julius Caesar (44 BC). Emperors of the Roman Empire were often assassinated so that a different leader could take their place.
In the Middle Ages, many kings in the Eastern Roman Empire were killed by assassinations so that new kings could take power.
During the Renaissance, assassinations became more common in Western Europe. Kings William the Silent of the Netherlands (1584), Henry III of France (1589), and Henry IV of France (1610) were all assassinated.
The first American use of state assassination (where a government planned to assassinate someone) happened in 1620. It happened in Plymouth in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, where the Pilgrims had landed. Native Americans had lived there before the Pilgrims landed, but the Pilgrims wanted the land to themselves. Myles Standish invited a local Native American tribal chief, the chief's 18-year-old brother, and two other Native Americans to a feast. Then they locked the door, killed the three older men, and hanged the teenager in public as a warning to the other Native Americans to stay away.
Assassinations have been common in modern history. This section does not list every assassination that has happened in modern history. It lists some examples of world leaders who were assassinated, and explains some of the reasons why these assassinations happened.
In Imperial Russia, two emperors were assassinated within 80 years: Paul I (1801) and Alexander II (1881).
In the United States, four presidents were assassinated within 100 years. They were Presidents Abraham Lincoln (1865), James Garfield (1881), William McKinley (1901), and John F. Kennedy (1963).
After Abraham Lincoln was killed, Andrew Johnson became President. He was President for four years. During that time, 12 people who held important political jobs were assassinated. The next president, Ulysses S. Grant, led the United States from 18691877. During that time, 11 government leaders were assassinated; another 9 were attacked, but survived.
Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated in 1914. Some historians say this assassination started World War I.
In the 1930s and 1940s, Josef Stalin's NKVD assassinated many people outside of the Soviet Union, including Leon Trotsky. These were mostly people who Stalin thought were against him or could take power from him. He wanted to make sure to keep the power he had, so he killed many of his opponents.
Between 1934 and 1944, different individuals and groups tried 27 different times to assassinate Adolf Hitler, the leader of Nazi Germany during The Holocaust and World War II. These people wanted to stop Hitler from taking over so many countries and killing so many people. However, he always survived.
During World War II, the Allies used assassinations to kill important Nazi and Japanese leaders:
Some famous human rights activists were also assassinated in the next few decades. They were assassinated by people who did not like the things they were doing to work for human rights. The most famous activists who were assassinated include:
Between 1960 and 1965, the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) tried at least eight times to assassinate Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Around this time, the CIA also made plans to assassinate Patrice Lumumba, the only democratically elected leader of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Between 1960 and 1970, the CIA also encouraged and in some cases helped with assassination plans against:
In 1979, the Iranian Revolution turned Iran into an Islamic Republic. A group called Iran Human Rights Documentation Center says that between 1979 and the 1990s, leaders of the Iranian government had 162 people assassinated, in 19 different countries. The group says Iran stopped the assassinations because a German court put out an arrest warrant for the head of Iranian military intelligence.
Anwar Sadat, the President of Egypt, was assassinated in 1981 at a parade. He was killed by people who wanted to take over the country and make it into an Islamic Republic.
In 1983, Benigno Aquino, Jr. was assassinated. Aquino was against Ferdinand Marcos, the dictator who ruled the Philippines. The people of the Philippines were so upset that they started the non-violent People Power Revolution. This led to the end of Marcos's government. Aquino's widow, Corazon Aquino, became President of the Philippines.
In India, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated in 1984. Her son Rajiv Gandhi became the next Prime Minister. He was assassinated in 1991. (They were not related to Mohandas Gandhi.)
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated in 1995. The Israelis and Palestinians were working on a peace agreement. Rabin was killed by an Orthodox Jew who did not agree with the peace treaty. Many historians think Rabin's murder is one of the main reasons the peace talks fell apart.
In Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in 2007. Bhutto had been the first woman ever elected to lead a Muslim country. An Al-Qaeda leader said that Al-Qaeda assassins had killed Bhutto. He said they did this because Bhutto was trying to get rid of violent Jihadist militia groups in Pakistan. He said this made her important to the United States, so Al-Qaeda killed her.
One research study looked at assassinations of national leaders (leaders of countries, like presidents or prime ministers). The study showed that:
Another study looked at all assassinations between 1946 and 2013. It included not just national leaders, but also other members of government (including local governments), and people who were against the government. This study found that between 1946 and 2013, a total of 954 people were assassinated in 758 different attacks.
This study also looked at who was most likely to be assassinated. Of those 954 people who were assassinated:

</doc>
<doc id="19144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19144" title="Gillian Anderson">
Gillian Anderson

Gillian Leigh Anderson (born August 9, 1968) is an American-British film, television and theatre actress, activist and writer. Her credits include the roles of FBI Special Agent Dana Scully in the long-running and widely popular series "The X-Files", ill-fated socialite Lily Bart in Terence Davies' film "The House of Mirth" (2000), and Lady Dedlock in the successful BBC production of Charles Dickens' "Bleak House". Among other honours, Anderson has won a Primetime Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
After beginning her career on stage, Anderson achieved international recognition for her role as FBI Special Agent Dana Scully on the American sci-fi drama series "The X-Files" for all ten seasons (1993–2002, 2016). Her film work includes the dramas "The Mighty Celt" (2005), "The Last King of Scotland" (2006), "Shadow Dancer" (2012) and two "X-Files" films: "The X-Files: Fight the Future" (1998) and "The X-Files: I Want to Believe" (2008). Her other notable television credits are "Any Human Heart", "The Crimson Petal and the White", portraying Miss Havisham in "Great Expectations" (2011) and Dr. Bedelia Du Maurier on "Hannibal". In 2013, Anderson began starring as DSI Stella Gibson on the critically acclaimed BBC crime drama television series "The Fall". She has been serving as an executive producer from its second series. She will be appearing as goddess Media in the upcoming TV series "American Gods".
Aside from film and TV, Anderson has taken on the stage and has received both awards and critical acclaim. Her stage work includes "Absent Friends" (1991) – for which she won a Theatre World Award for Best Newcomer, "A Doll's House" (2009) – that earned her a Laurence Olivier Award nomination, and a portrayal of Blanche DuBois in "A Streetcar Named Desire" (2014, 2016) – for which she won the "Evening Standard" Theatre Award for Best Actress and received her second Laurence Olivier Award nomination for Best Actress.
Anderson has been active in supporting numerous charities and humanitarian organizations. She is an honorary spokesperson for the Neurofibromatosis (NF) Network and the co-founder of South African Youth Education for Sustainability (SAYes).

</doc>
<doc id="19145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19145" title="Debt">
Debt

Debt is what someone owes to someone else. Usually, debt is in the form of money, but it can also be items, services, favors, or other things. Thus if you make an agreement to give or do something for someone else, you now owe a debt.
Goods, services or money borrowed with the intent of repayment (in kind or not) creates a debt. Debt can be secured or unsecured in nature.
A secured debt uses "collateral", which is an asset that is promised to the debt-holder until the debt has been repaid. If the repayment is not made in full, the lender gets the collateral asset. For instance, a car loan typically creates a secured debt. If you still owe money on the car loan and do not make timely payments, the note-holder can take back (or repossess) the car and sell it to get the money still due. A home mortgage is similar.
An unsecured debt is more risky to the debt-holder (the lender, also called creditor). In the event of non-payment of the debt, the lender cannot take assets. Credit card debt is typically unsecured. If you charge items to a credit card and do not make the monthly payments, the credit card issuer can report the non-payment to the credit-reporting agencies. That will reduce your credit score so others will not lend you money. But usually they cannot take back whatever you bought with the card.

</doc>
<doc id="19146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19146" title="Uranium">
Uranium

Uranium is a chemical element (a metal) on the periodic table. It has an atomic number of 92, which means that a uranium atom has 92 protons in its center, which is called a nucleus. Uranium that is dug out of the ground will be made from three different isotopes: three different types of uranium with different numbers of neutrons in their nuclei. Most of it is Uranium-238; uranium-235 is less common; uranium-234 is the rarest. Pitchblende is the main ore that is mined for uranium. 
Uranium-235 can be used in nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons by having a neutron fired into its nucleus by humans. This turns the uranium-235 into uranium-236 and splits the nucleus into two smaller nuclei. This makes two completely different elements with smaller atomic numbers. This process is called nuclear fission and creates lots of heat. This heat makes it very useful for making steam in nuclear reactors, or for making explosions with nuclear weapons. But most such weapons use Plutonium made from uranium-238. Uranium is a bit radioactive. 
Uranium which has had its uranium-235 taken out of it is called depleted uranium. It is used in anti-tank weapons. Uranium can also be used as a dye for stained glass or pottery, which is how it was used before people found out that it was radioactive.
Uranium is a dangerous substance. Because Uranium is radioactive it is often seen with the hazard sign for radioactive elements, a group of three triangles with curved outer edges pointing in towards the middle (as you can see on the left). Some people believe that Uranium is light green, and glows. However, this is not true. Uranium is a shiny white metal, but is usually seen in its oxide form which is black.

</doc>
<doc id="19151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19151" title="The Graduate">
The Graduate

The Graduate is a 1967 American movie based on a novel by Charles Webb, and directed by Mike Nichols. It is set in Southern California.
In the movie and book, a recent college graduate (played by Dustin Hoffman) is seduced by Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft), the wife of his father's business partner. He later falls in love with their daughter Elaine (Katharine Ross).
The movie was Hoffman's first major role (it was his second role). He was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance.
The soundtrack album contained music by folk duo Simon and Garfunkel, and replaced The Beatles's "White Album" for the number one position (most sales) on the music charts.
Scenes from "The Graduate" have been well-remembered by many people, since it appeared. In one of them, one-word advice for corporate success ("Plastics") is given by a family friend of Benjamin's. (Reportedly, sales of stock in plastics companies jumped in the months after the movie appeared.) Another scene, where Ben tries to stop Elaine from marrying another man, has been imitated and parodied in television programs, including the cartoon series "Daria".
In 1998, a play based on the movie in London and on Broadway; its stars included Kathleen Turner, Alicia Silverstone and Morgan Fairchild.
Uncredited:
Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, and Katharine Ross earned Oscar nominations for their performances.
Along with the acting nominations, the movie received nominations for Best Cinematography, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Picture. Mike Nichols won the Academy Award for Best Director.
The movie won the BAFTA Award for Best Film, the BAFTA Award for Best Editing (to Sam O'Steen) and the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
In 1996, "The Graduate" was picked to keep in the U.S. National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.
American Film Institute recognition
The movie is listed in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book.
Alfa Romeo made a "Graduate" edition Alfa Romeo Spider, the car Benjamin drives in the movie.

</doc>
<doc id="19156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19156" title="Aquitaine">
Aquitaine

Aquitaine (Occitan: "Aquitània"; ; ) is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes. With over 41,000 square kilometers, it is one of the largest region of mainland France (the largest of all French regions is French Guiana, in South America).
Its capital was Bordeaux, the largest city. The French name of the people living in the region is "Aquitain".
The five departments in the region were Dordogne, Gironde, Landes, Lot-et-Garonne, and Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Aquitaine region is the third largest region, after Midi-Pyrénées and Rhône-Alpes, of Metropolitan France with an area of . It borders with three French regions: Poitou-Charentes to the north, Limousin to the northeast and Midi-Pyrénées to the east. To the south is Spain (Aragon and Navarre) and to the west the Atlantic Ocean. The coast along the Atlantic Ocean, part of the Bay of Biscay, has the tourist name of Côte d'Argent ("Silver Coast").
The Greenwich Meridian passes through Aquitaine.
Most of Aquitaine is in the Aquitanian basin, a relatively flat and geologically young landscape. High mountains are found only in the south of Aquitaine, in the Pyrenees mountain range. The Pic Palas (), at , is the highest point of Aquitaine; it is on the border with Spain.
The main rivers of the region are the Garonne, that flows through the Gironde and Lot-et-Garonne departments; the Dordogne, that flows through the Dordogne and Gironde departments; the Lot, that flows through the Lot-et-Garonne department; the Dropt, that flows through the Dordogne, Gironde and Lot-et-Garonne departments; and the Adour, that flows through the Landes department.
The climate is mild - except in the high mountains - all year round. On the Atlantic coast, the annual average temperature is above 15 °C, in Bordeaux is about 14 °C and on the border of Limousin is still 11 °C. Rainfall is relatively high and is higher in the south of the region.
Aquitaine came into the control of England when Eleanor of Aquitaine married Henry II of England in 1152. It remained in English control until 1453 at the end of the Hundred Years' War.
The Aquitaine region is formed by five departments:
The Aquitaine region had a population, in 2012, of 3,285,970, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The 10 most important cities in the department are:

</doc>
<doc id="19164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19164" title="Frances Winfield">
Frances Winfield

Frances Winfield is the wife of an American politician, L. Paul Bremer III. They have two children.
She is an author. She was born in Connecticut. She met her husband at a music concert. They fell in love in college. They got married in 1966. Both she and her husband are strong Roman Catholics. They are ministers in their home state of Maryland.

</doc>
<doc id="19168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168" title="Nightmare">
Nightmare

A nightmare is a very powerful dream that the sleeper finds disturbing. Nightmares usually have either physiological causes, like a high fever, or psychological ones, like trauma or stress in the sleeper's life. Nightmares are common, but nightmares that happen very often can cause problems with sleep. They may cause people to get medical help.
Nightmares usually happen during REM sleep. 
In earlier times, people thought that such nightmares were really the work of demons. They thought people were having nightmares because an Incubus was sitting on the chest of the sleeper. This can also be seen on the image. Sometimes people also thought magic and demonic possession were involved. 
In the 19th century, people thought their diet was responsible. When Ebenezer Scrooge sees a ghost in A Christmas Carol, by Charles Dickens, he thinks ""... an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a fragment of an underdone potato..."" is responsible. Similarly, the "Household Cyclopedia" (1881) offers this advice about nightmares:

</doc>
<doc id="19169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19169" title="Melilla">
Melilla

Melilla is a city in North Africa, right opposite Spain. It belongs to Spain, and is all surrounded by Morocco, which believes it should belong to them. Ceuta is another such city.
Its surface is about 20 square kilometers, and there are almost 70,000 people living there.

</doc>
<doc id="19171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19171" title="Ceuta">
Ceuta

Ceuta is a Spanish city in North Africa, at the Strait of Gibraltar. The City area is about 20 square kilometers, and there are over 82,000 people living in the city. The city is surrounded by a border fence, which has been built to keep the Moroccans (and other Africans) from moving there unlawfully. Ceuta is part of Spain (and therefore the European Union). Until it became a self-governing city in 1994, it belonged to the Cadiz Province.
It was built by the Phoenicians at a strategic position.

</doc>
<doc id="19175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19175" title="Burkina Faso">
Burkina Faso

Burkina Faso (officially Republic of Burkina Faso) is a country in West Africa. It used to be called Upper Volta and the name was changed to Burkina Faso in 1984. The country was once ruled by France, but it has been independent since 1960. The capital is Ouagadougou.
In 2005, about 13,228,000 people lived in the country. It is next to Mali, Niger, Benin, Togo, Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire. It does not have any coast with an ocean or sea. People from Burkina Faso are called Burkinabé (pronounced burr-KEE-na-bay).
People have lived in the area of Burkina Faso for thousands of years. At first they were hunter-gatherers, hunting animals and collecting fruits and vegetables. Later they became farmers. People called the Mossi arrived between the 11th and 13th centuries. They ruled the area until the end of the 19th century. In 1896 France beat the Mossi kingdom and became the colonial rulers of Burkina Faso. After World War I, the country was called Upper Volta.
In 1960, Upper Volta became independent from France. The first president of the new country was Maurice Yaméogo. After he became the president, Yaméogo banned other political parties. For several years the people of Upper Volta were very unhappy with the government and in 1966 the military took over in a military coup. In 1983 the government was taken over again by military men called Thomas Sankara and Blaise Compaoré. Sankara became president. In 1984, he changed the name of the country to Burkina Faso. It means "land of honest people".
In December 1985, Burkina Faso went to war for five days with near-by country Mali. In 1987, there was another military coup and Sankara was assassinated (murdered). Blaise Compaoré became the president.
On 28 October 2014 protesters began to march and demonstrate in Ouagadougou. Compaoré was ready to change the constitution and extend his 27-year rule. On 30 October 2014, some protesters set fire to the parliament. They also took over the national television headquarters. On 31 October 2014, President Compaoré, resigned after 27 years in office.
Burkina Faso is divided into thirteen regions, forty-five provinces, and 301 departments. The regions are:
Below is a list of the largest cities in Burkina Faso. For other cities see List of cities in Burkina Faso.
Burkina Faso is made up of two major types of countryside. The larger part of the country is covered by a peneplain. It has a gently undulating landscape with a few isolated hills. The southwest of the country forms a sandstone massif. The highest peak, Ténakourou, is found at an elevation of . The area is bordered by sheer cliffs up to high. The average altitude of Burkina Faso is . The difference between the highest and lowest terrain is no greater than . Burkina Faso is a mostly flat country.
Burkina Faso has a tropical climate with two distinct seasons. In the rainy season, the country receives between of rainfall. In the dry season, the harmattan – a hot dry wind from the Sahara – blows. The rainy season lasts about four months, from May/June to September. It is shorter in the north of the country.
Burkina Faso's natural resources include manganese, limestone, marble, phosphates, pumice, salt and small deposits of gold.
Burkina Faso's fauna and flora are protected in two national parks and several reserves.
Literature in Burkina Faso is based on the oral tradition, which remains important. Since the 1970s, literature has developed in Burkina Faso with many more writers being published.
There is also a large artist community, especially in Ouagadougou. Much of the crafts produced are for the growing tourist industry.
The food of Burkina Faso, typical of west African cuisine, is based around staple foods of sorghum, millet, rice, maize, peanuts, potatoes, beans, yams and okra. The most common sources of protein are chicken, chicken eggs and fresh water fish.

</doc>
<doc id="19176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19176" title="Battle of Waterloo">
Battle of Waterloo

The Battle of Waterloo was a battle that was fought mostly between French and British forces. Napoleon was crowned as Emperor of France in 1804. Then he launched many successful attacks on other countries in Europe. France soon had an empire that stretched from Spain to the Russian border. The only country that was still not captured was Great Britain. The Royal Navy had many ships, so invasion by France was not possible. However, Great Britain was not strong enough to stop Napoleon and his army from taking over most of mainland Europe.
Napoleon seemed unstoppable until two separate campaigns caused his empire to fall apart. He gathered a huge army to invade and conquer Russia once and for all in 1812. However, he did not think that he would have very many difficulties and it turned out he did. His army was caught by the Russian winter and destroyed by the weather and lack of food.
Now that Napoleon was much weaker, the countries of Eastern Europe, led by Austria and Prussia, began to ally against him, forcing his troops back towards France. Meanwhile, a small British army in Portugal and Spain, led by Arthur Wellesley (later to become Duke of Wellington) began to win victories over the French armies and to push Napoleon’s troops out of Spain.
By 1814, he faced total defeat, with the Austrians and Prussians invading from the east and the Duke of Wellington and the British army in the west. A peace treaty was arranged. Napoleon would abdicate (give up the throne) and be exiled to a small Mediterranean island called Elba, with a small army. He was replaced as ruler of France by Louis XVIII, brother of Louis XVI.
Once he was on the island of Elba, Napoleon was really not happy. He had been promised money by the new French government, but the money did not come. His wife (an Austrian princess) and his sons were forbidden to visit him.
Messages from France showed that the new French King was unpopular because he was trying to ignore many events that had taken place during the revolution. The allies that had united against Napoleon were arguing in Vienna over the lands that they had recaptured. He seized his opportunity, going by ship in February 1815 and landing in France again. His welcome was very mixed. Many French were tired of war and the death and suffering that it led to. However, there were others who wanted a return to the power and glory of the old days and saw Napoleon as their best hope.
His first days were tense but, by personal leadership and persuasion, Napoleon managed to gain the support of the army. When the king panicked and fled the country, there was little to stop Napoleon returning to Paris and resuming his title of Emperor.
What Napoleon needed now was a period of time to organize himself and the French army. The allies were caught completely by surprise and their only chance to stop him lay with two small armies in Belgium: a British and Dutch army commanded by the Duke of Wellington and a Prussian (German) army commanded by Marshall Blucher.
Napoleon decided on a further gamble. He gathered an army and prepared a surprise attack on Wellington and Blucher, hoping to catch them unprepared. His plan was successful at first and he crossed the Belgian border before Wellington and Blucher could join forces.
His first battle was at Ligny and, after a fierce day’s fighting, he defeated the Prussian army, forcing it to retreat. Thinking that Blucher would retreat back to Prussia, Napoleon turned his attention towards Wellington. There had already been a small battle at Quatre Bras, as Wellington tried to delay the French advance. This had given Wellington enough time to prepare a full defensive position across the road leading to Brussels, near the village of Waterloo.
The French army advanced towards them and set up their camp on a ridge facing the combined British and Dutch (Anglo-Dutch) army. Heavy rain caused delays and confusion and both armies settled down for the night in the mud to await the dawn and the forthcoming battle.
Napoleon’s army faced the Duke of Wellington’s Anglo-Dutch army near Waterloo on 18th June 1815. Wellington’s troops were deployed behind a low ridge, partially protecting them from the French massed artillery.
At 11.00 Napoleon ordered his guns to open fire. French infantry began an attack against the Château of Hougoumont, defended by the British Foot Guards. This was intended to draw Wellington’s reserves away from the centre, where Napoleon’s main attack would fall.
And according to records this battle was considered to be a vital key to who will win the Battle Of Waterloo.
At 13.30 Napoleon launched an infantry attack against Wellington’s centre. Men of the King’s German Legion resolutely defended the farm of La Haye Sainte. This disrupted the French attack. British artillery and musketry succeeded in repulsing the French assault and the British Household and Union heavy cavalry brigades charged after the retreating Frenchmen. Elated by their success, the British cavalry pursued their enemy too far and in turn suffered terrible casualties at the hands of the French lancers.
At 15.00 Marshal Ney, believing the Anglo-Dutch army to be retreating after the heavy bombardment they had received all day, led a massed French cavalry attack against Wellington’s centre. However, the British infantry, forming squares to defend themselves from cavalry attack, held firm. The French took terrible casualties as they circled these impregnable formations of infantrymen. The situation further deteriorated for Napoleon as Blucher's Prussian troops launched an attack at Plancenoit to his rear at 16.30.
By early evening the French attack at Hougoumont, intended as a diversion, was now having the opposite effect. The French committed more and more troops to the bitter fighting around the château, which was held by only a small force of British Guardsmen. More French reserves were being sent to meet the Prussian threat to the rear of Napoleon’s army at Plancenoit. However, the French had at last succeeded in capturing the farm of La Haye Sainte, only a short distance from Wellington’s centre.
At approximately 19.30 Napoleon committed his last reserves in a final effort to obtain victory. As Prussians arrived to bolster Wellington’s flank, veterans of the French Imperial Guard advanced to 'finish the job'. The British infantry, exhausted from the continuous cannonade they had received all day, rose to meet them. The musketry of the British Guards Brigade defeated Napoleon’s finest troops. They fled, and the whole French army joined them in retreat. Wellington ordered his entire line to advance and the French were chased from the field.

</doc>
<doc id="19178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19178" title="São Tomé and Príncipe">
São Tomé and Príncipe

The Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe is the second smallest African country, formed by two islands: São Tomé and Príncipe.
They are about 140 km apart and about 250 and 225 km, respectively, off of the northwestern coast of Gabon.
The islands were a Portuguese colony, but have been independent since July,1975. Portuguese is the official language.
The Porguese arrived in São Tomé Island on December 21, 1471 and Príncipe Island on January 17, 1492. As these were days dedicated to saints, both islands had saints’ names but S. Antão Island, the former name of Príncipe Island, changed in 1500 in honour of a Portuguese prince.
The official historical version says that the country was uninhabited before the arrival of the Portuguese sailors.
The first successful Portuguese settlement in the archipelago was established in 1493 when the volcanic soil of the islands proved to be good for sugar plantation - the first economic cycle. But between the 17th and the 18th centuries, the islands suffered an economic and social decline as a consequence of a slaves’ revolt headed by King Amador.
In the 19th century the archipelago regained importance to Portuguese settlers when they decided to introduce coffee and cacao plantations.
On February 3, 1953 the Massacre of Batepá occurred, when thousands of local people were killed by Portuguese settlers as a consequence of a disagreement between them about hired labour. Since slavery had been abolished, the Portuguese needed workers for their cacao and coffee plantations and the local people refused to work under the conditions offered, which, for them, were similar to slavery.
The archipelago’s independence movement started with the constitution of the CLSTP (Committee for the Liberation of São Tomé and Principe), formed in the late 1950s, which changed its name to MLSTP (Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe), the first political party after the independence, on July 12, 1975.
When São Tomé and Príncipe was declared independent and became the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, Manuel Pinto da Costa, the MLSTP`s General Secretary, was named the first archipelago president. From then on, the political system implemented was the single party regime which prevailed until the 1990s when there was a political and economic reform and the multiparty regime was implemented. In the first presidential election, Miguel Trovoada was elected as the second president of the islands. His successor, after two terms, was Fradique de Menezes, the current president who is in his second presidential term.
The president, like the prime minister, is elected by direct universal suffrage for a five-year term and can be re-elected. The PM is elected for a four-year term, and the thirteen members of the cabinet (the group of ministers) are chosen by him.
The cabinet constitutes the executive power and shares the legislative power with the National Assembly. The judiciary is independent from the other two.
As a multiparty regime, the country’s main political parties are: the Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe (MLSTP), the Party of Democratic Convergence (PCD), the Independent Democratic Action (ADI), and the Democratic Movement Force for Change - Liberal Party(MDFM-PL).
São Tomé and Príncipe is divided into 2 provinces: Príncipe, São Tomé.
The provinces are further divided into seven districts, six on São Tomé and one on Príncipe (with Príncipe having self-government since April 29, 1995).
São Tomé and Príncipe is formed by two volcanic islands - the biggest of which is S. Tomé - and several islets, and is in the Gulf of Guinea, off the Western equatorial coast of Africa. Both islands belong to the Cameroon volcanic mountain line.
The archipelago is 1,001km2 in size. The equator line passes through the Rolas’s Islet which is in the South of S. Tomé Island. The biggest peak is in S. Tomé, known as Peak of S. Tomé with 2,024m.
The climate is tropical, hot and humid, with an annual average temperature of 27 C. There are two main seasons: Gravana, the driest season when there is less or no rainfall and the temperatures are lower; and the rainy season, when the temperature is higher. The former goes from June to August, and the latter, from October to May.
Since the archipelago´s discovery, its economy has been based on agriculture and fishing. Nowadays its main crop is cacao; it represents 95% of the country’s exports, and is followed by copper, palm oil and coffee. Another economic activity is tourism, which the government and the private sector have been trying to promote and develop in the last few years.
After independence, the country’s economy was nationalized until the early 1990s when the government started an economic reform that consisted in privatization of the economic sectors.
Nowadays, the government budget is mainly based on foreign assistance from donors such as the UN Development Programme, the World Bank, and country donors.
The main importers of the archipelago's production are Portugal with 51%, France with 14%, Angola with 11%, and Japan with 10%.
In 2001, petroleum was found in the waters claimed by the archipelago and Nigeria. After negotiations, the two countries reached an agreement and, in 2003, a joint development zone was opened for bids. But so far, there is no petroleum exploitation yet.
According to the last census, about 163,000 people lived in São Tomé and Príncipe. 52,000 lived in the capital and less than seven thousand lived on Príncipe Island.
São Tomé is the country’s capital and main city.
The people of S. Tomé and Príncipe are divided into the following ethnic groups: mixed-blood, descendents of Portuguese settlers and African slaves; Forros, the biggest ethnic group and descendents of freed slaves; Angolares, descendents of Angolan slaves; Tonga, mixed blood of Forros and hired workers from Angola, Mozambique and Cape Verde; and Cape Verdean descendents.
In the last few years, people in the country have been leaving to find better life conditions in the city S. Tomé.
The country’s official language is Portuguese. Other languages spoken are: Forro, a creole spoken by 80% of S. Tomé Island`s people; Angolar, spoken mainly on the Southeast of S. Tomé Island; Lung`ié, spoken in Príncipe Island; and Creole from Cape Verde.
Almost everyone is Christian: Roman Catholic, Evangelical Protestant and Seventh-Days Adventist. But the Christian faith co-exists among the people with Animist practices.
The country’s culture is the product of Portuguese and African cultural influence. Typical dances on the islands are: Ússua, Socopé, Dêxa, and Puita. Tchiloli, Danço Congo and Auto dos Floripes are public theatrical performances, examples of the Portuguese cultural legacy.
Important names of the archipelago history and culture are King Amador and Alda Espírito Santos(1926-2010).
The illiteracy rate in São Tomé and Príncipe is above 70%, although children start school at age six.
Nowadays, the country has three private universities.

</doc>
<doc id="19180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19180" title="Equatorial Guinea">
Equatorial Guinea

The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is a nation in west central Africa, and one of the smallest countries in Africa. It borders Cameroon on the north, Gabon on the south and east, and the Gulf of Guinea on the west. In the past, it was the Spanish colony of Spanish Guinea. The country's territory is both on the continent and on islands. The continental part is known as Río Muni. On one island, Bioko, is the capital, Malabo.
Equatorial Guinea is the only country in Africa where Spanish is an official language.
Equatorial Guinea is divided into seven provinces (capitals appear in parentheses):
The provinces are further divided into districts.

</doc>
<doc id="19181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19181" title="Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo">
Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo

Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo (born June 5 1942) has been the President of Equatorial Guinea since 1979. Mbasongo did the military academy in Zaragoza, Spain. He came to power in a military coup, deposing the former leader Francisco Macías Nguema. Ngema had ruled the country for the previous decade. He was known to be very cruel. Ngema was sentenced to death and executed by a firing squad. Mbasonga promised to start over and to do a better job at governing the country.
In 1982, a new constitution was made. MBasogo was given the newly-created post of president. He was re-elected in 1989, 1996 and 2002. In 1989 he was the only candidate, in the 1996 and 2002, international observers said the election results were false. 
Obiang's regime kept clear authoritarian characteristics even after other parties were legalized in 1991. Most domestic and international observers consider his regime to be one of the most corrupt, ethnocentric, oppressive and undemocratic states in the world. Equatorial Guinea is now essentially a single-party state, dominated by Obiang's Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea (PDGE). In 2008 American journalist Peter Maass called Obiang Africa's worst dictator, worse than Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. The constitution grants Obiang wide powers, including the power to rule by decree. Nonetheless, Obiang has far less power than Macías. For the most part his rule has been considerably milder. Notably, there have been none of the atrocities that characterized the Macías era.
All but one member of the 100-seat national parliament belong to the PDGE or are aligned with it. The opposition is severely hampered by the lack of a free press to express their views. Around 90% of all opposition politicians live in exile, 550 anti-Obiang activists have been jailed unfairly, and several killed since 1979.
In July 2003, state-operated radio declared Obiang to be a god who is "in permanent contact with the Almighty" and "can decide to kill without anyone calling him to account and without going to hell." He personally made similar comments in 1993. Despite these comments, he still claims that he is a devout Catholic and was invited to the Vatican by John Paul II and again by Benedict XVI. Macías had also proclaimed himself a god.

</doc>
<doc id="19187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19187" title="Hogwarts">
Hogwarts

Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is a fictional boarding school in J. K. Rowling's best-selling "Harry Potter" series. It is a school of magic for witches and wizards between the ages of eleven and seventeen living in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Scotland.
Gryffindor house was born under Godric Grand Gryffindor, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values courage. Its symbol (animal) is the Griffon and its colours are scarlet(red-purple) and yellow / goldish yellow. Nearly Headless Nick is the house ghost. The Gryffindors always compete with the Slytherins.
The Gryffindor Common Room (the place where the Gryffindor students spend their time and do their homework) is in one of the castle's towers, at the seventh floor. At the door, there is the Fat Lady, or the Lady who is fat. She lets the students in only after they give her the password (which changes from the beginning of the school year to the end of the school year). The Fat Lady wears a blue dress. In the room there is a place with fire, many chairs and tables, and two pair of stairs which take the girls and boys to their sleeping rooms.
The head of Gryffindor house is Minerva McGonagall.
List of well known Gryffindors
Hufflepuff house was born under Helga Hufflepuff, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values hard work, patience, friendship and fair play. Its symbol (animal) is the badger and its colours are black and yellow. The Fat Friar is the house ghost.
The Hufflepuff Common Room door is near the kitchens, in the dungeons. It is a quite cozy and welcoming place, not at all like a dungeon. In the room there are yellow hangings and fat armchairs, with little underground tunnels that take the students to their sleeping rooms. The tunnels have round doors like barrel-tops.
The head of Hufflepuff house is Pomona Sprout.
Cedric Diggory dies in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" book and movie.
Ravenclaw house was born under Rowena Ravenclaw, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values intelligence. Its symbol (animal) is the eagle and its colours are blue and bronze, the house's saying is "Wit beyond measure is mans greatest treasure". The Grey Lady is the house ghost and when she was alive she was Helena Ravenclaw, daughter of Rowena Ravenclaw. 
The Ravenclaw Common Room is in Ravenclaw Tower, on the west side of the Castle. At the door the students must answer a riddle that the eagle-shaped door knocker asks them.
The head of Ravenclaw house is Filius Flitwick.
List of well known Ravenclaws
Slytherin house was born under Salazar Slytherin, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values ambition and determination. Its symbol (animal) is the snake and its colours are green and silver. The Bloody Baron is the house ghost.
The Slytherin Common Room is in the dungeons of Hogwarts and is placed under The Black Lake, in the school grounds.
The house has a negative reputation, with a lot of people saying that it is the house from where almost all dark wizards in Britain, notably Tom Riddle (Voldemort), came from.
The house is usually in competition with the Gryffindor house, as they "don't like each other on principle".
The head of Slytherin house is Severus Snape and in the 7th book Horace Slughorn.
List of well known Slytherins

</doc>
<doc id="19194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19194" title="Toronto Maple Leafs">
Toronto Maple Leafs

The Toronto Maple Leafs are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). 
They were formed in 1917 as one of the six original NHL teams. They were called the Toronto Arenas, but changed their name to St. Patricks, then to Maple Leafs, in the 1920s. The maple leaf is a symbol of Canada. The hockey team was actually named for an older team, a minor league baseball team called the Toronto Maple Leafs.
The Maple Leafs have won the Stanley Cup championship 13 times, more than any team except the Montreal Canadiens. However, they have not won since 1967. 
They won in their first year, 1918, and then again in 1922 and 1932. In their early years, they had many NHL scoring champions: "Babe" Dye in 1923 and 1925, "Ace" Bailey in 1929, Harvey "Busher" Jackson in 1932, Charlie Conacher in 1934 and 1935, and Gordie Drillon in 1938. However, no Toronto player has been scoring champion since then.
They were a strong team in the 1940s. They won the Stanley Cup in 1942 against the Detroit Red Wings, four games to three, even though they were losing three games to none at one point. This was the first of six championships in ten years; they also won in 1945, then three years in a row: 1947, 1948, and 1949, and again in 1951. Some of their best players in that time included goaltender Turk Broda, forward Syl Apps, and defence "Babe" Pratt, who won the Hart Trophy as the most valuable player in 1944. Ted "Teeder" Kennedy won the Hart Trophy in 1955; but no other Maple Leaf has won that award.
The team won four Stanley Cups in the 1960s: three in a row - 1962, 1963, and 1964 - and again in 1967. Frank Mahovlich, a left winger, was the star player. They were also led by defenceman Tim Horton (who began the Tim Horton's doughnut shops), center Dave Keon, goaltender Johnny Bower, and winger George Armstrong. Keon won the Conn Smythe Trophy as the top player in the playoffs in 1967.
In the late 1970s, the Maple Leafs were a good team, with players such as centre Darryl Sittler (who scored a record 10 points in one game) and Swedish defence Borje Salming (one of the first Europeans to play in the NHL). However, there were 18 NHL teams by then, so it was hard to come first. Wendel Clark was a strong player in the 1980s; he became the team's all-time top scorer. Mats Sundin was another Swedish star in the 1990s and 2000s. They also had some good goaltenders around this time: Curtis Joseph, then Ed Belfour.

</doc>
<doc id="19195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19195" title="Detroit Red Wings">
Detroit Red Wings

The Detroit Red Wings are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). 
The Red Wings were formed in 1926. The Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL) folded that year, and many of the players from the WCHL's Victoria Cougars went to play for Detroit. As a result, the team was first called the Detroit Cougars, then later it changed to Detroit Falcons, before becoming known as the Red Wings.
In the late 1940s, the line of Sid Abel, Gordie Howe, and Ted Lindsey became very important to the team. Abel won the Hart Trophy in 1949, and Lindsey won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion in 1950. Howe then won six Hart and six Art Ross Trophies between 1951 and 1963. Terry Sawchuck was a star goaltender, who ended up with more career shutouts than any other goalie (103). Red Kelly won the first ever Norris Trophy as best defence. As a result of having such great players, the Red Wings won four Stanley Cups in six years: 1950, 1952, 1954, and 1955. Two of these were very close: they were won in overtime of the 7th and deciding game in 1950 (against the New York Rangers) and 1954 (against the Montreal Canadiens). These are the only two times the NHL championship has gone to overtime of game seven.
The Red Wings continued to be a strong team throughout the 1960. They lost the NHL Finals five times between 1956 and 1966. Norm Ullman was their star center in the 1960s.
They were not a strong team again until the late 1980s. Steve Yzerman became a star at this time. Sergei Fedorov became the first Russian to win the Hart Trophy in 1994. The Red Wings won the President's Cup as top team in the NHL regular season in 1995, 1996 (with a record number of wins), and 2002. They won the Stanley Cup in 1997, 1998, and 2002. Nicklas Lidstrom won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman three times beginning in 2001. The team was one of the richest in the NHL, which helped them get many good players.
The Red Wings have won eleven Stanley Cups, the third most of any team, and the most of the United States teams. They first won in 1936 and 1937, and again in 1943. Ebbie Goodfellow won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player in 1940. Sid Howe was also a star on the team at this time.

</doc>
<doc id="19196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19196" title="Wayne Gretzky">
Wayne Gretzky

Wayne Gretzky (born January 26, 1961 in Brantford, Ontario) known as "The Great One", was a Canadian ice hockey player in the National Hockey League (NHL) for 20 seasons. He was coach and part-owner of the NHL's Phoenix Coyotes until he stepped down on September 24, 2009. He also managed Canada's Olympic hockey teams in 2002 and 2006, as well as Canada's 2004 World Cup of Hockey team.
Gretzky was a star junior player with the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds of the Ontario Hockey League. When he was a boy he went from a bad first season, to great improvement. But this success also brought criticism because his father pushed Gretzky's success over other young players'. In 1978, when he was 17, he began playing as a professional with the Indianapolis Racers of the World Hockey Association (WHA), but was sold to the Edmonton Oilers after only a few games. He was third in WHA scoring and rookie of the year.
The WHA folded in 1979, and the Oilers team joined the NHL. At the age of 19, Gretzky won his first Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player (MVP). He won this trophy nine times. In 1981, he won his first of ten Art Ross Trophies as NHL scoring champion. He set many records in the 1980s, including most goals (92), assists (163), and points (215) in a season. In the 1981-82 season, he scored 50 goals in 39 games, when the record had been 50 games. He was named as Sports Illustrated athlete of the year in 1982. He was also called "the greatest player of all time" in "Total Hockey: The Official Encyclopedia of the NHL".
Gretzky won four Stanley Cup championships with the Edmonton Oilers: 1984, 1985, 1987, and 1988. He won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs in 1985 and 1988. Then, in 1988, he was traded to the Los Angeles Kings. He helped them to the finals in 1993. In 1996, he was traded to the St. Louis Blues, and signed with the New York Rangers at the beginning of the 1996-97 season. He retired, and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, in 1999.
When he retired, he had 2857 career points, over 1000 more than the next highest player. To this day, no one else has reached 2000. He still holds the record for most career goals (894) and assists (1963) (he has more assists than anyone else has points). He holds many other records, such as most 100-point seasons (15), most points in the playoffs (47 in one year and 382 career), and most games in a row with at least one point (51). He was named to the first or second all-star team 15 times and was MVP of the NHL all-star game three times. He had 61 official NHL records when he retired.
Gretzky's number, #99, was retired by the entire league. He was named Canada's male athlete of the 20th century. He has also been honoured with Canada's highest honour for a civilian: the Order of Canada.
Gretzky married American actress Janet Jones in 1988. They have five children: Paulina, Ty, Trevor, Tristan, and Emma.

</doc>
<doc id="19197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19197" title="Hart Memorial Trophy">
Hart Memorial Trophy

The Hart Trophy is given to the most valuable player of the National Hockey League every year. It was given to the NHL by Dr. David Hart, father of NHL coach and manager Cecil Hart. It was first awarded in 1924.
Wayne Gretzky has won the most Hart Trophies with nine, followed by Gordie Howe with six and Eddie Shore with four. Howie Morenz, Bobby Orr, Bobby Clarke, and Mario Lemieux have won the award three times each.
The closest vote for the trophy was in 2002, when Jose Theodore and Jarome Iginla tied; Theodore won because he had more first-place votes. In 1999, Chris Pronger won by one point over Jaromir Jagr; and in 1990, Mark Messier won by two points over Ray Bourque.

</doc>
<doc id="19200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19200" title="Frankfurt">
Frankfurt

Frankfurt am Main is one of the biggest cities in Germany. The City of Frankfurt has a population of 670,000. The metropolitan area, called Rhine-Main after its two biggest rivers, has over four million people. Frankfurt is an important centre for traffic and for the financial business. The Frankfurt International Airport is the largest in Germany, and the third biggest in the world. Frankfurt's train station is one of the largest, and its highway crossing is the centre of Germany's street network. Frankfurt is the seat of the European Central Bank, the German Federal Bank (Bundesbank) and of the biggest German banks, and it has an important stock exchange where shares of German companies are traded.
Frankfurt is on the Main river. The city's name means "ford of the Franks" - a ford is a place in a river where it is so shallow that you can walk through it, and the Franks were a Germanic people which existed in the first millennium. So, this was a place where travellers could cross the river without a boat. The frankish kings built a palace and a church here. Over the centuries, this group of buildings grew to be a big city which was famous for international trade and fairs, like today. Frankfurt was one of the most important cities of the Holy Roman Empire, and its emperors were crowned here. In the 19th century, Frankfurt was the capital of the German Confederation which was founded after the Holy Roman Empire fell apart. During the revolution of 1848, the first freely elected German parliament worked in Frankfurt.
During the Industrial Revolution, many factories and railway lines were built in Frankfurt and its suburbs. In the city centre, a lot of big buildings were built, like an opera house, theatres, stock exchange, railway stations, department stores or museums. Tram lines were constructed to make travelling inside the growing city easier. In World War II, the old city was totally destroyed by airplane bomber attacks. After the war, Germany was divided into two parts, and Frankfurt became the economic capital of West Germany while Bonn was chosen to be the political capital.
Frankfurt is a very international city. Every third inhabitant is not German. Most immigrants come from southeastern Europe, Turkey and North Africa, but there are people from almost every country living in Frankfurt. There are also many international business companies here, and the big airport links Frankfurt with many countries in the world. Many banks are based in Frankfurt, and the city has some of the tallest buildings in Europe.
"Frankfurter" is also a name for a hot dog, or sausage, because they are said to have originated in the city.
Frankfurt has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Köppen climate classification).
The first Wikimania conference was hosted in this city in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="19204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19204" title="Hugh Capet of France">
Hugh Capet of France

Hugh Capet (French: Hugues Capet) (941–996) was King of the Franks from 987 until his death in 996. The dynasty he established ruled France in an unbroken line for 300 years. 
Hugh was born in the winter of 941 and was the son of Hugh the Great and Hedwige of Saxony. His grandfather was King Robert I. His grandmother was Beatrice of Vermandois. She was a Carolingian; a daughter of Herbert I of Vermandois. By this connection he was the fifth great-grandson of Charlemagne through Pepin of Italy.
While still a young man Hugh got the nickname "capet" from the cape he wore. These were tokens of the lay abbacies he held. 
When King Louis V died with no heir Adalbero of Reims made a plea for electing Hugh Capet. He proposed the throne was not a hereditary right but that the king should be the best man for the job. The assembly at Senlis agreed and elected Hugh King of the Franks. 
Capet is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.
He married Adelaide of Aquitaine. She was the daughter of William III of Aquitaine. Together they had:

</doc>
<doc id="19205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19205" title="Disney Channel">
Disney Channel

Disney Channel is a cable television network that is owned by The Walt Disney Company. The channel shows programs that are made for family audiences, mostly pre-teens and teenagers. The channel began on the morning of April 18, 1983. Its programs ran for 18 hours a day until December 1986. In 1983-1997, the channel was called The Disney Channel.
Disney Channel currently programs shows targeted at preschool-age children on Monday through Fridays from 7 a.m.-2 p.m. ET/PT and weekends from 7-11 a.m. ET, called Playhouse Disney. During the summer months, the Playhouse Disney block ends at 10 a.m. ET on weekdays. , the only programming featuring classic Disney characters is "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse" on the Playhouse Disney block.
Programming in this block includes "Special Agent Oso", "Imagination Movers", "Handy Manny", "Little Einsteins", "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse", "Jungle Junction" and "My Friends Tigger & Pooh".
On May 26, 2010 it was announced that the Playhouse Disney block will be re-branded under the name Disney Junior which will later become its own digital cable and satellite channel in January 2012, replacing SOAPnet. The Disney Junior channel is a direct competitor to Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. network and PBS and Comcast's PBS Kids Sprout.

</doc>
<doc id="19211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19211" title="List of dog breeds">
List of dog breeds

People have carefully bred dogs for thousands of years. Sometimes they inbreed dogs who have the same close ancestors, and sometimes they mix dogs from very different ancestors or even from different breeds. This continues today, resulting in hundreds of dog breeds, some that are similar to each other, and others that are very different. 
This list includes common breeds, rare breeds, and breeds that are still being developed into new breeds. See each article for more information.
Dog breeds are often grouped in different ways, such as:
Dog breeds are also sometimes grouped into similar , such as Mastiff types, spitz types, pit bulls, or Lurchers.
Dog breeds include:
Nonsporting Dogs
See the lists of dog breeds that these important breed registries allow:

</doc>
<doc id="19213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19213" title="Milli Vanilli">
Milli Vanilli

Milli Vanilli was a German musical group, formed in Munich. They consisted of Fab Morvan (born 1966) and Rob Pilatus (1965-1998). They were popular in the late-1980s. In 1990, people found out that the group never sang anything at all. Even at concerts, they pretended to sing (lip synching) while a recording was played. 

</doc>
<doc id="19222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222" title="1706">
1706

The year 1706 was a common year which started on a Friday.

</doc>
<doc id="19223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19223" title="Geology">
Geology

Geology is the study of the nonliving things that the Earth is made of. Geology is the study of rocks in the Earth's crust. People who study geology are called geologists. Some geologists study minerals and the useful substances the rocks contain (such as natural gas and oil). Geologists also study the history of the Earth. 
Some of the important events in the Earth's history are floods, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, orogeny (mountain building), and plate tectonics (movement of continents). 
Geology is divided into special subjects that study one part of geology. Some of these subjects are: 
Rocks can be found in all sorts of shapes and colours. Some are very hard and some are soft. Some rocks are very common, while others are rare. However, all the different rocks belong to three categories or types, igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. 
Igneous rock is rock that has been made by volcanic action. Igneous rock is made when the lava (melted rock on the surface of the Earth) or magma (melted rock below the surface of the Earth) cools down and becomes hard.
Sedimentary rock is rock that has been made from sediment. Sediment is all solid pieces of stuff that are moved by the wind, water, or glaciers. Sediment can be made from clay, sand, gravel and the bodies and shells of animals. The sediment gets dropped in a layer at the bottom of a river or sea. As the sediment piles up, the lowers layers get squashed together. Slowly they set hard into rock. Some sedimentary rocks are made of just one type of sediment, all about the same size, such as sand. Other sedimentary rocks will have large and small lumps, and pieces made of different types of rock. Well-known sedimentary rocks are sandstone and limestone.
Metamorphic rock is rock that has been changed. The word "metamorphosis" means "change". Sometimes an igneous, or a sedimentary rock can be heated, or squashed under the ground, so that it changes. Metamorphic rock is often harder than the rock that it was before it changed. One well-known metamorphic rock is marble which is valued for its different colours, and because it can be carved and polished. Slate is a metamorphic rock that is a useful building material.
All three kinds of rock can be changed by being heated and squeezed by forces in the earth. When this happens, faults (cracks) may appear in the rock. Geologists can learn a lot about the history of the rock by studying the patterns of the fault lines. Earthquakes are caused when a fault breaks suddenly.
Soil is the stuff on the ground made of lots of particles (or tiny pieces). The particles of soil come from rocks that have broken down, and from rotting leaves and animals bodies. Soil covers a lot of the surface of the Earth. Plants of all sorts grow in soil.
To find out more about types of rocks, go to Rock (geology). 
To find out more about soil, go to Soil.
Geologists use some simple ideas which help them to understand the rocks they are studying. The following ideas were worked out in the early days of stratigraphy by people like Nicolaus Steno, James Hutton and William Smith: 

</doc>
<doc id="19224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19224" title="Pisa">
Pisa

Pisa is a city in Tuscany, Italy. About 90,000 people live in the city. The city has a very long and turbulent history. The "Leaning Tower of Pisa" is a famous landmark of Pisa.

</doc>
<doc id="19225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19225" title="Cheshire">
Cheshire

Cheshire is a county in England. It is the Northwest part of the country. It is most famous for making salt and cheese. Cheshire is made up of lots of little towns including the Borough of Macclesfield which covers a large area of plains the main attraction is in kerridge where there is the famous land mark 'White Nancy.'

</doc>
<doc id="19226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19226" title="Cayman Islands">
Cayman Islands

The Cayman Islands are a territory of the United Kingdom in the Caribbean Sea. The three islands are Grand Cayman, Little Cayman, and Cayman Brac.
Its capital, George Town, is on the main island (Grand Cayman).

</doc>
<doc id="19229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19229" title="1167">
1167


</doc>
<doc id="19230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19230" title="1097">
1097


</doc>
<doc id="19231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19231" title="1782">
1782


</doc>
<doc id="19232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19232" title="1197">
1197


</doc>
<doc id="19234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19234" title="1210">
1210

1210 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19235" title="E-mail">
E-mail

Electronic mail (or e-mail or email) is an Internet service that allows those people who have an e-mail address (accounts) to send and receive electronic letters. Those are much like postal letters, except that they are delivered much faster than snail mail when sending over long distances, and are usually free. 
Like with regular mail, users may get a lot of unwanted mail. With e-mail, this is called spam. Some programs used for sending and receiving mail can detect spam and filter it out nearly completely.
To send or receive an email in the traditional way, you need a device (computer, phone etc.) connected to the Internet and an e-mail program (simply called mailer). Several formats exist for email addresses. The most common, called RFC 2822, looks like user@domain.com. E-mail messages are sent mostly by text, and sometimes by HTML style.
Some companies let you send and receive emails for free from a remote website. Gmail, Hotmail and Yahoo! are among the many that do this kind of "web mail". Webmail does not follow the pattern below exactly because the webpage is a web application and takes care of many details by itself. The traditional way uses a mailer, as is usual with smartphones. 
Microsoft invented its own "communication protocol" (or set of rules) for sending and receiving mail, called "Exchange". Exchange protocol works entirely differently from the traditional method and is not explained here.
This diagram gives an example of what happens when email is sent from one person to another using the traditional method. In this example, Alice is sending email to Bob.

</doc>
<doc id="19239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19239" title="1231">
1231


</doc>
<doc id="19240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19240" title="1242">
1242

1242 is a year in the 13th century

</doc>
<doc id="19241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19241" title="1183">
1183


</doc>
<doc id="19242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19242" title="1155">
1155


</doc>
<doc id="19243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19243" title="1567">
1567


</doc>
<doc id="19244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19244" title="The Dillinger Escape Plan">
The Dillinger Escape Plan

The Dillinger Escape Plan is an American Mathcore/metal music group. They formed in New Jersey. They are generally a heavy group, with punk roots and influences from punk bands like The Bronx and Bad Brains.

</doc>
<doc id="19245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19245" title="Queensrÿche">
Queensrÿche

Queensryche is an American progressive heavy metal band. They formed in Bellevue Washington in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="19246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19246" title="Midnight Oil">
Midnight Oil

Midnight Oil is an Australian rock band. They formed in Sydney in 1976. The band became famous for its hard-rock sound and intense live performances. The band was politically active supporting environmentalist and indigenous causes.

</doc>
<doc id="19247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19247" title="Jon Bon Jovi">
Jon Bon Jovi

Jon Bon Jovi (born John Francis Bongiovi on March 2, 1962 in Perth Amboy, New Jersey) is an American musician and actor. He is most famous as lead singer of the group, Bon Jovi. Of origin he's Italian.
In 1983 he was one of the founder of American hard-rock band Bon Jovi. Earlier he sang in bands "Starz" and "Atlantic City Expressway".
In 2006 he was ranked in 31st place out of 100 the best vocalist in history.
He starred in 18 films, last time in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="19248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248" title="Maxi Priest">
Maxi Priest

Maxi Priest (born Max Alfred Elliot on June 10, 1962) is a English reggae singer.

</doc>
<doc id="19249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19249" title="On the Waterfront">
On the Waterfront

On the Waterfront is a 1954 American movie about mob violence among longshoremen (people who unload ships) in New Jersey. Directed by Elia Kazan, it stars Marlon Brando, Eva Marie Saint and Karl Malden.
The movie won eight Academy Awards: for Best Picture, Best Actor (Brando), Best Supporting Actress (Saint), Best Art Direction, Best Director (Kazan), Best Cinematography (Boris Kaufman), Best Film Editing (Gene Milford) and Best Original Screenpaly (Budd Schulberg).
Its most famous line is "I could've been a contender", said by Brando's character, Terry Malloy. In 2005, it ranked third on AFI's list of the one hundred most famous quotes in movie history .
Five years earlier, it was the eighth most popular movie on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

</doc>
<doc id="19250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19250" title="Faith No More">
Faith No More

Faith No More is an alternative metal band. They formed by bassist Billy Gould, drummer Mike Bordin, and keyboarder Roddy Bottum in San Francisco, California, USA, in 1981 and broke up on April 20, 1998. However, they got back together in 2009 and have continued playing since.
They became successful with singer Mike Patton in the early 1990s. Their biggest hits were "Epic" and the cover song "Easy", originally from Lionel Ritchie.
So far, Faith No More has released six studio albums, which include:

</doc>
<doc id="19251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19251" title="The Pretenders">
The Pretenders

The Pretenders are an English rock and punk rock band. They formed in Hereford in 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="19254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19254" title="Schindler's List">
Schindler's List

Schindler's List is a 1993 American movie set in World War II, and directed by Steven Spielberg. It is based on "Schindler's Ark", a 1982 book by Thomas Keneally. The movie and the book owe their names to the list of over a thousand Jews who worked in the title character's factory.
It is about businessman Oskar Schindler who saves thousands of Jews from being killed in the Holocaust by putting them to work in a factory. His list was the list of Jews he wanted to save.
The movie was nominated for 12 and won seven Academy Awards, including one for Best Picture. Spielberg won another for Best Director.
Among others such as "Citizen Kane" and "Sunset Boulevard", it has been called one of the greatest movies ever. In 1998, the American Film Institute selected it as the ninth most popular of all time in their 100 Years... 100 Movies list.
In February 1997, NBC aired a version without cuts of the movie (in two parts), much to the upset of many viewers. It was the first time a television broadcast had ever received the TV-M rating (soon to be called TV-MA).

</doc>
<doc id="19255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19255" title="Chlorofluorocarbon">
Chlorofluorocarbon

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) are gases used for various purposes including solvents,refrigerants and aerosol sprays. They are organic chemicals and contain carbon, (sometimes hydrogen,) chlorine, and fluorine. They were much used in the middle 20th century, replacing chemicals that were toxic or flammable or had other problems. In 1978, Sweden became the first country that banned CFC products. Later, the US and Canada did the same. Now, CFC products are not allowed in most countries, because they cause ozone depletion. CFCs also are greenhouse gases. An alternative is hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). These do not destroy the ozone layer or increase global warming.

</doc>
<doc id="19256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19256" title="Singin' in the Rain">
Singin' in the Rain

Singin' in the Rain is a 1952 American movie musical romantic comedy movie starring Gene Kelly. It was directed by Kelly and Stanley Donen. It is set in Los Angeles, California in 1927. It gives an amusing look at Hollywood's change from silent movies to "talkies".
It is considered to be among the best movie musicals ever made.
Shooting on the movie began on June 18, 1951, and ended on November 21.

</doc>
<doc id="19257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257" title="North and South">
North and South

North and South is a novel by John Jakes. It is the first of three books about two friends who must fight against each other during the American Civil War.
"North and South" had two sequels. They are called "Love and War" and "Heaven and Hell". The books were written in 1982, 1984, and 1987. 
There were also TV versions made. Three miniseries were done in 1985, 1986, and 1994. The two main characters were played by James Read and Patrick Swayze (Swayze's character does not appear in the third part).

</doc>
<doc id="19263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19263" title="Apparatus">
Apparatus

Apparatus can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="19278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19278" title="Internet Movie Database">
Internet Movie Database

The Internet Movie Database (IMDb) is an online database of information (facts) about actors, movies, TV shows, and video games. The IMDb website started in October 1990, and has been owned by Amazon.com since 1998. 

</doc>
<doc id="19280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19280" title="Chicago Blackhawks">
Chicago Blackhawks

The Chicago Blackhawks are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were formed in 1926, named after the 333rd Machine Gun Battalion of the 86th Infantry Division during World War I which was nicknamed the "Blackhawk Division". The division was named after Chief Black Hawk, a native American leader. The team has won the Stanley Cup Championship six times, in 1933, 1937, 1960, 2010, 2013 and in 2015. The current captain of the Blackhawks is Jonathan Toews.
The Regina Capitals were a team in the Western Canada Hockey League until 1925, when they moved and became the Portland Rosebuds. One year later, the league folded. Most of the Portland players then played for the new Chicago team in the NHL.
In the 1930s, Charlie Gardiner was a star goaltender for the team. Players on the Blackhawks won four scoring titles (Art Ross Trophy) in the 1940s: Doug Bentley in 1943, his brother Ben in 1946 and 1947, and Roy Conacher in 1949. Max Bentley also won the Hart Trophy as the league's most valuable player in 1946. Goalie Al Rollins won the Hart Trophy in 1954. By 1960, however, the team had only made the Stanley Cup final four times, winning the Cup in 1934 and 1938, and losing in 1931 and 1944.
The team was much stronger in the 1960s. Bobby Hull led the NHL in goals seven times, more than any other player. He also won three Art Ross and two Hart Trophies. Stan Mikita won four Art Ross and two Hart Trophies. Between them, they led the NHL in scoring seven times in nine years. Star goaltender Glenn Hall was an all-star many times; and Pierre Pilote won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman three times. The Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup in 1961, and also made the finals in 1962 and 1965. Goalie Tony Esposito led them to the finals in 1971 and 1973.
Since that time, they have had many star players such as Doug Wilson, Steve Larmer, Jeremy Roenick, and Tony Amonte; but they have not won the Cup since 1961, the longest wait of any NHL team. They won the Presidents' Trophy as the top team in the regular season in 1991, and made the finals again in 1992, partly due to Ed Belfour (who won two Vezina Trophies as best goaltender) and Chris Chelios (who won two Norris Trophies on Chicago). As of 2006, however, they have only made the playoffs once in the last eight years.
The mascot of the Chicago Blackhawks is named Tommy Hawk. He was introduced in the 2001–02 NHL season. He wears the Blackhawks' four feathers on his head and also wears a Blackhawks jersey and hockey pants. Tommy Hawk sometimes participates in the T-shirt toss and puck chuck with the fans.
The Blackhawks have their own official fight song called, "Here Come the Hawks!" which is also an introduction for them. A song that was called "Keys to the City" was given to the Blackhawks organization as a gift by Ministry & Co Conspirators. After the Blackhawks score a goal at the United Center they play the song "Chelsea Dagger" by The Fratellis.
In 1985, during the Campbell Conference playoff game, a tradition was started where the Blackhawks fans would cheer and applaud loudly during the singing of the national anthem. This is still done today.
Jonathan Toews was named the team's captain prior to the 2008-09 season opener which made him the third-youngest captain at the time. The Blackhawks led the NHL in home attendance with a total of 912,155, averaging 22,247 fans per game during to the 2008-09 season. The number of attendance also included the Winter Classic at Wrigley Field which had 40,818 fans in attendance.
The Blackhawks acquired forward Marián Hossa and signed him to a 12-year contract which was worth 62.8 million dollars. The deal also included Tomas Kopecky, John Madden, and Richard Petiot. Due to the salary cap, the Blackhawks were forced to give up a bunch of their players.
On June 9, 2010 The Blackhawks won their first Stanley Cup in 49 years when Patrick Kane scored the game-winning overtime goal as they defeated the Philadelphia Flyers in game 6 of the best-of-7 series.
On June 24, 2013, the team won their fifth Stanley Cup after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals. They were down 2–1 and scored two goals from Bryan Bickell and Dave Bolland 1:16 and 0:58.3 (17 seconds apart) to win 3-2.
On June 15, 2015, the Blackhawks won their third Stanley Cup championship in six years after they defeated the Tampa Bay Lightning 4 games to 2 in the 2015 Stanley Cup Finals. It was their first Stanley Cup win on home ice since 1938.

</doc>
<doc id="19283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19283" title="Cape Verde">
Cape Verde

Cape Verde (), also known as Cabo Verde and officially as the República de Cabo Verde ("Republic of Cape Verde/Cabo Verde"), is an island country in Africa. It is a group of islands in the Atlantic Ocean, off the coast of Western Africa. The islands, covering a combined area of slightly over , are of volcanic origin.
Cape Verde is one of the group of islands of the Macaronesia.
The Portuguese explorer Dinis Dias (or Denis Fernadez) discovered in 1445 a peninsula along the coast of Senegal that he named Cap-Vert (Dias named it "Cabo Verde", "verde" being Portuguese for "green", a reference to the vegetation in the area). Dias did not discover the "Cape Verde Islands", but rather the actual cape.
This peninsula is the westernmost point of the African continent.
The first Europeans to arrive in Cape Verde were the Portugueses Diogo Gomes and Antonio da Noli in 1460. The islands were uninhabited, and the first settlement was founded in 1462 on the island of Santiago (the main Island) which was divided into two “capitanias”, Alcatrazes and Ribeira Grande. The first one failed and the main activity in Ribeira Grande was the exploitation of cotton farms. Ribeira Grande served also as a slave trade post and as post of slave Christianization before they were sent to the New World.
The city suffered several pirate raids and for this reason in 1712, after a French attack, the authorities were forced to move the capital to Praia, where it is located until now. Cape Verde had the status of Portuguese colony until 1951 when Portugal changed its status to Overseas Province and in 1961 Portugal gave full citizenship to all Cape Verdeans.
Cape Verde has been independent from Portugal since 5th July 1975. The fight for independence was led by the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) and headed by Amilcar Cabral, the national hero of both countries, Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau.
The Cape Verde archipelago is in the Atlantic Ocean, approximately off the coast of West Africa, near Senegal, The Gambia and Mauritania, and is part, together with the Azores, Madeira, Savage Islands and Canary Islands, of the Macaronesia ecological region. It lies between the latitudes 14°N and 18°N, and the longitudes 22°W and 26°W.
The country is an archipelago with a total area of . It is formed by ten islands (nine inhabited) and several very small islands (islets) divided in two groups:
The islands are in two groups, arranged according to the prevailing wind direction: 
The largest islands are, to the southeast, Santiago, where lies Praia, the capital and largest city of the country, and the island of Santo Antão, in the extreme northwest. Praia is also the main population centre of the archipelago, followed by Mindelo on the island of São Vicente.
The sun shines 350 days a year and temperatures range between . The (a gentle to moderate wind) blows constantly from the ocean at a relatively low average humidity of 40% to 60%.
The Cape Verde Islands only have two seasons: The "Tempo das Brisas" ("Time of the winds") from October to mid-July and the "Tempo das chuvas" ("Rainy season") from August to September, when there may be heavy tropical rainfall. The coolest months are January and February (average temperature of 21 °C), where temperatures can drop down to 16 °C; the warmest is the month of September (up to 36 °C) with an average temperature of 27 °C.
Otherwise, the islands of Barlavento (Santo Antão, São Vicente, São Nicolao, Boa Vista, Sal, Santa Luzia, Branco and Razo) are always somewhat cooler than those of the Sotavento (Maio, Santiago, Fogo and Brava), where summers can be quite hot.
The Köppen climate classification subtype for this climate of Praia (Cabo Verde) is Bwh (Tropical and Subtropical Desert Climate).
Cape Verde's isolation has resulted in the islands having a number of endemic species, particularly birds and reptiles, many of which are endangered by human development. Endemic birds include Alexander's Swift ("Apus alexandri"), Bourne's Heron ("Ardea purpurea bournei"), the Raso Lark ("Alauda razae"), the Cape Verde Warbler ("Acrocephalus brevipennis"), and the Iago Sparrow ("Passer iagoensis"). The islands are also an important breeding area for seabirds including the Cape Verde Shearwater. Reptiles include the Cape Verde Giant Gecko ("Tarentola gigas").
Cape Verde is divided into 22 municipalities ("concelhos") and subdivided into 32 parishes ("freguesias").
Cape Verde is a representative parliamentary republic. The constitution —adopted in 1980 and revised in 1992, 1995 and 1999— defines the basic principles of its government. The president is the head of state and is elected for a 5-year term; the prime minister is the head of government. The prime minister is nominated by the National Assembly and appointed by the president.
The economic resources of Cape Verde are largely dependent on agriculture and fishing. Agriculture frequently suffers the effects of droughts. The most important crops are coffee, bananas, sugar cane, tropical fruits, corn, beans, sweet potato and cassava. The industrial sector is incipient but is based on the production of “aguardente” (spirits from sugar cane), clothing and footwear, paints and varnishes, tourism, fishing and canned fish, and salt extraction. Banana, canned fish, frozen fish, lobsters, salt, and clothes are the main exports. The national currency is the Cape Verdean escudo. Remittances from emigration are another important source of resources for the State of Cape Verde.
In Cape Verde, the annual rate of population growth and mortality are low, compared to average rates of other middle income countries. The average life expectancy is 66 years and 71 years respectively for men and women. The resident population in the country is estimated at 500,000 inhabitants. There are an estimated additional one million Cape Verdeans living abroad, mainly in the United States, Western Europe, and Africa. Cape Verde has a young population with an average age of 23 years.
Cape Verdean culture is a unique mixture of European and African elements. Corn is the staple food of Cape Verde. The national or traditional dish is "cachupa", which is a stew of hominy (dried maize kernals), beans, and whatever meat or vegetables may be available. Other common foods include rice, beans, fish, potatoes and manioc. A traditional breakfast is cuscus, a steamed cornbread, eaten with honey and milk or coffee. Grogue, or sugar cane liquor, is manufactured on the islands and is a popular drink, particularly among the men. Cape Verdean music incorporates Portuguese, Caribbean, and African influences. Popular genres include morna, funaná, batuque, coladeira, and cola san jon.
In Cape Verde, other than private clinics, the government guarantees a public health system which comprises several healthcare centers and three central hospitals (Hospital Agostinho Neto, in Praia, Hospital Baptista de Sousa, in São Vicente, and Hospital Regional de Santiago Norte, in Assomada). The cost of public health is supported by the government, but users must pay a fee which varies in accordance with the capacity of the user to afford it.
After independence the different governments of Cape Verde invested massively in education and illiteracy has been reduced drastically. Today almost one hundred percent of school-age children attend school. Attendance to primary schooling, which comprises 6 years, is compulsory and free from any charge. Education is guaranteed by a network of public schools that span from nursery school to university. There are also several private schools in all levels of education.

</doc>
<doc id="19284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284" title="Madeira Islands">
Madeira Islands

Madeira is a Portuguese archipelago that lies between and , just under north of Tenerife, Canary Islands, in the north Atlantic Ocean and an outermost region of the European Union.
The archipelago comprises the major part of one of the two autonomous regions of Portugal (the other being the Azores located to the northwest), that includes the islands of Madeira, Porto Santo, and the Desertas, administered together with the separate archipelago of the Savage Islands.
The name Madeira could be used for the autonomous region, the geographical group of islands or just the island of Madeira. These islands are part of the Macaronesia.
Madeira's official written history began in 1418, when two captains under service to Prince Henry the Navigator, João Gonçalves Zarco and Tristão Vaz Teixeira, were pushed by a storm to an island which they named Porto Santo (English: "holy harbour"). The following year, an organised expedition was sent to this new land to take possession of the island on behalf of the Portuguese crown. Later, the new settlers saw an island to the southwest, and so the larger island of Madeira was discovered.
The islands were found to be completely uninhabited, and their colonization by the Portuguese began around 1420 or 1425. To get the minimum conditions for the development of agriculture, they had to cut part of the dense forest and to construct a large number of canals ("levadas") to carry water, since in some parts of the island there was excess water, while in others water was scarce. During this period, fish constituted about half of the settlers' diet, together with vegetables and fruits cultivated from small pieces of land. Initially, these colonists produced wheat for their own subsistence, but later the quantity cultivated was sufficient to begin sending wheat to continental Portugal.
On the 23 September of 1433, the name "Ilha da Madeira" (English: "Madeira Island", or literally "island of wood") began to appear in the first documents and maps. The name given to the islands corresponded to the large dense forests of native trees that covered the island.
However, when wheat production began to fall, the crisis forced to plant other commercial crops. They brought from Sicily plants of sugarcane to produce sugar. After the 17th century, as sugar production went to Brazil, São Tomé and Príncipe and elsewhere, Madeira's most important product became its wine.
As other islands of the Macaronesia, the Madeira islands are of volcanic origin and with a subtropical climate.
The archipelago is in the African plate, in the Atlantic Ocean between the latitudes 30° and 33° north, southwest of Lisbon and, about west of the African coast, almost at the same latitude as Casablanca.
The Madeira islands have a total area of . Their individual areas vary between of the largest island (Madeira) to of the Savage Islands.
Of the eight islands, only the two largest (Madeira and Porto Santo) are inhabited, having as main accesses, the Madeira Airport in Funchal and the one in Porto Santo. By sea, Funchal has a port that receives different ships, especially cruise ships. The remaining islands are nature reserves.
The territory of the archipelago contains two main islands: the islands of Madeira and Porto Santo; besides these, there are two groups of uninhabited islands, the Desertas and Savages.
The island of Madeira has a very irregular and uneven terrain, being the highest points the peaks "Pico Ruivo" (1862 m), "Pico das Torres" (1851 m), "Pico do Ariero" (1818 m) and "Pico do Juncal" (1800 m). The northern coast is dominated by high cliffs.
The island of Porto Santo, on the other hand, has a completely different geomorphological formation of the island of Madeira. It is very flat where only small plants grow and the soils are poor and not very good for agriculture. This island has some peaks, particularly in the north, and the " Pico do Facho" (517 m) is the highest point of elevation in the island, followed by "Pico Branco" (450 m).
The highest point of Desertas Islands is "Pedregal" (442 m) in Deserta Grande, and of Selvagens Islands is "Pico da Atalaia" (153 m), in Selvagem Grande.
The average temperature for the year in Funchal, Madeira island, is 19°C (66.2°F). The warmest month, on average, is August with an average temperature of 22.6°C (72.7°F). The coolest month on average is February, with an average temperature of 16.1°C (61.0°F).
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Funchal is 596.9 mm (23.5"). The month with the most precipitation on average is December with 109.2 mm (4.3") of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is July with an average of 2.5 mm (0.1"). There are an average of 87 days of precipitation, with the most precipitation occurring in December with 13 days and the least precipitation occurring in July with 1 days.
For the Villa de Porto Santo, Porto Santo island, the average temperature for the year is 17.8°C (64.0°F). The warmest month, on average, is August with an average temperature of 21.7°C (71.0°F). The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of 15°C (59.0°F).
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Villa de Porto Santo is 375.9 mm (14.8"). The month with the most precipitation on average is January with 61 mm (2.4") of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is July with an average of 2.5 mm (0.1").
The Köppen climate classification subtype for this climate of Funchal (Madeira) and Villa de Porto Santo (Porto Santo) is Csb (Mediterran Climate).
The climate of Desertas islands and partes of Porto Santo is semi-arid (Bs) and in the Savage islands is a desert climate (Bw).
Since 1976, Madeira, as the Azores, is an autonomous region of the Republic of Portugal, under the Portuguese name "Região Autónoma da Madeira", with its own executive and a regional legislature. The current president of the regional government is Alberto João Jardim. The main offices of the regional government are in Funchal, making this city the capital of the region.
Administratively, the Autonomous Region of Madeira (with a population of 267,785 inhabitants in 2011 and covering an area of ) is organised into 11 "municípios", of which 10 are in the island of Madeira and one in Porto Santo. Municipalities are further divided into 54 "freguesias", 53 in Madeira and 1 in Porto Santo.
According to the 2011 Census, the total population in the Autonomous Region of Madeira was 267,785: 126,268 men and 141,517 women. The density for the whole region is persons/km; calculating the density taking in account only the inhabited islands (Madeira and Porto Santo), the density would be inhabitants/km.
The region of Madeira is home to a great and important biodiversity, with an estimated 7,571 terrestrial species for the whole archipelago. The total number of endemic species and subspecies is about 1,419 (1,286 species and 182 sub-species), which represents 19% of the overall species diversity.
The most known environment of the archipelago is its Laurel forest (laurisilva) which still extends over 15,000 hectares or 20% of the archipelago. These forests, very rich in biodiversity, are the largest and best-preserved Laurel forests in the entire Macaronesia region. They are home to unique plant and animal species, including the famous Trocaz Pigeon or Madeira Laurel Pigeon ("Columba trocaz"), and the Madeira Kinglet ("Regulus madeirensis"). The most threatened bird of Europe, the Madeiran or Zino’s Petrel ("Pterodroma madeira") inhabits the highest cliffs in the Central Mountainous Massif of the Madeira island.
In the sea around Madeira there are numerous species of marine mammals, including 28 species of cetaceans and the critically endangered Mediterranean Monk Seal ("Monachus monachus").
There are 6 protected areas in the Madeira Archipelago, including the Madeira Natural Park. This park, which covers over 2/3 of Madeira Island and includes the entire Laurel forest, is a European Council Biogenetic Reserve since 1992, and a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site since 1999. Additionally, 11 sites in the whole archipelago are part of the Natura 2000 network and 11 other sites are designated Important Bird Areas.
The local economy is based mainly on agriculture and tourism, the main resource. Agriculture produces bananas, flowers, and Madeira wine which is exported. The industrial area is not very diverse and they are relationated with food, beverages, tobacco and construction.

</doc>
<doc id="19285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19285" title="Cameroon">
Cameroon

Cameroon (officially called Republic of Cameroon) is a country in west Africa. Its capital is Yaoundé. The largest city in Cameroon is Douala. The population of Cameroon is about 20 million. Cameroon's president is Paul Biya, and the Prime Minister is Philémon Yang.
At , Cameroon is the world's 53rd-largest country. It is about the size of Papua New Guinea. The country is in Central and West Africa on the Bight of Bonny, part of the Gulf of Guinea and the Atlantic Ocean. The country's neighbours are Nigeria to the west; Chad to the northeast; the Central African Republic to the east; and Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and the Republic of the Congo to the south.
The constitution divides Cameroon into 10 regions. On 12 November 2008 the President changed the divisions from provinces to regions. Each region is headed by a presidentially appointed governor.
The regions are divided into 58 divisions. These are headed by presidentially appointed divisional officers.
Some of the largest cities in Cameroon are:
The official languages of Cameroon are French and English. It is part of both the British Commonwealth and La Francophonie.

</doc>
<doc id="19286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286" title="Guinea-Bissau">
Guinea-Bissau

Guinea-Bissau is a country in Africa. The official language is Portuguese, and the capital is Bissau. About 1,442,000 people live in Guinea-Bissau as of 2006. The country was a Portuguese colony in the 19th century. At that time is was called Portuguese Guinea. It became independent in 1973. In 1974, the name of the country's capital was added so that it would not be confused with the neighboring country Guinea.
Guinea-Bissau is divided into 8 regions and one autonomous sector. These are divided into thirty-seven sectors. The regions are:

</doc>
<doc id="19287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19287" title="Mauritius">
Mauritius

The Republic of Mauritius is an African country. Port Louis is its capital. Mauritius is also the name of the main island the country is on. In the 2000 census, the country had a population of 1,178,848 people.
The island of Mauritius is well known for being the only known home of the dodo.
The island is in the southwest Indian Ocean. It is about east of Madagascar. The country includes the island of Mauritius as well as the islands of St. Brandon, Rodrigues and the Agalega Islands. Mauritius is part of the Mascarene Islands along with the French island of Réunion to the southwest.
The Mauritian flag is made up of four colours of equal width. 
The colours represent the following:
Mauritius, an island of volcanic origin sheltered by barriers of coral reefs forming natural, safe, crystal clear lagoons, has long been a dream destination. Known to the Arabs as early as the 10th century, but officially explored by the Portuguese in the 16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch in the 17th century. The Dutch were the ones who named the island in honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU. 
Mauritius was occupied successively by the Dutch (1598-1712) and later by the French (1715-1810). The French assumed control in 1715, developing the island into an important naval base overseeing the Indian Ocean trade, and establishing a plantation economy of sugar cane. 
The British captured the island in 1810, during the Napoleonic Wars through the Treaty of Paris. Mauritius remained a strategically important British naval base, and later on, an air station playing an important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy operations, as well as the collection of signals intelligence. On 12 March 1968, Mauritius became Independent.

</doc>
<doc id="19295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19295" title="It's a Wonderful Life">
It's a Wonderful Life

It's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 movie. It was directed by Frank Capra. It stars James Stewart, Donna Reed, and Lionel Barrymore.
George Bailey wishes he had never been born and becomes suicidal. Clarence, an angel (2nd class) helps him change his mind.

</doc>
<doc id="19297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19297" title="Djibouti">
Djibouti

Djibouti (officially called Republic of Djibouti) is a country on the eastern coast of Africa. Djibouti gained its independence on June 27, 1977. The country was created out of the French Somaliland (later called the French Territory of the Afars and Issas), which was created in the 1800s as a result of French colonialism in Africa. Djibouti, had a population of 818,159 at the 2009 census. It is one of the least populous countries in Africa.
Djibouti joined the United Nations on September 20, 1977. It is also a member of the Arab League, as well as the African Union and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD).
The history of Djibouti goes back thousands of years when it was part of the Sabean Empire (Ethiopia) to a time when Djiboutians traded hides and skins for the perfumes and spices of ancient Egypt, Pakistan, and China. Through close contacts with the Arabian peninsula for more than 1,000 years, the Somali and Afar tribes in this region became among the first on the African continent to accept Islam. Djibouti is a Muslim country which regularly takes part in Islamic as well as Arab meetings.
The country is close to a narrow part of the Red Sea so it is considered an important area from a military viewpoint.
Djibouti is near to the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Eritrea in the north, Ethiopia in the west and south, and Somalia in the southeast. The remainder of the border is formed by the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden at the east.
Djibouti is divided into five regions and one city. It is further divided into eleven districts.
The regions and city are:
This is a list of cities in Djibouti. All places with more than 1,000 people are included.
The people of Djibouti are mostly Muslim. Islam is observed by 94% of Djibouti's population (about 740,000) (2010 estimate). The remaining six percent follow Christianity.
The Republic of Djibouti names Islam as the only state religion. The Constitution of 1992 provides for the equality of citizens of all faiths as well as the freedom to practise any religion.

</doc>
<doc id="19298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19298" title="Mauritania">
Mauritania

Mauritania is a country in northwest Africa. The capital city, which is also the biggest city in the country, is Nouakchott. It is on the Atlantic coast. Its president is General Mohamed Oueld Abdel-Aziz.
At 1,030,700 km² (397,929 mi²), Mauritania is the world's 29th-largest country (after Bolivia). It is similar in size to Egypt. The land is flat in most places.

</doc>
<doc id="19299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299" title="Lake Huron">
Lake Huron

Lake Huron is one of North America's five Great Lakes. It is the third one up from the mouth. Like Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, and Lake Superior, it is also part of the boundary between the USA and Canada. The Huronian glaciation, billions of years ago, is named for the lake.
Lake Huron is more than 200 miles (325 km) long and is as much as 750 feet (230 m) deep. Many boats and ships go back and forth on Lake Huron, carrying useful things such as iron ore.
Lake Huron borders the Canadian province of Ontario and the American state of Michigan. There are no large cities on Lake Huron, but there are some small cities such as Sarnia, Ontario and Bay City, Michigan. 
The water that flows out of Lake Huron goes through a river that flows past Detroit, Michigan. The water then flows into Lake Erie on its way to the ocean.
On 1996 on hurricane-like storm appeared on Lake Huron, while the National Hurricane Center was not sure to call it a hurricane or not. Because the storm formed over Lake Huron and that it did not get a name from the NHC, many people nicknamed the storm, "Hurricane Huron".

</doc>
<doc id="19303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19303" title="Reunion">
Reunion

Reunion could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19304" title="Réunion">
Réunion

Réunion () is an island of France. It is also a region of France and an overseas department of France, meaning France owns the island nation. It is in the Indian Ocean east of Madagascar, about 200 km (125 miles) southwest of Mauritius. Its capital is Saint-Denis. The highest point in La Reunion is La piton des neiges. The island is also famous for its black beaches, even though people think that there are white beaches. The island is 63 kilometres (39 mi) long; 45 kilometres (28 mi) wide; and covers 2,512 square kilometres (970 sq mi). It is similar to the island Hawaii as both are above hotspots in the Earth's crust.
The Piton de la Fournaise, a shield volcano on the eastern end of Réunion Island, rises more than 2,631 metres (8,632 ft) above sea level and is sometimes called a sister to Hawaiian volcanoes because of the similarity of climate and volcanic nature. It has erupted more than 100 times since 1640 and is under constant monitoring. It most recently erupted on 2 January 2010. [10] Before that, the most noticeable was during April 2007, when the lava flow was estimated at 3,000,000 cubic metres (3,900,000 cu yd) per day. [11] The Piton de la Fournaise is created by a hotspot volcano, which also created the Piton des Neiges and the islands of Mauritius and Rodrigues.
The Piton des Neiges volcano, the highest point on the island at 3,070 metres (10,070 ft) above sea level, is northwest of the Piton de la Fournaise. Collapsed calderas and canyons are southwest of the mountain. Like Kohala on the Big Island of Hawaii, the Piton des Neiges is an extinct volcano. Despite its name, snow (French: neige) practically never falls on the summit.

</doc>
<doc id="19306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19306" title="Lake Erie">
Lake Erie

Lake Erie is one of the Great Lakes in North America. It is the second to the last in the Great Lake system before water flows into the St. Lawrence River. Like Lake Superior, Lake Huron, and Lake Ontario, Lake Erie is part of the boundary between the USA and Canada.
Most of the water that flows into Lake Erie flows through a small river, the Detroit River, that moves water down from Lake St. Clair past Detroit, Michigan. Some more water flows into Lake Erie from other rivers, including the Maumee and the Cuyahoga. At the foot of the Maumee is Toledo, Ohio. At the bend of the Cuyahoga is Cleveland, Ohio.
Water that flows out of Lake Erie flows past Buffalo, New York, and into the Niagara falls. On its way down to Lake Ontario, the Niagara River pours over Niagara Falls, one of the largest waterfalls in North America, and then into the lowest of all the Great Lakes, Lake Ontario. 

</doc>
<doc id="19308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19308" title="Mali">
Mali

Mali is a landlocked country (a country entirely enclosed by land) in West Africa. Mali borders Algeria to the north, Niger on the east, Burkina Faso and the Côte d'Ivoire on the south, Guinea on the south-west, and Senegal and Mauritania on the west. Physical features of Mali include the Sahara desert in the north, with the Niger River and Sénégal River in the southern part of the country. As of a July 2011 estimate, Mali has a population of approximately 14,000,000 people. Mali has a total area of . Most of the people live in the southern part of the country, with Mali's capital and most populated city being Bamako.
Mandé people founded several kingdoms in Sahel. This was a big area that includes Mali. These kingdoms included the Ghana Empire, the Mali Empire, and the Songhai Empire. Timbuktu was an important city in these empires because a lot of trade across the Sahara Desert went there. Timbuktu was also a good place for learning. The Songhai Empire became smaller after a Moroccan attack in 1591.
France invaded Mali in 1880. After that, France owned Mali. The colony's names were "French Sudan" and the "Sudanese Republic". At some times it also included other nearby countries. In early 1959, Mali and Senegal united and they became the Mali Federation. This became independent from France on June 20, 1960. Senegal left the Mali Federation a few months later. The Republic of Mali, with Modibo Keïta as the first president, left the French Community on September 22, 1960.
There was a coup in Mali in 1968. Modibo Keïta lost his job and was put in prison. Mali was then ruled by Moussa Traoré until 1991. There was another coup in 1991 after protests against the government, and a new constitution was made. The leader of the country was then Amadou Toumani Touré. In 1992, Alpha Oumar Konaré won Mali's first democratic election. President Konaré won again in 1997 and he made big political and economic changes. In 2002, Amadou Toumani Touré won the election and he started his second term as head of state. He was a retired general and he had been the military leader of the 1991 coup. Today, Mali is one of the most politically and socially stable countries in Africa.
Mali is divided into 8 regions and 1 district. The country is further divided into 49 cercles, containing 288 "arrondissements" and 703 communes.
The regions and district are:
Mali is the world's 24th-largest country. It has 1,240,000 km² (478,734 mi²) of land. It has a similar size to South Africa, and it is two times bigger than Texas.
Mali is landlocked; it has no access to sea. It has dry weather. It does not have many mountains. There are flat areas in the north, which are covered by sand, and there is savanna around the Niger River in the south. Most of Mali is in the Sahara Desert, so there is a hot, dusty haze in dry seasons. There are many natural resources in Mali, including Gold, uranium, phosphates, kaolinite, salt and limestone.
Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world. 65% of its land area is desert or something similar. There were several long droughts there over the last hundred years. Therefore, most economic activity is near the Niger River. About 10% of the people are nomads and 80% of workers have jobs in farming and fishing. Industry is mainly to process farm products. Women also do pottery and the pots are bought and taken to markets. Many foreign tourists like the traditional methods which the women use to make the pots. Mali's main export is cotton, so if the price of cotton changes, Mali's economy is affected a lot. Mali also receives a lot of financial help from other countries. In 1997, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommended a programme for changing the economy and the government followed this. Several international companies started digging for larger amounts of gold in 1996-1998, and the government thinks that Mali will become an important gold exporter soon.
Malinese people are from the racial groups below.
The religions below are followed in Mali.
About 90% of people from Mali follow Sunni Islam, but they do not always forget their traditional religions. Muslims have their own schooling system. The number of Muslims from Mali who travel to Mecca is increasing and some study in Arab countries. About 1% of the people are Christians. When Mali was under French control, Christian were sent to Islamic areas.
The language of Mali under French rule was French, but now not many people outside towns can read or write this language. However, about 60% of the people use other languages well. Many people can read and write in (the most popular spoken language). This language has its own alphabet, called . Other people can read and write in Arabic, after going to an Islamic school. One of the oldest universities in the world is Sankore University in Timbuktu. It began in the 1400s.
Famous musicians from Mali include kora player Toumani Diabaté, and the guitarist Ali Farka Touré, who has died.

</doc>
<doc id="19310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19310" title="Chief Joseph">
Chief Joseph

Chief Joseph (1840 – September 21, 1904; whose real name was Hinmaton-Yalaktit) was the chief of the Nez Perce Native Americans, a tribe that lived in what is now the Pacific Northwest of the United States. 
His father was the leader of the Nez-Perce before him, and his mother was a member of this tribe too.
When Joseph was young, his father always told him not to trust white men, he actually had problems with settlers. When his father died, Joseph became chief of the tribe, who resided in plateaus in Northeast Oregon, Southeast Washington and Western Idaho. 
The turning point in their relationship to white men was the gold rush in 1863. It gave the US Government the opportunity to reduce their reservation to a small area in Idaho. Then, with the new waves of white men settling in the West, the Government wanted to drive Nez-Perces away from their territory. 
Chief Joseph was extremely sad: this place was the tribe's territory where their ancestors were buried. In spite of that, he wanted to avoid conflict and remain in peace. In 1873 he decided to negociate with the US Government. He travelled all the way to Washington D.C. and spoke to President Ulysses S. Grant. But he only got mean looks and little attention. 
So a war began in 1877. The living conditions of Chief Joseph's tribe were awful: they had no food and no blankets. Some people were freezing to death. But the Nez-Perces impressed their enemy thanks to all the battles they won. Many men died on both sides. That's why Joseph decided to surrender. He gave up fighting in 1877. 
He was destroyed by the death of his people, and also extremely disappointed: he felt betrayed by white people. He knew he could not trust them anymore. He was tired of being considered a savage. He felt it was not fair for people who were born on the same land to be treated differently. He delivered a lot of speeches on this subject, which are still really good examples of eloquence. But he did not feel listened to, and when he died in his reservation in 1904, the doctor said he "died from sadness". He was buried in Colville Native American Burial Ground, in Washington State.

</doc>
<doc id="19315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19315" title="Seychelles">
Seychelles

Seychelles is an African country in the Indian Ocean. Its capital city is Victoria. The official languages are Creole, English, and French.
The country is to the east of the African continent. The islands of Madagascar and Mauritius lie to the south. The republic is made up of 115 islands. The biggest part of the population is a mix of freed slaves from the African Continent and Madagascar and European settlers. They make up about 90%. There are small minorities of immigrants from Europe, China and India. Most people are Roman Catholics, about 90% of them. About 8% are Protestants.
Other nearby island countries and territories include Zanzibar to the west, Mauritius, Rodrigues, Agalega and Réunion to the south, and Comoros and Mayotte to the southwest. Seychelles has an estimated population of 86,525. It is the smallest population of any African state.
Seychelles is to the northeast of Madagascar and about east of Kenya. The number of islands in the archipelago is often given as 115 but the Constitution of the Republic of Seychelles lists 155. 
According to the president of Nauru, the Seychelles has been ranked the ninth most endangered nation due to flooding from climate change.
Some of the cities in Seychelles include: Anse Boileau, Takamaka and Cote D’Or.
Seychelles is divided into twenty-five administrative regions. Eight of the districts make up the capital of Seychelles. They are called Greater Victoria. Another 14 districts are considered the rural part of the main island of Mahé. There are two districts on Praslin and one on La Digue which also include satellite islands. The rest of the Outer Islands are not considered part of any district.
During the plantation era, cinnamon, vanilla, and copra were the main exports. In the 1960s, about 33% of the working population worked at plantations, and 20% worked in the public or government sector. In 1971, with the opening of Seychelles International Airport, tourism became a serious industry. 
Like many fragile island ecosystems, the Seychelles had loss of biodiversity during early human history. This included the disappearance of most of the giant tortoises from the granitic islands. There was also the extinction of species such as the chestnut flanked white eye, the Seychelles Parakeet, the Seychelles Black Terrapin and the saltwater crocodile. However, extinctions were far fewer than on islands such as Mauritius or Hawaii. This was partly due to a shorter period of human occupation being only since 1770. The Seychelles today is known for success stories in protecting its flora and fauna. The rare Seychelles Black Parrot, the national bird of the country, is now protected.
The granitic islands of Seychelles are home to about 75 endemic plant species. There are a further 25 or so species in the Aldabra group. Particularly well-known is the Coco de Mer, a species of palm that grows only on the islands of Praslin and neighbouring Curieuse. The jellyfish tree is to be found in only a few locations on Mahe. This strange and ancient plant is in a genus of its own (Medusagynaceae). Other unique plant species include the Wright's Gardenia "Rothmannia annae" found only on Aride Island Special Reserve.
The freshwater crab genus "Seychellum" is endemic to the granitic Seychelles. There are a further 26 species of crabs and 5 species of hermit crabs that live on the islands.
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise now lives on many of the islands of the Seychelles. The Aldabra population is the largest in the world. These unique reptiles can be found even in captive herds. 
There are several unique varieties of orchids on the Islands.
The marine life around the islands, especially the more remote coral islands, can be spectacular. More than 1,000 species of fish have been recorded. Since the use of spearguns and dynamite for fishing was banned in the 1960s, the wildlife is unafraid of snorkelers and divers. Coral bleaching in 1998 has damaged most reefs, but some reefs show healthy recovery.
The main natural resources of the Seychelles are fish, copra, cinnamon, coconuts, salt and iron.

</doc>
<doc id="19316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19316" title="Square mile">
Square mile

A square mile (sometimes written "mi²" ) is an American unit of measurement of area. It is the area inside a square that has each side equal to one statute mile (5,280 feet or 1,760 yards). This way of talking about area is often used to say how much land there is on a farm, or in a city or country, for example.
One square mile is just less than 2.6 square kilometres.

</doc>
<doc id="19317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19317" title="Regions of Peru">
Regions of Peru

A Region is the name for one of 25 areas into which the land is divided in Peru. 
Provinces of Peru
    *     Lima Province (Lima)

</doc>
<doc id="19320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19320" title="Ica Region">
Ica Region

Ica is one of 25 regions of Peru. The capital of the region is Ica.

</doc>
<doc id="19324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19324" title="Togo">
Togo

Togo is a small country in Africa. It is between Benin and Ghana on the western coast. The capital is Lomé. About 6.7 million people live there. Official language is French.
Togo left French rule in 1960s. The Togolese general, Gnassingbe Eyadema became the military ruler in 1967. President Eyedema was replaced by his son, Faure Gnassingbe, after his death in 2005.
The economy of this small African country is based on agriculture. Agriculture provides jobs for 65% of the labor force according to the CIA Factbook. Agricultural products include coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans, rice, millet, and sorghum. Industries include phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement, handicrafts, textiles, and beverages. Togo's economy is primarily agricultural.
Togo is divided into 5 regions. The regions are divided into 30 prefectures and 1 commune. From north to south the regions are Savanes, Kara, Centrale, Plateaux and Maritime.
The largest cities in Togo are:
About 51% of the population has local beliefs, 29% is Christian, and 20% Muslim.
The Togolese enjoy many foods including tropical fruits, pastries, and many different products made from peanuts. Major drinks include tea, coffee, and wine. Togolese often snack on plantains and French donuts or beignets.

</doc>
<doc id="19326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326" title="Bad Religion">
Bad Religion

Bad Religion is an American band that plays punk rock music. They were created in Southern California in 1979 by Jay Bentley (bass), Greg Graffin (vocals), Brett Gurewitz (guitars) and Jay Ziskrout (drums). People think that they brought back punk rock and helped pop-punk bands during the late 1980s. Since they were created 30 years ago, Bad Religion has had a lot of members come and go. Greg Graffin is the only person that's been in the band the whole time but today there are three of the four members that were in the group when it started.
Today, Bad Religion has fourteen studio albums, two EPs, three compilation albums, one live recording, and two DVDs. Some critics think that their 1988 album "Suffer" is one of the most important punk rock albums of all time. People began to notice Bad Religion after their 1993 album "Recipe for Hate", which was number 14 on Billboard's Heatseekers chart. Their next album, "Stranger Than Fiction", had the band's well-known hits "21st Century (Digital Boy)" and "Infected", did well and was the only Bad Religion album to get gold status in the US. Brett Gurewitz left in 1994. Bad Religion was not as well known after that and did not sell many albums until "The Process of Belief" in 2002. Brett Gurewitz came back in 2001, and worked with them on their four most recent albums. The band is planning to make another album in 2012.
They are known for their smart use of style, comparisons, word choice, imagery, and voice harmonies (which they call "oozin aahs.) Lyrics sometimes have to do with their emotions or their opinion of society.
Most of Bad Religion's lyrics are written by Greg Graffin or Brett Gurewitz. Sometimes, but often, they will co-write a song. Other band members, such as Jay Bentley, also write songs, but very rarely.
Brett Gurewitz says he tried to copy The Germs singer Darby Crash early on in Bad Religion's career. "He wrote some intelligent stuff, and didn't shy away from the vocabulary, which I thought was cool." Bad Religion also uses voice harmonies. The Adolescents influenced them with their three-part voice harmonies. Bassist Jay Bentley says, "Seeing The Adolescents live, it was so brilliant. So, in a way, the Adolescents influenced us into saying we can do it too, because look, they're doing it."
Many of Bad Religion's songs are about what they think are social problems, but they do not blame causes of these problems to any single person or group. Greg Graffin thinks that the politics in the United States can make it hard to talk about the problems.
The band is sometimes direct about the things they want to say. Brett Gurewitz said he was angry at former U.S. president George W. Bush and that "The Empire Strikes First" is about him. "Our whole album is dedicated to getting Bush out of office. I'm not a presidential scholar but I don't think you'll find a worse president in the history of the United States. He's probably one of the worst leaders in the history of world leaders. I just hate the guy."
Despite the name of the band, the members say they are not anti-religious. Greg Graffin says that more often than not, the band likes to use religion to represent anything that does not let a person be free. Their songs are more about being against everyone being the same than against religion or God. But Greg Graffin is an atheist. He helped write the book 'Is Belief in God Good, Bad or Irrelevant?' The band's bassist Jay Bentley has stated that he has spiritual beliefs. Brett Gurewitz is a "provisional deist."

</doc>
<doc id="19327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19327" title="Meat Puppets">
Meat Puppets

The Meat Puppets are an alternative/punk rock group from Scottsdale, Arizona, USA. They were formed in 1980 by Curt Kirkwood (vocals, guitars), his brother Cris (bass) and Derrick Bostrom (drums). The band is probably best known for their 1994 radio hit "Backwater".
The band went on indefinite hiatus in 2001 as Curt formed two band projects Eyes Adrift (with Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic and Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh) and Volcano (also with Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh). He also released a solo album. His brother Cris was in prison from August 2004 to 21 months.
In 2006, the Meat Puppets reformed and released a new album, "Rise to Your Knees" in 2007.
As of November 2009, Shandon Sahm is back as the drummer in the Meat Puppets. He replaces Ted Marcus, who was a member from 2006. 
The band was chosen by Animal Collective to perform their album "Up on the Sun" live at the All Tomorrow's Parties music festival in May 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="19328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19328" title="Ted Bundy">
Ted Bundy

Theodore Robert "Ted" Bundy (November 24, 1946 - January 24, 1989) was an American serial killer, kidnapper and rapist. He killed over 30 people, perhaps as many as over 100, before being arrested and executed.
Ted Bundy was born in 1946 in Burlington, Vermont, USA. He lived with his mother Louise Cowell and grandfather Sam Cowell when he was a child. Bundy and his mother moved to Washington where she married a man named John Culpepper Bundy. As a child in Washington, Bundy was a good student and went to church often, yet he found it hard to make friends and he began stealing. As a young man Bundy became involved in politics and proposed to a woman that he had dated in high school. He left her a few days later and then went on to begin his murders. The people that Bundy would murder were much like this lady: young, white skinned (Caucasian) and with long dark hair parted in the middle.
Bundy's first known murders were in 1974 with his first known violent attack on January 4 when he crept into the room of an 18 year old girl called Joni Lenz and beat her with a crowbar while she was asleep. He then sexually assaulted (raped) her with a metal rod that he took from the bed. She was found the next morning in a pool of blood. She was not killed but would remain in a coma (a permanent sleep) and suffered brain damage (damage to the brain that stop the body from working properly). A few weeks later on January 31 Bundy broke into another woman's basement and beat her over the head. He then dressed her, wrapped her in blankets and carried her away. She was found a year later in Seattle, Washington with no head. In between this time and June, 1974 he killed eight more women in Washington. In June he kidnapped Janice Ott and Denise Naslund from a park near Seattle. These attacks, unlike the attacks before, were in 'broad daylight'; in front of other people.
In the autumn Bundy moved to Utah to begin studying law at a college there called the University of Utah. He began killing again in October. Bundy kidnapped and killed three girls in October of 1974, one of them was the daughter of a police officer. On November 8 Bundy told a girl that he was a police officer and he told her to get in his car. She did, believing he really was a police officer. He then tried to handcuff her but she would not let him and she jumped out of the car and escaped. Bundy was angry that she had got away and so a few hours later he kidnapped another girl and killed her. Her body was never found. Bundy was still living in Utah in 1975 and was still attending law school but he began only killing people in Colorado. Bundy kidnapped and killed four women from Colorado and one more from Utah in the first half of 1975 (January to June).
On August 16, 1975 Bundy was arrested for not stopping his car when ordered to by a police officer. When they searched his car they found a ski mask, a crowbar, handcuffs, trash bags and other items that they thought he must have been using to burglarize houses. The police then noticed that his car was the car the girl who escaped had told them about. Bundy was sentenced on March 1, 1976, to fifteen years in prison for kidnapping her. Bundy escaped from the police twice in 1977 before he could be sentenced for the murders he had committed. By early 1978 he had made his way to Florida where he killed two more women and injured three others. After that he murdered a 12 year old girl called Kimberley Leach. She was the last girl murdered by Bundy as he was stopped by a police officer on February 15, 1978.
Bundy had antisocial personality disorder. He went on trial on June 25 until July 31 for the murders he had committed. He was sentenced to death by the electric chair. In the time he was in prison and waiting to be executed he helped the police investigate other murders and in 1988 he admitted to having killed eight more women than he was tried for. Bundy was executed by electric chair in Florida State Prison on January 24, 1989. He was 42 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="19329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19329" title="Longboarding">
Longboarding

Longboarding is a form of skateboarding. Instead of using a "normal"-sized board, the longboarder uses a board that is generally longer than a skateboard, hence the name; longboards can range from 33.5" all the way up to 42" (there are some cases in which boards can be a lot longer all the way up to 60+"). Longboarding was invented by Milterz.Instead of skating on ramps and half-pipes, the longboarder can skate down long and steep hills, turning ("carving") back and forth across the hill's face to slow down, as a skier would. The longboard is also much more efficient for "cruising", or, simply getting around, as longboards typically are faster, more stable, and less tiring to propel than short ("freestyle", i.e., trick) boards. Unlike a bicycle, a longboard is less vulnerable to theft, as one's board may be carried under one's arm, or stashed in a coat closet at work.
Advanced longboarders may be seen "sliding" (skidding sideways) to slow their boards on really steep hills. Special gloves incorporating a hockey-puck-like friction pad velcroed to the palm may be worn, which assists in both balance and braking, allowing one hand to be dragged on the ground. A lot of longbarders just make their own gloves, from sections of sliced-up cutting board epoxied to the palm and fingers of work gloves. On narrow, terribly steep hills (such as in San Francisco, for example), there's not enough room to carve back and forth to keep one's speed down, and "bombing" (dashing downhill) similarly could result in an accident or uncontrollably high speed, and so sliding was invented by a California surfer. sliding is a difficult and advanced method of slowing a board, though. While learning the slide, full pads and a helmet are a must. During more ordinary city commuting, the easiest (and first) braking skill one learns is simply to drag the toe or heel of one's rear foot on the ground. The trucks (swivelling axles) of a longboard turn far more freely than that of a freestyle board.
One good way to learn how to ride a longboard is to find a roomy, smooth flat area, a plaza or parking lot, say, and to just cruise around. Once the longboarder is feeling good and loose, warmed-up, then he should take that rear foot been pushing with, and try coasting without placing it back on the rear of the deck. Just coast, and notice how he actually can steer the board with one foot. Notice, too, that one can go much faster if one keeps his body's weight balanced above the foot that remains on the board. By pumping with the arms and pushing only with the ball of the driving foot, one go much faster (and prevent ankle injuries). If one finds himself slamming his driving foot down on the pavement, he will probably be in need of a rest. Now he is ready to carve. Carving is an action in which the rider leans back and forth slowing them down.
most longboarders go down mountains and hills. unlike skateboarding, longboarding aren't to good for tricks all though one can still do them. 

</doc>
<doc id="19330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19330" title="Graffiti">
Graffiti

Graffiti is marks, scratchings or drawings made on a surface on a public place. It is often created with paint or spray paint (paint that is sprayed from a can). A single mark could be called a graffito but the word graffiti is usually used, meaning that there is more than 1 mark.
Graffiti can take the form of art, drawings or words. When done without a property owner's permission it is considered vandalism. Sometimes it is just a person's name or a rude word. Sometimes it is as a public political protest.
Graffiti has been found in very old cities. For example, in the Roman Empire, people wrote messages and drew caricatures on walls. Graffiti is also found in many places. Some of people do murals of graffiti rather than just writing one mark in a location. It was used for good instead of vandalism. Probably the simplest graffiti is when a person cuts (or carves) the name of a lover on a tree with a knife.
Today, many graffiti are very complicated mixtures of writing and pictures. They are sometimes made by gangs and applied with spray-paint to buildings, bridges, street signs, and other areas. These are often signed with a "tag" (in graffiti slang, a signature), which is a shape special to an artist or group.
Graffiti can be thought of as a part of hip hop or street protest. It is often but not always illegal. Some cities have small areas where graffiti can be made. Sometimes graffiti are very beautiful. Some people consider graffiti as not only something bad, but something good, like art. Some people pay graffiti artists to do graffiti on their buildings. In the 1980s, some graffiti artists like Keith Haring became very famous. 
Modern graffiti was made famous in New York City in the early 1970s by the children of the working class. They called it "writing," and called themselves "writers." In a 1971 New York Times article, the term "graffiti" was first used to refer to the new urban art explosion that was becoming popular in New York City. This period of the early 1970s is known as the "Original School." Later in the 1980s, the next generation of graffiti artists is known as "Old School." 

</doc>
<doc id="19337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19337" title="Appellation d'origine contrôlée">
Appellation d'origine contrôlée

Appellation d'origine controlée (AOC) is a French phrase which shows that a product comes from a certain area. 
Some products must come from a certain area and be made in a certain way in order to have the name of the product. The most famous example is champagne, which must be fermented in the bottle and be made in the Champagne region. 
The French government set up the "Institut national des appellations d'origine et de la qualité" (INAO) in 1935 to oversee the system. Although usually linked with wines, the start of the system of protecting the name of goods started in the 15th century when the French parliament defined what could be called Roquefort cheese. 
AOCs are most often found in connection with:

</doc>
<doc id="19342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19342" title="Distillation">
Distillation

Distillation is a chemical process where a mixture made of two or more liquids (called "components") with different boiling points can be separated from each other. The mixture is heated until one of the components boils (turns to a vapor). The vapor is then fed into a condenser, which cools the vapour and changes it back into a liquid that is called "distillate'.
What remains in the original container is called the "residue". A fractionating column (that is a distillation column with more than two outlets) can be used to improve the separation.
Fractional distillation can be used to purify crude oil so that it can become useful and can be used for various things. 
This has been used for a long time, to distil alcohol and produce distilled beverages. Distillation is a commonly used operation in oil industry, where it is used to separate various fuels and raw materials from crude oil.
Distillation can be done anywhere, whether it's in a house or a laboratory, but in most countries it is illegal to distil alcohol without a license. Illegally distilled alcoholic drinks are called "moonshine".
Sometimes the desalination of water is called also "distillation", but this is a different process. In fact water distillation is used to separate a liquid (water) from solids (salts), instead the alcohol distillation it is used to separate two liquids (alcohol and water).

</doc>
<doc id="19345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19345" title="Lawyer">
Lawyer

A lawyer (also called an "advocate", "attorney", "barrister", "counsel", "counsellor", or "solicitor") is someone who practices law. A lawyer has earned a degree in law, and has a license to practice law in a particular area. 
If people have any problem regarding the law, they can contact a lawyer for advice. A legal problem is referred to as a case. A person can hire a lawyer to start a case against someone else, or to help with a case that has been started against them. If the case goes to court, the lawyer will represent their client in court. The lawyer will use their knowledge of the law to convince the court that the client is on the right side of the argument. Lawyers also help people "settle out of court," which means that both sides of the argument agree to a punishment ahead of time so that they will not have to go to trial. 
When a person is accused of a crime, the person has a defense lawyer to try to show they have not committed a crime. The lawyer arguing that they did do the crime is called the "prosecutor".
Lawyers also prepare legal documents their clients. Examples: buying or selling property or making a will (testament). Certain lawyers (called "commissioners of oaths" in England) can take legally binding witness statements which can be presented to the court.
Lawyers work in different settings. Some work by themselves, while some work in law firms. Some lawyers work for hospitals and private companies. Lawyers who work for private companies are usually called in-house counsel.
Lawyers generally charge a fee for the work that they do, but sometimes advice is offered freely, which is called "pro bono," meaning "for the public good." In many countries, if a person is accused of a crime and unable to pay for a lawyer, the government will pay a lawyer to represent them using tax money.

</doc>
<doc id="19347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19347" title="Loreto Region">
Loreto Region

Loreto is Peru's most northern region. Covering almost one-third of Peru's territory, Loreto is the nation's biggest region. It is also one of the least populated ones, because of its remote location in the Amazon rainforest. Its capital is the city of Iquitos. 
The region is divided into eight provinces ("provincias", singular: "provincia"), which are composed of 53 districts ("distritos", singular: "distrito"). The provinces, with their capitals in parenthesis, are:

</doc>
<doc id="19349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349" title="Iquitos">
Iquitos

Iquitos is the capital city of the Loreto Region in northern Peru. It is on the banks of the Amazon River. Iquitos is the biggest city in the rain forest of Peru, with about 400,000 residents. It is a major port on the Amazon. 
Excluding towns on islands, Iquitos is thought to be the largest city in the world that can not be reached by road. One can only get to Iquitos by boat, or by airplane. It is very remote, in the middle of the Amazon rainforest. 
Iquitos was founded in 1747 by Jesuit José Bahamonde. Originally it was the home of the Iquito native tribe. About 100 years ago, Iquitos was a very rich town, because of the rubber industry. Today Iquitos relies mostly on tourism, wood industry and local trade. 

</doc>
<doc id="19351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19351" title="Apple juice">
Apple juice

Apple juice is the juice from apples. It does not have alcohol, and it tastes sweet from the natural fruit sugars. Many companies making apple juice like to say that they do not add more sugar into the drink, and there is only natural sugar.
The apple tree came from the same era as Elizabethan in the late 1500s and early 1600s ("Pyrus malus"), and is native to Britain. Even in the Old Saxon papers, apples and cider are mentioned a lot. The fruit is thought to have come in the Caucasus, a place with many mountains between the Black and Caspian Seas.
The Lady apple, a kind of apple still grown today, is believed to be one of the oldest apple trees on record.
In both facts and stories, the apple appears to be very healthy. There are two types of apple juice. One is the clear apple juice, and the other is the cloudy apple juice. Pectin and starch are taken out during the production process to produce clear apple juice. Cloudy apple juice is cloudy because of evenly-distributed small pulp suspensions in the juice concentrate.
Also, in apple juice, the vitamin C, and other vitamins are contained inside, as well as mineral nutrients such as boron which helps build strong bones. Research from the University of Massachusetts Lowell shows that apple juice also increases acetylcholine in the brain, which gets you increased memory.
Apples can also be a main source of fiber, and is a powerful cleanser and an important necessity for the health of your body.
The compounds in apple juice called phytonutrients delay the break down of LDL or cholesterol. In history, the phrase from Benjamin Franklin "an apple a day keeps the doctor away" is very famous. New research is proving this phrase to be a fact. Researchers at UC Davis School of Medicine have recently found out that drinking apple juice seems to slow down the process that may lead to heart disease.
Researchers at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands had studied and found that smokers who ate many fruits and vegetables, especially apples, had reduced their risk of getting the common diseases smokers would get. The risk was reduced by 50%.
For older people, drinking fruit juices should begin with apples, especially if they are suffering from arthritis and rheumatism. This is because apples carry a substantial amount of potassium. Because of this, eating apples or apple juice has been known to help. Drinking apple juice also removes some toxins from the liver and kidneys and is low in calories. Over time, this can reduce the chances of having liver or kidney disease.
Apple juice can be used to make cider and calvados. Some types of cider and all types of Calvados contain alcohol.
Addressed as one of the most popular fruits in the world, the apple is cultivated in around 7,500 different kinds in shape, color, texture, firmness, crispness, acidity, juiciness, sweetness, nutrition, and harvesting time.

</doc>
<doc id="19357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19357" title="Calvados (drink)">
Calvados (drink)

Calvados is an alcoholic drink. It is made from distilling cider in Normandy, one of the oldest Provinces of France (created in 911). It got its name from the place called Calvados which is famous for making it (sometimes called 'le Pays d'Auge'). It is also made in the other places in Normandy including la Manche (Cotentin) and l'Orne (Domfront).
The way to make Calvados is to distil cider twice. The first time it is done, the result is a liquid containing 28% to 30% alcohol. The second time it is done, the amount of alcohol is increased to about 40%.
Since 1942, the Calvados has its own "Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée (AOC)", which means it is from one place. The rules are:
The Calvados can be served either dry or with ice, as a cocktail, an aperitif, or as a digestif. It goes very well with cheese, chocolate, dessert or ice-cream. You can also eat your crepes with calvados.
The Calvados can also be added to coffee. People usually do this at the end of dinner. 

</doc>
<doc id="19358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19358" title="Still">
Still

A still is a tool used to clean a liquid. It does this by first boiling the liquid and turning it into a gas. This gas is then cooled, changing it back into liquid. Stills get their name from the word di"still"ation. Distillation is the process of boiling and cooling a liquid to purify it. Stills are most often used to create alcohol, but they can also be used with any liquid. Some examples are medicines and perfumes.
There are two main types of stills: pot stills and reflux stills. In a pot still, the pot (like a large kettle) holding the liquid is heated. The hot gas is cooled in a simple neck, or tube, and collected. Pot stills are used for making alcohol like whisky. A reflux still is much more complex. It works with a continual flow of liquid going into the boiler, and a continual flow of distilled liquid coming out. The distilled liquid can also be put through the process several times, which is why it is called a reflux still. This allows for a more pure product, and the person working the still can control the level of purity. Reflux stills are used in the chemical and petroleum industries.

</doc>
<doc id="19360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19360" title="Ravioli">
Ravioli

Ravioli is a type of Italian pasta dish. It is usually two layers of pasta dough with a filling between the two layers. There are many different recipes, with different kinds of fillings. The most common fillings are meat, vegetables or ricotta cheese. People eat this kind of food with a sauce or melted butter.

</doc>
<doc id="19361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19361" title="The Bridge on the River Kwai">
The Bridge on the River Kwai

The Bridge on the River Kwai is a British 1957 movie from Columbia Pictures, based on Pierre Boulle's 1952 book "The Bridge over the River Kwai" (). The movie was mainly filmed in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) and also in England.
In 1941 the Japanese Army invaded Thailand. They built a railway to link Bangkok to Rangoon. Thousands of Asian workers and POWs (prisoners of war) died while working on the project. Part of this project was building bridges over Thailand's Kwai Yai, at a place named Tamarkan, which is near a town named Kanchanaburi. 
The deaths of the Asian workers and the prisoners were real events, but most of the book and the movie are not true. The British soldiers were slaves; they did not help the Japanese. Two bridges were built; one was made of wood, one was made of concrete and steel. Both bridges stood for two years and were destroyed by bombers in 1945.
In the movie the bridge is destroyed by commandos. A real train rode over the bridge as it blew up. (This can be compared to a scene in the 1927 movie, "The General", which starred Buster Keaton.)
The movie is best known for the "Colonel Bogey March", the song that is whistled by the POWs. It is also known as the "River Kwai March".
The movie won seven Academy Awards, one for Best Picture. It also won the BAFTA Award for Best British Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="19362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19362" title="Tannin">
Tannin

Tannins are bitter-tasting chemical compounds that bind proteins. 
Tannins are present in the following:
Tannins are also used in the treatment of leather, to make it more durable.

</doc>
<doc id="19363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19363" title="Cuisine">
Cuisine

Cuisine refers to any style of cooking, including its practices, traditions and recipes. A cuisine is usually associated with a specific culture. It is mainly influenced by the ingredients that are available to that culture. Cooking methods, customs and ingredients together form meals that are unique to a particular region. When people talk about Italian cuisine, they are referring to the food that Italians are famous for. Cuisine is a French word that means "kitchen", but it originally comes from the Latin word "coquere", which means "to cook". 
Traditionally, cuisines are shaped by a number of things. In some religious traditions, certain foods are forbidden by law (an example is in Judaism). Climate and trade affect the what ingredients are available. Climate may also affect the methods by which food is prepared. Before the exploration of Asia and America by Europeans, certain foods were not known to European cuisine. Tomatoes, maize, avocados and cacao, for example, did not enter European diets until merchants brought these ingredients back from the New World. In modern times, cuisines are becoming more and more multicultural. New cuisines continue to develop even today.

</doc>
<doc id="19364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19364" title="Hotel">
Hotel

A hotel or a guest-house is a large building with many rooms, where people can sleep when they are not at home. A motel is a hotel especially for motorists - people who drive cars - where the room door usually opens into the parking lot. Inn is sometimes used to mean a smaller hotel. 
These places will rent a room for any number of days. They offer rooms to sleep, and want money for the service. There are also hotels where conferences are held.

</doc>
<doc id="19365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19365" title="Some Like It Hot">
Some Like It Hot

Some Like It Hot is a 1959 American comedy movie starring Marilyn Monroe and Jack Lemmon, and directed by Billy Wilder. It is seen by some as a remake of a German movie from 1951, called "Fanfaren der Liebe". (Michael Logan wrote the story for this version as well as the 1959 movie.)
"Some Like It Hot" is set in 1929. It has been remade for the stage twice (in 1972 and 2002).
The movie was ranked at Number One on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list and fourteen on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

</doc>
<doc id="19370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19370" title="Yale University">
Yale University

Yale University is a private university in New Haven, Connecticut. It is in the Ivy League and considered by many people to be one of the best universities in the world. Yale is the third-oldest university in the United States.
Yale was founded in 1701 in a town near New Haven by a group of church ministers. At first, it was called "The Collegiate School" and it was a school to teach male church ministers in Connecticut. When Elihu Yale, a businessman with the East India Company, gave the school money and books in 1718, the school changed its name to Yale College. It moved into the center of New Haven in the same year. About fifty years later, the school began to teach other subjects to students, like science and history. As the school became more liberal, it became one of the first American schools where extracurricular student groups were created, especially singing groups, sports teams, and student publications like the Yale Daily News. 
In the beginning, Yale only taught undergraduate students. Over time, it created graduate schools for medicine, nursing, environmental science, law, music, drama, business, and other professions. In 1869, Yale became the first school in the United States to offer a PhD. Because it had grown to have many types of schools, degrees, and courses, Yale changed its name to Yale University in 1887. The undergraduate college began to accept women as students in 1969. 
Yale has one of the largest libraries in the United States, with 19 library buildings and over 15 million books. The school's main library building, Sterling Memorial Library, is built to look like a cathedral. The Beinecke Library has one of the world's largest collections of rare books and manuscripts. 
The school's campus is known for its Gothic Revival architecture, which was built to look like older English universities like Oxford and Cambridge. On its main campus, Yale has two art museums, a natural history museum, and many theaters. The university also has a golf course near campus and owns five forests in New England. 
Fifty-two Nobel Prize winners have been students or professors at Yale, and five U.S. presidents have graduated from Yale, including George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush. Other famous alumni include politicians Hilary Clinton and John Kerry, actors Meryl Streep and Edward Norton, inventors Eli Whitney and Samuel Morse, CNN anchors Fareed Zakaria and Anderson Cooper, FedEx founder Fred Smith and Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi, and computer scientist Grace Hopper. 
Yale's color is blue, and its mascot is a bulldog named "Handsome Dan." Its sports teams are called the Yale Bulldogs, and they play in the Ivy League. 
Peter Salovey, a psychologist, is the current president of Yale. 

</doc>
<doc id="19371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371" title="Salzburg">
Salzburg

Salzburg is the capital of the Austrian state of Salzburg or Salzburgerland. The population is about 150,000 and is the 4th largest city of Austria.
Its most famous citizen was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Another famous inhabitant of Salzburg was the physicist Christian Doppler who found the Doppler effect which was named after him. 
The Salzach river crosses the city. The old town was adopted by the UNESCO as World Heritage Site in 1996. Known is Salzburg also for being one of the settings for the movie "The Sound of Music" which based on the musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein.
People lived in Salzburg since the New Stone Age till present. The oldest finding in the city area is dated around 4500 B.C. From 15 B.C. onwards after the Roman occupation the city was called Iuvavum. The roman city was situated in today's old town around the Waagplatz. The city became an important place from the east to the province of Germania. The Romans left on the beginning of the barbarian migration around 500. Up to 696 only few can be said about the history. 696 the city was given to bishop Rupert by Duke Theodo II. of Bavaria. Rupert was orderd by the Duke to bring Christianity to the east and southeast of his country. Rupert founded the monastery St. Peter and for women the monastery Nonnberg. 739 Salzburg became the seat of a bishop and 774 the first cathedral was built. 998 Salzburg became archbishopric ruling the whole Bavarian area.
In the Middle Ages Salzburg became wealthy by the trade with salt from the nearby Dürnberg in Hallein. Till th 14th century Salzburg became independent from Bavaria and was a state within the Holy Roman Empire. The citizens of Salzburg were under the command of the archbishop unlike other cities in the empire. In the baroque era the look of today's city was shaped. The cathedral was rebuilt in the baroque style. Most of the architects came from Italy. 1622 a university was founded. Due to the fact that it was a catholic state Protestants had a severe standing in Salzburg. Yet 1731 Protestants, who came not back to the catholic belief had do leave Salzburg within eight days. 
In the early 19th century Napoleon Bonaparte promoted the Duchy of Salzburg, than later was a part of the Kingdom of Bavaria. Then, Salzburg was annexed by Austria, returned to Bavarian and divided between Bavaria and Austria. 1918 Salzburg became a federal state of the new Republic of Austria. In 1938 Germany annexed Austria and Salzburg was a part of Germany. In 1945, when Austria was independent from Germany, Salzburg became a federal state again.
Urban districts ("Stadtteile"):
Salzburg is a World Heritage. There are some places of interes like:
City Tours and Tour operators in Salzburg

</doc>
<doc id="19372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19372" title="Salt (disambiguation)">
Salt (disambiguation)

Salt could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19373" title="Basque language">
Basque language

Basque (in Basque: ') is the language spoken by the Basque people in the Basque Country and diaspora. The standard Basque name for the language is Euskara. Although it is surrounded by Indo-European languages, Basque is a language isolate. It is not related to the Indo-European languages. 
The ancestors of Basques are among the oldest residents of Europe, and their beginnings are unknown, as are the origins of Basque itself. Many scholars have tried to link Basque to Etruscan, African languages, Caucasian languages and so on, but most see Basque as a language isolate. 
A connection with the Iberian language gave some hope, but it is unclear whether similarities are due to genetic relations or mere vicinity.
It was spoken long before the Romans brought Latin to the Iberian Peninsula.
The region where Basque is spoken is smaller than what is known as the Basque Country, or "Euskal Herria" in Basque. Basque used to be spoken over a larger area, but Latin took over in some places.
Historically, Latin or Romance has been the official language.
Today Basque holds co-official language status in the Basque regions of Spain: the full autonomous community of the Basque Country and some parts of Navarre. Basque has no official standing in the Northern Basque Country of France and French citizens are barred from using Basque in a French court of law.
There are six main Basque dialects, comprising Biscayan, Guipuzcoan, and High Navarrese (in Spain), and Low Navarrese, Labourdin, and Souletin (in France). The dialect boundaries are not however congruent with political boundaries. 
One of the first scientific studies of Basque dialects, in particular the auxiliary verb forms, was made by Louis-Lucien Bonaparte (a nephew of Napoleon).
There is now a unified version of Euskara called Batua ("unified" in Basque), which is the language taught in schools. Batua is based largely on the Gipuzkoa regional dialect.
Basque is an ergative-absolutive language. It is very complicated, having many different cases for nouns.
The vowel system is the same as Spanish for most speakers. It consists of five pure vowels, . 
By contact with neighbouring peoples, Basque has borrowed words from Latin, Spanish, French, Gascon, among others, but accepted relatively few compared to many Indo-European languages. Some claim that many of its words come from Latin, but phonetic evolution has made many of them appear nowadays as if they were native words, e.g. "lore" ("flower", from "florem"), "errota" ("mill", from "rotam", "[mill] wheel"), "gela" ("room", from "cellam").
Basque is written using the Latin alphabet. The universal special letter is "ñ", which is pronounced like the "n" in "onion"; sometimes "ç" and "ü" are also used. Basque does not use "c, q, v, w, y" except for loan words; they are not considered part of the alphabet. The "X" is pronounced as a "sh", as in "shine".

</doc>
<doc id="19374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19374" title="Heinz Fischer">
Heinz Fischer

Heinz Fischer (born 9 October 1938) is the former president of Austria. His wife is Margit Fischer.

</doc>
<doc id="19375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19375" title="Chlorine">
Chlorine

Chlorine (chemical symbol Cl) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 17, and its atomic mass is 35.45. It is part of the 7th column (halogens) on the periodic table of elements. 
Chlorine is a very irritating and greenish-yellow gas. It has a strong smell like bleach. It is toxic. It can be made into a liquid when cooled. It is heavier than air.
Chlorine is highly reactive. It is more reactive than bromine but less reactive than fluorine. It reacts with most things to make chlorides. It can even burn things instead of oxygen. It dissolves in water to make a mixture of hypochlorous acid and hydrochloric acid. The more acidic it is, the more chlorine is made; the more basic it is, the more hypochlorous acid (normally turned into hypochlorite) and hydrochloric acid (normally turned into chlorides) are there. Chlorine reacts with bromides and iodides to make bromine and iodine. 
Chlorine exists in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +4, +5, and +7. The -1 state is most often in chloride. Chlorides are not reactive. Compounds containing chlorine in its +1 oxidation state are hypochlorites. Only one is common. They are a strong oxidizing agent, as are all + oxidation state compounds. +3 is in chlorites. +4 is in chlorine dioxide, a common chlorine compound that is not a chloride. +5 is in chlorates. +7 is in perchlorates. Hypochlorites are most reactive, while perchlorates are the least reactive.
Many organic compounds have chlorine in them. Freon has chlorine in it. PVC (Poly-vinyl chloride), a common plastic, has chlorine in it. 
Chlorine oxides can be made, but most of them are very reactive and unstable.
Chlorine is not found as an element. Sodium chloride is the most common chlorine ore. It is in the ocean (sea salt) and in the ground (rock salt). There are some organic compounds that have chlorine in them, too.
It is made by electrolysis (the passing of electricity through a solution to make chemical reactions happen) of sodium chloride. This is known as the chloralkali process. It can also be made by reacting hydrogen chloride with oxygen and a catalyst. It can be made in the laboratory by reacting manganese dioxide with hydrochloric acid. It is made when sodium hypochlorite reacts with hydrochloric acid. This is a dangerous reaction that can happen without anyone knowing.
Chlorine is used widely to purify water (usually in a swimming pool), as a disinfectant and bleach, and in the making of many important compounds including chloroform and carbon tetrachloride. It was used as a poison gas in some wars.
It was discovered in 1774 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele who thought it had oxygen in it. Chlorine was named in 1810 by Humphry Davy who insisted it was an element. The US made all water chlorinated (added chlorine to water) by 1918.
It is poisonous in large amounts and can damage skin. When it is inhaled (breathed in), it irritates the lungs, eyes, and skin badly. It can cause fire with some things because it is very reactive. It is heavier than air, so it can fill up enclosed spaces.

</doc>
<doc id="19377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19377" title="Halogen">
Halogen

The halogens are chemical elements under the second-to-right column in the periodic table, also known as Group 17. The elements in the group are fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, astatine, and ununseptium. Halogen literally means "salt becomer", but it is often cited to mean "salt producer". They are very reactive, so they are likely to join with other elements on the left side of the periodic table to make compounds. This is due to the fact that they are missing one electron. They are rarely found alone in nature, except astatine, which is not found in nature. Fluorine is the most reactive, while iodine is the least reactive. Astatine is very radioactive and hard to get.

</doc>
<doc id="19379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19379" title="Vitamin">
Vitamin

A vitamin is a chemical compound that is needed in small amounts for the human body to work correctly. They include Vitamin A, many B vitamins (like B, B, B, B, and B), Vitamin C, Vitamin D, Vitamin E, and Vitamin K. For example, citrus fruits such as oranges and lemons contain vitamin C. 
Many vitamins can not be made by the body itself. The body needs to get them from other places, usually through food. A short term lack of a certain vitamin is usually not a problem, as the body is able to store vitamins for a short time. Not having a certain vitamin for a longer period of time can lead to different diseases, depending on the lacking vitamin. Probably the best-known of these diseases is scurvy, which results from not having enough Vitamin C. Beriberi and rickets are others. 
Today, many drug companies make inexpensive pills that contain various vitamins. They help people avoid those diseases.
Vitamins can be either fat-soluble or water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K) can be stored in the body, and are used when needed. Water-soluble ones only stay in the body a short time.
Currently there are no vitamins F to J. These existed at some time. Today they are no longer seen as vitamins. Some of them were also false leads, and turned out to be something else. Others were renamed as B vitamins. Today, the B vitamins are a whole complex, and not just one vitamin. 
The German-speaking scientists who isolated and described vitamin K (in addition to naming it as such) did so because the vitamin is intimately involved in the 'Koagulation' (clotting) of blood following wounding. At the time, most (but not all) of the letters from F through I were already designated, so the use of the letter K was considered quite reasonable.
The following table lists chemicals that had previously been classified as vitamins, as well as the earlier names of vitamins that later became part of the B-complex. 

</doc>
<doc id="19383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19383" title="Adultery">
Adultery

Adultery is a word used in religious texts like Exodus 20:14. It applies to a married person sleeping with someone other than the person they are married to. Adultery usually comes with a heavy punishment (death by stoning) in some Muslim countries. In most countries adultery is no longer a crime, but most people still see it as a bad thing.(see Gospel of John 8) If a person who is married takes part in adultery, that person's husband or wife would usually have the right to be able to go to court to divorce them.
The word adultery originates not from “adult”, as is commonly thought in English-speaking countries, but from the Late Latin word for “to alter, corrupt”: “adulterare”. “Adulterare” in turn is formed by the combination of “ad” (towards), and “alter” (other), together with the infinitive form “are” (making it a verb). Thus the meaning is literally “to make other”. In contrast, the word “adult” (meaning a person of mature years) comes from another Latin root, “adolescere”, meaning to grow up or mature: a combination of “ad” (towards), “alere” (to nourish, to grow), and the inchoative infix “sc”(meaning to enter into a state of).
Famous adulterers include :
See also Othello

</doc>
<doc id="19384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19384" title="Perjury">
Perjury

Perjury is the word used for a person that tells a lie while they are under oath (in a courtroom). Committing perjury is against the law, and can be punished with a jail or prison sentence.
Perjury is a serious crime because it might be used to take away the power of a court, which can lead to punishment for the wrong person. In the United States, perjury can be punished by five years in prison. However, in California, a person who commits perjury can get the death penalty if the perjury led to a wrongful execution.
The rules of perjury also apply when a person says or does something "under penalty of perjury", even if he or she never swore an oath. One example is the United States' income tax return, where people have to sign as true and correct under penalty of perjury. A person can be punished by three years in prison if he or she lies on the tax return.
A statement that involves "interpretation" are not perjury because people can judge incorrectly without knowing it. Perjury only happens if a person wanted to do it and then actually did.
The offence of perjury is written in section 132 of the Criminal Code. It is described by section 131, which says that perjury is when a person says something false when he or she knows that it is false. People who commit perjury can be imprisoned for fourteen years at most.
A person in the Court of Justice of the European Communities swears anything he knows is false is guilty of perjury. Proceedings for perjury can happen in any place in the State and the offence can be treated as if it happened in that place.
Perjury in American law comes from the common law of England, which defined the it as giving a false testimony under oath that has to do with the issue.
The American legal system defines perjury as saying anything knowingly false under oath to a "competent tribunal, officer, or person". The punishment can be a fine or up to five years in prison or both.

</doc>
<doc id="19386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19386" title="Lust">
Lust

Lust is a term for a strong desire or wanting, or maybe even needing, often for sexual acts, although it is also commonly used to talk of a "lust for life" or a "lust for power" or for other goals.
As a sexual desire, it is considered a sin (a failing) by Christianity, which lists it as one of the seven deadly sins.
"Lust" was originally an Anglo-Saxon word which meant "desire" or "appetite". 

</doc>
<doc id="19387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19387" title="Seven deadly sins">
Seven deadly sins

Some followers of Christianity say that there are sins that are worse to commit than others. There are seven sins that they call "deadly". Although the Bible does not list the seven deadly sins, they are in the book, the Divine Comedy.
Ranked in order (worst sins listed last) like in Dante's "Divine Comedy" (in the Purgatorio), the seven deadly sins are:
People see that some of these sins are connected. They have tried to put an order to them. For example, pride (love of self out of proportion) is needed for gluttony (the over-consumption or waste of food), as well as sloth, envy, and most of the others. 
Each of these sins is a way of not loving God and not loving others as much as oneself. Scholasticism developed schema of attribute and substance of will to explain these sins.
As previously mentioned, the Latin words for the sins are: "superbia, avaritia, luxuria, invidia, gula, ira" and "accidia". 
The first letters of these words form the medieval Latin word "saligia", whence the verb "saligiare" (to commit a deadly sin) is taken. Various mnemonic devices exist for remembering the sins in English, e.g. PEG'S LAW (pride, envy, gluttony, sloth, lust, avarice, wrath).
In the official Catechism of the Catholic Church, consisting of 2,865 numbered sections and first published in 1992 by order of Pope John Paul II, the seven deadly sins are dealt with in one paragraph. The principal codification of moral transgression for Christians continues to be the Ten Commandments and the Beatitudes, which are a positive statement of morality, and part of the Sermon on the Mount.
The opposite of these sins are the seven virtues (chastity, moderation, charity, zeal, meekness, generosity, and humility) in corresponding order to the above seven deadly sins.
According to the Divine Comedy, there are punishments for those who die with unconfessed deadly sins.
The Lustfuls, are in the second circle of the Inferno. There they are blown around by a strong wind, without the hope of ever resting. This is because lust is so powerful, that it can blow one around without need or aim.
The Gluttons are in the third circle. There, they are forced to lie in a kind of slush, made by freezing rain, black snow, and hail. This used to symbolize what they made with their life.
The Greedy are in the fourth circle. There they are boiled in hot oil, it's the best oil that money can buy, but it's still pretty hot and you will be turned into gold.
The Slothful are in the fifth circle. There they are thrown into a snake pit where the indolent will have to move around to get the snakes off them eternally.
The Wrathful are in the fifth circle, as well. It is a combined circle of Sloth and Wrath. Their limbs are ripped apart, because the furious use their arms and/or legs in their act of violence.

</doc>
<doc id="19391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19391" title="Bromine">
Bromine

Bromine (Br) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 35, and its atomic weight is 80. It is part of the Group 7 elements (halogens) on the periodic table. It is diatomic, which means that two atoms are stuck together to make a molecule in any bromine sample.
Bromine is a red-brown liquid. Liquid elements are rare; only bromine and mercury are liquid at room temperature. It easily evaporates to make suffocating brown fumes. It has a bad smell. Its name means "stench of he-goats". It can become a metal at very high pressures.
It has two stable isotopes. They are Br and Br. There are about 29 other radioactive isotopes. 
Bromine is quite reactive. Its reactivity is between chlorine, which is more reactive, and iodine, which is less reactive. It reacts with metals and nonmetals. Phosphorus reacts violently with bromine. Aluminum reacts in a similar way. It can bleach things like chlorine. It reacts better in the light. It dissolves a little in water. Hot water makes it disproportionate into hydrobromic acid and hypobromous acid. Bromine can form compounds with substances such as sodium to form sodium bromide.
Bromine forms compounds in many oxidation states: –1, +1, +3, +5, and (sometimes) +7. –1 is the most common. It is found as bromide. Bromides are not reactive. They are colorless solids that dissolve in water easily. Covalent bromides can be liquids or gases. The other compounds are all strong oxidizing agents. Their chlorine cousins are more common. +1 has the hypobromites, which are unstable. +3 has the bromites. Bromine dioxide is the only common bromine compound found in the +4 oxidation state. +5 has the bromates, which are more common than all the other ones except the bromides. Bromates are strong oxidizing agents and are sometimes added to flour. +7 has the perbromates. Perbromates are very unstable.
Bromine is found as bromide in the ocean and in brine pools. The Dead Sea has a lot of bromide in it. Bromine is not an important part of our body, unlike its relatives chlorine and iodine.
Bromine is made by bubbling chlorine gas through a solution of a bromide. The bromide is oxidized to bromine, while the chlorine is reduced to chloride. 
It is mainly used to make organobromine compounds, organic compounds with bromine in them. Organobromines are used to put out fires. They used to be added to gasoline. Some were used as pesticides. Some inorganic bromides were used as sedatives. Bromine can also be used as a disinfectant. Silver bromide is used in film.
Bromine is toxic and corrosive to skin. Bromine gas is irritating when it is breathed in, too. Bromine can react violently with many things.

</doc>
<doc id="19392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19392" title="Fluorine">
Fluorine

Fluorine (symbol F) is a chemical element that is very poisonous. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 9, and its atomic mass is 19. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements.
Fluorine is a light yellow diatomic gas. It is very reactive gas, which exists as diatomic molecules. It is actually the most reactive element. Fluorine has a very high attraction for electrons, because it is missing one. This makes it the most powerful oxidizing agent. It can rip electrons from water (making oxygen) and ignite propane on contact. It does not need a spark. Metals can catch on fire when placed in a stream of fluorine. After it is reduced by reacting with other things, it forms the stable fluoride ion. Fluorine is very poisonous. Fluorine bonds very strongly with carbon. It can react with the unreactive noble gases. It explodes when mixed with hydrogen. The melting point of fluorine is -363.33°F (-219.62°C), the boiling point is -306.62°F (-188.12°C).
Chemical compounds containing fluorine ions are called fluorides. Fluorine only exists in one oxidation state: -1.
Fluorine is not found as an element on the earth; it is much too reactive. Several fluorides are found in the earth, though. When calcium phosphate is reacted with sulfuric acid to make phosphoric acid, some hydrofluoric acid is produced. Also, fluorite can be reacted with sulfuric acid to make hydrofluoric acid. Is a luiquid of fluoride U. Fluorine naturally occurs on the earths' crust in rocks, coal and clay.
Fluorine is normally made by electrolysis. Hydrogen fluoride is dissolved in potassium fluoride. This mixture is melted and an electric current is passed through it. This is electrolysis. Hydrogen is produced at one side and fluorine at the other side. If the sides are not separated, the cell may explode.
Someone made fluorine in 1986 without using electrolysis. They produced manganese(IV) fluoride by using various chemical compounds, which released fluorine gas.
Fluorine is used to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons. It is also used to make sulfur hexafluoride. Sulfur hexafluoride is used to propel stuff out of an aerosol can. It is also used to make integrated circuits. Fluorine compounds have many uses. Fluoride ions are in fluorine compounds. Fluoride ions can be in toothpaste. Some are used in nonstick coatings. Freons contain fluorine.
Fluorine as an element is extremely reactive and toxic. It can react with almost everything, even glass. Fluorine is also poisonous.
Fluoride ions are somewhat toxic. If too much toothpaste containing fluoride is eaten then fluoride poisoning may occur. Fluoride is not reactive, though.

</doc>
<doc id="19394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19394" title="Iodine">
Iodine

Iodine is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 53, and its atomic mass (the number of protons plus neutrons) is 127. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements and its electronic configuration is 2,8,18,18,7. It is a nonmetal. 
Iodine is a dark purple-black solid. It is also a nonmetal and a halogen. It sublimes when heated to make a bright purple vapor. This vapor is very irritating, although colorful. Iodine does not dissolve in water, but it does dissolve in a solution of an iodide in water. It dissolves easily in organic solvents.
Iodine is at the bottom of the halogens and is the least reactive of the halogens. Iodine is an oxidizing agent, though not as strong as bromine or chlorine. It can become the colorless iodide ion if another atom or molecule gives an iodine atom one of its electrons. This is called reduction. Iodine reacts with hydrogen sulfide or hydrazine to make hydriodic acid. Iodine dissolves in oleum to make a bright blue solution of I and sulfur dioxide. This cation is also made when iodine reacts with antimony pentafluoride. 
Iodine reacts with bases to make hypoiodite and iodide. The hypoiodite disproportionates to iodate and iodide. Iodine reacts with nitric acid and chlorates to make iodates, too. Iodine reacts violently with some metals like aluminium to make large amounts of heat and toxic vapors.
Iodine forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +5, and +7. This is typical of the halogens except for fluorine. -1 compounds as iodides are the most common. Most organic iodine compounds are in the -1 oxidation state. Most iodides are colorless or reddish-yellow and are weak reducing agents. +1 and +3 compounds are quite rare. They are both oxidizing agents. +1 compounds are found as iodine monochloride and hypoiodites. +3 compounds are found as iodine trichloride or iodine trifluoride. +5 compounds are found as iodates and iodic acid. Iodine pentafluoride and iodine pentoxide are iodine compounds in the +5 state. +5 and +7 compounds are all strong oxidizing agents. +7 compounds are normally found as periodates and periodic acid. Iodine heptafluoride is also in the +7 oxidation state.
Potassium iodide is one of the most common iodides. Iodides are normally colorless but turn yellow after being in air because the iodide is oxidized to iodine. Iodides react with acidified manganese dioxide or chlorine to make iodine. Iodine monochloride is a red or brown liquid. Iodine trichloride, as well as iodine trifluoride, are yellow solids. Iodates like potassium iodate are colorless solids similar to chlorates. Iodic acid is the only stable oxidizing halogen acid. Chloric acid, by comparison, is very unstable and dangerous. Iodine pentoxide is a white solid, and iodine pentafluoride is a yellowish liquid. Periodates, like sodium periodate, are colorless solids similar to perchlorates, although weaker oxidizing agents. They decompose to iodates when they are heated. Periodic acid is not as stable as iodic acid. Iodine heptafluoride is the only iodine(VII) compound.
It was discovered by Barnard Courtois in 1811. He burned seaweed to get sodium carbonate and reacted the residue with sulfuric acid. One time, he poured too much sulfuric acid on the seaweed and purple vapor came out which made dark blue-black crystals on a cold surface. He did not have enough money to see whether it was a new element or not. He gave samples to several chemists, who identified it as an element in 1813.
Iodine is too reactive to be in nature as an element. Iodine compounds are not common in the ground. There is a mineral called caliche that is found in dry deserts. It has iodate in it. Iodide is found in seawater. Kelp has quite large amounts of iodine in it. Iodine is one of the heaviest elements needed by living things. If we do not get enough of it, we get a disease known as goitre. Most salt has iodine in it, in the form of iodide or iodate. We can also take iodine pills to make sure we get enough.
Kelp was burned and the iodine extracted from the ashes in the 18th and 19th century, but now it is not good enough for common use. Most iodine now is extracted from seawater. Chlorine is reacted with seawater to change the iodide to iodine. Air is blown over the water to evaporate the iodine. Then the iodine is reduced with sulfur dioxide to hydriodic acid. Then the hydriodic acid is oxidized with chlorine again to make iodine. This process is repeated until the iodine is pure. 
A very pure form of iodine is made by reacting copper sulfate and potassium iodide. This makes copper(II) iodide which is not stable. It breaks down into copper(I) iodide and iodine, which is pure.
Iodine is used as a catalyst for making acetic acid. Animal feed also has iodine in it for nutrition. Iodine is used for a disinfectant. Tincture of iodine is a common iodine disinfectant. Iodine can be used to prevent thyroid cancer after a nuclear explosion. After a nuclear explosion, radioactive iodine fills the air. The radioactive iodine easily goes into the thyroid and causes cancer. When people take iodine tablets, it fills up the thyroid with non-radioactive iodine which prevents any radioactive iodine from coming in.
Iodine compounds can be used in X-rays because X-rays cannot go through them easily. Some metals are purified using their iodides. Silver iodide is used in photographic film and cloud seeding. Erythrosine is a food coloring that has iodine in it. Iodine can be used to make illegal drugs so it is restricted in some areas. Iodine can be used as a test for reducing agents. Iodine turns colorless when mixed with a reducing agent. Iodine also turns black when mixed with starch. Iodides become colored when mixed with oxidizing agents.
Iodine can irritate skin. Its vapors are irritating to the lungs. It is less toxic than the other halogens, though. 2-3 grams of iodine can kill. Iodides are only toxic in large amounts.

</doc>
<doc id="19395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395" title="Astatine">
Astatine

Astatine is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 85, and its atomic weight (which is approximately the number of protons plus the number of neutrons in it) is 210. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements. Some of its isotopes may be in nature. But because it is extremely unstable (roughly speaking, the atoms fall apart), only about an ounce exists in the Earth's crust at one point in time. It is radioactive. The longest-living isotope At has a half-life of a bit over eight hours.

</doc>
<doc id="19398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19398" title="United States House of Representatives">
United States House of Representatives

The United States House of Representatives is a part of the United States (U. S.) Congress. Congress is the legislature of the U. S. government and makes federal laws. The other part of Congress is the U. S. Senate. There are maximum 435 members in the United States House of Representatives. These members are called U. S. Representatives or just representatives. 
The number of representatives from each state depends on the number of people in that state, but there is at least one U. S. representative from each of the 50 states. Every 10 years, the United States Census Bureau counts the population of the United States. States gain or lose Representatives based on the count. The House of Representatives is in one of the two wings in the U.S. Capitol building. The other wing is for the Senate. Sometimes the House of Representatives is informally called the House. The chairman/chairperson in the U.S. House of Representatives is called the Speaker of the House. The current Speaker is Paul Ryan. 
According to the U.S. Constitution, all bills about raising revenue, which includes taxes, must start in the House of Representatives. Also, the House of Representatives has the sole power to impeach certain officials, such as the president or federal judges. According to the U.S. Constitution, the House of Representatives can expel one of its representatives by a vote of at least two-thirds of its members.
Early in 2014 the House has 232 Republicans, 199 Democrats and 4 vacant seats.

</doc>
<doc id="19400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400" title="Lourdes Flores Nano">
Lourdes Flores Nano

Dr.Lourdes Celmira Flores Nano (born October 7 1959) is a Peruvian lawyer and politician. She is the leader of the Christian People's Party. She tried to become the mayor of Lima in 2010.
Flores Nano was born in Lima in 1959. She studied law at the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru. She studied for a Phd in Law from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid, one of the world's oldest universities in Madrid, Spain. She was a member of the Lima Municipal Council and then a member of the National Congress of Peru. In 2001 and 2006 she was a candidate in election for the President of Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19401" title="Novel">
Novel

Novels are works of prose fiction. They are longer than short stories. There are many kinds. For example, some are adventures stories, like "Treasure Island" by Robert Louis Stevenson. There are horror (scary) stories like Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein". There are also science fiction novels and humorous novels like "Tom Sawyer" by Mark Twain. Novels in English are usually 150,000 words or more, and have 150 pages or more.
There are many different genres, or categories, of novels. Some of these are:

</doc>
<doc id="19403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19403" title="Fiction">
Fiction

Fiction is any story made up by an author. It is a creation of the author's imagination. It is not based strictly on history or facts.
The opposite of fiction is non-fiction, writing that deals with facts and true events. Often in a library, part of the library is for fiction books and another part of the library is for non-fiction.
The word "fiction" comes from the Latin word "fictum", which means "created". This is a good way to remember what fiction is: if it has been created or made up by somebody, it is fiction. Fiction can be written or told, or acted on stage, in a movie, on television or radio. Usually the purpose of fiction is to entertain. 
However, the dividing line is not always so clear. Fiction with real people or events in it is called "historical fiction", because it is based on things that happened in history. This type of fiction is written so that we can imagine and understand what it was like when those people were alive. Reality can be presented through creative writing, and imagination can open the reader's mind to significant thoughts about the real world. 
In fiction, there are always characters. There is usually a "protagonist", or hero. Sometimes this is a group of people, not one person. You usually support the hero (or heroes.) The protagonist has to face some kind of enemy, usually another character called the "antagonist". The fight between the protagonist and their enemy is called the "conflict".
Plot is a literary term. It is the events that make up a story, particularly as they relate to one another. The events may form a pattern. That pattern may be a sequence, through cause and effect, or how the reader views the story, or simply by coincidence.
In his "Poetics", Aristotle considered plot ("mythos") the most important element of drama—more important than character, for example. A plot must have, Aristotle says, a beginning, a middle, and an end, and the events of the plot must causally relate to one another as being either necessary or probable.
Of the utmost importance to Aristotle is the plot's ability to arouse emotion in the psyche of the audience. In tragedy, the emotions are fear and pity, emotions which he considers in his "Rhetoric".
Gustav Freytag considered plot a narrative structure that divided a story into five parts, like the five acts of a play. These parts are: exposition (of the situation); rising action (through conflict); climax (or turning point); falling action; and resolution.
The climax is the most dangerous and exciting part of the plot. For example, if you were on a rollercoaster, the highest part would be the climax.
The climax usually near to the end of the story, because the whole story has been building up to it (rising action). In an action drama it is the point when the hero or heroine looks like s/he is about to lose, and is in the greatest danger.
Conflict is very important in fiction. Every work of fiction needs a conflict, or problem. There are five basic types of conflict. In modern times, a new one, "Person vs. Technology", has been used.
Person vs. Self is when a character is facing his own fears, confusion or philosophy. Sometimes the character tries to find out who he or she is, and comes to realize it or change it. Sometimes the character struggles to find out what is right or wrong. Although the enemy is inside the character, they can be influenced by outside forces. The struggle of the human being to come to a decision is the base of this type of conflict.
Person vs. Person is when the hero is fighting another person. There is usually more than one time that the hero meets the enemy. For example, if a child is being bullied, that is person vs. person conflict. An example is the conflict between Judah and Messala in "".
Person vs. Society is when the hero's main source of conflict is traditions or ideas. The protagonist is basically fighting what is wrong with the world he lives in. Society itself is often treated as a single character, just as another person is in person vs. person conflict. An example in literature would be "Wuthering Heights" by Emily Brontë.
Person vs. Nature is when a character is fighting against forces of nature. Many films focus on this theme. It is also found in stories about trying to survive in places far away from humans, like Jack London's short story "To Build a Fire".
Person vs. Supernatural is when a character is battling supernatural forces. Sometimes, this force is inside themselves, it is internal. Such stories are sometimes used to represent or criticize Freud's theory of id vs. superego. Bram Stoker's "Dracula" is a good example of this, as well as "Frankenstein" by Mary Shelley and "Christabel" by Samuel Coleridge. It is also very common in comic books.
Person vs. Machine/Technology places a character against robot forces with artificial intelligence. "I, Robot" and the "Terminator" series are good examples of this conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="19405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19405" title="1095">
1095


</doc>
<doc id="19408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19408" title="Oak Lawn, Illinois">
Oak Lawn, Illinois

Oak Lawn is a village in Cook County, Illinois, USA. It is a suburb of Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="19409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19409" title="1607">
1607


</doc>
<doc id="19411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19411" title="500s BC">
500s BC


</doc>
<doc id="19412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19412" title="Fossil fuel">
Fossil fuel

Fossil fuels are fuels that come from very old life forms that decomposed over a long period of time. The three most important fossil fuels are coal, petroleum, and natural gas. Oil and gas are hydrocarbons (molecules that have only hydrogen and carbon in them). Coal is mostly carbon. These fuels are called fossil fuels because they are dug up from underground.
Most of the fuels people burn are fossil fuels. A big use is to make electricity. In power plants fossil fuels, usually coal, are burned to heat water into steam, which pushes a fan-like object called a turbine. When the turbine spins around, magnets inside the turbine make electricity. 
Crude oil can be separated to make various fuels such as LPG, gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel, and diesel fuel. These substances are made by the process of fractional distillation in an oil refinery. 
Fossil fuels from oil are the main fuels in transportation. That means that they are burned in order to move cars, trucks, ships, airplanes, trains and even spacecraft. Fossil fuel has become an important part of modern society and without it, there wouldn't be much transport. 
People also burn fossil fuels to heat their homes. They use it less for this than they did long ago, because it makes things dirty. In many homes, people burn natural gas in a stove for cooking.
Fossil fuels are widely used in construction. In the oil sands in Alberta, about 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas was used per day in 2007 to heat the soil so the oil would come out of the earth.
Fossil fuels produce a lot of pollution when burned. This can be reduced by making the combustion process more efficient, and by using various techniques to reduce the escape of harmful gases. This pollution is responsible for causing the earth to get warmer, called global warming. They are also non-renewable resources, there is only a limited amount of coal, gas, and oil, and it is not possible to make more. Eventually all the fossil fuels will be used. Scientists think that coal will have run out by 2200 and oil by 2040. 
Renewable energy sources like biomass energy such as firewood are being used. Countries are also increasing the use of wind power, tidal energy, and solar energy to generate electricity. Some governments are helping automobile makers to develop electric cars and hybrid cars that will use less oil.

</doc>
<doc id="19418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19418" title="Boston Bruins">
Boston Bruins

The Boston Bruins are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were the first American team in the NHL, in 1924. They have won six Stanley Cup championships, and they lost against the Chicago Blackhawks in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals after winning in 2012.
In their early years, the Bruins won three Stanley Cups: 1929, 1939, and 1941. Ralph "Cooney" Weiland won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion in 1930. Aubrey "Dit" Clapper was also a star player around this time. Then Eddie Shore came along, a huge star in the league on defense. Shore won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player (MVP) four times: in 1933, 1935, 1936 and 1938. Only Gordie Howe and Wayne Gretzky have won it more often. Cecil "Tiny" Thompson was the team's star goaltender.
In the 1940s and 1950s the Bruins had new stars. Milt Schmidt and Bill Cowley were great centers and both won scoring championships and MVP trophies. They were helped by Woody Dumart and Bobby Bauer on wing, and Frank Brimsek replaced Thompson in goal.
The 1960s were not so good for the Bruins. Schmidt retired to become the team's coach and the team did not have many stars. They finished in last place six times out of seven years and did not make the playoffs eight straight seasons. Left wing John Bucyk was their best player.
Bobby Orr began as a defenseman with Boston in 1966. After his rookie (first) season, he won the Norris Trophy as best defenseman in the NHL eight times in a row, and the Bruins became a top team again. He joined with centers Phil Esposito and Derek Sanderson, Bucyk and goalie Gerry Cheevers to lead the Bruins to the Stanley Cup in 1970 and 1972. Orr won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs both years. He also won the Hart Trophy in 1970, 1971, and 1972; Esposito won it in 1969 and 1974. Esposito won five Art Ross Trophies: 1969, 1971, 1972, 1973, and 1974. Orr won it in 1970 and 1975, the only defenseman ever to win the scoring title. The Bruins continued to be a strong team through the late 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s. 
Ray Bourque, who won the Norris Trophy five times, was the team's greatest star in the 1980s and 1990s. He is the team's top career scorer, and the highest scoring defenseman in NHL history. The Bruins won the President's Cup as regular-season champions in 1983 and 1990, and made the Stanley Cup finals in 1988 and 1990. Cam Neely was an important player until the mid-1990s, and Joe Thornton was a top scorer until he was traded to the San Jose Sharks in 2005. The Bruins won the Stanley Cup championship in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="19427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19427" title="George Morrow">
George Morrow

George Morrow (c. 1934 - May 7, 2003) was part of the early microcomputer industry in the United States. Morrow promoted (make popular) and improved the S-100 bus used in many early microcomputers. Morrow was also a member of the Homebrew Computer Club.
Starting in 1976, he designed and sold computers, computer parts, and accessories under several company names, including "Morrow Designs". Morrow's companies built microcomputers that used the CP/M operating system. When IBM started selling their IBM PC personal computer in 1981, Morrow and other CP/M computer makers had trouble competing. Morrow Designs filed for bankruptcy in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="19431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19431" title="Dietary mineral">
Dietary mineral

Dietary minerals are the chemical elements that living things need to have be part of what they eat, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen which are already very common in living things.
One of the best known examples is calcium, which humans and many other animals need to build strong bones and teeth, among other things.Red meat is rich in iron which is a well known mineral it is important for us to have iron as it creates red blood cells.

</doc>
<doc id="19433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19433" title="Cleveland, England">
Cleveland, England

Cleveland was a non-metropolitan county that existed between 1 April 1974 and 31 March 1996. It was in North East England. The districts which made up the county are now all unitary authorities.

</doc>
<doc id="19434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19434" title="Hungarian language">
Hungarian language

Hungarian is a Finno-Ugric language, which is a member of the Uralic language family.
The group of Finno-Ugric languages also includes Finnish, Estonian, Lappic (Sámi) and some other languages spoken in the Russian Federation. Out of these it is Khanty and Mansi that are the most closely related to Hungarian. The Hungarian name for the language is "magyar".
Hungarian is spoken by about 14 million people. Most of its speakers live in Hungary (around 10 million) and Romania (around 1.5 million), but it is also spoken in Slovakia, the northern part of Serbia (Vojvodina), Ukraine and other countries. Hungarian is the official language of the Republic of Hungary and one of the official languages of the EU (European Union). It is also an official language of the Autonomous Republic of Vojvodina (Serbia) and of some places in the Republic of Slovenia. Hungarians call their language "magyar".
Hungarian has several dialects but they are not too different to make understanding difficult. The only such example may be the dialect of the Csángós of Romania. That dialect is an old and archaic version of the language. 
Hungarian literary language is based on the "Northeastern dialect".
Hungarian grammar is rather different from the grammar of Indo-European languages. People may find this grammar complicated the first time if they speak an Indo-European language, until they realize that it works along some pretty logical rules. 
Hungarian has no "grammatical gender". For example there are no separate words for 'he' and 'she' but there is one pronoun ('ő'). Instead of prepositions (like English 'from' or 'with'), Hungarian has "suffixes" (little words stuck to the end of main words). 'From Budapest' becomes 'Budapestről', and 'with Alexandra' becomes 'Alexandrával' in Hungarian. Another feature of the language is "vowel harmony". This means that suffixes must tone in (harmonize) with the vowel of the main word. To over-simplify it, if they have an 'a' in the word then the suffix will also contain an 'a' ('fa' - 'tree' and 'fával' - 'with a tree'), and if their word has an 'e' then its suffix too will get an 'e' (teve - 'camel' and 'tevével' - with a camel). In Hungarian they must put the stress always on the first syllable (the beginning) of the words.
Although Hungarian is not an Indo-European language, its lexicon (all the words of the language together) has many words from Slavic and Turkic languages, and also from German.
Hungarian is written in the Latin alphabet. Some letters have accents (dots or commas above them) so while the English alphabet has 26 letters, Hungarian has 44. The writing of Hungarian is largely phonetic. This means that each letter has its own pronunciation, and it is easy to read any text once they learn how the letters are pronounced.
The earliest known written Hungarian words are to be found in a Latin document, the "Foundation Charter of the Abbey of Tihany" (1054). The "Funeral Oration and Prayer" (1192-95) and "Old Hungarian Lament of Mary" (13th century) are the earliest known continuous Hungarian texts. In the 16th century the first printed Hungarian texts came out. Modern Hungarian literary language appeared in the 18th and 19th centuries. Hungarian replaced Latin as the official language of Hungary first between 1844 and 1849 and then in 1867.

</doc>
<doc id="19435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19435" title="Hungarian">
Hungarian

Hungarian can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19444" title="Rochester, New York">
Rochester, New York

Rochester is the third-largest city in the U.S. state of New York. It has a little over 200,000 people living in it and over a million people living in the metropolitan area. It is on the southern shore of Lake Ontario. It is between the cities of Buffalo and Syracuse.
Rochester is on the shore of Lake Ontario, one of the Great Lakes. Also, the Genesee River flows through it. In the area near Rochester, there are many streams, large hills called drumlins, and lakes, such as the Finger Lakes. The weather in Rochester is warm in the summer and cold in the winter, with a lot of snow falling in the winter and early spring.
Rochester is the headquarters of Eastman Kodak, a company that makes cameras and camera film. Rochester is also the home to universities such as the University of Rochester and the Rochester Institute of Technology.

</doc>
<doc id="19445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19445" title="Dragon (disambiguation)">
Dragon (disambiguation)

When people talk about dragons, they can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="19446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19446" title="Shop">
Shop

A shop or store is a place where people can go to buy items that they need or want. People might go to a shop to buy food, clothes, furniture, jewelry, or many other things. There are loads of shops in the world where people can buy there things from.
People might also go to a repair shop if something is broken, and they want the shop to fix it. For example, someone might bring a broken bicycle to a bicycle repair shop.
Shops can be anything from large supermarket chains to small businesses. 
Shops any countries: North America, South America, Africa, Asia, Western Europe, Eastern Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="19447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19447" title="One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (movie)">
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (movie)

One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a 1975 American drama movie. It is set on a locked psychiatric ward in 1963 in Oregon. It is based on the novel of the same name by Ken Kesey. Milos Forman directed the movie, and Jack Nicholson plays the lead role.
It was the first movie to win all five main Academy Awards since "It Happened One Night" in 1934. These awards included Best Picture, Best Actor (Nicholson), Best Actress (Louise Fletcher), Best Director (Forman), and Best Adapted Screenplay.
This movie was the 20th best ever, according to the American Film Industry's AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.
The novel's writer, Kesey, did not like the movie. This was because it did not take the perspective (view) of a Native American character, Chief Bromden (a more important character in the book than in the movie). The screenplay was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="19448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19448" title="Dr. Strangelove">
Dr. Strangelove

Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (better known as only Dr. Strangelove) is a 1964 American black comedy movie directed and produced by Stanley Kubrick, and starring Peter Sellers.
During the movie's ending, the world is blown up by atomic bombs. Vera Lynn's recording of "We'll Meet Again" is played. It was a famous song during World War II.
In 1989, the United States Library of Congress chose this movie to be kept in the National Film Registry. This means the movie will be protected from damage that happens to older film that was used to make movies.

</doc>
<doc id="19450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19450" title="Animal husbandry">
Animal husbandry

Animal husbandry is the taking care of and breeding of animals, particularly livestock. Animal husbandry has been around for a very long time. In rural areas and less developed countries, parents often teach their children how to care for their farm animals. 4H is an organization that also teaches children how to raise and care for farm animals.
Some people who specialize in animal husbandry try to make sure that the animals are well cared for, while others try to make sure that the animals cost as little as possible to raise.
Examples of animal husbandry are:
Animal husbandry includes domestication of animals to obtain animal products (like milk, meat, wool, skin, hyde), and use them for transportation.

</doc>
<doc id="19455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19455" title="Walt Disney World Resort">
Walt Disney World Resort

The Walt Disney World Resort, also called Walt Disney World or Disney World, is near Orlando, Florida, United States. It opened on October 1, 1971 with only the Magic Kingdom theme park. It has since added Epcot (October 1, 1982), Disney's Hollywood Studios (May 1, 1989) and Disney's Animal Kingdom (April 22, 1998). It also has two water parks, 23 hotels, a campground, and Downtown Disney, which is a shopping area with souvenir shops, restaurants, and sports activities. 
The resort was inspired by the dreams of Walt Disney and his creation of Disneyland in California. Its original theme park, Magic Kingdom, is designed similarly to Disneyland. Walt Disney created "Disney World" to have a vacation resort that was much different from Disneyland's one-day visit; this includes a much wider variety of sports, recreation, themed resort hotels and entertainment. It is 50 square miles long.
It also comes with lots of different rides and you can go swimming at the water parks. Sometimes, Disney characters walk around the parks. The rides are related to the books and films that Disney created.
Walt Disney's World Resort is approximately as large as San Francisco and twice the size of Manhattan. It comprises many exciting destinations including theme parks, water parks and more.
There are 4 theme parks in Walt Disney World. And each of them hav numerous rides, restaurants and entertainment activities to witness.You can meet Disney characters there and have fun viewing different parades.
There are 2 water parks for your enjoyment.
Since it is one of the most popular destination for a lot of tourists as well as locals, the place during peak times can get really crowded. Disney's Magic Kingdom alone record more than 18,588,000 visitors annually. Heavy footfalls are recorded in summer months and holiday times like Christmas and Thanksgiving. So if you want to avoid long queues, it is better to plan a trip in off seasons.
It is not possible to cover the entire amusement park in a single visit. There is a lot of planning required to see the best of Disney World. It is beneficial to book tickets from ticketing and travel information websites. Not only you get great discounts and but you don't have to worry about all the planning including the restaurant reservations, resort bookings .On top of that many sites offer attractive packages you can opt for too.

</doc>
<doc id="19456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19456" title="Harp">
Harp

The harp is a musical instrument. It is the second biggest string instrument in an orchestra. It dates back to 4000 BC when the Egyptians used them in holy places. Christian artists often draw angels playing harps in Heaven.
Harp is a string instrument. Each string is tight, so it makes the right sound or note for that string. The strings are tied to the frame.
The frame is usually a wood triangle. It must be strong, so that the many tight strings do not break it.
The side of the triangle that leans on the player's body, is the sound-box. Empty boxes can make sounds louder. 
The top side of the triangle has a lot of pegs in it. There is one peg for each string on the harp. The top of each string is tied to one peg, and twisted around the peg. The player turns the peg to make the string more tight or less tight. This is how the player makes each string make the right note. The bottom of each string is tied to the sound-box.
The last side of the triangle is called the pillar. The oldest harps from Egypt did not have pillars. If the strings were too tight, they would break the harp. Adding a pillar to a harp frame makes the frame very strong, so that the strings will not break it.
Harp players pluck the strings with their fingers. This makes the strings move so that the strings make sounds. Each string sound is a different musical note. Harp players play songs by plucking the strings in the right order and at the right time. More than one string can be plucked at the same time. When the harp player wants a note to stop, they touch that string softly, so that it stops moving.
There are many different kinds of harps. The two main kinds are folk harps and pedal harps.
Folk harps are the older kind of harp. Each string makes one note. They are usually tuned so that playing each string in order sounds like playing all the white notes on a piano in order. This is called a diatonic scale. In some places, they are tuned so that playing each string in order sounds like playing all the black notes on a piano in order. This is called a pentatonic scale.
Folk harps can be found in many different sizes. The smallest ones can be less than half a meter tall. The biggest ones can be almost 1.5 meters tall, and have a foot so they can stand on the ground by themselves. They can be too big to be lifted by one person.
The number of strings varies on folk harps from less than 20 to more than 40.
Pedal harps were invented during the 1800's CE, by a man in France. This is the kind of harp that is used in a Symphony Orchestra. Pedal harps are about two meters tall and have about 50 strings. The lowest and highest notes on a pedal harp are the same as the lowest and highest notes on a piano. They are very heavy, and need more than one person to move them. The frame is usually made out of metal.
The pedal harp is tuned like the white keys on a piano (a diatonic scale). There are seven pedals to let the harp player play songs in different musical keys. Each pedal has three places. For the "A" pedal, place-1 makes all the "A" strings on the harp sound like "A"-flat. Place-2 makes all the "A" strings sound like a normal "A" ("A"-natural). Place-3 makes all the "A" strings sound like "A"-sharp. 
Cross-strung harps are chromatic and consist of two rows of strings. They cross near to the middle of the string without touching. The strings are in the order of the piano keys (7 plus 5) or in the order of the 6-plus-6 system.
Some instruments have the word harp in their name, but they are not really harps. The harp is such an old musical instrument, that people sometimes say "harp" when they mean any kind of instrument.

</doc>
<doc id="19457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19457" title="1472">
1472


</doc>
<doc id="19458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19458" title="Kassam Stadium">
Kassam Stadium

Kassam Staudium is an arena in Oxford, England. It is where Oxford United F.C. plays. It is the biggest arena in the blue square premier league conference national

</doc>
<doc id="19460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19460" title="Nucleotide">
Nucleotide

Nucleotides are chemical compounds, the building blocks of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. 
A nucleotide is composed of a nucleobase (nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose), and one phosphate group. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. 
In DNA, the purine bases are adenine and guanine, while the pyrimidines are thymine and cytosine. RNA uses uracil in place of thymine. Adenine always pairs with thymine by 2 hydrogen bonds, while guanine pairs with cytosine through 3 hydrogen bonds, each due to their unique structures.

</doc>
<doc id="19465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19465" title="Voting">
Voting

Voting is when a group of people decide something by saying what they want. It can be for electing a leader or representative, passing a law, and other things. When people are done voting, the votes are counted (often by machines) and the side that gets the most votes wins.
Voting can be done in small groups (friends deciding what to do over weekend), societies (building committee deciding on whether to paint a building), nations (voting for president or - in some cases - voting for independence) and global (United Nations deciding how to limit nuclear weapon development). 
Usually the side that gets most votes will win. This is called Majority rule. 
In some cases, a certain percentage may be needed to win a vote. This is often the case when voting to change the constitution of a country, or when electing a government official. When choosing a government official, there may be several rounds. In the first round, votes can be cast for all candidates. In the second round, only the two or three candidates with the most votes can be chosen. 

</doc>
<doc id="19466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19466" title="Joule">
Joule

A joule ( or sometimes ) is a unit in the SI system. That means that scientists use it. It measures the work being done. It is named after James Prescott Joule. 
A joule equals one newton multiplied by a meter (1J = 1N × 1m). It is related to the watt (a unit of power): one watt equals one joule per second.
It is also the work done passing one amp through a resistance of one ohm for one second. 

</doc>
<doc id="19467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19467" title="Carl Friedrich Gauss">
Carl Friedrich Gauss

Carl Friedrich Gauss (pronunciation: , Latin: Carolus Fridericus Gauss) (30 April 1777 – 23 February 1855) was a famous mathematician from Göttingen, Germany. Gauss contributed to many areas of learning. Most of his work was about number theory and astronomy.
He was born in Braunschweig. That city was then part of the duchy of Braunschweig-Lüneburg. Today the city is part of Lower Saxony. As a child, he was a prodigy, meaning he was very clever. When he was 3 years old, he told his father that he had incorrectly measured something on his complicated payroll. Gauss was correct. Gauss also taught himself to read. 
When he was in elementary school, his teacher once tried to keep the children busy, telling them to add up all the numbers from 1 to 100. Gauss did it quickly, like this: 1 + 100 = 101, 2 + 99 = 101, 3 + 98 = 101, and so on. There were a total of 50 pairs, so 50 × 101 = 5,050. The formula is formula_1. According to this website, the problem given to Gauss was actually more difficult to do.
The Duke of Brunswick gave Gauss a fellowship to the Collegium Carolinum, where he attended from 1792 to 1795. This meant that the Duke paid for the education of Carl Friedrich Gauss at the Collegium. After this, Gauss went to the University of Göttingen, from 1795 to 1798.
When Gauss was 23, scientists spotted the asteroid Ceres but they did not see it for long enough to know its orbit. Gauss made calculations that let them locate it.
Later in life Gauss stopped working on pure math and turned to physics. He did work in electromagnetism.
Gauss wrote Disquisitiones Arithmeticae which is a book about number theory. In that book he proved the law of Quadratic reciprocity. He also was the first mathematician to explain Modular arithmetic in a very detailed way. Before Gauss, mathematicians had used modular arithmetic in some cases but did not know much about using it broadly. 

</doc>
<doc id="19468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468" title="Grand Canyon">
Grand Canyon

The Grand Canyon is a famous canyon in Arizona, formed by the Colorado River. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and a National Park of the United States. It is also one of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World.
The Grand Canyon is 277 miles (446 km) long, up to 18 miles (29 km) wide and is over a mile (1.83 km) (6000 feet) deep in places. Nearly two billion years of the Earth's geological history have been exposed as the Colorado River and its tributaries cut their channels through layer after layer of rock while the Colorado Plateau was uplifted by tectonic action.
Evidence suggests the Colorado River established its course through the canyon at least 17 million years ago. Since that time, the Colorado River continued to erode and form the canyon to the point we see it at today. 
The result of all the erosion is one of the most complete geologic columns on the planet. There are nearly 40 major sedimentary rock layers exposed in the Grand Canyon and in the Grand Canyon National Park area. They range in age from about 200 million to nearly 2 billion years old.
Most were laid down in warm, shallow seas, near ancient, long-gone sea shores in western North America. Both marine and terrestrial sediments are represented, including fossilized sand dunes from an ancient desert. There are at least 14 known unconformities in the geologic record found in the Grand Canyon area.
The major rock exposures in the Grand Canyon range in age from the almost 2 billion year old Vishnu Schist at the bottom of the Inner Gorge to the 230 million year old Kaibab Limestone on the rim.
Shown in the diagram, there is a gap of about one billion years between the stratum that is about 500 million years old (blue) and the lower level, which is about 1.5 billion years old at the top (green). This large unconformity indicates a period of erosion between two periods of deposition.
Many of the formations were deposited in warm shallow seas, near-shore environments (such as beaches), and swamps. The seashore repeatedly advanced and retreated over the edge of a proto-North America.
The great depth of the Grand Canyon and especially the height of its strata (most of which formed below sea level) was caused by 5,000 to 10,000 feet (1500 to 3000 m) uplift of the Colorado Plateau. This started about 65 million years ago during the Laramide period of orogeny (mountain-building). This uplift steepened the gradient of the Colorado River and its tributaries, which increased their speed and their ability to cut through rock.
Weather conditions during the ice ages also increased the amount of water in the Colorado River drainage system. The ancestral Colorado River responded by cutting its channel faster and deeper.
The base level and course of the Colorado River (or its ancestral equivalent) changed 5.3 million years ago when the Gulf of California opened and lowered the river's base level (its lowest point). This increased the rate of erosion and cut nearly all of the Grand Canyon's current depth by 1.2 million years ago. The stepped appearance of the rocks was caused by their varied resistance to the flow of water.
Between three million and 100,000 years ago, volcanic activity deposited ash (tuff) and lava over the area which at times completely obstructed the river. These volcanic rocks are the youngest in the canyon.
Many people come from around the world to visit the Grand Canyon. People can also take trips floating on the Colorado River in boats and rafts. Some people like to hike in the Grand Canyon. The land on the north side of the Grand Canyon is called the "North Rim". The land on the south side of the Grand Canyon is called the "South Rim". There are trails leading from the North Rim and the South Rim to the bottom of the canyon. These trails lead to a place at the bottom of the canyon called "Phantom Ranch". Phantom Ranch has a campground and cabins where hikers can spend the night. Some people also ride mules into the Grand Canyon. Most people who visit the Grand Canyon drive in cars to the South Rim and just look at the canyon from the rim and take pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="19469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19469" title="1490s">
1490s


</doc>
<doc id="19471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19471" title="Dairy product">
Dairy product

Dairy products are foods that are made from animal milk. Usually, they are made from the milk of cows and goats, but they can be made from the milk of other animals as well.
Dairy products include milk, butter, cheese, yogurt, and ice cream.

</doc>
<doc id="19472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19472" title="Alberto Fujimori">
Alberto Fujimori

Alberto Fujimori (born July 28, 1938) was the President of Peru from 1990-2000.
He is still remembered in Peru for defeating Shinning Path, the peace with Ecuador and recovering the economy after the presidency of Alan García.
In 2001, Fujimori's head of intelligence, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of doing illegal things. People thought that Fujimori was also involved. After that, Fujimori resigned to the Presidency of Peru.
Valentín Paniagua was elected president by the Congress soon after Fujimori resigned. Fujimori went to Japan, because he is a citizen there. Japan protected him from Peruvian law since they do not find any valid accusation.
In 2005, Fujimori was detained in Chile. The Peruvian government is now trying to bring him back to Peru in order to have him face trial

</doc>
<doc id="19477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19477" title="List of Presidents of Peru">
List of Presidents of Peru

This is a list of Presidents of Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19478" title="New York Rangers">
New York Rangers

The New York Rangers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They play in Madison Square Garden in New York City. The team began in 1926, and has won four Stanley Cup championships.
The Rangers were started by a promoter named Tex Rickard. Newspapers began calling the new team "Tex's Rangers", a play on the famous police force known as the Texas Rangers. The team picked up on the nickname, and have been called "Rangers" ever since.
The Rangers were successful in their early years, winning the Stanley Cup in 1928, 1933, and 1940. Bill Cook won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring leader in 1927 and 1933, and Bryan Hextall won it in 1942. "Babe" Pratt was a star defenceman around this time.
The Rangers did very poorly in the mid-1940s, but improved by 1950, when they lost the Stanley Cup final in overtime of the deciding game seven to the Detroit Red Wings. Buddy O'Connor won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1948, goaltender Chuck Rayner won it in 1950, and Andy Bathgate won it in 1959.
The team did not make the finals again until 1972, when they lost to the Boston Bruins. They were led by players such as Jean Ratelle, Brad Park, Ed Giacomin, and Rod Gilbert. The Rangers made the finals again in 1979, losing to the Montreal Canadians.
There was another team in New York, the Americans. The Americans felt that the Rangers were favoured by Madison Square Garden, and that their team folded in 1942 because of the Rangers. The Americans' coach and general manager, Red Dutton, claimed the Rangers would never win another Stanley Cup as long as he lived. This became known as Dutton's curse.
Red Dutton died in 1987, and his curse came true. Finally, the Rangers improved, winning the President's Cup as regular-season champions in 1992 and 1994. Mark Messier won the Hart Trophy in 1992, and Brian Leetch won two Norris Trophies as best defence. They led the Rangers to the Stanley Cup in 1994, after 54 years of not winning.
Recently, the Rangers have been a poor team, missing the playoffs many years in a row. However, in 2005-06, the team has improved again, much due to the play of star Jaromír Jágr and rookie (first year) goalie Henrik Lundqvist.

</doc>
<doc id="19480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19480" title="Headstone">
Headstone

A headstone, gravestone or tombstone is a marker, normally made from stone, that is used to identify the person that is buried beneath it (in the grave).
These markers can be plain or beautifully carved with writing (inscriptions) and pictures. 

</doc>
<doc id="19481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19481" title="Plasma">
Plasma

Plasma could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19483" title="Blood plasma">
Blood plasma

Blood plasma is the yellow liquid part of blood. In normal blood, the blood cells are suspended in the plasma. 
Plasma makes up about 55% of the total blood volume. It is mostly water (90% by volume) and contains dissolved proteins, glucose, clotting factors, mineral ions, hormones and carbon dioxide. Plasma is the transport medium for excretion. 
In hospitals, blood plasma is prepared like this. An anti-coagulant stops the blood clotting. Then tubes of blood are spun very fast in a centrifuge. The blood cells go to the bottom of the tubes. The plasma is poured into another container. 
Hospitals may give patients:
Blood serum is blood plasma without fibrinogen or the other clotting factors (that is, whole blood minus both the cells "and" the clotting factors).
Plasmapheresis is a medical therapy which involves taking out blood plasma, treating it, and putting it back in the patient.
Whole plasma may be stored frozen, or it may be stored dry. Dried plasma can be flown anywhere in the world, and is vital for the armed forces. The method was invented in the USA in 1940, and used widely in World War II. The Army/Navy standard pack was two tin cans, each with 400cc bottles inside. One held the plasma, the other distilled (pure) water. The plasma could be restored in three minutes, and remained fresh for about four hours. 

</doc>
<doc id="19484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19484" title="Vancouver Canucks">
Vancouver Canucks

The Vancouver Canucks are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL).
The Canucks were first an amateur team in the Pacific Coast Hockey League (PCHL), winning the championship in 1946 and 1948. In 1952, the PCHL joined with the Western Canada Senior Hockey League to form the minor-league Western Hockey League. The Canucks won the championship in this league in 1958, 1960, 1969, and 1970.
The term "Canuck" is slang for "Canadian". It is sometimes used in an insulting way in the USA. Canadians generally do not find the term offensive.
The Canucks joined the NHL in 1970. They were not a good team at first, though they won their division in 1975. Andre Boudrias was a star for the team at this time. The team made the Stanley Cup finals in 1982, which surprised many people, since they had finished below average in the regular season. Goaltender Richard Brodeur, along with forwards Stan Smyl, Thomas Gradin, and Darcy Rota, led the team. Coach Roger Neilson and some players raised white towels on top of their hockey sticks to "surrender" to the referees, who they thought were unfair (a white flag means surrender or "I give up"). After that, the fans all waved white flags during Canucks playoff games (this is called "Towel Power"). The team lost four games to zero in the finals to the New York Islanders.
In the late 1980s, players such as Toni Tanti and Petri Skriko led the team. They made the finals again in 1994, due to players such as goaltender Kirk MacLean, the "Russian Rocket" Pavel Bure (who scored the most goals in the NHL that year), Trevor Linden, and Cliff Ronning. However, they lost the series four games to three to the New York Rangers.
The Canucks did poorly in the late 1990s, but improved in the 2000s. Markus Naslund came second in scoring in 2002 and 2003, and was named the Pearson Trophy winner as players' choice for the best player in 2003. Todd Bertuzzi, Matthias Ohlund, and Ed Jovanovski were also important players who helped lead the team to the division title in 2004. However, they lost in overtime of deciding game seven to the Calgary Flames in the first round of the playoffs (just as they had done in 1989), and the Flames went to the finals (just like 1989).
The Canucks just missed the playoffs in 2006. Two of the young stars, identical twins Daniel and Henrik Sedin, along with players such as Anson Carter, were important to the team that year.
On April 8, 2014, the Canucks fired General Manager Mike Gillis. Not too long afterward, they announced that they had hired Trevor Linden as their new General Manager.

</doc>
<doc id="19492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19492" title="Folding">
Folding

Fold or folding could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19499" title="Mi Reflejo">
Mi Reflejo

Mi Reflejo is the first Spanish-language album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera. It was released on 2000. There are 11 songs in this album. Six of them are new songs. Five of them are from her first album "Christina Aguilera" but in Spanish.
This album won a Grammy Award as Best Latin Pop Album in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="19502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19502" title="Behavior">
Behavior

Behaviour (or behavior) is what an animal or plant does or how it acts. Behaviours may be conscious or unconscious. They may be inherited or learned.
In experiments, behaviour is the observed reaction which occurs when an organism is given a stimulus. Some organisms are more complicated than others and may be more aware of their surroundings. If their behaviour is conscious it means that they know what they are doing. If they are not aware of what they are doing this is unconscious behaviour. 
Humans will pull their hand back without thinking if they accidentally touch something hot. This is done because we (and other animals) inherit nervous system reflexes which cause us to pull away from the thing that is causing the pain.
Behaviour is linked to the nervous system as well as the endocrine system. The nervous system reacts, and notices what happens. The hormone system is much slower. It makes some kinds of behaviour more, or less, likely. A simple example is the change from being a child to an adult. This involves a whole range of hormones which affect growth and behaviour.
Behaviour is also linked to learning. Organisms which are more complicated can learn better than those that are simpler. However, even the simplest animals show habituation, which is a primitive kind of learning. For organisms, learning means that they change their behaviour because they remember having been in that situation before and know how to react.
People often use the word "behaviour" to mean the way people interact with (behave towards) one another. Children are taught what is good behaviour and what is bad behaviour. Good behaviour is about being polite and thoughtful to other people. It is the kind of behaviour that people in a society expect from others.

</doc>
<doc id="19503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19503" title="Ankle">
Ankle

In anatomy, the ankle is the joint that links the foot to the leg.

</doc>
<doc id="19507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19507" title="Tangsudo">
Tangsudo

Tangsudo, dangsudo or tang soo do () is a Korean martial art. It is considered as Korean karate.
The name "tangsudo" means "the way of Chinese hands". In the Korean peninsula several schools of martial arts had been prohibited by Japanese invaders for 35 years, and they went out from secret at the end of the Second World War. They were known as schools of tangsudo. In the modern Korea, the first school of tangsudo was Chungdokwan, founded in 1944 by the master WonKukLee. As a result of the liberation of Korean nation, which was happened 15th August 1945, other four schools were opened: Mudokkwan, Songmukwan, Chidokwan, and Changmukwan. Other schools ("kwan") were added to the list after the end of the civil war between north and south (1950-1953). In December 1955, with the approval of the president of Republic of South Korea, Singman Rhee, a meeting of the founders of the main schools was called. The intention of this meeting was to unify the different schools and to give the name and the form to the national martial art. The name should be related neither with China, nor with Japan ("tangsu"="Chinese hands" and its Japanese pronunciation is "karate").
Among a lot of already postulated names there was "Taekwondo", proposed by a General named Choi Hong Hee. In 1961 the "Korean Association of Taesudo" rises. Mudukkwan of Hwang Kee and Ydokwan of Byong Yun Kwei remained anchored to the tradition. The new organization dismembered the technical inheritance of the old tangsudo in 1962. The sporting combat with the use of jumps, kicks and fists formed taesudo briefly; the techniques of personal defense with the use of levers and throws (grappling) became "hapkido". On the other hand, the techniques of "neikung" (internal work), which control breathing, energy (Ki) and the mental concentration, became not very noticeable. In 1964 the organization changed its name once again into "Korean Association of Taekwondo". That name remain ultimate. 
In 1966, "International Taekwondo Federation" is born. Its aim was to spread out the new-born discipline in the rest of the world. Its founder is the Korean general Choi. In 1971 Taekwondo becomes national sport of South Korea for presidential decree of the president Park Chung Hee. In 1973, "World Taekwondo Federation" is born, presided by Dr Un Yong Kim. It was founded in opposition to the ITF. The ITF, after a series of continual changes, will have the support of the North Korea. Meanwhile, the WTF of Doctor Kim reaches the Olympic Games: Seoul 1988, Barcelona 1992. So, it is an official Olympic sport and no more martial art. The schools, which were faithful to tangsudo had to choose the strategy of the emigration, by installing them outside of Korea, in America, Europe, Southern Africa, etc., to maintain live and unaltered the message of the ancient, wise men of Orient.
There are many stances in the tangsudo. Some of them are basic, for example "the stance of preparation"; the others need more balance, such as "the stance on one foot" or "the stance of the crane". 
Basic techniques are simple and effective. The students learn all the basic techniques (blocks, blows, kicks) which can be found in the traditional art of tangsudo. "Dojang" (schools of the tangsudo), gives special importance to the "art", not only to fighting. The hand techniques involve, amongst others, many different fist techniques and "knife-hand" techniques. Each of them has a correct form and special practical use, and they are used in blocking and in attack. The tangsudo is the martial art which gives much attention to foot techniques and to flexibility. They are also used for both blocking and attacking. 
In the traditional method, the student has to learn the basics first of all, later he does repeatedly the fight of one step and the fight of three steps. The fight of one step teaches how to direct attention, but the fight of three steps teaches him how to move forward and to move backward, as well as how to use a distance. Together, they give the belief in student's abilities, and the student needs this belief in order to successfully block and attack in the free fight. 
The teachers give attention to the importance of the Principles and Creed of Tangsudo, the students learn discipline and respect. The self-confidence, the concentration and the control are also underlined, because they are important aspects of everyday life. 
The students do regularly the basic techniques with marching almost during every lesson. This helps them to understand the dynamics of a movement and this improves the technique by repetition. The basics teach them good balance and good stance. 
The forms are the sequences of the basic techniques. They are fixed in advance. The forms in the tangsudo are obtained from different styles of martial arts. Indeed, the majority of them is the versions of karate kata. They show the special practical use of all the basic techniques in a variety of situations. The form is considered as if the performer of the form were defending himself against many enemies. The "hyong" are arranged patterns of techniques which the students do regularly at all levels. The study of the forms increases abilities of understanding, of learning, and of remembering. Forms change the shape of the basic techniques and they teach the strategy, the tactics, the choosing of the right moment, and the balance. If the tangsudo is treated as "the art for the art", the forms are easily learned and they are similar to a kind of dance in presentation. While the student advances in ability, the "hyong" become more complicated and become the challenge. Forms are a part of the training of tangsudo which a student can easily do regularly almost anywhere. 
The fight of training gives the chance to use freely all the techniques against one or some opponents. Self-control is important. Proper choosing of the right moment, position and methods of passing through the defenses of an opponent are also exercised. Although students may use helmets, gloves and boots filled with soft material, the rule of avoiding any contact is respected. 
This exercise lets the person who is being trained practice techniques of self-defence against a known attack in a controlled way. The aim is the development of responses to certain situation without conscious thought. This allows to learn correct distance and choosing of the right moment, which are two factors of deciding importance in a real fight. This also gives self-confidence and control. This is a way of practising that is very controlled, safe, and without contact. 
The free fight allows make continuous use of the techniques against the other person in a controlled environment. The aim is to defend oneself in an unknown situation. Attention is given to safety at all times. According to the traditional method, the student need not hit a heavy bag to increase the power of his blows and to prepare himself for free fight. That is because the students uses of control, not contact. The students stop their blows close to the target. Therefore, if in a real fight they decide to hit the target, they can do it easily. 
According to the traditional theory, if the student makes contact constantly, it will be difficult to control his actions when he needs. But if he always makes continuous use of control, he can easily hit when he needs. If the student constantly makes contact during free fight, his mind will become wild. But if the student makes continuous use of controlled fight, his mind will become more controlled. Both states of mind can spread over his life outside of class. Because full contact is not allowed, the students have no need to use strong protectors (things that protect). Using boxing gloves and thick feet protectors leads them to hit strongly. And when they hit while wearing such things, they does not feel whether their technique is correct. In order to avoid this problem, the traditional masters should make a choice the light protectors of fists and of insteps. They suffice to prevent injury when the contact accidentally occurs. 
According to the modern method, the free fight is similar to fights in kickboxing. The students use boxing gloves, protectors of the feet, and protectors of the head. 
Whether free fight is aimed at competition or at fight on the street, the student should make a great effort to improve his endurance (power of enduring). That is a reason that the student needs to have good basics and good skills of the fight of one step and of three steps; they develop the student's endurance. It will not happen immediately; usually two or three months are necessary in order to develop the endurance. The important part of it is proper breathing. The student has to breathe at the right time when he hits or he blocks. If he stops his breath when he does an action, he can still do the action, but he will become gradually tired as time passes. Finally he will lose his ability to continue. On the other hand, each time he breathes in and breathes out correctly, he extends the amount of time when he can continue to fight. 
Training of self-defence teaches a student how to defend himself against grabs, holds and locks. It also contains how to deal with situations where it is necessary to defend oneself without causing permanent physical wound to his attacker and how to use pressure points. "Jayu-daeryeon" is perfect in order to improve the self-defence ability. The student can combine any techniques: kicks, punches, blows to feet (sweeps), takedowns and overthrows. 
Breaking of the boards is a favorite occupation of many students and spectators. Breaking shows the level of the students' techniques and it helps them understand what effect their techniques can have on a target. It is used during tests of movement to a higher rank and attention is given to safety at all times. This occupation teaches to focus the mind and to direct attention correctly towards the technique. This also helps the students to pass their barriers of the mind, and improves their belief in their abilities. 

</doc>
<doc id="19514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19514" title="Annie Hall">
Annie Hall

Annie Hall is a 1977 American romantic comedy movie from United Artists. Woody Allen directed and stars in it. At first it was called "Anhedonia", then "It Had To Be Jew", but these titles would not sell the movie. "Annie Hall" has been considered a biography of Allen's real life, but the actor has denied this claim.
The movie takes place in New York City and Los Angeles, California. It tells the story of Alvy Singer, a comedian from Brooklyn, who is interested in death. He has an affair with the title character (played by Diane Keaton), who loves life.
Alvy says his Brooklyn house was below a roller coaster on Coney Island. His father was the owner of a place that had bumper cars.
"Annie Hall" is noted for its use of special elements such as double exposure (two pictures in one) and magic themes in a real setting.
There is an animated scene with a cartoon version of Allen, and the Witch from Disney's "Snow White".
The movie won four Academy Awards:
Allen was nominated for Best Actor.
The movie won one Golden Globe Award, for Best Actress in Musical or Comedy (Diane Keaton). It was nominated for three more: Best Motion Picture (Musical or Comedy), Best Director (Woody Allen), and Best Actor in Musical or Comedy (Woody Allen). The film also won the BAFTA Award for Best Film and the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
It has been called one of the best comedy movies of all time. It has appeared on IMDb's Top 250 List, and was number thirty on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. In 1992, it was selected to keep in the United States National Film Registry.
Many of today's romantic comedy movies have been influenced by "Annie Hall". The tie that was worn by Keaton's character was popular at the time of the movie's release.
Christopher Walken, who would later become more famous, had his first major role as the title character's brother.

</doc>
<doc id="19517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19517" title="Hayao Miyazaki">
Hayao Miyazaki

His company made the animated movies "Spirited Away" (2001), "My Neighbor Totoro" (1988), "Kiki's Delivery Service" (1989), "Porco Rosso" (1992) and "Princess Mononoke" (1997).
His company is named Studio Ghibli. In 2001, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature for "Spirited Away". It was the first anime to win the award in that category.
During a press conference at Italy's Venice Film Festival, he announced that he was going to retire from the production of feature-length films.
Miyazaki announced his retirement on September 2, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="19520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19520" title="Gasoline">
Gasoline

Gasoline , or petrol , is a toxic, clear liquid that is mostly used as a fuel in internal combustion engines. It is made by boiling petroleum, a fossil fuel. In a distillation process, petroleum is heated to a very high temperature, then it separates into its components, one of them is gasoline. This is an expensive process. It is made mostly of octane (CH), a hydrocarbon.
Gasoline is sold at gas stations (petrol stations). In order to burn properly in high-compression internal combustion engines, each brand of gasoline includes gasoline additives. So, the exact make up of gasoline is different at different stations. Gasoline is graded by its octane rating that measures how well it will burn. Most car engines can burn "regular" gasoline which has an octane rating of 87. Precision-made engines require or prefer "premium" gasoline with an octane rating of 93. Most stations offer three different mixtures of gasoline with three separate octane ratings and prices.
Gasoline is most often used in vehicles like cars, vans, etc. Gasoline can be used in a wide variety of other things that we use every day, such as lawnmowers, leaf blowers, and small boat motors. Some larger vehicles like trucks or ships may use diesel fuel instead of gasoline. 
Gasoline is very dangerous. It can explode when an electric spark lights it. It is also harmful if a human drinks it or if it gets on the skin. It hurts the environment and human health by creating poisonous gases such as carbon monoxide. If a gasoline engine is used indoors or in a closed space, the carbon monoxide can cause death in minutes. Many people die every year from using gasoline-powered generators indoors, or leaving vehicles running inside a garage. Electric cars such as the Nissan Leaf do not use gasoline, create no carbon monoxide, are better for the environment, and are safe to leave running in a garage.
The US accounts for about 44% of the world’s gasoline consumption. In 2003 The US consumed , which equates to 1.3 gigalitres of gasoline each day (about 360 million US or 300 million imperial gallons). The US used about 510 billion litres (138 billion US gal/115 billion imp gal) of gasoline in 2006, of which 5.6% was mid-grade and 9.5% was premium grade.
Western countries have among the highest usage rates per person.
Unlike the US, countries in Europe impose substantial taxes on fuels such as gasoline. For example, price for gasoline in Europe is more than twice that in the US.
Because of the low fuel taxes, the retail price of gasoline in the US is subject to greater changes (than outside the US) when calculated as a percentage of cost-per-unit. From 1998 to 2004, the price of gasoline was between $1 and $2 USD per U.S. gallon. After 2004, the price increased until the average gas price reached a high of $4.11 per U.S. gallon in mid-2008, then dropped approximately $2.60 per U.S. gallon as of September 2009. Recently, the U.S. has experienced an upswing in gas prices of 13.51% from Jan 31st to March 7, 2011.
Most consumer goods have posted prices that exclude tax; taxes are added based on a percentage of the purchase price. Because of primitive gasoline pumps in the 1920s, United States gasoline prices are posted with taxes included and the taxes are set on cents per gallon. Taxes are added by federal, state and local governments. (These taxes collect the cost of maintaining the roads.) As of 2009, the federal tax is 18.4¢ per gallon for gasoline and 24.4¢ per gallon for diesel (excluding red diesel). Among states, the highest gasoline tax rates, as of January 2011, are California (47.7¢/gal), New York (47.3¢/gal), Hawaii (45.8¢/gal), and Connecticut (45.2¢/gal). The federal government and many states fail to increase their gasoline taxes over time with inflation. However, some states also charge a sales tax as a percentage and vary in amount depending on the cost of the gasoline.
About 9% of all gasoline sold in the US in May 2009 was premium grade, according to the Energy Information Administration. Some car manufacturers "recommend" premium gasoline but have computer-controlled engines that adjust the timing to avoid knocking. So, most cars can burn regular grade gasoline but at a slightly reduced performance. The Associated Press said premium gas–which is a higher octane and costs several cents a gallon more than regular unleaded–should be used only if the manufacturer says it is “required”.
To reduce the use of imported oil, the US uses Gasohol (10% ethanol) and E85 (85% ethanol) ethanol/gasoline mixtures.
Brazil has the largest national fuel ethanol industry. Gasoline sold in Brazil contains at least 25% anhydrous ethanol. Hydrous ethanol (about 95% ethanol and 5% water) can be used as fuel in more than 90% of new cars sold in the country. Brazilian ethanol is produced from sugar cane and noted for high carbon sequestration.

</doc>
<doc id="19521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19521" title="Tropical cyclone">
Tropical cyclone

A tropical cyclone is a circular air movement over the warm ocean waters in the warm part of Earth near the equator. Most tropical cyclones create strong winds and heavy rains. While some tropical cyclones stay out in the sea, others pass over land. This can be dangerous because they can cause a lot of damage. 
Tropical cyclones form when warm, moist ocean air rises. They begin as a group of storm winds when the water gets as hot as 80 °F (27 °C) or hotter. The Coriolis effect causes the winds to rotate. They usually move westward in the tropics, and later move north or south into the temperate zone. 
The term "tropical cyclone" is a general term and includes regionally specific terms such as "hurricane" and "typhoon". A tropical cyclone that forms in the Atlantic is called a hurricane. The same is true of those that form in the eastern, central and northern Pacific. In the western Pacific a tropical cyclone is called a typhoon. In the Indian Ocean they are called "cyclones". The name for a tropical cyclone depends on its location.
Tropical cyclones are usually given names because it helps in forecasting, tracking, and reporting. They are named once they have steady winds of 62 km/h. Committees of the World Meteorological Organization pick names. Once named, a cyclone is usually not renamed.
For several hundred years hurricanes were named after saints. In 1887, Australian meteorologist Clement Wragge began giving women's names to tropical cyclones. He drew on history and mythology for names. When he used men's names, they were usually of politicians he hated. By World War II these names were based on the phonetic alphabet (Able, Baker, Charlie). In 1953 the United States stopped using phonetic names and began using female names for these storms. This ended in 1978 when both male and female names were used for Pacific storms. In 1979 the practice was extended to hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic.
In the past these storms sank many ships. Better weather forecasting in the 20th century let most ships avoid them. When tropical cyclones reach land, they may break things. Sometimes they kill people and destroy cities. In the last 200 years, about 1.5 million people have been killed by tropical cyclones.
Wind can cause up to 83% of the total damages of a storm. Broken wreckage from destroyed objects can become deadly flying pieces. Flooding can also occur when rainfalls and/or storm surges pour water onto land.
There is a possibility of indirect deaths "after" a tropical cyclone makes landfall. For example, New Orleans, Louisiana suffered from poor sanitary conditions after Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005.
Tropical cyclones are classified into different categories depending on their strength and location. The National Hurricane Center which observes hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean and Eastern and Central Pacific Ocean classify them into the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
Tropical cylones in other places such as the Western Pacific Ocean or the Southern Hemisphere are classified on similar scales. For example; if a tropical storm in the western Pacific reaches hurricane-strength winds, it is then officially recognized as a "typhoon".
A tropical depression is an organized group of clouds and thunderstorms with a clear surface circulation and maximum sustained winds of less than 17 m/s (33 kt, 38 mph, or 62 km/h). It has no eye and does not usually have the spiral shape of more powerful storms. Only the Philippines are known to name tropical depressions.
A tropical storm is an organized system of strong thunderstorms with a very clear surface circulation and maximum sustained winds between 17 and 32 m/s (34–63 kt, 39–73 mph, or 62–117 km/h). At this point, the cyclonic shape starts to form, although an eye does not usually appear in tropical storms. Most tropical cyclone agencies beginning naming cyclonic storms at this point, except for the Philippines which have their own way of naming cyclones.
A hurricane or typhoon is a cyclonic weather system with sustained winds of at least 33 m/s (64 kt, 74 mph, or 118 km/h). A tropical cyclone of this strength usually develop an eye, an area of calm conditions at the center of circulation. The eye is often seen from space as a small, round, cloud-free spot. Surrounding the eye is the eyewall, an area in which the strongest thunderstorms and winds spin around the storm's center. The fastest sustained windspeed founded in tropical cyclones is thought to be 85 m/s (165 kt, 190 mph, 305 km/h).

</doc>
<doc id="19524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19524" title="Aymara language">
Aymara language

The Aymara language is spoken by the Aymara tribe in Bolivia, Peru, and north of Chile. In Chile only a third declared linguistic competence. The language is inflected. It is one of the few Native American languages which has over one million speakers.

</doc>
<doc id="19525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19525" title="Michelle Bachelet">
Michelle Bachelet

Verónica Michelle Bachelet Jeria AC (; born 29 September 1951) is a Chilean politician. She became President of Chile on 11 March 2014. She was also President of Chile from 11 March 2006 to 11 March 2010. She was the first woman president of Chile.
In 2010, Bachelet became the president of UN Women. In 2013, she resigned from that position.
Bachelet is a socialist.

</doc>
<doc id="19528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19528" title="Zhou">
Zhou

Zhou is a Chinese name that refers to:
It is also the Chinese word for "U. S. state".
Zhou (周) is also a common Chinese surname. Famous people with that name include:

</doc>
<doc id="19530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19530" title="Politician">
Politician

A politician is someone in politics who has, or who runs for, a governmental office.
Some common posts for politicians are:

</doc>
<doc id="19531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19531" title="Sendero Luminoso">
Sendero Luminoso

Sendero Luminoso, (English:Shining Path, official complete name: Partido Comunista del Peru-Sendero Luminoso, PCP-SL), is a Peruvian Maoist group which is based on communist ideology. Their leader, Abimael Guzmán, and several important members of the group were captured on September 12, 1992. Since then, the group has not been as powerful.

</doc>
<doc id="19532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19532" title="Fat">
Fat

Fat is one of the three main types of nutrient. Fats are found in many foods.They are made of macromolecules called lipids. Lipids are based on long-chain fatty acids. Some of these are essential because the body cannot make them. 
There are three different types of fats : Unsaturated fats, Saturated fats, and Trans fats.
Unsaturated fats, are liquid at room temperature. They are considered useful fats because they can improve blood cholesterol levels, and ease heart rhythms. Most vegetable oils are liquid at room temperature have unsaturated fats. There are two kinds of unsaturated fats, Mono-unsaturated fats, and polyunsaturated fats. We can commonly find them in avocados, nuts, peanuts, seeds, fish, and canola oil.
Saturated fats will likely have no benefits; they are mainly found in animal foods, but a few plant foods are also high in saturated fats. Too much saturated fat in your diet can lead to heart disease and other health problems, such as gaining weight or increasing the risk of heart disease or stroke. People should not eat too much saturated fats. You should limit saturated fat to less than 10% of your daily calories. It can usually be found in dairy products, meat products, grain-based desserts.
Trans fatty acids, which are more commonly called trans fats. There are two types of trans fats, naturally-occurring and artificial trans fats.  Naturally-occurring trans fats can be found in the guts of some animals and foods which are made from these animals. Artificial trans fats are made in an industrial process that adds hydrogen to liquid vegetable oils to make them more solid. Trans fats are bad for cholesterol levels than saturated fats. They are most likely found in frying. baked goods, and processed foods.
Fats are used to absorb or get nutrients, like Vitamins for humans. It is used as a source of backup energy in cases when carbohydrates are not available, or people can not use it at that time. People need more than 20 to 35% of daily calories from fat. Also, fats play a role in helping people's body maintain or keep the core (center) temperature. However, they are also harmful, in other words, they have bad effects on human's bodies.
Bad fats, in other words, trans fats, have no known health benefits and will damage someone's heart and take them away from healthy. People might get diseases like blindness, which means they can not see anything because of having too much cholesterol and other fats. Most of the foods that contain these types of fats are solid at room temperature, such as butter and animal meat. On the other hand, good fats are naturally found in foods and will not damaged human's organs. The example foods of good fats are avocados, eggs, and nuts.
Unsaturated fatty acids are very important. They are called by where their double bond is placed. Omega-3 fatty acids (ω-3) and omega-6 fatty acids (ω-6) are essential: you need them both. They help build longer molecules which do cell signaling in different tissues. There are over 20 different signaling paths that control a wide array of bodily functions.
Why do you need to eat fat to burn fat?
Medium-chain triglycerides are good for burning fat. They are easily absorbed, digested, and reused as energy. Eating milk fat, palm oil, and coconut oil will burn burn fat because they contain medium-chain triglycerides.  Also, medium-chain triglycerides can increase metabolism. Increasing metabolism can burn more fat. Athletes use medium-chain triglycerides to increase their endurance during exercise. And nobody cooks medium-chain triglycerides oil. Healthy people are mix with water, juice, ice cream, or pudding.Fat is important for people, even though some people think fat is bad. But fat can help us keep our weight, and fat doesn’t make us fat. The fat that we eat can prove energy for us, and protects our organs, also keeping save for our cell membranes. But not all the fatty foods are good for you. Like pizza, french fries, and hamburgers. The fat of those will let you became fat and, let your health became terrible.
Fats also provide long-term energy for humans and, in cold climates, a layer of insulation to keep the body warm. They help the body use the vitamins found in foods. Fats are also good for the skin and hair. Olive oil is an especially healthy fat. Many types of fish also contain healthy fat, for example salmon, sardines, herring, and tuna. But if too much fat collects in the body, a person can become too heavy. The energy given by fats is used by moving around or exercising. Some vegetables like celery or carrots contribute much less to the bodies fat supply. Though being very important for the human body, it can also harmful in large amounts.
First, you can get some diseases if you have too many fats in your body. One of these diseases is called the Fatty Liver. It is a condition which can be resolved by eating different food. Fatty liver is when someone has too many fats in his liver. But it can also associate by alcohol or metabolic syndrome. Fatty liver can be fixed, it can be improved by doing more games or adjust food and drinks. This is one of the hidden danger of fats.
Another hidden danger of fats is that it can cause some heart diseases. One example is Heart Failure.Heart Failure is an illness that does not have enough heart pumps blood. It lowers the leading of blood flow. The blood stuck in veins and lungs.There are some ways to avoid these issues. The first way is to work out. Exercise is always good for your body.  The second  way is to eat healthily. You need to keep nutritious balance in your body. Also, enough protein can help you remove the fats in your body.

</doc>
<doc id="19533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19533" title="Saturated fat">
Saturated fat

Saturated fat is a kind of fat. It contains no double bonds. It contains carbon atoms that are fully saturated with hydrogen. Saturated fats are usually solid at room temperature. They have no double bonds, while unsaturated fat has one or two.
Is saturated fat a risk factor for heart disease (CVD)? This is a question with many controversial views. Although most in the mainstream heart-health, government, and medical communities hold that saturated fat is a risk factor for CVD, some recent studies have produced conflicting results.
Saturated fats are a kind of fat. For a long time scientists have believed that eating saturated fat was a leading cause for heart attack, cancer, or other diseases. However, new research have shown that there is no connection between how much saturated fat you eat and heart diseases. This is still a controversial question.
Things like butter, nuts, chocolate and meat have lots of saturated fat.
Saturated means that it holds all the hydrogen atoms that it can, meaning that all of the carbon (c) atoms have two hydrogen (H) atoms attached to it. 

</doc>
<doc id="19534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19534" title="Mackinac Bridge">
Mackinac Bridge

The Mackinac Bridge is a 5-mile-long (8-km.-long) bridge that carries a four-lane interstate highway, Interstate 75. It was built by the U.S. state of Michigan and connects that state's Upper Peninsula and Lower Peninsula together.
The Mackinac Bridge passes over a strait of water that connects two Great Lakes, Lake Michigan (to the west of the bridge) and Lake Huron (to the east). 
At the center of the Mackinac Bridge is a long suspension span, in which the bridge, made of steel and concrete, hangs from wires that run down from two huge, curved cables.
The government agency that runs the Mackinac Bridge charges motor vehicles a toll to drive over it. In 2007, the toll was $2.50 for a passenger car.
The government hangs colored lights from the big cable, and turns them on at night so that the bridge can be seen from many miles away.
The Mackinac Bridge was opened in 1957, and this started a major economic boom in northern Michigan as tourists drove from all over North America to see the bridge, the Great Lakes, and the northern forests.

</doc>
<doc id="19535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19535" title="Unsaturated fat">
Unsaturated fat

Unsaturated fat is a kind of fat. It is different from saturated fat in that it is liquid at room temperature while saturated fat is more solid. Its molecules contains double bonds whose carbon atoms that are not fully saturated with hydrogen. There are two types: 
In cellular metabolism, an unsaturated fat molecule contains somewhat less energy (that is fewer calories) than the saturated fat molecule of the same length.
Examples of unsaturated fats are palmitoleic acid, oleic acid, myristoleic acid, linoleic acid, and arachidonic acid. Foods containing unsaturated fats include avocado, nuts, and vegetable oils such as canola and olive oils. Meat products contain both saturated and unsaturated fats.
Unsaturated fat is better for people than saturated fat. Some testing has shown that it can raise a person's HDL ("good" cholesterol) levels.
Unsaturated fat is also very important for a healthy brain.
People think that unsaturated fats are 'healthier' than saturated fats. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended that the amount of unsaturated fat consumed should not exceed 30% of one's daily caloric intake (or 67 grams given a 2000 Calorie diet). The new dietary guidelines have eliminated this recommendation at the request of the meat and dairy industries.
Most foods contain both unsaturated and saturated fats. Food packages promote only one or the other, depending on which is the largest share in the product. So, various unsaturated fat vegetable oils, such as olive oils, also contain saturated fat.

</doc>
<doc id="19539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19539" title="Cold fusion">
Cold fusion

Cold fusion is nuclear fusion at room temperature and normal pressure. Nuclear fusion is the process by which many nuclei, the center of an atom, containing protons and neutrons, are forced to join together to form a heavier nucleus (singular of nuclei) and during that process, energy is released. Some scientists hope that this may be Earth's future energy source, but most scientists do not agree.
For nuclear fusion to take place, a large amount of energy is needed. With this energy, the atoms are pushed together, which are repelled by the electrostatic force (a force between protons which are particles in the nucleus of the atom and have a positive electrical charge). But once this force is overcome and the nuclei are pushed close enough together, another much more powerful force will take over: the strong nuclear force. It only operates at short distances, so when the nuclei are close enough, they attract each other because of the strong nuclear force which is stronger than the electrostatic force. It is hoped that the energy released by cold fusion is much greater than the energy used to push the atoms together. 
In 1989 two scientists, Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann, published a paper in "Nature", an important science journal, claiming to have created cold fusion. This was a very important story at the time. Other scientists were not able to repeat their experiments. This is why cold fusion is not generally accepted by scientists at the moment. Several dozen scientists are still working on cold fusion research. They publish in peer-reviewed journals and other academic sources regularly, but most are not convinced.

</doc>
<doc id="19540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19540" title="Cusco">
Cusco

Cusco is a city in southeastern Peru, near the Huatanay Valley (Sacred Valley) in the Andes mountain range. It is the capital of Cusco Region. The city has a population of about 300 000, triple the population it contained just 20 years ago. Alternate spellings include Qusqu (in old Quechua), Cusco, (after the Spanish arrived), and current Quechua. Cusco is the preferred way to spell it in Spanish.
Cusco was the capital of Tahuantinsuyu (or Inca Empire). The city was planned to be shaped like a puma. The city had two areas: the "hurin" and "hanan", which were further divided to each be part of two of the four provinces of the Inca Empire: Chinchasuyu (NW), Antisuyu (NE), Cuntisuyu (SW), and Collasuyu (SE). 
A road led from each of these quarters to the corresponding quarter of the empire. Each local leader was required to build a house in the city and live part of the year in Cusco, but only in the quarter of Cusco that corresponded to the quarter of the empire he had territory in. 
According to Inca legend, the city was built by Sapa Inca Pachacuti, the man who transformed the Kingdom of Cusco from a sleepy city-state into the vast empire of Tahuantinsuyu. But archaeological evidence points to a slower, more organic growth of the city beginning before Pachacutieven though he did initiate growth in the city after defeating the Chancas as a monument to Incan glory. There was however a city plan, and two rivers were changed to flow around the city.
The first Spanish soldiers arrived in the city on November 15, 1533. Spanish "conquistador", or "conqueror", Francisco Pizarro, however, officially refounded Cusco on March 23, 1534, naming it the "Very noble and great city of Cusco". The many buildings constructed after the Spanish conquest have Spanish influence with a mix of Inca architecture. The Spanish made a new city on the foundations of the old Inca city, replacing Incan temples with churches and palaces for the Spanish. In the colony, the city of Cusco was very rich, thanks to the agriculture, cattle raising, mining and trade with Spain. Many churches and convents were built, and even a Cathedral, and the Universidad Nacional San Antonio Abad del Cusco.
The major earthquake that hit Cusco in 1950 badly destroyed the Dominican Priory and Church of Santo Domingo, which were built on top of the impressive Koricancha (Temple of the Sun). The city's Inca architecture, however, survived the earthquake. Many of the old Inca walls were thought to have been lost after the earthquake, but the granite walls of the Koricancha were exposed, as well as many walls throughout the city. While some wanted to restore the buildings to their colonial splendor, some of Cusco citizens urged city officials to retain the exposed walls. Eventually they won out and now tourists from around the world enjoy looking at these ruins within the living city. The 1950 earthquake was the second time that the Dominican Priory had been destroyed, the first being in 1650 when another major earthquake struck Cusco.
Other nearby Inca sites are: Pachacuti's presumed winter home Machu Picchu, which can be reached by a lightly maintained Inca trail; the "fortress" at Ollantaytambo; and the "fortress" of Sacsayhuaman which is approximately two kilometers from Cusco. Other less visited ruins include Inca Wasi, the highest of all Inca sites at 3,980 m (13,134 feet), and Old Vilcabamba the capital of the Inca after the Spanish took over Cusco.
The surrounding area, in the Huatanay Valley, is strong in agriculture. There is corn, barley, quinoa, tea, and coffee grown.
Cusco's main stadium, Estadio Garcilaso de la Vega, attracted many tourists during South America's continental soccer championship, the Copa América 2004, which was held in Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19541" title="Cusco Region">
Cusco Region

Cusco is a region in Peru. The capital is the city of Cusco.
Cusco Region is home to Machu Picchu, one of the most famous landmarks in South America.

</doc>
<doc id="19542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19542" title="Midnight Cowboy">
Midnight Cowboy

Midnight Cowboy is a 1969 American drama movie, released by United Artists. John Schlesinger directed it, and Waldo Salt wrote the screenplay based on the James Leo Herlihy novel. It stars Dustin Hoffman (in his first starring role after "The Graduate"), along with Jon Voight in the title role.
It is the only X-rated movie to win an Academy Award for Best Picture. Schlesinger won a Best Director Award; both Hoffman and Voight were nominated for Best Actor.
In 1971, it was given the "R" rating by the MPAA. Apart from this, nothing was changed in the movie.
Joe Buck (played by Voight, in his first major acting role) was an orphan who was raised by his grandmother in Texas. She died after Joe grew up, when he was drafted into the US Army. He had a girlfriend, who was called Crazy Annie, but she had been sent to a psychiatric hospital. With both women gone from his life, Joe had no family or close friends. After he left the Army, he worked as a dishwasher, and dreamed of moving to New York City, to become a "hustler" – a male prostitute. He saved money to make the trip, bought some stylish cowboy clothes, and traveled to New York City on a bus.
Joe knew little about the realities of both New York and his chosen job, and he soon found himself homeless, with no money and only rare chances to earn any. When he first met "Ratso" Rizzo (Hoffman's character), Ratso (tricked) Joe out of $20, but when they met again, Ratso offered to share his "place", which turned out to be a room in a condemned building. The two became partners. Ratso shared what he knew about New York with Joe, and became his "manager" (pimp), and Joe shared any money he got with Ratso. Ratso was sick, probably with tuberculosis, and as time went on he depended more and more on Joe. Ratso cheered both of them up with stories about his plans to move to Florida before winter came.
The weather turned cold as the year ended, but Joe and Ratso got a break, when they were invited to a big party. Along with eating (and stashing for later) as much of the food there as they could, Joe met a who finally treated him the way he'd always wanted to be, in New York City, and paid him likewise. Ratso, however, became even more ill, and was unable to walk or stand for long. He refused to go to a doctor or a hospital, and insisted Joe take him to Florida.
Joe tried to set up another encounter with the socialite, to raise travel money, but failed. He donated blood to get grocery money, and by chance met a traveling . The salesman invited Joe to spend the night with him, but later felt guilty, and sent Joe home with a St. Christopher medal. When Joe found Ratso sicker than ever, he returned to beat and rob the salesman, for the money they needed.
Joe and Ratso left for Florida on a bus, headed to Miami. Joe bought new clothes for them both, and threw away his cowboy clothing. "I ain't no kinda hustler," Joe decided, and he planned to find a regular job once they reached Florida. Joe and Ratso talked and joked during most of the trip, but Ratso died before they arrived. Joe realized how much he had cared about Ratso as a person, and that what he'd missed most in his life was someone to be close with. Joe had lost his grandmother and his sweetheart. Now he'd lost his best friend, and Joe was scared to go on alone.
The movie won Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Adapted Screenplay. Both Hoffman and Voight were nominated for Best Actor awards and Sylvia Miles was nominated for Best Supporting Actress. Miles had one of the shortest performances ever nominated (clocking in under four minutes of screen-time).
The film won six BAFTA Awards. It was also entered into the 19th Berlin International Film Festival.
John Barry, who supervised the music and composed the score for the movie, won a Grammy for Best Instrumental Theme. Fred Neil's song "Everybody's Talkin'" also won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance, for Harry Nilsson.
In 1994, the movie was picked by the Library of Congress to keep in the United States National Film Registry.

</doc>
<doc id="19543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19543" title="Age of consent">
Age of consent

The age of consent is the age at which a person can legally consent to have sexual intercourse. This is also the minimum age of the other person legally permitted to engage in sexual activity. Having sex with a person who is younger than the age of consent (but who agrees to have sex) is called statutory rape. The person below the minimum age is regarded as a victim, and their sex partner as the offender. Different countries have different laws regarding the age of consent. Some are as low as 12 or as high as 21. Most countries have ages set between 13 and 16. But worldwide, the average age of consent is 16 years of age.
Most jurisdictions allow minors above a certain age to marry with parental and/or government permission. In jurisdictions which allow this, a minor who is married is an exception to the law. For example, in Wisconsin the age of consent for sex is 18. Marriage is an exception. Marriage usually prevents a party to the marriage from being charged under sexual assault laws, as long as both husband and wife are at least 16 years, although not if one of the parties is younger than this age and one is older. This varies from country to country. In some places kissing is considered a sexual activity. Other places only count sexual intercourse. Most countries have laws that say what the legal age of consent is. This is usually a fixed age. For example, in France the age of consent is set at 15, which means having sex with anyone below that age by anyone over that age is illegal. However, some jurisdictions use sexual maturity instead of age to determine capacity for consent. For example, when Russia was a part of the Soviet Union, its age of consent was having reached "sexual maturity".
There are exceptions to age of sexual consent laws. Although most jurisdictions have a fixed age set as the law, where no one over that age can be with anyone under that age, some states have close in age exceptions. For example, in Indiana the age of consent for sex is 16, but there is a close in age exception that makes it legal for a person younger than 18 but above 16 to still be able to have sex with a 14 year old without being guilty of a crime. Indiana also allows a defense against the law in court if the victim is married or was married in the past, and allows pregnant females who are 15 or older to marry the man who impregnated. This is with parental and government approval as an alternative to prosecuting the defendant.
The age of consent varies between states and countries. The laws in different areas range as low as 13 yrs old to 20 yrs. The laws are almost always affected by a nation's culture. Nations with Islamic law tend to have lower ages. European countries generally range from 14yrs to 16yrs. In the United States, the age varies from 16 to 18. In many areas, there is a "close-in-age" part of the laws. This allows for people under of consent but above a certain age to have sex with people as long as there older partner is either less than a certain age or the difference in age is a certain amount of years. The age of consent may also vary if one of the people is in a position of authority over the other. For example, if the older person was a teacher of the "victim", the age may be higher than for other people, an example of this is Indiana where the age where a person can have sex is 16 except if the older partner is a teacher at the "victim's" high school, in which case the age limit is 18. If the two people are married, the age is often lower. Age of consent can also be affected by the type of sex or the sex of the person. Many areas have different ages for homosexual sex as well as anal sex. There are areas which also have different ages depending on if the person is male or female.
For example, in Victoria, Australia, the age of consent is 16. The law says that the minimum age is 12 and that there is a two-year "close-in-age" exception. It is against the law to have sex (or any other sexual act) with a person under the age of 12, even if they said yes. If one of the people having sex is between the age of 12 and 15, the other can not be more than two years older than that person. A 13yr old can have sex with a 15 yr old. A 15 yr old (still a minor) can have sex with a 17 yr old (an adult). It is against the law for a person to have sex with someone aged 16 or 17 if they are responsible for their care.
If a person is caught having sex, or any other sexual act, with someone who is below the age of consent, the person may be punished as a sex offender. The violator may be sent to prison, or jail, or fined. In Wisconsin having sex with a person beneath 16, a felony (serious crime), carries prison time,but having sex with a minor who is 16 or over but under 18, which is a misdemeanor (a non-serious crime), carries jail time and a fine. An example of punishing age of consent violations occurred in 2011, an American swimming teacher was sent to prison for 16 months for having sex with a 15-year-old student. The law usually applies to both males and females having sex with a minor.

</doc>
<doc id="19545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19545" title="Andy Richter">
Andy Richter

Andy Richter (born October 28, 1966) is an American comedian and actor. He is best known for his former role as Conan O'Brien's sidekick on "Late Night with Conan O'Brien". Richter was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He is the second of four children. He was raised in Yorkville, Illinois. While attending Columbia College, Chicago, he played in several Chicago comedy groups, including the Annoyance Theatre, before getting on Late Night.
Richter left Late Night in 2000. He said he wanted to focus on an acting career. His first major work was FOX's critically acclaimed but little watched "Andy Richter Controls the Universe". It was cancelled after two short runs. His next FOX sitcom, "Quintuplets", was not liked by the critics. It lasted only one season. He is married to actress Sarah Thyre. They have two children.
In addition to his television work, Richter has appeared in movies such as "Seeing Other People", Olsen Twins' "New York Minute", "Madagascar", and "Cabin Boy".

</doc>
<doc id="19546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19546" title="Jennifer Granholm">
Jennifer Granholm

Jennifer Granholm (b. February 5, 1959) is a Canadian born American politician. She was the governor of the state of Michigan from 2003 to 2011. Granholm was born in Canada and raised in California. She ran for governor of Michigan in 2002, even though she had lived in the state for less than 15 years.

</doc>
<doc id="19547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19547" title="Sandra Day O'Connor">
Sandra Day O'Connor

Sandra Day O'Connor (born March 26, 1930) is a retired justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She was the first woman to serve as justice on the Supreme Court, as well as the first from Arizona.
One of her ideas on the Supreme Court was the endorsement test. It was a way to check if the government was supporting religion.
O'Connor was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1981 by President Ronald Reagan. Reagan said while running for president that he wanted a woman to be on the supreme court and promised to nominate a woman for the job the first chance he got. One of her biggest supporters was Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater, who helped make sure that all 100 Senators voted to confirm her. While on the Supreme Court, she was involved in several major supreme court decisions including: Bush v. Gore, which had to do with a disputed election; Planned Parenthood v. Casey which involved a woman's right to privacy, and Lawrence v. Texas, a case about whether burning a US flag was free speech. She retired from the court in 2006. Sam Alito was chosen to replace her. On August 12, 2009, she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor of the United States, by President Barack Obama.
She has a school named after her in North Phoenix, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="19548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19548" title="John Paul Stevens">
John Paul Stevens

John Paul Stevens (born April 20, 1920) is a retired United States Supreme Court justice. He was nominated by President Gerald Ford in 1975. He voted with minority in Bush v. Gore case (2000). He also voted with majority in Furman v. Georgia case (1976), but later bacame a death penalty opponent. In 2010, he announced his retirement in the Supreme Court.

</doc>
<doc id="19549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19549" title="Antonin Scalia">
Antonin Scalia

Antonin Gregory Scalia (March 11, 1936 – February 13, 2016) was a Conservative jurist on the Supreme Court of the United States. He was an Associate Justice. Scalia was put on the Court in 1986 by Ronald Reagan and was the longest-serving justice on the Court. Before becoming a justice, he was on the District of Columbia Court of Appeals and was a law professor. He was a Roman Catholic born to Italian American parents. He was the first Italian-American on the Court. 
Scalia was born in Trenton, New Jersey, but grew up in Queens, New York. Scalia went to Georgetown University, the University of Fribourg, Switzerland, and Harvard Law School. He began his career in Cleveland, Ohio and traveled to Chicago, Illinois during his early life. 
Scalia was noted for holding a conservative approach to the law. He also believed in originalism. This means he wanted the Constitution interpreted exactly as its framers had wanted it. Scalia and fellow judge Clarence Thomas often had the same viewpoints. He was friends with justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Scalia died in his sleep of a heart attack on February 13, 2016 at a ranch in Shafter, Texas at the age of 79. His death leaves a split in the court with 4 conservatives and 4 liberals. President Barack Obama said he will choose Scalia's successor in "due time". President Obama, former Governor of Texas Rick Perry, Governor of Ohio John Kasich, former Presidents George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, Senators Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, and Bernie Sanders, and Vice president Joe Biden all reacted to his death. 
On March 16, 2016, President Obama nominated Merrick Garland to replace Scalia.

</doc>
<doc id="19550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19550" title="Anthony Kennedy">
Anthony Kennedy

Anthony Kennedy is on the Supreme Court of the United States. He was made a judge on that court in 1988.
Kennedy was born in Sacramento, California, on July 23, 1936. He went to Harvard University, Stanford University, and the London School of Economics. He was a private lawyer, a professor, and in 1975, he was appointed by Gerald Ford to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. In 1988, Ronald Reagan nominated him for the Supreme Court. He became a member of the court on February 18, 1988. He has two sons and a daughter.

</doc>
<doc id="19551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19551" title="David Souter">
David Souter

David Souter is a member of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born September 17, 1939. Souter has been an Associate Justice since 1990. He replaced William J. Brennan.
Even though Souter had never traveled outside the United States during his years with the Supreme Court, he still had gained quite a recognition abroad. In 1995, a series of articles, based on his written opinions and entitled "Souter Court", was published by a Moscow legal journal "The Russian Justice." Those were followed by a book, written in Russian and bearing Souter's name in the title. Justice of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation Yury Danilov, reviewing the 2nd edition of the book in a Moscow English-language daily, made the following remark on Souter's position in Bush v. Gore case: "In a most critical and delicate situation, David Souter had maintained the independence of his position and in this respect had become a symbol of the independence of the judiciary."
In May 2009, Souter wrote President Barack Obama and said he planned to retire later in the same year.

</doc>
<doc id="19552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19552" title="Clarence Thomas">
Clarence Thomas

Clarence Thomas is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born on June 23, 1948. Thomas has been a Justice since 1991. He is the only African-American currently on the court. He is also the second African American to ever serve on the court. The only other African American was Thurgood Marshall. 
Clarence Thomas was born in Pin Point, Georgia. His father left his family when he was only two years old. He did not meet his son Clarence again until Clarence was nine years old. This left his mother, Leola Anderson, to take care of the family. 
Clarence and his brother were sent to live with his mother's parents in Savannah, Georgia. His grandfather wanted him to become a priest. Thomas was sent to St. John Vianney Minor Seminary, an all-white boarding school near Savannah. In 1968 he transferred to the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts. He gave up all ideas of becoming a priest after the death of Martin Luther King Jr.. Thomas then obtained a law degree at Yale University. 
After Yale he returned to Missouri and worked for State Attorney General, John Danforth. in 1977 Danforth was elected to the U.S. Senate. Thomas became a corporate lawyer for the Monsanto Company. Two years later he became Danforth's legislative aide in Washington, D.C.. President Ronald Reagan offered Thomas a job as the assistant secretary for civil rights in the U.S. Department of Education. He then became the chairman of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Thomas was appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 1990 by President George H. W. Bush. In 1991, Thurgood Marshall retired from the Supreme Court. Bush nominated Thomas to replace him.
He had a hard time getting approved so that he could become a Supreme Court justice. This was partly because one of his former employees, Anita Hill, claimed that he sexually harassed her. Thomas said that was not true. The Senate confirmed his nomination by a vote of 52-48. All Republicans, except Bob Packwood of Oregon and James Jeffords of Vermont, voted for confirmation. 

</doc>
<doc id="19553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553" title="Stephen Breyer">
Stephen Breyer

Stephen Breyer is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born August 15, 1938. Breyer has been an Associate Justice since 1994. Breyer generally favors a liberal interpretation of the law; he is pro-choice and pro-civil liberties. Breyer had the second-longest tenure as the most junior justice on the bench. Breyer is also the only justice to appear on a quiz show ("Wait Wait Don't Tell Me"). Before being a judge, Breyer was a professor at Harvard Law School and a judge on the First Circuit Court of Appeals. Breyer is an Eagle Scout.

</doc>
<doc id="19554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19554" title="Ruth Bader Ginsburg">
Ruth Bader Ginsburg

Ruth Joan Bader Ginsburg (born March 15, 1933) is an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Ginsburg was appointed by President Bill Clinton and took the oath of office on August 10, 1993. She is the second female justice (after Sandra Day O'Connor) and the first Jewish female justice.
Ginsburg had surgery for colon cancer in 1999 and for pancreatic cancer in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="19555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19555" title="John G. Roberts">
John G. Roberts

John Glover Roberts, Jr. (born January 27, 1955) is the seventeenth and current Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Appointed by President George W. Bush, Roberts is generally considered a member of the more conservative wing of the court.
Before joining the Supreme Court on September 29, 2005, Roberts was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for two years.
Roberts has been portrayed as a consistent advocate for conservative principles by analysts such as Jeffrey Toobin.

</doc>
<doc id="19556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19556" title="Tacna Region">
Tacna Region

Tacna Region is the most southern region in Peru. The capital city is Tacna.

</doc>
<doc id="19557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19557" title="Tacna">
Tacna

Tacna is a city in Peru. It is the capital of Tacna Region.

</doc>
<doc id="19559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19559" title="Franz Kafka">
Franz Kafka

Franz Kafka (born Prague July 3, 1883 – died near Vienna June 3, 1924) was a Czech-born, German-speaking writer. His best known works are "The Metamorphosis" and the novels "The Trial" and "The Castle". Not much of his work was published during his lifetime. He asked his friend to make sure that all his writings which were not published, including his three novels, would be destroyed when he died. Fortunately his friend did not destroy them, and they were published after Kafka’s death.
Kafka’s writings are about the frightening world around him which he often did not understand. A typical situation in his books might be someone who has gone somewhere to take a message, but he does not know what the message is or who it is for. The people he meets confuse him even more. Sometimes, when people find themselves in strange, nightmarish situations like this, they are described as Kafkaesque situations.
Kafka was born into a middle-class Jewish family. His father was a merchant. He was very strict and unkind to his family. Kafka’s stories often have fathers who are very brutal and unkind. Kafka spent most of his life living at home. He never married or became free from his parents. He felt that he had no will of his own. He wrote about people who are dominated by some mysterious power. He found it difficult to make friends, he hated his job and everyone around him. He often felt that he belonged nowhere. He was German-speaking but lived in a Czech-speaking country (Bohemia, part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, now part of the Czech Republic). He was different because he was Jewish, but he did not become part of the Jewish community either. He said that he was a socialist and an atheist, but although he was interested in politics he never took part in political activity. He supported Czechs who wanted to rule their own country and let their culture flourish, but he was not one of them because he himself was brought up in a German culture.
It was while he was studying law at the University of Prague that he met Max Brod who was to become his friend. Brod was a writer himself, and he later wrote a biography of Kafka.
After his studies Kafka took a job in an insurance company. He was good at his job although he hated it. He found the office work boring, and he spent his nights writing. In 1917 he got tuberculosis. Gradually he became more and more ill. He had to retire in 1922. He spent some time in hospital. He died in Klosterneuburg in 1924.
Several publishers realized how good Kafka’s writings were and asked him whether they could publish his works. Kafka reluctantly let a few things be published. One of these works was a story called " Metamorphosis" (German: "Die Verwandlung"). It is about a man called Gregor Samsa (the name “Samsa” means "loner" or "lonely"). Gregor wakes up one morning to find he has changed into a giant cockroach. His family becomes ashamed of him and they stop looking after him so that he slowly dies. Stories like these are a kind of fable. They are full of strange and frightening situations.
His novel "Amerika" (published in 1927) is about a man who arrives in America looking for a father figure to protect him. He is quiet and timid and other people use him. In the end he dies. 
In "The Trial" (German: "Der Prozess", published in 1925), a man who works in a bank is arrested and taken to court. He is never told what he has done wrong. Even the priest tells him that if he asks what he has done wrong it proves that he is guilty. Finally he is executed.
In "The Castle" (German: "Das Schloss") a man who is simply called “K” (the first letter of “Kafka”) arrives at a castle saying that he has been given a job there, but the people there say they have not been told about his appointment. Kafka never finished the novel, but Max Brod says that Kafka was going to end it with K receiving permission to stay at the castle just as he was dying. The German word “Schloss” has two meanings: “castle” and “lock”. K becomes locked (trapped) in this strange situation.
At the time of his death only a few people understood Kafka’s writings. Max Brod saved all the unpublished books which would otherwise have been lost. Kafka is now thought of as one of the most important writers of the 20th century. His works had a lot of influence on German literature.

</doc>
<doc id="19560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19560" title="Eva Braun">
Eva Braun

Eva Anna Paula Braun (6 February 1912 – 30 April 1945) was the longtime girlfriend of Adolf Hitler. She met him in Munich when she was 17 years old. They married the day before they committed suicide (killed themselves), Braun killed herself by using cyanide. Hitler used cyanide and at the same time shot himself. When she was married, she was known as Eva Anna Paula Hitler. She was born in Munich, Germany and died in Berlin, Germany at the age of 33.

</doc>
<doc id="19566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19566" title="Computer recycling">
Computer recycling

Computer recycling means taking things from old computers and using them in new computer things. The phrase is also used to mean that computers need to be thrown away in a special way, as they often have things that are bad for the environment or dangerous inside them that can cause problems if they are thrown away like usual waste (garbage).
Sometimes people are worried that the information inside a computer will be stolen when the computer is thrown away. For example, if you have a product design on an old computer, somebody might copy your design. Big companies have a lot of computers, with a lot of private information on them. They will often pay other companies to remove all the information from a computer before it is thrown away. This usually involves physically destroying the drive. It is possible to non-destructively erase the data on a hard drive by overwriting the entire drive with random numbers. With this method, only the data is destroyed, not the drive itself. This allows the drive to be reused.

</doc>
<doc id="19568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19568" title="Nagasaki">
Nagasaki

Nagasaki is in the southwest of Kyushu.
It has been recognized as a core city since 1997.
During the Edo period, Nagasaki was the only port in which trade with other countries was permitted because of the national isolation policy ("sakoku").
In the 1870's, Nagasaki became the capital city of the prefecture which evolved from the former province.
Nagasaki was the second of two Japanese cities which were destroyed with an atomic bomb near the end of the Second World War.

</doc>
<doc id="19570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570" title="Ayyavazhi">
Ayyavazhi

Ayyavazhi (, "path of the father"), is a religion with one god that started in South India in the middle of the 19th century. The 'zhi' () in the word, 'Ayyavazhi', is a retroflex, ri.
Ayyavazhi is not a part of Hinduism, but since it was not considered a separate religion it was considered as a branch of Hinduism only officially. It has evolved into a different religion, spreading in Tamil Nadu's southern districts of Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, and Tuticorin. As one of the fastest growing religions of southern India, its growth had been noted in the Christian missionary reports of the mid-19th century.
The ideas and philosophy of the religion are based on the teachings of Ayya Vaikundar and the religious texts Akilattirattu Ammanai and Arul Nool.
Ayyavazhi began to be seen firstly by the large number of people gathering to worship Ayya Vaikundar at Swamithoppe, which is at that time "poovandanthoppe". The majority of the followers of Ayyavazhi were from the poor group of the society. For the Christian missionaries it gives a big challenge in their converting mission from its beginning. Although the majority of these followers were from the Chanar cast, apart from Ayyavazhi sources, some outer sources too says that a large number of people from other castes also followed this religion. 
By the middle of nineteenth century, Ayyavazhi had come to be recognised as a separate religion, grown well in the region of South Travancore and South Tirunelveli. The growth in its number of followers had increased speedly from 1840s. After the death of Vaikundar, the religion was spread on the basis of his teachings and the religious books "Akilattirattu Ammanai" and "Arul Nool". The five Citars, who were the deciples of Ayya Vaikundar, and their descendants travelled to several parts of the country and carried the mission of Ayyavazhi. At that time the Payyan dynasty started ruling of Swamithoppe pathi, while other Pathis came under the control of the followers of Ayya. Hundreds of Nizhal Thangals (places of worship) were built across the country. Currently Bala Prajapathi Adikalar, one of descendant of Payyan dynasty is said to be as the leader of Ayyavazhi. He has laid foundations for a large number of Nizhal Thangals all over South India. And now seeing the growth of the religion the day of birth of Vaikundar, Ayya Vaikunda Avataram was announced as a holiday by the government for the districts of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin from this year while the district of Kanyakumari was announced as a holiday earlier.
The holy books of Ayyavazhi are the Akilattirattu Ammanai and the Arul Nool, and they are the source of the religion's mythology. The holy book states that the "Akilattirattu Ammanai" was written down by Hari Gopalan Citar by hearing the contents of Akilam told by Narayana to his wife Lakshmi. There was no definite history about the beginning of Arul Nool; but the followers believe that it was written by Citars and by those who get possessed by divine power. It contains the prayers, hymns and ways for the worship in Ayyavazhi, religious practices, prophesies and also many rules. 
To the Ayyavazhi devotees, there are five holy places, called Pathis, with "Panchappathis" as the most important. The temple of Swamithoppepathi is the head of the Ayyavazhi religion. The Vakaippathi, where 700 families were sent to Thuvayal Thavasu by Vaikundar was approved as a Pathi in Akilam although this place has no direct association with the activities of Vaikundar. There is a big disagreement within the followers of Ayyavazhi as to the holiness of some of the places of worship. The Avatharappathi in Thiruchendur was accepted by the book "Akilam" as a Pathi, but as some of the followers believe that the place at which the present temple is located is not the exact place where Ayya Vaikundar incarnated from the sea, they disagree with the other devotees. There are also some followers which strongly quarrel Thiruchendur as a Pathi though they accept it as a secondary holy site. The list of Pathis announced by the headquarters of Ayyavazhi does not add Avatharappathi.

</doc>
<doc id="19572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19572" title="Akilattirattu Ammanai">
Akilattirattu Ammanai

Akilathirattu Ammanai (; from "akilam" (world) + "thirattu" (collection) + "ammanai" (ballad)), also called Thiru Edu (venerable book), is the main religious book of the Southern Indian Ayyavazhi, officially a branch of Hinduism. The title is shortened as Akilam. This is the largest Ammanai work.
According to the book, Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai (November/December) in the year 1016 ME (1841 CE). The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said. Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves. Then in 1939 it was given printed form.
According to the author, the book is the story of God coming in this age, the Kali Yukam or Iron Age, to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam. This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities, with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas (mythologies) and Itihasas (epics). It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi.
Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam, as per him, he did not know any thing about the contents of the book. He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before.
As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam, the tied-up palm leaf text, which was until then not opened. It was there the regulations of Ayyavazhi contains. As per the instructions found there in Akilam, Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide.

</doc>
<doc id="19574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574" title="Ayya Vaikundar">
Ayya Vaikundar

Ayya Vaikundar () is a Manu (father, sovereign) avatar (the incarnation of a deity) of the Lord Narayana according to Akilattirattu Ammanai the holy book of the Ayyavazhi religion, officially a Tamil Hindu branch. 
The physical human body of Ayya Vaikundar was born with the name Muthukutty. However, Muthukutty is referred to as Sampooranathevan, a deva (a deity), in the religious book Akilam. Ayya Vikundar is a combination of the spirit of Narayana, the soul of the Supreme God, Ekam (God beyond conciouseness) and the body of an ordinary human being (Muthukutty).
The Ekam as soul incarnated with the spirit of Narayana in the body of Muthukutty.

</doc>
<doc id="19577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19577" title="Pathi">
Pathi

The worship centers of Ayyavazhi are called Pathis. The activities of Vaikundar is historically jointed with this Pathis. There are five Pathis:

</doc>
<doc id="19578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19578" title="Planck mass">
Planck mass

The Planck mass is a small unit of mass used in physics. It is derived using an equation involving Planck's constant, the speed of light in a vacuum, and the gravitational constant. It is approximately 21.76 μg.

</doc>
<doc id="19579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19579" title="Human sexuality">
Human sexuality

Human sexuality is the ability of people to have sexual experiences and feelings.

</doc>
<doc id="19582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19582" title="War and Peace">
War and Peace

War and Peace () is a famous novel written by Leo Tolstoy, a Russian writer. It is about four families of noblemen in Russia during the wars with Napoleon, and how they deal with the war and with one another.
Tolstoy described "War and Peace" as "not a novel, even less is it a poem, and still less an historical chronicle."
The book describes Russian life in the 19th century, and also tells about Tolstoy's own idea about free will, history, and how events unfold.
There are 580 characters in "War and Peace", but these are the main characters:

</doc>
<doc id="19587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19587" title="Bay City, Michigan">
Bay City, Michigan

The American city of Bay City is a small city in the state of Michigan, United States. In the 2000 census it had more than 35,000 people living in it.
Although small, Bay City is one of the largest port cities on Lake Huron, one of the North American Great Lakes. It is part of a triangle of small cities in Central Michigan. The other two cities are Saginaw, Michigan, and Midland, Michigan.
Bay City was the birthplace in 1958 of Madonna Ciccone, a well-known American singer. The Scottish Pop group Bay City Rollers are said to have gotten their name from the city as well.

</doc>
<doc id="19591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19591" title="Zirconium">
Zirconium

Zirconium is a chemical elemental metal. It is a greyish-white in color. It is atomic number 40 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Zr. And it is in the family of four (4).

</doc>
<doc id="19592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19592" title="Yttrium">
Yttrium

Yttrium is a chemical elemental metal. It is atomic number 39 on the periodic table. It is silvery-white and tends to form crystals. In chunk form, it is unreactive in air, but powdered yttrium may burn at 400 degrees Celsius. It has several uses, which include lasers, TV's, and metallurgy.

</doc>
<doc id="19594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19594" title="Windows 98">
Windows 98

Windows 98 is an operating system for computers. Released on June 25 1998 by Microsoft, it is an updated version of Windows 95.
Windows 98 was seen by many as an upgrade to Windows 95, rather than a rebuilt version of Windows. The biggest changes were:
Because Microsoft made Internet Explorer such an important part of Windows 98, the company was taken to court by the United States Government. This was because they felt it was unfair to other companies who made web browsers.
It is not supported anymore, but many people still use it on older computers that will not run Windows XP, Windows Vista, or Windows 7.
Before the release of Windows 98, there was a press demonstration at Comdex in April 1998. Microsoft CEO Bill Gates was highlighting the operating system's ease of use and enhanced support for Plug and Play (PnP). When presentation assistant Chris Capossela plugged a scanner in and attempted to install it, Windows 98 displayed a Blue Screen of Death. Gates remarked after applause and cheering from the audience, "That must be why we're not shipping Windows 98 yet." Video footage of this event became a popular Internet phenomenon.
Windows 98 Second Edition (SE) (codenamed "99") was released in 1999. This was an official upgrade to Windows 98 which allowed people to use more types of computer hardware, like monitors and printers, and also let more than one machine on a network use the same Internet connection.

</doc>
<doc id="19595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19595" title="Waste">
Waste

Waste is unwanted materials and objects that people have thrown away. It is often also called trash, garbage, rubbish, or junk. It can be solid, liquid, or gas, or it can be waste heat. There are many different kinds of waste. Garbage is the waste we produce daily in our homes, including old or unwanted food, chemical substances, paper, broken furniture, used containers, and other things.
When waste is a liquid or gas, it can be called an emission. This is usually pollution (hurts plants and animals).
Waste can also be something abstract (something that you cannot touch), for example "a waste of time" or "wasted opportunities". When people use the words "waste" or "wasted" in this way, they are saying (directly or indirectly) that something has been used badly (using too much of it or using it incorrectly).
In modern homes and businesses, garbage is normally placed in waste containers of some sort. It is then moved to the street, where it can be collected and taken to a place designed to hold, destroy or recycle garbage. Some waste materials, such as paper, wood, glass, metals, and plastic containers, can be recycled (reused). Materials that can not be recycled are either burned ("incinerated") or heaped into landfills.
Plant matter, such as fruit and vegetable scraps, is biodegradable. It can usually be heaped into a compost, where it will decompose relatively quickly. This kind of waste is often called "wet" or "green" waste.
Very often, waste is not collected in containers. It may instead be thrown onto the ground or dumped somewhere. This is called "littering".

</doc>
<doc id="19596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19596" title="1096">
1096


</doc>
<doc id="19597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19597" title="1098">
1098

Year 1098 (MXCVIII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19598" title="Republic of the Congo">
Republic of the Congo

The Republic of the Congo is a country in Africa. Its capital city is Brazzaville. The country was a former colony of France; it became independent on 15 August 1960.
The north of the country has very large areas of rainforest, but in the south are many farms which grow bananas, peanuts and other crops.
Congo is in the central-western part of sub-Saharan Africa. It is along the Equator. To the south and east of it is the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is also bordered by Gabon to the west, Cameroon and the Central African Republic to the north, and Cabinda (Angola) to the southwest. It has a short Atlantic coast.
The capital, Brazzaville, is on the Congo River. It is directly across from Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The Republic of the Congo is divided into 12 Departments. Departments are divided into communes and/or districts.
The districts are:

</doc>
<doc id="19599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19599" title="Gabon">
Gabon

The Gabonese Republic or Gabon is a country in Africa. It is located on the equator. It has borders with the countries of Equatorial Guinea, Cameroon, and Republic of the Congo. Its capital is Libreville which is also the largest city in the country. Gabon has an area of almost . 1.5 million people live in Gabon. 
Gabon was a colony of France. It became a new country on August 17, 1960. Since 1960, country has had only 3 presidents. At first it had one-party rule. In the early 1990s country switched to many party government.
Gabon is one of the richest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has 4th highest HDI and third highest GDP per capita (PPP) in the region. Gabon's income is not evenly given to people and many people are poor.
The first people who lived in the country were pygmies. Later, Bantu people took over the area. Bad weather did not let people form local culture, as it had happened in the south (Congo) or north (Benin).
In the 15th century first Europeans came to the area. Starting from the 16th century coast was used for slave trade.
In the 19th century French explorer Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza organized the first journey to the Gabon-Congo area in 1875. After 10 years, France took over the whole country. At that time a small amount of Bantu people lived in the country.
In 1910 Gabon was one of the French colonies which formed the French Equatorial Africa (together with Congo, Central African Republic and Chad). French Equatorial Africa lasted to 1959. On August 17, 1960 it became a new country.
Since 1960, Gabon has only had 3 presidents. In 1961 Léon M'ba became the first president. In 1967 after his death Omar Bongo became the president and ruled the country to 2009. In 2009, Omar Bongo died and his son Ali Bongo Ondimba took over as president.
Gabon is on the Atlantic coast of central Africa. It is on the equator. Gabon generally has an equatorial climate. Rainforests cover 85% of the country. There are three distinct regions: the coastal plains (ranging between 20 to 300 km from the ocean's shore), the mountains (the Cristal Mountains to the northeast of Libreville, the Chaillu Massif in the centre, culminating at 1575 m with Mont Iboundji), and the savanna in the east. The coastal plains form a large section of the World Wildlife Fund's Atlantic Equatorial coastal forests ecoregion and contain patches of Central African mangroves especially on the Muni River estuary on the border with Equatorial Guinea.
Gabon's largest river is the Ogooué which is 1200 km long. Gabon has three karst areas where there are hundreds of caves in the dolomite and limestone rocks. Some of the caves include Grotte du Lastoursville, Grotte du Lebamba, Grotte du Bongolo, and Grotte du Kessipougou. Many caves have not been explored yet. A National Geographic Expedition visited the caves in the summer of 2008 to document them (Expedition Website).
The first Gabonese president was Leon Mba. His successor was Omar Bongo, from 1967 until his death in 2009. Under his governance Gabon had just one political party between 1968 and 1990. It was called PDG. 
Gabon is divided into nine provinces. The provinces are divided into 37 departments.
The provinces are:
Gabon has nine states. The soil of Gabon is rich in the metals uranium, manganese, and petrolium. Therefore, these three elements, such as metal exploited in Port-Gentil, Iranium in Munana, and the manganese in Franceville.
Gabon has a wide culture. Before colonialism, Gabon's people believed their ancestral spirit as religion, like bwiti, mvett, djobi.
After colonialism, others religions such as Christianity and Islam came to be added to the first animists believers.

</doc>
<doc id="19613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19613" title="Tamil Nadu">
Tamil Nadu

Tamil Nadu () is one of the states in the south of India. The capital of this state is Chennai. Tamil is the language spoken in Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore, Tiruchirapalli, Salem,Madurai, Tirunelveli,Thanjavur and Thoothukudi are other large cities of Tamil Nadu. It is surrounded by the Bay of Bengal on the east and the Indian Ocean on the south. And also the Arabian Sea in the west for a smaller area. Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are its neighbouring states. The Tamilians are very proud of their language and heritage. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone.
The eastern and western tips of the state are defined by the Point Calimere and Mudumalai wildlife sanctuaries while the southernmost tip is Kanniya Kumari, also called Cape Comorin, the Indian peninsula's southernmost point. With an area of 130,058 km and over 62 million people, Tamil Nadu is the 11th largest state in India. The major river is Kaveri which meets the needs of agriculture and drinking water to a large extent. The other important rivers are south Pennar, Palar, Vaigai, Tamira bharani, Manimuthar, Noyyal and Bhavani. 
Chennai,
Coimbatore,
Salem,
Sivaganga,
Cuddalore,
Thanjavur,
Dharmapuri,
Nilgiris,
Dindigul,
Theni,
Erode,
Ariyalur,
Pudukkottai,
Tiruppur,
Thoothukudi,
Kanchipuram,
Tiruchirappalli,
Kanyakumari,
Tirunelveli,
Karur,
Tiruvallur,
Krishnagiri,
Tiruvannamalai,
Madurai,
Tiruvarur,
Nagapattinam,
Vellore,
Namakkal,
Viluppuram,
Perambalur,
Virudhunagar,
Ramanathapuram.
Area 50,180 mi² or 129,966 (km²), it is bigger than North Korea but smaller than Greece
Population 62405679
By Sex
Male 31400909
Female 31004770
By Area
Rural 34921681
Urban 27483998
Density (per km) 480
Literates 40524545

</doc>
<doc id="19616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19616" title="Duck">
Duck

Ducks are birds in the family "Anatidae". Ducks are closely related to swans and geese, which are in the same family. The main difference is that ducks have shorter necks, and are smaller. 
Other swimming and diving birds, like grebes and loons, are sometimes called ducks, but they are not. A baby duck is called a "duckling", and a male duck is called a "drake". Most ducks are aquatic birds. They can be found in both saltwater and fresh water. 
Ducks lay eggs once a year and are omnivorous, eating aquatic plants and tiny animals. Dabbling ducks feed on the surface of water or on land, or as deep as they can reach by up-ending without completely submerging. Along the edge of the beak there is a comb-like structure called a "pecten". This strains the water squirting from the side of the beak and traps any food. The pecten is also used to preen feathers. Diving ducks dive deep to get their food.
Many ducks are migratory. This means that they spend the summer months in a different place than the winter months. Ducks show a cosmopolitan distribution, they can be found all over the world, except for Antarctica. Some duck species live on the South Georgia and Auckland Islands, which are subantarctic. Many species have established themselves on remote islands, such as Kerguelen or Hawaii. 
Some ducks are bred and kept by humans. They are not wild ducks. They are kept to provide food (meat and eggs), or to use their feathers for pillows and other items in the house. Especially in Asia, many people like to eat duck.
Ducks are sometimes kept as pets. They are often kept by groups of people on public ponds for their beauty and calming nature. People commonly feed ducks in ponds stale bread, thinking that the ducks will like to have something to eat. However bread is not healthy for ducks and can kill them.

</doc>
<doc id="19620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620" title="North by Northwest">
North by Northwest

North by Northwest is a 1959 movie thriller from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Alfred Hitchcock directed it, and Cary Grant starred in it.
Like other Hitchcock movies, the music for "North by Northwest" was composed by Bernard Herrmann.
The famous opening sequence was created by Saul Bass.

</doc>
<doc id="19625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19625" title="Nightwish">
Nightwish

Nightwish is a symphonic metal band from Finland. They formed in July 1996 and played acoustic mood music. The band's keyboardist and composer Tuomas Holopainen had the idea of forming a band. He asked Tarja Turunen to sing and Emppu Vuorinen to play guitar.
At the beginning of 1997, the band started playing stronger music. Jukka Nevalainen joined the band to play the drums. Vuorinen used an electric guitar instead of an acoustic guitar. In May 1997, Nightwish signed a contract (binding agreement) with Spinefarm Records and they released their first album 'Angels Fall First'.
In 1998, Sami Vänskä joined the band to play bass guitar. The same year Nightwish released 'Oceanborn', which was quite different to
'Angels Fall First'.
In May 2000 they released 'Wishmaster', which was similar to 'Oceanborn'. They also entered the contest to be Finland's representatives for the Eurovision Song Contest, with the song 'Sleepwalker'. They won the phone vote but the judges disagreed so they came second.
The other band members asked Tarja to leave the group in 2005 after their "End of an Era" tour. Tuomas wrote an open letter to her, stating the reasons why she had to leave. He then put the letter on the official website. In 2007, Swedish singer Anette Olzon became the new singer, and Nightwish released a single, 'Amaranth'. A few months later, they released the album 'Dark Passion Play'.

</doc>
<doc id="19632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19632" title="Sierra Leone">
Sierra Leone

Sierra Leone is a country in West Africa. Its capital is Freetown. The official language is English.
The country was first made as a place where freed slaves could live. From 1991 until 2000, there was a civil war in Sierra Leone between rebels and the government. The war is now over. Sierra Leone is known for its blood diamonds. These were mined and sold during the civil war. This was in order to buy the weapons for the civil war.
There are 71,740 square kilometres of land in Sierra; In terms of land area it is similar in size to Ireland.
Sierra Leone has relied on mining, especially diamonds, for its economic base. The country is among the largest producers of titanium and bauxite, and a major producer of gold. The country has one of the world's largest deposits of rutile. Sierra Leone is also home to the third largest natural harbour in the world. Shipping from all over the globe goes to Freetown's famous Queen Elizabeth II Quay. Despite this natural wealth, 70% of its people live in poverty.
Sierra Leone is a mostly Muslim country.
The country has 2,090 known species of higher plants, 147 mammals, 626 birds, 67 reptiles, 35 amphibians, and 99 fish species.
The country is bordered by Guinea to the north and northeast, Liberia to the south and southeast, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.
Mount Bintumani reaches . It is the highest point in the country.
The climate is tropical, with two seasons. The rainy season is from May to November, and the dry season is from December to May.
The largest cities in Sierra Leone are:
Education in Sierra Leone is legally required for all children for six years. A shortage of schools and teachers has made this impossible. Two thirds of the adult population of the country are not able to read. The Sierra Leone Civil War caused the destruction of 1,270 primary schools. In 2001, 67% of all school-age children were out of school. This has been better since the end of the civil war.
The country has three universities: Fourah Bay College, University of Makeni and Njala University. Teacher training colleges and religious seminaries are found in many parts of the country.
The Republic of Sierra Leone has four regions the Northern Province, Southern Province, the Eastern Province and the Western Area. The first three provinces are divided into 12 districts. The districts are further divided into 149 chiefdoms.
Rice is the staple food of Sierra Leone. It is eaten at nearly every meal daily. The rice is prepared in many ways, and topped with different sauces made from some of Sierra Leone's favorite toppings. These include potato leaves, cassava leaves, crain crain, okra soup, fried fish and groundnut stew.
Along the street of towns and cities one can find snacks such as fresh mangoes, oranges, pineapple, fried plantains, ginger beer, fried potato, fried cassava with pepper sauce; small bags of popcorn or peanuts, bread, roasted corn, or skewers of grilled meat or shrimp.
Poyo is a popular Sierra Leonean drink. It is a sweet, lightly fermented palm wine. Poyo bars are areas of lively informal talk about politics, football, entertainment and other issues.
Football is by far the most popular sport in Sierra Leone. Children, youth and adult are often seen playing street football across Sierra Leone. 
The Sierra Leone national football team, popularly known as the Leone Stars, represents the country in international competitions. It has never qualified for the FIFA World Cup. They were in the 1994 and 1996 African Cup of Nations. Many of the national team footballers are celebrities across Sierra Leone. They are often well known by most of the country's general population. Some well known Sierra Leonean international footballers include Mohamed Kallon, Mohamed Bangura, Rodney Strasser, Ibrahim Teteh Bangura, Alhassan Bangura, Sheriff Suma, Mohamed Kamara, Umaru Bangura and Kei Kamara.

</doc>
<doc id="19633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633" title="Door">
Door

A door is a hard, flat object a person can open and close so that person can go into a room or other place. It is found in houses and other buildings. Doors are also found in cars and cages.
The reasons for a door are:
A revolving door is a group of doors that turn in a circle as a person pushes one. The person can go through, but wind and rain cannot get in.
A blind door is a fake door that is really part of the wall. People use them to make a room look nice.
An up-and-over door is often used in garages. Instead of hinges, it rolls up on rails so that it stays above the opening.
A fire door is a door that does not let fire go through. They are usually made of heavy steel.
A doggie door is a small door for dogs or other small pets. They are usually on the bottom of people-sized doors. 

</doc>
<doc id="19634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19634" title="1540s">
1540s


</doc>
<doc id="19638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19638" title="Boeing 737">
Boeing 737

The Boeing 737 is a jet airliner. It is built by Boeing. It has two engines, which means that it is a twinjet. It also only has two rows of seats, which means it is a narrow-body airliner. At first, Boeing was making it to be a shorter, cheaper airliner than its 707 and 727. However, the 737 has become a family of nine different models. The number of passengers it can carry goes from 85 to 215. The 737 is the only narrow-body airliner that Boeing is making. The only types of 737 that Boeing is still making are the -700, -800 and -900ER. A version of the 737 with new engines and a new design, the 737 MAX, will come into service in 2017.
Boeing began designing the 737 in 1964. The very first 737-100 flew in 1967. It was first used by an airline in February 1968. The 737-200 started being used in April 1968. The -200 was basically just a longer version of the 737-100. In the 1980s Boeing made the -300, -400, and -500 models. Boeing called these models the Boeing 737 Classic series. The 737 Classics could carry more passengers, and they had new engines: CFM56 turbofans. The 737 Classic planes also had some improvements made to the wings. In the 1990s, Boeing brought out the 737 Next Generation. The 737 Next Generation planes also had redesigned wings, a better cockpit and a new cabin. The 737 Next Generation is made up of the -600, -700, -800, and -900ER models. These models go from to in length.
The Boeing 737 is the best-selling jet airliner in history. Boeing has never stopped making 737s since 1967. 7,283 aircraft have been delivered, and the Boeing 737 still has 2,759 orders that have not been delivered yet (). Boeing 737s are built at the Boeing Renton Factory in Renton, Washington. The 737's main rival is the Airbus A320 family. On average, 1,250 Boeing 737s are in the air at any time and two land or leave somewhere every five seconds.
Boeing was looking at designs for aircraft which flew short distances. Boeing wanted to make another aircraft to replace the 727 on short flights. It began designing the 737 on May 11, 1964. Boeing did a lot of research and found that airlines wanted an airliner which could hold 50 to 60 passengers. This airliner would also be able to fly routes long. Lufthansa was the first airline to order a Boeing 737 on February 19, 1965. They ordered 21 aircraft, worth $67 million (1965, $190.28 million in 2008). After Boeing spoke to Lufthansa in winter 1964, they made the 737 bigger so that it could hold 100 passengers.
On April 5, 1965, Boeing announced that United Airlines had ordered 40 737s. United wanted a plane which was a bit bigger than the 737-100. Boeing made a different type of 737 for United, which was longer. This other plane was called the 737-200. Boeing changed the name of the original 737 to the 737-100.
The first 737s were made near Boeing Field (now officially called King County International Airport) because the factory in Renton was too busy building the 707 and 727. After 271 aircraft were made at Boeing Field, Boeing moved the 737s to Renton. This was in 1970.
The first Boeing 737-100 prototype was ready in 1966. It made its first flight on April 9, 1967. On December 15, 1967 the Federal Aviation Administration said that the -100 was allowed to fly with passengers. They gave it the Type Certificate A16WE. Lufthansa got its first 737 on December 28, 1967. On February 10, 1968, Lufthansa became the first non-American airline to fly a new Boeing aircraft. It was the only large airline which bought the 737-100. Only 30 -100s were ever made.
The 737-200 first flew on August 8, 1967. The FAA allowed it to fly with passengers on December 21, 1967. The first flight it made for United Airlines was on April 28, 1968. It flew from Chicago to Grand Rapids, Michigan. Airlines liked the 737-200 much more than the 737-100.
A "thrust reverser" is a part of the engine of a plane. It changes the flow of air through the engine so that it ends up trying to push the plane backwards instead of forwards. The first thrust reversers on the 737 were not very good. They were said to lift the aircraft off the runway when they were used. This meant that the wheels were not being pushed down onto the ground very much, which made the brakes less useful. In 1968, Boeing improved the thrust reverser. This improvement was put onto all aircraft after March 1969. Aircraft which were made before the improvement could have it installed. Boeing also improved the flaps. This improvement allowed the flaps to be used more during takeoffs and landing. All these changes meant that the 737 could hold more cargo and fly further. In May 1971, after the 135th aircraft was built, all of these improvements, as well as better engines and more fuel, were put into the 737-200. This gave it 15% more payload and range than the first 737-200s. This type of 737-200 became known as the 737-200 Advanced.
In 1970, Boeing only got 37 orders for 737s. Since Boeing were running out of money, they thought about stopping making 737s and selling the design to Japanese companies. Boeing cancelled the Boeing Supersonic Transport and started making less Boeing 747s. By doing this, Boeing kept enough money to keep the 737 project going.
In 1988, Boeing stopped making 737-200s. 1,114 aircraft were made and the last one was delivered to Xiamen Airlines on August 8, 1988.
In 1979, Boeing started working on a large improvement for the 737. Boeing wanted to allow the aircraft to hold more passengers and travel further. It also wanted to make improvements to make the aircraft more modern. However, it also wanted to keep it similar to the older 737s. In 1980, information on this new type of 737 (called the 737-300) was given at the Farnborough Airshow.
The CFM56-3B-1 engine was chosen to be the engine for this new 737 type. This engine burned much less fuel and was much less noisy. However, it was also difficult to fit these engines to the aircraft. This was because the 737's wings were not very high above the ground, and the CFM56 had a bigger diameter than the original engines. Boeing and CFM solved the problem by putting the engine slightly ahead of the wing, instead of right under it. They also moved some parts of the engine, which would normally go on the bottom, to the sides. This made the engine look a bit like a hamster pouch, because the engine is not shaped like a circle.
The plane could now carry 149 passengers, because the fuselage of the plane was made bigger. Many changes were made to the wings. The tip of the wing was made longer by . The wingspan was also made bigger. The flaps on the wings were changed. The flight deck (cockpit) was improved with electronic displays. However, airlines could choose not to have these in their planes. The main cabin (where the passengers sit) was also made better. It looked similar to the cabin of a Boeing 757. The prototype of the 737-300 first flew on 24 February 1984. Its pilot was Jim McRoberts.
In June 1986, Boeing said that it was working on the 737-400. The 737-400 made the fuselage even bigger (by ). This change meant that the -400 could carry 170 passengers. The 737-400's first flight was on February 19, 1988. The first airline to use it was Piedmont Airlines.
Boeing made a 737-500 because its customers wanted one. It was a replacement of the 737-200. The -500 is longer than the 737-200. Up to 132 passengers can travel on the 737-500. Cockpits with electronic displays could be installed on the -500, but airlines could choose the use the older cockpit if they wanted.
The 737-500 was first ordered by Southwest Airlines in 1987. Southwest Airlines ordered 20 aircraft. The 737-500 flew for the first time on June 30, 1989. On February 28, 1990, Southwest Airlines got their first delivery.
After the Boeing 737 Next Generation planes were brought into service, Boeing named the 737-300/-400/-500s the 737 Classic series.
In 1991, Boeing started working on an updated group of 737s. They did this so they could have a plane to rival the Airbus A320. Boeing said that the 737 Next Generation (NG) program had begun on November 17, 1993. The -600, -700, -800, and -900 models are all part of the 737 Next Generation program. The 737 was changed so much by the 737NG program that it is almost like a new aircraft. However, some important parts of the plane were kept similar to the older 737s.
The wing was changed again. Many different changes were made. An example of one is a bigger wingspan (made bigger by ). Since the wings were made bigger, 30% more fuel could fit in the plane. CFM56-7B engines were used, which were newer, quieter and burned less fuel. The improvements to the wing, engine and fuel mean that the 737NG can travel 900 nautical miles further. This means it can travel over in total, which means that the 737NG can travel between different continents. Winglets can be added to most 737NG models. The flight deck was given modern electronics (called avionics). The main cabin was also improved.
The first NG to be built was a 737-700. It was finished on December 8, 1996. This aircraft was 2,843rd 737 built. It first flew on February 9, 1997. The prototype 737-800 was finished on June 30, 1997 and first flew on July 31, 1997. The smallest of the 737NGs, the -600, is the same size as the -500. It was the last NG to be launched (it was launched in December 1997). It first flew on January 22, 1998. The FAA certified it on August 18, 1998. A
Boeing delivered the 5,000th 737 to Southwest Airlines on February 13, 2006. The 6,000th 737 was delivered to Norwegian Air Shuttle in April 2009. The Airbus A320 family has sold more planes than the 737NG over the past ten years. However, this total includes sales for the A321 and A318. The A321 has been the rival of Boeing's 757 and the A318 has been the rival of the 717. The Next Generation series helped make sure the 737 stayed the bestselling airliner family since it first flew.
Since 2006, Boeing has been thinking about replacing the 737 with a completely new design. This was named the Boeing Y1 by people who worked at Boeing. This re-design would be launched after the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. Boeing did not decide on whether or not to go ahead with this. They said they would decide in 2011.
On July 20, 2011, Boeing said that they were working on a new 737 version, which would have the CFM International LEAP engine. American Airlines said they would order 100 of these aircraft. On August 30, 2011, Boeing said that a new 737 would definitely be launched. It was called the 737 MAX. It would also definitely have CFM International LEAP-1B engines.
The 737's main landing gear (wheels) go into holes at the bottom of the plane. The wheels do not have a door to close over them. The tyres can be seen easily when a 737 is taking off or is flying low-down.
737s do not have fuel dump systems. A fuel dump system is a system which gets rid of any unneeded fuel if the aircraft needs to make an emergency landing while it still has a lot of fuel on board. This is useful because aircraft can only land safely at a certain weight or below. Getting rid of unneeded fuel helps to get to a safe weight for the plane to land. The first 737s were too small to need these systems. Adding a fuel dump system to the bigger 737s would make the plane much heavier. Instead, if the emergency is not very serious, 737s fly around in circles to get rid of fuel. If the emergency is serious, the 737 just needs to land at an unsafe weight. If it has to land at an unsafe weight, the plane needs to be looked at for damage. If there is no damage, the plane can be put back into service.
Engines on the 737 Classic series (300, 400, 500) and Next Generation series (600, 700, 800, 900) are not shaped like a circle like most planes. The 737 Classics had CFM56 turbofan engines. These burned much less fuel and made much less noise than the Pratt & Whitney JT8D engines which were used on the -100 and -200. However, because the 737's wings and fuselage are not very high above the ground, it was impossible to get the engines to fit on the wings. Boeing and CFM fixed this problem by putting the engines slightly ahead of the wings instead of putting them right underneath. They also moved some parts of the engines which would normally go at the bottom to the sides. This is what makes the engines non-circular.
The gearbox of the engine was moved from the bottom of the engine to the side. The gearbox makes the engine look a bit like a triangle. Since the engine is close to the ground, it is possible that they can be damaged by things lying on the ground. The CFM56-7 engine on the 737 Next Generation burns even less fuel than the engines on the 737 Classics. The Boeing 737 MAX aircraft will have CFM International LEAP-1B engines. These engines are supposed to burn 10-12% less fuel than the CFM56-7B engines on the 737 Next Generation family.
The 737's controls are very safe. If the hydraulics or both engines fail, servo tabs will be automatically used. Servo tabs are small hinges which move important parts of an aircraft. The tabs are controlled by the yoke (the thing used to steer the plane). For the 737 Next Generation, a new cockpit with LCD displays was made. These cockpits also have modern avionics (autopilot etc.).
Most 737 cockpits have "eyebrow windows". These are smaller windows which are above the main windows. There are two on each side. Eyebrow windows were used on the Boeing 707. They helped the pilot see better when the plane was turning. However, because autopilot, advanced radar etc. exist, they are no longer needed. They were removed from the 737 cockpit in 2004. However, 737s used by the military still have them installed. If the customer likes, Boeing will install eyebrow windows for them.
Winglets can be fitted to 737s which do not have them already installed. They can also be added when the aircraft is built. The winglets are about tall. They are fitted at the end of the wing and help the engines to burn less fuel because they reduce drag. They also help make less noise on takeoff. Winglets can help a plane burn up to 5% less fuel.
How the cabin looks was changed in each different type of 737 (Classic and Next Generation). The cabin design of the 737 Original was changed 737 Classic using designs from the 757. Designs from the Boeing 777 were used to design the cabin for the Next Generation 737. The newest cabin design is called the Sky Interior. It has curved walls. It also has redesigned windows. The Sky Interior has more headroom and LED mood lighting. Overhead bins which move have been installed. These bins are similar to the bins on a 777 and Boeing 787 Dreamliner. They have more space for luggage than the other designs. The Sky Interior is also designed to make the cabin less noisy by 2–4 dB. The first 737 with the Sky Interior was delivered to Flydubai in 2010. Malaysia Airlines, TUIFly and Continental Airlines have also ordered 737s with the Sky Interior.
The 737 are split into three "generations". These are Original, Classic and Next Generation. The "Original" models are the 737-100, 737-200/-200 Advanced. The "Classic" models are the 737-300, 737-400 and 737-500. The "Next Generation" models are the 737-600, 737-700/-700ER, 737-800, and 737-900/-900ER.
The fourth generation of 737 is called the 737 MAX. It is still being worked on, but when it is finished, it will be made up of the 737-MAX-7, 737-MAX-8 and 737-MAX-9. The MAX-7 will replace the 737-700, the MAX-8 will replace the 737-800 and the MAX-9 will replace the 737-900 and 739-900ER.
The very first 737 model was the 737-100. It was first ordered by Lufthansa in 1965. The -100 was finished on January 17, 1967. It entered service in 1968. The aircraft is the smallest type of 737. Only 30 737-100s were ordered and delivered. No 737-100s are still being used by airlines. The 737-100 prototype is in the Museum of Flight in Seattle.
The 737-200 is a 737-100 with a larger fuselage. It was created because of an order from United Airlines in 1965. The -200 was finished on June 29, 1967. It entered service in 1968. The 737-200 Advanced is an improved version of the -200. Its first user was All Nippon Airways. It began using the -200 Advanced on May 20, 1971. The -200 Advanced has many improvements. For example, more powerful engines and more fuel. The 737-200 Advanced can also fly further than the 737-200. The last delivery of a 737-200 aircraft was in August 1988 to Xiamen Airlines. This was the 1,095th 737-200 built. Many 737-200s are still used by airlines.
After 40 years the last 737-200 aircraft in the United States were retired on March 31, 2008. This happened with the last flights of Aloha Airlines.
The Boeing 737 Classic is the name of the 737-300/-400/-500. However, they were only called the 737 Classics after the 737 Next Generation (737-600/700/800/900) aircraft were made. Until then, the 737 Classics were called the 'new generation' of the 737. The 737 Classics were made from 1984 to 2000. 1,988 aircraft were delivered in that time. As of January 1, 2001, 1,945 are in service.
The 737-300 was brought into service in 1981. It was used by both US Airways and Southwest Airlines. The 737-300 is the first model of the 737 Classic series. The -300 can usually hold 128 passengers. The 737-300 series was made until 1999. The last -300 was delivered to Air New Zealand on 17 December 1999. This was the 1,113th 737-300 made.
The 737-400 brought into service in 1985. It was just a longer version of the 737-300. Piedmont Airlines was the launch customer. They ordered 25 aircraft in 1986. The first 737-400s were brought into service in 1988 with Piedmont. The last -400 was delivered to CSA Czech Airlines. This was the 486th -400 built.
The 737-400F was a 737-400 changed into a cargo plane. The -400F was not delivered by Boeing. They were changed into cargo planes by the airlines that owned them. Alaska Airlines was the first airline to change a -400 to a -400F. It could carry 10 pallets of cargo.
The 737-500 was finished 1987. It was brought into service with Southwest Airlines in 1990. The 737-500 is around the same length of the 737-200. It was a modern, complete replacement of the 737-200. The last 737-500 was delivered to All Nippon Airways on July 26, 1999. This was the 389th built.
In the 1990s, Boeing realised that the Airbus A320 family was a serious threat. Boeing could lose customers because of it. In November 1993, Boeing began the Next Generation program. The Next Generation aircraft would replace the 737 Classics. The 737-600, 737-700 and 737-800 planes were planned.
The 737-600 replaced the 737-500. It was also supposed to replace the McDonnell Douglas DC-9. The 737-600 was finished in 1995. The first aircraft was delivered to Scandinavian Airlines on September 18, 1998. The 737-600 is the only Boeing 737 still being made that cannot be fitted with winglets.
The 737-600's rivals are the Airbus A318, Embraer 195 and Sukhoi Superjet 100. The Bombardier CSeries will also be a rival. 69 -600s have been delivered. There have been no orders that have not been delivered (as of 2010).
The 737-700 was added to the Next Generation planes when Southwest Airlines ordered one in November 1993. The -700 was based on the 737-300. It was brought into service in 1998. It replaced the 737-300. Its main rival is the A319. 126 people can fit into the 737-700 if there are two classes (first class and economy). However, 149 can fit in if the aircraft only has an economy class. Boeing launched the 737-700ER on January 30, 2006. "ER" stands for "extra range". This means that the plane can fly further than a normal 737-700. All Nippon Airways was the launch customer for the -700ER. It has the body of a 737-700, but the wings and landing gear of a 737-800. It can fly for 5,510 nautical miles (10,205 kilometers). 126 passengers can fit onto the plane.
In July 2008, Delta Air Lines got the first -700 that had Messier-Bugatti's carbon brakes.
The 737-800 is a longer version of the 737-700. It replaces the 737-400. The -800 was finished in 1994. It entered service with Hapag-Lloyd Flug (now TUIfly) in 1998. 162 passengers can fit into a 737-800 if it has two classes. Up to 189 can fit into a 737-800 if it only has one class. Its main rival is the A320.
The 737-900 is the longest 737. Alaska Airlines was the launch customer for the 737-900 when it was launched in 1997. It got its first aircraft on May 15, 2001.
The 737-900ER is the newest and biggest Boeing 737. It was made so that it could replace the 757-200. It was also made to be a rival to the Airbus A321. 180 passengers can fly on a 737-900ER with two classes. 215 passengers can fly if the plane only has one class. The -900ER can carry more fuel and has winglets. It can fly for around 3200 nm. The 737-900 is no longer made; Boeing only makes the 737-900ER now.
In 2011, Boeing said that it was working on the 737 MAX program. Boeing will make three types of 737 MAX. These are the MAX-7, MAX-8 and the MAX-9. The MAX-7 will replace the 737-700, the MAX-8 will replace the 737-800 and the MAX-9 will replace the 737-900ER. The 737 MAX will have CFM International LEAP-1B engines. The wheel in the nose of the plane has been made longer. Deliveries are supposed to start in 2017. Southwest Airlines became the launch customer on December 13, 2011. Lion Air and others have made orders for 737 MAX planes.
The 737 is used by more than 500 airlines. 737s fly to 1,200 places in 190 countries. Over 10,000 737s have been ordered by airlines. 7,283 have been delivered. Over 4,500 are still being used by airlines. On average, there are always 1,250 737s flying. On average, a 737 takes off or lands every five seconds. 25% of the world's jet airliners are Boeing 737s.
As of July 2010, 383 Boeing 737-200s are still being used by airlines.
Many countries use the 737 as a military plane. Some countries with 737s are:
Over 7,400 Boeing 737s have been built and delivered. This is correct as of December 31, 2012.
, over 10,400 Boeing 737s have been ordered. 3,020 planes still need to be delivered. This is a list of how many planes have been built for each type of 737.
This information is from Boeing.com.
As of April 2012, the 737 has been in 315 . 159 of these have been "hull loss accidents". A hull loss accident is when the plane is damaged so much it can not be used anymore, or if the plane was completely destroyed. 4,236 people have died because of these crashes. The 737 has also been in 106 hijackings. 324 people have died in hijackings.
This information comes from: Boeing 737 specifications, 737 Airport Planning Report, b737.org.uk site.

</doc>
<doc id="19646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19646" title="Tsar">
Tsar

Tsar is a name for the ruler of Bulgaria in 913–1422, later usage in 1908–1946, the ruler of Serbia in 1346—1371 and the emperor of Russia from 1546 until 1721. Since 1721 the title of Russian emperors was "imperator", but the word "tsar" remained in common use until the Russian Revolution 1917. It is also spelled Tzar, Czar, and Csar, and is the Eastern European word for Caesar.
The last Tsar to Rule Serbia was Tsar Stephen Uroš V.
The last Tsar to Rule Russia was Tsar Nicholas II.
The last Tsar to Rule Bulgaria was Tsar Boris III.

</doc>
<doc id="19647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19647" title="1550s">
1550s


</doc>
<doc id="19649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19649" title="1840">
1840


</doc>
<doc id="19650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650" title="Engelbert Dollfuss">
Engelbert Dollfuss

Engelbert Dollfuss ("German": Dollfuß) (October 4, 1892 – July 25, 1934) was the Chancellor of Austria from 1932 until 1933. He led the country as a dictator from early 1933 until 1934.
He studied law in Vienna, and Economics in Berlin. During World War I, he served in the Alps and briefly became a Prisoner of War in 1918. 
He became Chancellor on May 20, 1932 as head of a right-wing coalition government. He wanted to solve the problems caused by the Depression. He had problems finding majorities in parliament. The measures he liked to take to deal with inflation were not well liked. In March 1933, he suspended the Austrian parliament. He then governed by decree. 
With Adolf Hitler as Chancellor in Germany, Dollfuss feared that the influence of the NSDAP would grow. This would then lead to a growth in popularity for its Austrian counterpart. Because of this, he banned the NSDAP in June 1933. He also banned the SDAPÖ in February 1934. 
In September 1933 he formed an umbrella grouping to support the regime, the "Vaterländische Front" (Fatherland Front) and merged the Christian Social Party with the para-military Heimwehr (Home Guard), a Nationalist paramilitary group. The regime which was put into power by him and remained in power until 1938 is often called "Austrofascism". The form of state he employed was called the "Ständestaat".
On July 25, 1934 eight Austrian Nazis entered the Chancellery building and shot and killed Dollfuss in an attempted coup, as a prelude to Anschluss. The Nazis surrendered and were executed. Kurt Schuschnigg became the new dictator of Austria.

</doc>
<doc id="19653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19653" title="Language isolate">
Language isolate

A language isolate is a language that does not have another language related to it.
Many languages are related to other languages, because they both come from an older language, and are similar to other languages. These groups that are similar are called language families. Most languages belong to a language family, but some are not related to other languages. These languages are called language isolates.
Some language isolates are Basque, and Zuni.

</doc>
<doc id="19654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19654" title="Species">
Species

A species is a kind of organism. It is a basic unit of biological classification, and a formal rank in taxonomy. Originally, the word was used informally in a rather vague way, but now there are at least 26 different ways it is used.
All animals or plants that are the same kind belong to the same species. Wolves ("Canis lupus") are one species. Humans are another species. Broadly, the idea is that (say) cats breed with cats and produce more cats. This is the basis for deciding to have a species named "Felis catus". However, giving a simple definition of 'species' is rather difficult, and many people have tried.
Species is a word for a special kind of living thing, like a crow. Crows and ravens are similar but not the same, so they are together in a bigger group (taxon) called a genus. Then there is a family (like the crow family, which includes crows and ravens as well as jays and magpies), and then an order such as the songbirds, (which has many families in it, such as the crow, thrush and swallow families). The next group is the class; all birds are in the same class. After that is the phylum, such as vertebrates, which is all animals with backbones. Last of all is the kingdom, like the animal kingdom. These are ways to classify living things. 
There is a mnemonic to help people remember the order of the divisions which are listed again below: "King Phillip Came Over For Great Spaghetti".
Take as an example the bird called a Common Loon or Great Northern Diver:
There is a long history of disagreement over whether species are objective things, or whether they are man-made labels. Those who think species are objectively different point to things which 'good' species do. They look similar, and they breed true, that is, mate with their own kind, and have offspring which are obviously in the same species. 
Against this are the many exceptions. There are species which shade gradually into other species, and which interbreed in overlapping populations (see ring species). On the other hand, there are species which look absolutely identical, but which do not breed together (sibling species).
It is quite clear that 'species' as used by palaeontologists and 'species' as used by neontologists cannot be the same. A palaeontologist can only use visible features of a fossil, which are only a small part of the traits of a living species. Not only that, but many species which are virtually identical can only be distinguished by their DNA. This relatively recent discovery of sibling species is very important, and their numbers are growing rapidly. We underestimated the effect of convergent evolution.
The greatest change in the species concept was made by Charles Darwin, for evolution meant that hard-and-fast lines could not be drawn between species. Another shift came when Ernst Mayr proposed the biological species concept, which emphasized the interbreeding population as the heart of the species concept. This meant that, in his view, species were objective, that is not just the subjective opinion of a taxonomist. His explanation of the process of speciation was geographical isolation between populations which had once been interbreeding.

</doc>
<doc id="19655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19655" title="Ancestor">
Ancestor

An ancestor is a person from whom one is descended. Usually it refers to a remote person, rather than the immediate parents or grandparents. A very similar word is forebear. A female ancestor may be called an ancestress. The line of people from whom a person's descends is referred to as their ancestry. 
A second meaning relates to evolution. There, it is used of an animal or plant from which others have evolved. In a similar way, it can be used for an early prototype or forerunner of a later device. 
In law an ancestor can mean the person from whom an estate is lawfully obtained. No blood relationship is necessarily implied. More commonly, however, it is the person from whom an estate is obtained based on law and blood. 
Two people have a genetic relationship if one is the ancestor of the other, or if they share a common ancestor. Each of someone's ancestors will have contributed to their DNA. In evolution, species that have evolved from the same ancestor are said to be of common descent. However, this concept of ancestry does not apply to some bacteria and other organisms capable of horizontal gene transfer. DNA testing is used in determining ancestry. This can be for testing, to determine the parents of a child for legal purposes. DNA is also used to better understand the ancestry and history of all humans over the last 50,000 years. This was one of the benefits of the Human genome project.
In some cultures ancestors may have relatively little importance. Many today have no knowledge of their own great-great-grandparents. China is an example of a culture that in general has a deep respect for ancestors. Korea is an example of a culture that engages in ancestor worship where ancestors are revered. But genealogy (the study of one's ancestors) is growing in popularity and includes both amateur and professional genealogists.

</doc>
<doc id="19656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19656" title="River dolphin">
River dolphin

River dolphins are five species of dolphin which live in fresh water rivers and estuaries. Three species live in fresh water rivers. The La Plata Dolphin lives in salt water estuaries and the ocean.
Both river dolphins and marine dolphins belong to a group of mammals called cetaceans. The snout of a river dolphin measures about 58 centimeters (2 ft) long, approximately four times as long as that of most marine dolphins. They use their long snout to search for fish on the muddy bottom of the river. River dolphins have smaller eyes than marine dolphins, and their vision is poorly developed because they live in dark, muddy water. River dolphins are less active than marine dolphins because they do not need to search so widely to find fish. Marine dolphins work in pods (packs) because when they find a shoal of fish then they work together to make the most of their find. River dolphins work mostly as individuals or small groups.
The following is the taxonomy of river dolphins, or how dolphins are classified: 

</doc>
<doc id="19657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19657" title="Estuary">
Estuary

An estuary is where a river meets the sea. There, saltwater mixes with freshwater. The river becomes wider and wider and flows slowly to the ocean.
Bays, marshes, swamps, and inlets can all have estuaries. A view of an estuary from the air is usually an interesting sight: many estuaries meander (curve and bend) to find their way to the sea. Estuaries come in all sizes and shapes, each according to its location and climate. Where rivers meet the sea and fresh water mixes with salt water, the mixture is called brackish water.
Some estuaries are very large. They may be large ocean bays that have more than one river flowing into them. For example, Chesapeake Bay is a large estuary, and several different rivers meet the Atlantic Ocean there.
Estuaries are usually filled with shallow waters, and sunlight reaches all levels of the water. Marsh grasses, algae, and other kinds of plants live in estuaries and provide food for a variety of fish, crabs, oysters, and shrimp. Estuaries are especially important since they act as nurseries for many different types of young fish and other animals before they head out toward the open ocean. Many sea birds also nest in estuaries.
The United States government has a program to study and protect the natural environment in many different estuaries, called the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. One reason that the natural environment in so many estuaries is in danger is because they are also good places for people to live and build cities. Unfortunately, many of world's largest cities are at or near estuaries.

</doc>
<doc id="19666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19666" title="James Bond">
James Bond

James Bond is a fictional British spy created by Ian Fleming in 1953.
In 1953, Fleming wrote "Casino Royale", the very first James Bond novel. The novel made a lot of money, and he continued to write one James Bond novel each year until he died in 1963. In a 1956 South African radio program "Moonraker" he was voiced by Bob Holness. In 1962 Albert. R. "Cubby" Broccoli and Harry Saltzman started to produce the first James Bond movie, Dr. No, starring Sean Connery as James Bond. The movie became extremely popular, and they continued to make more Bond movies. In the end of the 1960s Connery did not want to do any more Bond movies, and many thought that Bond was now dead. In 1969, George Lazenby appeared in one movie as the Bond character, but the movie was not successful.
In 1971 Sean Connery stepped back into the role for one movie "Diamonds are Forever". After this in 1973, producers came up with the "Live and Let Die" movie, starring Roger Moore as Bond. The movie became a very big success. The series continued throughout the 1970s and 1980s with Roger Moore playing the role of Bond.
In the 1980s, Bond movies were not as successful at the box office. Unlike the 1960s and 1970s, in the 1980s there were many other action movies being produced that could compete with the Bond series. 
After Moore left the role as Bond, he was replaced with Timothy Dalton in the late 1980s. Dalton tried to make a serious, "down to earth" Bond, closer to the Fleming novels. Fans did not like Dalton's interpretation of the Bond character, and the movies made little money.
The Cold War ended in 1991. Since Bond almost always fought Communists, many now thought that the Bond series of movies was finally dead.
In 1995, producers developed the Goldeneye movie, starring Pierce Brosnan as Bond. This film made the Bond character well known in the 1990s. Brosnan appeared in several Bond movies.
In 2002, the James Bond character was used in the 20th movie, Die Another Day, the 40th anniversary of the movies and the 50th anniversary since Fleming wrote his first Bond novel.
In 2006, the 21st movie, Casino Royale, was released. Pierce Brosnan, who played James Bond in the previous four movies, was replaced by Daniel Craig, the first James Bond to have blonde hair. The movie is based on the first Ian Fleming novel of the same name, but is set in the present day. The movie features a cameo appearance by Richard Branson, a British billionaire. It has a new model of Aston Martin DB9, the car that made James Bond so famous in the 1960s. Many fans think that whilst this movie is different than other movies, it is much better, and movies in the future (however few there will be) will be in this new format. In 2008, Craig appeared in a second Bond movie, "Quantum of Solace" and a third, "Skyfall", in 2012. His fourth appearance as Bond was with "Spectre" in 2016.
Many of the James Bond movies were massive hits. However, there are two movies classed as unofficial Bond films and not recognised as part of the series. The 1967 version of "Casino Royale" was a spoof, featuring "Jimmy Bond". Also, "Never Say Never Again" was not made by Albert R. Broccoli's production company, EON Productions. Connery is the tallest actor to play James Bond to this day.

</doc>
<doc id="19669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19669" title="A Streetcar Named Desire">
A Streetcar Named Desire

A Streetcar Named Desire is a 1951 movie. It is based on the 1947 play by Tennessee Williams. The movie stars Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh.

</doc>
<doc id="19674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19674" title="Tetrahedron">
Tetrahedron

A tetrahedron (triangular pyramid) is a three dimensional shape. It has four corners. It looks like a pyramid. It has six equally long edges, four corners and four equilateral triangular faces. Every two edges meet on one of those corners forming a sixty-degree angle. All its sides are triangles. 

</doc>
<doc id="19675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19675" title="Robert Hooke">
Robert Hooke

Robert Hooke FRS (Isle of Wight, 18 July 1635 – London, 3 March 1703) was an English naturalist, architect and polymath. Hooke played an important role in the birth of science in the 17th century with both experimental and theoretical work. He was a colleague of Robert Boyle and Christopher Wren, and a rival to Isaac Newton. Hooke was a leader in the plans to rebuild after the Great Fire of London in 1666.
There is no surviving portrait of Hooke.
He discovered Hooke's Law of elasticity. He designed and ordered the making of telescopes and microscopes, and used both instruments. He reported on this work in a book called "Micrographia" in 1665. He was the first person to see biological cells. He made drawings of bodies in the Solar System, and made the first attempts to measure the distance of certain stars.
Robert Hooke was appointed the Royal Society's first Curator of Experiments in 1662, and he rose to be Secretary of the Royal Society. He took responsibility for experiments performed at its weekly meetings. This was a position he held for over 40 years.
In 1664 Hooke also was appointed Professor of Geometry at Gresham College in London and Cutlerian Lecturer in Mechanics.
On 8 July 1680, Hooke observed the nodal patterns associated with the mode of vibration of glass plates. He ran a bow along the edge of a glass plate covered with flour, and saw the nodal patterns emerge.
Hooke did some fundamental work on gravitation and the motion of the planets. Forever after, he was convinced that Newton and the world had cheated him of the credit 
He was also known for his work in natural history (biology and geology). He reported on his microsope use in a book called "Micrographica" in 1665. He was the first person to see biological cells, and was the first to use the word 'cell' to describe them.
In 1668, in a talk to the Royal Society, he recognised that fossil shells of unknown marine animals suggested that some species had become extinct.
Hooke achieved fame in his day as Surveyor to the City of London and chief assistant of Christopher Wren. Hooke helped Wren rebuild London after the Great Fire in 1666. 
He also worked on the Royal Greenwich Observatory, and the infamous Bethlem Royal Hospital (which became known as 'Bedlam'). Many other buildings were designed by Hooke, including the Royal College of Physicians (1679). 
Hooke's collaboration with Christopher Wren included St Paul's Cathedral, whose dome uses a method of construction conceived by Hooke. Hooke also participated in the design of the Pepys Library, which held the manuscripts of Samuel Pepys's diaries, the most frequently cited eyewitness account of the Great Fire of London.
In the reconstruction after the Great Fire, Hooke proposed redesigning London's streets on a grid pattern with wide boulevards and arteries, a pattern later used in the renovation of Paris, Liverpool, and many American cities. This proposal was thwarted by arguments over property rights, as property owners were surreptitiously shifting their boundaries. Hooke was in demand to settle many of these disputes, due to his skill as a surveyor and his tact as an arbitrator.

</doc>
<doc id="19681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19681" title="Emission">
Emission

Emission is a word that originally comes from Latin. Originally it means something that is sent out. Several things can be sent out:

</doc>
<doc id="19686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19686" title="Leo Tolstoy">
Leo Tolstoy

Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy (9 September 1828 - 20 November 1910) was a Russian novelist and anarchist, famous for writing the books "War and Peace" and "Anna Karenina". He was a Christian and believed in non-violence. His work "The Kingdom of God is Within You" has influenced people like Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King.
Tolstoy was born at Yasnaya Polyana, the family estate in the region of Tula, Russia and he married Sofia Andreevna Bers. 
He died of pneumonia at Astapovo station in 1910 at the age of 82.

</doc>
<doc id="19687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19687" title="California wine">
California wine

People have made wine in the American state of California for a long time. California has become recognized as making some of the world's best wine. California makes most of the wine that is made in America.
People first made wine in California in 1769. Missionaries from Mexico brought their wine plants to produce wine for the mass. Later, people coming from Europe improved the making of wine. They had brought their own kinds of wine plants.
Before 1920, there was more wine made every year. Then Prohibition began. During Prohibition, it was not allowed to sell alcoholic drinks in the United States. It almost ended the making of wine in California. Californian wine-making took a long time to recover.
In 1990, the USA sent less than five percent of its wine to other countries. After that, exports of wine from California increased. Today, the USA is one of the big wine industries.
Wine comes in different colors. Most wines are called "red" or "white". White wine is not really white, it just has a very light color. 54 percent of the Californian wines are white wines. Some examples of white wines are Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc. Some examples of red wines are Zinfandel, Cabernet-Sauvignon, Merlot, and Pinot Noir.
Grapes for wine used to need warm weather. People wanted to grow more grapes, so they learned how to grow them where the weather was not as warm. That way of growing grapes is called "cool climate viticulture". Vines are now planted in colder places, up to above sea level. Monterey County was the first place where that was done.
In California, there are more than 800 wine cellars. Wine cellars are big rooms were wine is stored. They are part of a winery, the place where wine is produced.
Two of the most famous growing areas for wine in California are Napa County and Sonoma County. The wines from those places are some of the best in the world. Some examples of the wines made there are Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon.
Other known wineries are in Mendocino, in the Lake Counties, Santa Maria and Santa Barbara.

</doc>
<doc id="19689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19689" title="Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid">
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid

Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a 1969 American movie from 20th Century Fox. George Roy Hill directed it, and John Foreman produced it. It stars Paul Newman and Robert Redford as two robbers in Wyoming who go to Bolivia to escape the law.
The movie was loosely based on the real story of the two title characters (Butch Cassidy and his friend Harry Longabaugh, also called "Sundance"). But it made the legends of the two more popular.
It won four Academy Awards: for Best Cinematography (shooting work on a movie), Best Original Score, Best Song (Burt Bacharach's "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head") and Best Original Screenplay (William Goldman). It was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Director (Hill) and Best Sound. Goldman won the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
It was one of the largest-grossing movies of the 1960s (with $102.3 million in the United States). It was number fifty on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.
At first, Warren Beatty and Steve McQueen (even Marlon Brando) were called upon to play the title roles. When Newman and Redford took their place, the roles were switched, with Newman as Sundance, and Redford as Cassidy. The studio, 20th Century Fox, did not like Redford's role. But the movie's director, Hill, wanted it that way.
As a result, Redford has said that the movie made him a more famous actor.
The Sundance Film Festival is named after Redford's role, as well his Utah ski resort.

</doc>
<doc id="19724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19724" title="1480s">
1480s


</doc>
<doc id="19735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19735" title="Mehmed II">
Mehmed II

Mehmed II (March 30, 1432, "Edirne" – May 3, 1481, "Hünkârcayırı", near "Gebze") was Sultan of the Ottoman Empire for a short time from 1444 to 1446, and later from 1451 to 1481. At the age of 21, he conquered Constantinople. So he brought to an end to the medieval Byzantine Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="19758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19758" title="The Bold and the Beautiful">
The Bold and the Beautiful

The Bold and the Beautiful is a popular American soap opera. After "The Young and the Restless", it is the highest-rated soap opera there.
The series is shown in over 100 countries. About 300 million people watch it every day. This makes "The Bold and the Beautiful" the most watched television series in the world. The first episode was shown on March 23, 1987 on the CBS network. The series was created by the soap opera writer William J. Bell and his wife, Lee Phillip Bell. It is the only American soap opera to have its daily episodes translated into Spanish for the Hispanic viewers in the United States.
The series is set in Los Angeles, California. It tells the story of the Forrester family, who owns a fashion empire called Forrester Creations. The major members of the family are Eric Forrester (played by John McCook), the president of Forrester Creations, his wife Stephanie (Susan Flannery), their eldest son Ridge (Ronn Moss) and Brooke Logan (Katherine Kelly Lang), who was married to both the father and the son. She owns most of Forrester Creations. This is because she created "BeLieF", a formula which earned much money for the company. There used to be a second fashion company called Spectra Fashions. It was Forrester’s main competitor. The conflicts between the Forrester and the Spectra families was one of the major themes of the story.

</doc>
<doc id="19759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19759" title="Primary color">
Primary color

Primary colors (or primary colours) are sets of colors that can be combined to make a useful range of colors. The primary colors are those which cannot be created by mixing other colors in a given color space.
For subtractive combination of colors, as in mixing of pigments or dyes for printing, the primaries normally used are cyan, magenta, and yellow, though the set of red, yellow, blue is popular among artists.
For additive combination of colors, as in overlapping projected lights or in CRT displays, the primary colors normally used are red, green, and blue.
Primary colors are not a fundamental property of light but are related to the physiological response of the eye to light (the way the eye works). For humans, three primary colors are usually used, since human color vision is trichromatic.
Fundamentally, light is a continuous spectrum of the wavelengths that can be detected by the human eye, an infinite-dimensional stimulus space. However, the human eye normally contains only three types of color receptors, called cone cells. Each color receptor respond to different ranges of the color spectrum. Humans and other species with three such types of color receptors are known as trichromats.
Media that combine emitted lights to create the sensation of a range of colors are using the additive color system. Television is the most common use of this. 
The additive primaries are red, green,
and blue. Because of the response curves of the three different color receptors in
the human eye, these colors are optimal in the sense that the largest range
of colors — a gamut — visible by humans can be generated by mixing light of these colors.
Additive mixing of red and green light, produce shades of yellow or orange. Mixing green and blue produces shades of cyan, and mixing red and blue produces shades of purple and magenta. Mixing equal proportions of the additive primaries results in shades of grey; when all three colors are fully saturated, the result is white. The color space that is generated is called the RGB ("red, green, blue") color space.
Media that use reflected light and colorants to produce colors are using the subtractive color method of color mixing. In the printing industry, to produce the varying colors, apply the subtractive primaries yellow, cyan, and magenta together in varying amounts. Subtractive color works best when the surface or paper, is white, or close to it.
Mixing yellow and cyan produces shades of green; mixing yellow with magenta produces shades of red, and mixing magenta with cyan produces shades of blue. In theory, mixing equal amounts of all three pigments should produce shades of grey, resulting in black when all three are fully saturated, but in practice they tend to produce muddy brown colors. For this reason, a fourth "primary" pigment, black, is often used in addition to the cyan, magenta, and yellow colors.
The color space generated is the so-called CMYK color space. The abbreviation stands for "Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and Black" — K stands for "Kohle" (German for coal) and is used to represent black as 'B' could be confused with 'Blue'.
In practice, mixtures of actual materials like paint tend to be less precise. Brighter, or more specific colors can be created using natural pigments instead of mixing, and natural properties of pigments can interfere with the mixing. For example, mixing magenta and green in acrylic creates a dark cyan - something which would not happen if the mixing process were perfectly subtractive. In the subtractive model, adding white to a color does not (in theory) change its hue but does reduce its saturation. In fact, adding white usually does change the hue slightly (this is known as the Abney effect), for example, adding white to red makes it slightly bluish, or pink.

</doc>
<doc id="19760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19760" title="Umbilicus">
Umbilicus

The umbilicus (also called navel or bellybutton) is a mark on the body of mammals that is left after a baby loses its umbilical cord. The umbilicus of humans is in the middle of the abdomen. It is usually only easy to see on humans, and is a thin line on many other mammals. In humans, they can be split into two different kinds, the kind that goes in (innie) and the kind that goes out (outie). Different people have different navels that can be different in size, shape, and looks, but these differences are not genetic (you do not get them from looks passed down in your family). The hepatic portal vein passes from the umbilical vein to the liver. When a person becomes fat, the fat usually goes around the umbilicus.
It marks the water shed line of the body.The venus blood & lymph do not cross the umbilical plane.

</doc>
<doc id="19761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19761" title="James Cook">
James Cook

Captain James Cook, FRS (27 October 1728 – 14 February 1779) was an English explorer, navigator and cartographer. He made three voyages to the Pacific Ocean, mapping many areas and recording several islands and coastlines on European maps for the first time. He is most notable for the British finding the east coast of Australia, finding the Hawaiian Islands and the first mapping of Newfoundland and New Zealand. 
During his lifetime, he sailed twice around the world. He crossed the Antarctic Circle and found new islands and landscapes in North America and the South Pacific. During his trips, he spent a lot of time on science experiments, and mapping new areas. He also wrote a lot of books about what he found. 
Cook was born on 27 October 1728 in Marton in Yorkshire. He was a son of a Scottish farmer. He was educated at the school in Great Ayton, and at 17 he began work in a shop at Staithes. At 18, Cook became a sailor, and became an apprentice to John Walker of Whitby. Walker's business was transporting coal. Cook learned mathematics and navigation from Walker. Cook was not just a normal seaman. He studied as much as he could. That is how he learned a lot of good knowledge about navigation and science. He was sent on three expeditions with the ship called "Endeavour" all over the world.
His goals on these missions were:
He had four sons  and one daughter. Their names were Elizabeth Cook, Hugh Cook, George Cook, Nathaniel Cook and  Joseph Cook. His father’s name was James Cook. He had 3 sisters and 2 brothers. Their names were Mary Cook , Margaret Cook, William Cook , Jane Cook and John Cook.

</doc>
<doc id="19762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19762" title="Offside rule">
Offside rule

The offside rule is one of the oldest football rules, but is still a much discussed rule. This is because it is difficult for the referee or assistant referee to watch the ball, the player playing the ball and also the attacker who are seeking to receive the ball at the same time. 
Offside is an offence committed by the team which has the ball and is punished with an indirect free kick.
It is a common misconception that the ball must be played forward for an offside offence to be committed. This is incorrect however, as an offside offence is related to the position of the ball and the player receiving it rather than the direction it is played. If the player is in front of the ball when it is played and has not got at least two defending players closer to the defending goal line than they are, she or he is in an offside position. 
But there are some exceptions:

</doc>
<doc id="19763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19763" title="Valentine's Day">
Valentine's Day

Valentine's Day is a holiday that happens on February 14. It is the day of the year when lovers show their love to each other. This can be done by giving flowers, chocolates, Valentine's cards or just a nice gift. Love notes can be given to one another. These notes that people give out are called "valentines". Some people pick one person and calls them their "Valentine" as a gesture to show love and appreciation.
Symbols of Valentine's Day are heart shapes, roses, and Cupid with his arrows.
Valentine's Day is named for the martyred Christian saint named Valentine. He was a bishop that married forbidden couples.
Since the 14th century Valentine's pairs are formed in England. English emigrants took the Valentine's custom to the United States. After the Second World War, US soldiers brought this festival to Europe.
In the third century after Christ, Valentine was the bishop of Terni (Italy). He performed weddings for couples who were not allowed to get married. They may not have been allowed to get married because the parents did not agree with the connection or because the bridegroom was a soldier or a slave, so the marriage was forbidden. Valentine gave the married couple flowers from his garden. That's why flowers play a very important role on Valentine's Day. This did not please the emperor. On February 14, 269 AD, Valentine was beheaded because of his Christian faith.
An expansion of the legend combines the day of death of Valentine with the Roman festival Lupercalia. It was the festival of the great goddess Lupa, which is the feminine word for wolf. She was the Great She-Wolf who nursed the twin babies, Romulus and Remus, who later became the founders of Rome. During the annual ceremony, the temple priestesses (lupae) wrote their names on strips of papyrus. These were picked by young men. After the lottery, the youngsters walked through the city and got the blessings of the citizens. The martyr Valentine became the patron saint of the lovers. Still in the Middle Ages, as in France or in Belgium, people were chosen by the lottery to live a year with each other and people prayed to Saint Valentine to make love potions and charms.
In the 19th century, the custom of sending Valentine's Cards became very popular. The cards usually have pictures of hearts or flowers and contain some sort of poem, message, or code. Codes and simple messages give some people the to show their true feelings to the person they love. Today, some people still use mysterious codes to show their love. People can use newspapers to give a coded message to their loved one, giving other readers a view of the couples' intimacy with one another. Sometimes they will give each other chocolates.
Famous for the popularity of the celebration is the folk song called "Die Vogelhochzeit" ("The Birds' Wedding").
In China, a holiday called Qi Xi is also called "Chinese Valentine's Day", especially by younger people. Qi Xi is traditionally held on the 7th day of the 7th month of the lunar calendar. In recent years, it has become more like Valentine's Day in other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="19765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19765" title="Canary Islands">
Canary Islands

The Canary Islands are a group of islands off the coast of Morocco. They are an autonomous community of Spain(they make their own laws). There are seven main islands. The people who live there speak Spanish. The autonomous community has two capital cities, of equal status: Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Every island has been created by volcanoes on the bottom of the sea. Those volcanoes slowly rose above the water and made the islands. This process lasted many thousands of years.
The islands have a very long and interesting history. When Europeans first came to the Canary Islands, they found people already living there. These people were called the Guanches. Many of the Guanches were killed in 15th century battles with the Spanish, and the ones who remained adopted the Spanish way of life. After the Spanish conquest many battles were also fought against pirates. Most recently Morocco was interested in them. 
After the Spanish conquest many Europeans settled there. Portuguese and Spaniards, and also Belgians and Maltese were among the early settlers. Recently many people from all over Europe, America, India and Africa have also become citizens or permanent residents.
The seven islands are: La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, and Fuerteventura. People from La Gomera have a whistle language that children there learn at school. Tenerife has the highest mountain in the Canary Islands and Spain too, the Teide. The Teide is actually a volcano, but it has not been active in more than 300 years. 
The islands are popular with tourists because of their warm climate and nice beaches. The local farmers grow lots of exotic fruits including papayas and bananas.
The Canary Islands' main exports include bananas and tobacco.

</doc>
<doc id="19766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19766" title="Edinburgh Airport">
Edinburgh Airport

Edinburgh Airport (IATA EDI, ICAO: EGPH) is an airport in Scotland. It is one of seven airports in the United Kingdom owned by the company BAA, which also owns Glasgow Airport and Aberdeen Airport in Scotland.
On 19th October 2011, BAA Limited said that it is going to sell Edinburgh Airport. This was done following a decision by the UK's Competition Commission which said that BAA needs to sell either Glasgow or Edinburgh Airport.
In February of 2001 a Shorts 360 crashed shortly after taking off from Edinburgh Airport. Both pilots were killed but there were no passengers on board as it was a mail-carrying flight. 

</doc>
<doc id="19767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19767" title="Lufthansa">
Lufthansa

Lufthansa is the largest airline in Germany, and the second largest in Europe. Some of Lufthansa's hubs are Frankfurt am Main and Munich, A hub is an airport where people who fly from one city to a second city can transfer or change airplanes. 
Lufthansa buys airplanes from Boeing and Airbus. Lufthansa has big airplanes for flights to North America, Asia, and Africa. These flights are called long-haul flights because they are between cities that are far apart from each other. Lufthansa also has small airplanes for flights in Europe. These flights are called short-haul flights. 
Lufthansa is a member of the Star Alliance which means it is a partner with other airlines like United Airlines and Air Canada. Members of the Star Alliance cooperate or work together to schedule their flights better so that travelling is easier for passengers or people. 
The name of Lufthansa's frequent flyer program is Miles and More. People earn points for flights they travel on. When they have enough points, they can get a free flight. Lufthansa has Miles and More to encourage people to fly with Lufthansa.
Many regional flights are operated Lufthansa Regional with Lufthansa CityLine, Eurowings and Air Dolomiti.
Lufthansa uses these aeroplanes:

</doc>
<doc id="19768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19768" title="Orlando Bloom">
Orlando Bloom

Orlando Jonathan Blanchard Bloom (born 13 January 1977, in Canterbury, Kent, England) is an English actor. He is most known for his first major movie role as the elf Legolas Greenleaf in "The Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy.
In 1993, he moved to London to improve his career, doing bit parts in TV series like "Casualty". Then he played some theatres like "The Seagull", "Twelfth Night", and "Trojan Women". This is a role that he received some days before graduating the drama school in London.
Here are some movies, in which he played an important character:

</doc>
<doc id="19778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19778" title="871">
871


</doc>
<doc id="19779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19779" title="1791">
1791

The year of 1791 started on a Saturday in the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780" title="1084">
1084

Year 1084 (MLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19781" title="Chromium">
Chromium

Chromium is a chemical element. Its symbol on the periodic table (a list of all the elements) is Cr. It always has 24 protons, so its atomic number is 24. Its mass number (number of protons and neutrons) is about 54. Most of the times it has 28 neutrons, but different isotopes have more or fewer neutrons. As a metal, it has 24 electrons. Its ions have fewer electrons.
Chromium is a shiny metal. It is reactive, but it reacts with air to produce a very thin coating of chromium(III) oxide, which prevents it from rusting any more. 
Chromium occurs in several oxidation states; +2, +3, and +6 are most common. It forms chemical compounds that are colorful.
There are two main types of chromium ions, which are found in chromium compounds. One type of chromium ion ("Cr", trivalent chromium ) is required by our body and by those of other animals. If we do not get enough chromium, certain parts of our body may not work properly. We get most of the chromium we need from our food we eat. Chromium is also put into vitamins to make sure that we get enough. If we get too much of this type of chromium, it can harm our body.
Another type of chromium ("Cr" (chromate, hexavalent chromium), in the +6 oxidation state) can cause cancer or make people sick, even though most people do not get exposed to it much. It is found in places that make chromium metal, which is why they need to be cleaned up when they close. Hexavalent chromium can be destroyed by reacting it with reducing agents, turning it into Cr (trivalent chromium). They are strong oxidizing agents.
The chromate ion is CrO. Chromates are generally yellow.
The dichromate ion is CrO. Dichromates are red or orange.
Chromium occurs as chromite. Chromite is a mixture of iron(II) oxide and chromium(III) oxide. Its chemical formula is FeCrO. It is heated with sodium carbonate to make sodium chromate, iron(III) oxide, and carbon dioxide. The sodium chromate is reacted with sulfuric acid to produce sodium dichromate. The sodium dichromate is reduced by carbon to chromium(III) oxide. The chromium(III) oxide is reacted with aluminum to make chromium metal. The chromates and dichromates are what make chromium production areas toxic.
Chromium is used in different metal products. Stainless steel is the most common use. It is also used in "chrome plating", where it makes things shiny and stops corrosion. Some chromates were used as pigments, but they are toxic so people do not want to use them anymore. 
Chromium metal is nontoxic. But hexavalent chromium is toxic and carcinogenic, and trivalent chromium is mildly toxic in large quantities.

</doc>
<doc id="19782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19782" title="Neon">
Neon

Neon is a noble gas. It is chemical element 10 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ne.
The word "neon" comes from the Greek word meaning "new". It was discovered by William Ramsay and Morris W. Travers in 1898.
Neon does not react with other elements, so it is found by itself. There is not much neon in the air, and it is clear, so we do not see it.
Neon gas is used in lamps. When electricity goes through the neon, it lights up in many different colors. Due to this quality, it is used in signs.
Neon is also a term referring to a type of color that is very bright, such as lime green.
No true chemical compounds including the neutral compounds of neon are known. Where there is the helium compound HHeF, which might be stable, the analogous componund with Neon is not.

</doc>
<doc id="19783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19783" title="Tin">
Tin

Tin is a chemical element with symbol Sn (for ) and atomic number 50. It is in Group 14 on the periodic table. It is not radioactive.
Tin is a silver, somewhat soft metal. It is a post-transition metal. Its melting point is 231.93°C and its boiling point is 2602 °C. It can melt easily in a flame. It is malleable. It makes a crackling sound called tin cry when a piece of it is bent. Tin has more non-radioactive isotopes than any other element.
Tin is found in two allotropes: alpha-tin and beta-tin. Alpha-tin is a brittle, dull, powdery, semimetallic form of tin. It is made when very pure tin is cooled. Beta-tin is the normal shiny, soft, conductive, metallic form. It is made at higher temperatures. The decay of tin by turning from beta-tin to alpha-tin is called "tin pest". Alpha-tin is not wanted in many places. When small amounts of other elements like antimony are added, the tin cannot change into alpha-tin. When alpha-tin is heated, it changes into beta-tin.
Tin can be hardened by adding antimony or copper, as well as some other elements. These also make it resistant to tin pest. Tin can also be made very shiny. Tin can make an alloy with copper called bronze.
Salt water and fresh water do not affect tin.
It does dissolve in strong acid to make tin salt.
It does react with some strong bases.
Tin is corrosion (the breakdown of materials due to reactions within its area) resistant to many things.
Tin forms chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +2 and +4. +2 compounds are reducing agents. Some of them are colorless while others are colored. +4 compounds are more unreactive and act more covalent.
Tin burns in air to make tin(IV) oxide, which is white. Tin(IV) oxide dissolves in acids to make other tin(IV) compounds. Tin(IV) chloride is a colorless fuming liquid when anhydrous and a white solid when hydrated. It easily reacts with water to make tin(IV) oxide and an acid again.
Tin reacts with hydrohalic acids to make tin(II) halides. For example, tin(II) chloride is made when tin dissolves in hydrochloric acid. Tin(IV) halides are made when tin reacts with the halogens. Tin(IV) chloride is made when tin reacts with chlorine. Tin(II) sulfate is different as it does not oxidize to tin(IV) sulfate. Tin(II) oxide is a blue-black solid that burns in air to make tin(IV) oxide.
+2 compounds are reducing agents. They are about as common as +4 compounds. Some are colorless, while others are colored.
+4 compounds are unreactive. Some are colorless.
Tin is not found as a metal in the ground. It is normally in the form of cassiterite. Cassiterite is a mineral containg tin(IV) oxide. The cassiterite is normally found downstream of the cassiterite deposit when it is by a stream or river. Tin is also found in some complicated sulfide minerals.
Tin does not have any major job in the human body.
Tin is made by heating cassiterite with carbon in a furnace. China is the biggest maker of tin.
People discovered tin long ago and used it with other metals. When copper and tin are mixed together, bronze is made. Bronze was important in the past, because it was one of the strongest metals available, which meant it was useful in weapons and tools. Bronze changed the world when it was first invented, starting the Bronze Age. People organized themselves more, because making tools from bronze was harder than making them from rock and wood like they did before.
Tin is used in solder. Solder used to contain a mixture of lead and tin. Now the lead is removed because of its toxicity.
Tin is also used to make pewter, which is mainly tin mixed with a small amount of copper and other metals. Babbitt metal also has tin in it. Tin is used to coat several metals, like lead and steel. Tin plated steel containers are used to store foods. The pipes on a pipe organ are made of tin. Tin foil was used before aluminium foil. Tin was one of the first superconductors to be found. Organotin compounds are more common than almost any other organometal compound. They are used in some PVC pipes to stop them from decaying. Organotin compounds are toxic, though.
Tin is not toxic, but tin compounds are very toxic to marine life. They are a little toxic to humans.

</doc>
<doc id="19785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19785" title="Silicon">
Silicon

Silicon is element 14 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Si.
Silicon looks like a metal, but does not do everything a metal does, like conduct electricity very easily. It is a metalloid. Silicon is used as a great deal in today's computers and virtually every electronic device. Germanium can also be used in computers, but silicon is easier to find. 
There is a lot of silicon on the Earth. At the beach, there is silicon in the form of sand. Sand is a compound of silicon known as silicon dioxide or silica. Glass is made by heating sand (or silicon dioxide) hot enough. The glass can have different colours by adding coloured compounds. Silicon also makes up a lot of different rocks and minerals, and they are known as silicates.
Silicon is a semiconductor, and much used in computers. A super-pure isotope of silicon, silicon-28, can now be made 40 times more pure than before. It is very important for the next big development in computers. This stores "qubits" in atoms of another element, like phosphorous, embedded in a tiny layer of ultra-pure silicon-28. These qubits can simultaneously encode a one and a zero, for incredibly fast and complex calculations.

</doc>
<doc id="19786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19786" title="Cadmium">
Cadmium

Cadmium is a metal. It is element 48 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Cd". Its atomic number is 48 and its atomic mass is 112.4. It is found in Group 12 on the periodic table.
Cadmium is a blue-gray soft metal. It can be considered a transition metal or a post-transition metal. It is malleable and ductile. It is similar to zinc. It melts at 321°C.
Cadmium has 8 natural isotopes. 5 are radioactive, but 3 have very long half-lives so their radioactivity is almost nothing. 
Cadmium is a moderately reactive metal. It corrodes in moist air and dissolves in acids. It burns in air when powdered to make the brown cadmium oxide. 
Cadmium forms chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +1 and +2. The +1 state is rare and unstable. The +2 state is much more common. Most +2 compounds dissolve easily in water and are white to yellow. Cadmium oxide can be brown, red, or white. Cadmium sulfide is bright yellow. Cadmium chloride and cadmium sulfate are colorless solids that dissolve easily in water. Cadmium fluoride is slightly soluble. Cadmium compounds are toxic when inhaled.
Cadmium was found by two chemists, German chemist Friedrich Stromeyer discovered it in 1817, and Karl Herman also discovered it in 1818. They were looking at an impurity in zinc carbonate and found cadmium. For about 100 years, Germany made most cadmium. Cadmium iodide was used as a medicine although it was toxic.
Cadmium ores are rare. Greenockite, a cadmium sulfide mineral is the only main ore and it is found with sphalerite, a zinc sulfide. Because of this, most cadmium comes from zinc processing. Cadmium as a metal is very rare but is found in one place in Russia.
China makes the most cadmium. South Korea and Japan also make cadmium. Cadmium is taken from the zinc metal by heating the zinc metal in a vacuum. Cadmium is boiled first. The cadmium is condensed and used. Cadmium is also taken by precipitating it from the solution of zinc sulfate used to make pure zinc by electrolysis.
In the 1930s and 1940s cadmium was mainly used to plate steel to prevent it from corroding. Then cadmium sulfide was used as a pigment in paint. 
Now, cadmium is mainly used in nickel cadmium batteries. 86% of cadmium is used in batteries as of 2009. Some people are trying to stop using nickel-cadmium batteries because cadmium is toxic. Cadmium is still used to electroplate steel to prevent corrosion. Only about 6% of cadmium is used for this. Cadmium is also used in lasers, nuclear reactors, phosphors, photoresistors, pigments, and semiconductors. Wood's metal, an alloy that melts very easily, has cadmium in it. Cadmium is used in some solder. 
Cadmium is not used in the human body or any other animal. A diatom uses cadmium, though. 
Cadmium is a highly toxic metal. Dust of cadmium or its compounds is very dangerous and can kill. Some countries have banned cadmium from electronics. Cigarette smoking is the most important source of cadmium. Smokers have about 4 times more cadmium in their blood than nonsmokers (people who do not smoke). Cadmium is thought to be carcinogenic, although people still debate whether it is other things with the cadmium that cause cancer, like arsenic.

</doc>
<doc id="19787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19787" title="Krypton">
Krypton

Krypton is a noble gas which means it does not react with many other elements. It is clear and has no taste or smell. The atmosphere is only about one millionth part krypton. The name "kypton" comes from the Greek word "kryptos" meaning hidden. It is used in fluorescent lamps, flashbulbs, and as a wavelength standard. The metre used to be defined as 1,650,763.73 wavelengths in a vacuum of krypton gas. Krypton has very few compounds.
The main use for krypton is to make light. There is one main type of krypton light bulbs. This is called a gas discharge lamp. There are three main types of these. First is a low energy gas discharge lamp or "neon light". Low energy gas discharge lights made from krypton are near white to green. Second is a high energy short length of time gas discharge light or "flash bulb". These are mostly used for photography. They are bright blue-white. Third is a high energy gas discharge light. This third kind is mostly used to light airport runways. They are also bright blue-white.
Krypton is number 36 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Kr.
Krypton was found by Sir William Ramsay and Morris Travers in Great Britain in 1898. Ramsay was given the 1904 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on noble gases. It was a difficult gas to discover; Ramsay suspected it existed but only found it by removing other gases. This is why he gave it the name Krypton. There is no mineral called Kryptonite or planet called Krypton, which features in the Superman comics by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. The fictional planet is probably better known than the real chemical element called Krypton.

</doc>
<doc id="19788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19788" title="Noble gas">
Noble gas

The noble gases are a group of elements that are all gases. These elements are all in group 18 of the periodic table. All of them are monoatomic, meaning each molecule is a single atom They almost never react with other elements. This is because they have a full 8 electrons outer electron shell. There are six noble gases:
All of these gases are found in air. They make up around 0.96% of the atmosphere. Noble gas compounds can be formed from noble gases.
When the noble gases are used in cold cathode tubes to produce light, each of them has a different colour. Since Radon is radioactive, it is usually not used for lighting. Here are pictures of what the others look like:
Ununoctium (element 118) is probably the next noble gas after Radon because it is the next box down in the same group. However it has a half life of 0.89 ms, after which it decays to Ununhexium (Element 116). This means its use is probably limited.
Noble gases were discovered by Lord Rayleigh and Sir William Ramsay. Rayleigh won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1904 for his work on noble gas. Ramsay won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 for his work with noble gas.

</doc>
<doc id="19790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19790" title="Polonium">
Polonium

Polonium is a rare radioactive metalloid. It is chemical element 84 on the periodic table and its symbol is Po. It was discovered in 1898 by Marie and Pierre Curie.
Polonium is highly unstable, radioactive and toxic. This makes it difficult to handle. It can be dangerous, even in very small amounts. One gram of Po will self-heat to a temperature of about . It also vaporizes easily.
Polonium has 33 isotopes, and all of them are radioactive. It is a very rare element in nature because of its short half-life. It is a breakdown product of uranium, so it is found in uranium ores. 
The former Russian secret service agent Alexander Litvinenko was murdered by having a tiny amount of polonium put into a drink.

</doc>
<doc id="19791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19791" title="Bismuth">
Bismuth

Bismuth is a chemical element. It is element 83 on the periodic table and its symbol is "Bi". Its atomic mass is 209. It is only a very little radioactive. The radioactivity is so little that it is seen as nonradioactive normally. Bismuth is only found as one isotope naturally, which is the almost nonradioactive one. Its radioactivity was predicted by scientists and proven by analyzing the metal. It is in Group 15 on the periodic table. 
Bismuth is a silver metal with a pink tinge to it. This pink color is because of its oxide coating. Bismuth is a post-transition metal. It is one of the strongest diamagnetic metals. It is almost as heavy as lead. Its melting point is quite low , which is normal for post-transition metals. It is quite brittle. It can make crystals with a shiny surface. This is because of the oxide coating too. As a liquid it is heavier than as a solid. Another chemical that does this is water. It does not conduct electricity or heat very well.
Bismuth is somewhat similar to antimony. Bismuth makes a thin coating of bismuth(III) oxide when it is in air. This makes the colors on the crystals. It does not oxidize any more than the oxide layer. It burns when powdered with a bright blue flame, making yellow bismuth(III) oxide fumes. Bismuth reacts with sulfur when molten as well. Bismuth reacts with nitric acid to make bismuth(III) nitrate and concentrated sulfuric acid to make bismuth(III) sulfate and sulfur dioxide. It reacts with the halogens to make bismuth(III) halides. With fluorine it makes bismuth(V) fluoride unless the fluorine is diluted, though.
Bismuth forms chemical compounds in two main oxidation states: +3 and +5. +3 is more common. +3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents and are normally light yellow. +5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents. Bismuthates are the most common +5 compounds. Bismuth(V) fluoride is another +5 compound. Bismuth(V) oxide is an unstable red solid. Bismuth sulfide is a common ore of bismuth. Bismuthine, a bismuth hydride, is very unstable and only can be made at very cold temperatures. Bismuth makes many oxy- compounds like bismuth oxychloride. These compounds are made when bismuth halides dissolve in water.
+3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents except for bismuthine. They are normally pale yellow.
Bismuth(V) oxides (+5 compounds) are very strong oxidizing agents. Its chemical formula is BiO. It is a scarlet red solid. It decomposes to bismuth(III) oxide and oxygen easily. It is made by electrolysis of bismuth(III) oxide in a hot concentrated alkali like sodium hydroxide.
Bismuth was known since ancient times. It was confused with tin and lead, though. No one is credited for discovering bismuth. In the 1500s, people started realizing that bismuth was different than tin or lead.
Bismuth is not very common in the earth. It is only about twice as common as gold. Bismite, a bismuth oxide mineral, and bismuthinite, a bismuth sulfide, are two common ores. Bismuth is sometimes found as a metal, too.
Bismuth and its minerals are too rare to be mined. They are gotten by "secondary extraction". It is normally found in lead metal. The lead metal is purified by electrolysis, leaving the bismuth behind as a sludge on the bottom of the container. The copper is taken out of the sludge and the bismuth is purified by being reduced in a furnace and all the impurities are filtered out.
China makes the most bismuth. Peru, Mexico, and Japan also make bismuth.
Bismuth can also be recycled. This is difficult in many places because bismuth is used for things like bullets, solder, and stomach medicine that get scattered all over and cannot easily be gotten again.
Bismuth is used in alloys with very low melting points. Some of them melt in hot water. They are also found in solder that does not have lead in it. It can make alloys with other metals to make them more malleable. It is also used in bullets to replace lead. In some places lead bullets are outlawed as birds eat them and get lead poisoning. It is also used in alloys for plumbing. It is used in fishing sinkers. 
Bismuth is used in some medicines such as Pepto-Bismol. This medicine has bismuth subsalicylate in it. It is also used as an internal deodorant and to treat eye infections and peptic ulcers.
Bismuth oxychloride is used in cosmetics. Bismuth telluride is used in electronic thermometers. Another compound is used in superconductors and becomes a superconductor at a high temperature. It can be used as a pigment and in fireworks to make crackling sounds. It is used in the nuclear fuel of a nuclear reactor.
Bismuth is much less toxic than other heavy metals. This is why it is replacing lead in many things. It does not add up in the body like other heavy metals do. A very large amount of bismuth can poison the kidneys and liver, though. Because its oxide does not dissolve in water, it is considered safe for the environment.

</doc>
<doc id="19792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19792" title="Iridium">
Iridium

Iridium is the 77th element on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ir. Ir's atomic number(the amount of protons) is 77.
Iridium is a metal. It is very hard to find and costs a lot. It is known as a "noble metal". Iridium belongs to a group of metals known as transition metals. It looks like platinum and is found in asteroids and comets. It can be used to find out when an asteroid or comet will hit the Earth. It is a very costly metal that can fold and bend just like aluminum. It is very shiny. It is relatively rare on the Earth's crust. Most Iridium is found in Brazil, Canada, Myanmar, Russia, South Africa, and the United States. Iridium is the most corrosion resistant metal.
Iridium melts at 2410 °C and boils at 4130 °C.
Iridium is not needed in the body.
A man named Smithson Tennant first found it in the year 1803. Smithson Tennant found it in the remains when he left crude platinum in a mixture of hydrochloric acid and nitric acid.

</doc>
<doc id="19793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19793" title="Transition metal">
Transition metal

The transition metals are a group of metals that are found in the middle of the periodic table. They all have similar properties. The alkaline earth metals are to the left and the Group 3 elements, beginning with boron.
Transition metals have several general properties. They are harder and less reactive than the alkaline earth metals. They are also harder than the post transition metals. They make colorful chemical compounds with other elements. Most of them have more than one oxidation state.
Some of the transition metals are necessary to keep humans healthy, such as iron, zinc, and chromium. Other elements in the transition metals can be harmful to our body, like cadmium and mercury. Other elements like gold or silver do not really harm or help us. There are more transition metals than any other groups in the periodic table.
Only a few of the transition metals are colored; most of them are silver-gray or silver-bluish.

</doc>
<doc id="19794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19794" title="Osmium">
Osmium

Osmium is a chemical element. It is element number 76 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Os".
There is not much osmium on earth. There is actually such a small amount that osmium is very expensive. 
Osmium is a metal and it does not react very much, and such a metal is known as a "noble metal".
It was discovered in 1804 by Smithson Tennant in London, England. He found it together with Iridium in a bit of Platinum, which he had dissolved in Aqua regia.

</doc>
<doc id="19795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19795" title="Radon">
Radon

Radon is element 86 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Rn.
Radon is a gas and is part of the group known as the noble gases. It does not react with other elements, so it is found pure.
Radon is radioactive, meaning that it can give off harmful rays. Some people have high levels of radon in their houses, and this can be very dangerous. A lot of radon can get stuck in the basement of old houses, and so people end up breathing it in. It gets stuck in the lungs and has been known to cause cancer. There are groups that try to make sure there is no dangerous radon in houses.

</doc>
<doc id="19796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19796" title="FTP">
FTP

FTP, also known as File Transfer Protocol, is a protocol for the rapid, simple transmission of files across a network supporting the TCP/IP protocol. This network is generally the Internet, or a local network. FTP is a way of accessing files on another computer. FTP uses the Client-Server architecture, meaning that there is a server, that holds the files, and does the authentication, and a client, or the end-user, who is accessing the files. The server listens on the network for connection requests from other computers. The client can make a connection to the FTP server by using FTP client software. Once connected and authenticated (via rsh or SFTP) the client can do things such as uploading files to the server, downloading files (taking the server's files and putting them on his own computer) from the server, and renaming, deleting files on the server, changing file permissions, etc.
Most modern Operating Systems support FTP. This implies that any computer to connected to a TCP/IP based network can manipulate files on another computer on that network regardless of which operating systems are involved, provided that they are open to FTP connections. There are many existing FTP client and server programs, many of these are available free, or open source.
FTP connection is also seen in cellular phones when trying to transfer or receive data from a computer nearby. 
FTP server return codes show their status by the digits within them. A short explanation of various digits' meanings are given below:

</doc>
<doc id="19797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19797" title="Hypertext Transfer Protocol">
Hypertext Transfer Protocol

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (often abbreviated to HTTP) is a communications protocol. It is used to send and receive webpages and files on the internet. It was developed by Tim Berners-Lee and is now coordinated by the W3C. HTTP version 1.1 is the most common used version today. It is defined in RFC 2616.
HTTP works by using a user agent to connect to a server. The user agent could be a web browser or spider. The server must be located using a URL or URI. This always contains http:// at the start. It normally connects to port 80 on a computer.
A more secure version of HTTP is called "HTTPS". This contains https:// at the beginning of the URL. It encrypts all the information that is sent and received. This can stop malicious users such as hackers from stealing the information. HTTPS is often used on payment websites. HTTPS uses port 443 for communication instead of port 80.
The request message contains the following:
The request line and headers must all end with two characters: a carriage return followed by a line feed, often written <CR><LF>. The empty line must consist of only <CR><LF> and no other whitespace. In the HTTP/1.1 protocol, all headers except Host are optional.
A request line containing only the path name is accepted by servers to maintain compatibility with HTTP clients before the HTTP/1.0 standard. Even this site has a HTTP at it's beginning, which is: http://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol&action=edit&section=1
HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a communication protocol and it is used to send and receive webpages and other data files on the internet. A more secure version of HTTP is called HTTPS (Hyper Transfer Protocol Secure). It encrypts all the information sent and received. This can stop hackers from stealing the information; HTTPS is often used on payment websites.

</doc>
<doc id="19798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19798" title="Ethernet">
Ethernet

Ethernet is a way of connecting computers together in a local area network or LAN. It has been the most widely used method of linking computers together in LANs since the 1990s. The basic idea of its design is that multiple computers have access to it and can send data at any time. This is comparatively easy to engineer. 
If two computers send data at the same time, a collision will occur. When this happens, the data sent is not usable. In general, both computers will stop sending, and wait a random amount of time, before they try again. A special protocol was developed to deal with such problems. It is called Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection or CSMA/CD.
There are different Ethernet standards. Today, Ethernet cables look like thick telephone cables. They connect to boxes called hubs or switches. Each cable runs from a computer's network interface card (NIC) to such a box. This cable is called 10BaseT or 100BaseT, or 1000BaseT Cable.
All cable types:
Today, the cables for 10BaseT, 100BaseT, and 1000BaseT are the same. They use unshielded twisted pair of Category 5 (UTP-Cat5) or 5e for that. Shielded cable (STP-Cat5 or Cat5e) can be used when there is a lot of electrical noise, and Category 6 (UTP-Cat6 or STP-Cat6) works better with faster signals such as 1GBit or 10GBit.
Other devices, such as the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3, can also be connected using the same kind of cabling. Certain computer peripherals, for example printers and certain hard disks can be directly connected to the network with such cables.
Ethernet can go at different speeds. In the beginning, Ethernet was at 10 MBits per second. The Ethernet most often used today is at 100 MBits per second. Most new computers now have the NIC built in, and can go at 1GBit per second. There are also standards for 1GBit per second and 10 GBit per second. 100 MBit can usually talk to 10 MBit, and 1 GBit can talk to 100 MBit and usually to 10 MBit (both full and half duplex).

</doc>
<doc id="19800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19800" title="Obesity">
Obesity

Obesity is the condition of being much too heavy for one's height so that one's health is affected. In other words, it means to be too overweight. Also known as being fat. It is considered a disease and has been described as an epidemic.
To know if a person is overweight, the body mass index (BMI) is calculated, by dividing the person's weight (in kilograms), by their height (in meters) squared (multiplied by itself). (This is only meaningful for adults who are fully grown, and should not be used for children. Growth charts can be used to measure obesity in children.)
A BMI between 20 and 25 is considered "normal". People with a BMI of 25 or more are said to be overweight; with 30 and above, they are considered obese, and with 35 and above, they are considered "severely obese" (this used to be called "morbidly obese"). In general, the BMI number is a good quantifiable measurement of a person's obesity. However, it is a poor predictor in people who are very athletic, because a person with a higher than average amount of muscle tissue will weigh more than an average person, thus resulting in a BMI that is higher than normal, even if that person is very large.
The most common cause for obesity is getting more calories than are used by the body. Other factors that often contribute to obesity are:
Genetics are known to contribute to obesity. Leptin is a hormone that is linked to obesity.
Many health problems are associated with obesity. An example is Type 2 diabetes. A woman with a BMI higher than 35 is 93 times more likely to develop diabetes. A 2009 review found that people with a BMI between 40 and 50 were 22.5 times more likely to die from diabetes than people with BMIs between 22.5 and 25.
An obese woman is more likely to have an unhealthy baby.
Risk is associated with where the excess fat is stored on the body. Abdominal obesity is particularly dangerous.
Some people think that the idea that obesity causes bad health is not completely true and has been exaggerated. An example is J. Eric Oliver. He wrote a book called "Fat Politics: The Real Story Behind America's Obesity Epidemic". There is evidence for this belief. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in 2003 that 400,000 people died because of being obese in 2000. Then in 2004 they said that the number was wrong. A 2013 review of scientific papers found that Grade 1 obesity (BMI 30-34.9) is not associated with increased deaths. Grades 2 (BMI 35-39.9) and 3 (40+) obesity are associated with much higher rates of death. It has been suggested that obesity is associated with mortality (death) because of mortality in Grade 2 and 3 obesity. People with grade 2 and 3 obesity are 29% more likely to die.
'Metabolically healthy obesity' is increasingly being recognized. Up to 40% of obese people are metabolically healthy. They are not more likely to get heart disease or die than metabolically healthy non-obese people.
The 'obesity paradox' is a term used to describe how obesity can lower the risk of death. Obesity increases the chance of getting heart disease. But obese people with heart disease are less likely to die in a 7 year period. The obesity paradox has also been found in patients with stroke, diabetes, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Scientists have not yet found a 'cure' for obesity that most people are willing to implement. It is common wisdom that people who lose weight will regain it all within 5 years.
However, this position has been scientifically challenged for over a decade. Additionally, modern research has achieved significantly higher success rates than the figure that dominates the popular internet. Therefore, diet and exercise is the most common recommended treatment for obesity - it has the potential for a very high treatment success rate.
Surgery can be used to treat obesity. Gastric bypass is the most common weight loss surgery. It makes a person's stomach smaller so that they feel full after eating less food and causes their body to absorb less calories. People who have surgery are usually very obese.
Some people think that obesity should not be treated at all. This position is contradicted by substantial medical research.
Weight loss medicines can make people want to eat less or make less of the energy from food be absorbed by their bodies. The only weight loss drug approved by the FDA for long term use is orlistat. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved other drugs because they have side effects. Also they are worried that people who are not obese will take them.
In the West, people associate obesity with negative characteristics such as laziness, ugliness, stupidity, etc. These attitudes are increasing. Discriminating against someone because of their weight is legal in the United States. The fat acceptance movement says that this is wrong and is a kind of prejudice called fatphobia. In some cultures obesity is viewed as positive. It is associated with wealth, beauty, and fertility. Westernization means that non-Western cultures are becoming more 'fatphobic' like the West.

</doc>
<doc id="19803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19803" title="Rn">
Rn

Rn or RN could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19808" title="Phillips Academy">
Phillips Academy

Phillips Academy (also called Andover, Phillips Andover, or PA) is a high school for boys and girls in Andover, Massachusetts, near Boston, USA. 
The school is a boarding school. 75% of the students live there.
Phillips Academy is the oldest private boarding school in the United States. Two American Presidents, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, went to school there.
Phillips Academy was founded during the American Revolution as an all-boys school in 1778. The great seal of the school was designed by Paul Revere. George Washington's nephews went to the school, and he once spoke at an assembly while visiting. John Hancock, the famous signer of the United States Declaration of Independence, signed the articles of incorporation.
Phillips Exeter Academy was made three years later in Exeter, New Hampshire by Samuel Phillips' uncle John. The football teams have played against each other almost every year since 1878. This makes their rilvalry one of the oldest high school rivalries in the country.
Paul Revere put bees, a beehive, and the sun into the school's great seal. The school's main motto, "Finis Origine Pendet", means "the end depends upon the beginning." It is written at the bottom of the seal. The school's second motto, "Non Sibi" means "not for self." 

</doc>
<doc id="19812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19812" title="Gluttony">
Gluttony

Gluttony is a wasting of resources. Usually it is food that is wasted. Either one person eats too much, or the person does something so the food (or the resources) do not reach those who need it.
In Christianity, this is considered to be one of the Seven deadly sins.

</doc>
<doc id="19813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19813" title="Greed">
Greed

Greed is a desire to have more goods, or more wealth than is needed. Christianity says that greed is one of the Seven deadly sins. There it is listed as "avarice", or in Latin "avaritia".

</doc>
<doc id="19815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19815" title="Mazurek Dąbrowskiego">
Mazurek Dąbrowskiego

Mazurek Dąbrowskiego is the Polish national anthem, made in 1797 by Józef Wybicki.

</doc>
<doc id="19816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19816" title="CSA">
CSA


</doc>
<doc id="19818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818" title="Fornication">
Fornication

Fornication is a word that means having sex with someone who is not your spouse. Many Christians and Muslims believe it is sinful.

</doc>
<doc id="19820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19820" title="Profit">
Profit

Profit is how much money somebody (normally a company) makes. This is found by subtracting how much money they have spent ("expenditure") from how much money they have brought in (revenue).
If John spends $15 on some ice cream cones, and then sells them for $20, he has made a profit of $5. This is because 20 minus 15 is 5.

</doc>
<doc id="19821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19821" title="Roasting">
Roasting

Roasting is a way of cooking. Something gets roasted if it is put over a fire, and some is burnt. The same effect can also be attained with a grill at a barbecue.
In different countries people like to roast different things. People usually roast joints of meats such as pork, beef, chicken, lamb, and duck. The roasted meat, along with its accompanying vegetables, is often called a roast.
Most meat being roasted has to cook for a relatively long time, to ensure the joint is cooked through. Variations to this include most joints of lamb and beef, which may be left "pink" or partially uncooked towards the centre.
Other things can be roasted too. For example, vegetables, coffee and chocolate. Coffee and chocolate are always roasted.

</doc>
<doc id="19823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19823" title="Influenza">
Influenza

Influenza, better known as the flu and sometimes called the grippe, is a common childhood illness, but is not as common among adults. It is not limited to humans, most mammals and many birds can also catch influenza. It is caused by several different viruses (see: RNA virus), which is why people can have the flu more than once.. The name "influenza" comes from , meaning "influence".
Human Influenza can pass from one person to another very easily. It is most commonly spread by the microscopic droplets of mucus and fluid that are sent into the air when the sick person coughs or sneezes. Symptoms include cough, sore throat, muscle aches and pains, fever, headache, and rarely vomiting and diarrhoea. Influenza can also lead to other diseases, such as pneumonia. This makes it especially dangerous to young children and elderly people.
Although there is no cure for influenza, Antiviral drugs can be used to treat the illness so it is not as severe and does not last as long.
The influenza season runs from late fall to spring because most people catch it in the winter months. When there are more cases of influenza than expected, it will sometimes be called an epidemic. When there are a large number of cases of the same type of influenza all over the world, it is often called a pandemic.
Small changes that happen as flu is passed from one person to another is the most common way flu viruses change. This is the main reason that people can catch the flu every year.
The CDC keeps track of the different flu viruses that are circulating, and gives this information to the companies that make flu shots. Since the flu changes so much from year to year, flu shots have to be given for each new flu season.
Flu shots only protect against the most common flu viruses, and every now and then a slightly different type spreads more than expected. Usually when this happens, the existing flu shot gives some protection so that even if a person who had a flu shot catches it, they do not get as sick.
Some flu viruses are caught from animals. Bird flu, for example, is usually only caught by people in contact with sick birds (usually chickens). These types of flu virus are usually very limited, and while they can make a person very ill, usually other people do not catch the virus from the sick person.
Another way that the flu can change is when a person or animal catches two different flu viruses. The two viruses can exchange some of their genetic information, which can create a brand new flu that nobody has ever caught before.
If an animal flu virus changes in this way to one that can easily pass from human to human, many people become ill because nobody has any immunity to the new virus. Often, a brand new virus is more severe and kills more people.
New types of flu virus are usually what causes pandemics, and that is the reason many scientists have been following Bird Flu so closely—it kills six people out of every ten who catch it. This would be a very serious problem if it changes enough to spread easily between people.
This new flu virus got its name because it contains genetic parts that are commonly found in flu viruses that infect pigs. It is not spread by pigs or by eating pork—this is a new human virus being spread by humans.
Although information is still coming out about swine flu, so far it does not seem to be as severe as bird flu or the flu that caused the influenza pandemic of 1918 (also known as Spanish flu), but it is much too early to predict whether it will cause the next flu pandemic.

</doc>
<doc id="19824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19824" title="Pancreas">
Pancreas

The pancreas is an organ that makes hormones and enzymes to help digestion. The pancreas helps break down carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. The pancreas is behind the stomach and is on the left side of the human body.
The part of the pancreas that makes hormones is called the Islets of Langerhans. The Islets of Langerhans are a small part (2%) of the total cells in the pancreas. The Islets of Langerhans change which chemical they make depending on how much of other chemicals are already in the blood. So, the pancreas works to keep the level of chemicals in balance in the body. If the Islets of Langerhans stop working, a person will suffer from a disease called diabetes. Doctors are experimenting with taking the Islets of Langerhans cells from a donor body and putting them into the pancreas of a person with diabetes to make that person well.
The pancreas belongs to two systems of the body: the digestive system for its role in breaking down nutrients, and the endocrine system for producing hormones.
The pancreas releases these hormones:
The pancreas releases many different enzymes to help digestion:

</doc>
<doc id="19827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19827" title="Chloroplast">
Chloroplast

Chloroplasts are small organelles inside the cells of plants and algae. They absorb light to make sugar in a process called photosynthesis. The sugar can be stored in the form of starch. Chloroplasts contain the molecule chlorophyll, which absorbs sunlight for photosynthesis. In addition to chlorophyll, a chloroplast uses carbon dioxide (CO) and water (HO) to form sugar, and gives off oxygen (O). Chlorophyll is what gives green plants their green colour. Chloroplasts also contain various yellow and orange pigments to assist in photon capture for photosynthesis.
Each chloroplast is surrounded by a double walled semi-permeable membrane. In the layered stacks are flat disk-shaped thylakoids. They contain light-absorbing pigments, including chlorophyll and carotenoids, as well as proteins which bind the pigments. Like mitochondria, chloroplasts also contain their own DNA and ribosomes.
Chloroplasts are one of the many different types of organelles in the cell. They are thought to have originated as endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. This was first suggested by Mereschkowsky in 1905 after an observation by Schimper in 1883 that chloroplasts closely resembled cyanobacteria. Almost all chloroplasts are thought to derive directly or indirectly from a single endosymbiotic event. 
Mitochondria also had a similar origin, but chloroplasts are found only in plants and protista. In green plants, chloroplasts are surrounded by two lipid-bilayer membranes. They are thought to correspond to the outer and inner membranes of the ancestral cyanobacterium. Chloroplasts have their own genome, which is much smaller than that of free-living cyanobacteria. The DNA which remains shows clear similarities with the cyanobacterial genome. Plastids may contain 60–100 genes whereas cyanobacteria often contain more than 1500 genes. Many of the missing genes are encoded in the nuclear genome of the host. 
In some algae (such as the heterokonts), chloroplasts seem to have evolved through a secondary event of endosymbiosis, in which a eukaryotic cell engulfed a second eukaryotic cell containing chloroplasts, forming chloroplasts with three or four membrane layers. In some cases, such secondary endosymbionts may have themselves been engulfed by still other eukaryotes, thus forming tertiary endosymbionts. In the alga "Chlorella", there is only one chloroplast, which is bell-shaped.
In some groups of mixotrophic protists such as the dinoflagellates, chloroplasts are separated from a captured alga or diatom and used temporarily. These klepto (stolen) chloroplasts may only have a lifetime of a few days and are then replaced.

</doc>
<doc id="19828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19828" title="Chlorophyll">
Chlorophyll

Chlorophyll is a chemical found in the chloroplasts of plants that allows the plant to absorb light. Energy from the light is used in photosynthesis to make glucose. This contains lots of stored energy which the plant needs to release. It does this through respiration. This energy is then used for lots of different things like growing or repairing damaged parts of the plant. Chlorophyll is also what gives the stem and leaf of the plant its green color.
Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in almost all plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. It absorbs light most strongly in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, followed by the red portion. However, it is a poor absorber of green and near-green portions of the spectrum; hence the green color of chlorophyll-containing tissues. Chlorophyll was first isolated in 1817.
Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to obtain energy from light.
Chlorophyll molecules are arranged in and around the membranes of chloroplasts. It serves two main functions. The function of most chlorophyll (up to several hundred molecules per photosystem) is to absorb light and transfer that light energy to reaction centres. These pigments are named after the wavelength (in nanometers) of their red-peak absorption maximum. These chlorophyll pigments can be separated in a simple paper chromatography experiment.
The function of the reaction center chlorophyll is to use the energy transferred to it from the other chlorophyll pigments to undergo a specific redox reaction. In this reaction the chlorophyll gives an electron to an electron transport chain. This reaction is how photosynthetic organisms such as plants produce O gas, and is the source for practically all the O in Earth's atmosphere. Photosystem I typically works in series with Photosystem II. 
The electron flow produced by the reaction center chlorophyll pigments is used to shuttle H ions across the membrane, setting up a chemiosmotic potential used mainly to produce ATP chemical energy; and those electrons ultimately reduce NADP to NADPH, a universal reductant used to reduce CO into sugars as well as for other biosynthetic reductions.
A green sea slug, "Elysia chlorotica", has been found to use the chlorophyll it has eaten to perform photosynthesis for itself. This process is known as kleptoplasty, and no other animal has been found to have this ability.
It still is unclear exactly why plants have mostly evolved to be green. Green plants reflect mostly green and near-green light to viewers rather than absorbing it. Other parts of the system of photosynthesis still allow green plants to use the green light spectrum (e.g. through a light-trapping leaf structure, carotenoids, etc.). Green plants do not use a large part of the visible spectrum as efficiently as possible. A black plant can absorb more radiation, and this could be very useful, notwitstandanding the problems of disposing of this extra heat (e.g. some plants must close their openings, called stoma, on hot days to avoid losing too much water). More precisely, the question becomes why the only light absorbing molecule used for power in plants is green and not simply black. 
The biologist John Berman has offered the opinion that evolution is not an engineering process, and so it is often subject to various limitations that an engineer or other designer is not. Even if black leaves were better, evolution's limitations can prevent species from climbing to the absolute highest peak on the fitness landscape. Berman wrote that achieving pigments that work better than chlorophyll could be very difficult. In fact, all higher plants (embryophytes) are believed to have evolved from a common ancestor that is a sort of green algae – the idea being that chlorophyll has evolved only once (common ancestor).
Shil DasSarma, a microbial geneticist at the University of Maryland, has pointed out that species of archaea do use another light-absorbing molecule, retinal, to extract power from the green spectrum. He described the view of some scientists that such green-light-absorbing archae once dominated the earth environment. This could have left open a "niche" for green organisms which would absorb the other wavelengths of sunlight. This is just a possibility, and Berman wrote that scientists are still not convinced of any one explanation.
Chlorophyll is a chlorin pigment, which is structurally similar to and produced through the same metabolic pathway as other porphyrin pigments such as haem. At the center of the chlorin ring is a magnesium ion. For the structures depicted in this article, some of the ligands attached to the Mg center are omitted for clarity. The chlorin ring can have several different side chains, usually including a long phytol chain. There are a few different forms that occur naturally, but the most widely distributed form in terrestrial plants is chlorophyll "a". The general structure of chlorophyll "a" was worked out by Hans Fischer in 1940. By 1960, when most of the stereochemistry of chlorophyll "a" was known, Robert Burns Woodward published a total synthesis of the molecule. In 1967, the last remaining stereochemical elucidation was completed by Ian Fleming, and in 1990 Woodward and co-authors published an updated synthesis. In 2010, a near-infrared-light photosynthetic pigment called chlorophyll f might have been discovered in cyanobacteria and other oxygenic microorganisms that form stromatolites. 
The different structures of chlorophyll are summarized below:
Chlorophyll Content meters measure the optical absorption of a leaf to estimate its chlorophyll content. Chlorophyll molecules absorb in the blue and red bands, but not the green and infra-red bands. Chlorophyll content meters measure the amount of absorption at the red band to estimate the amount of chlorophyll present in the leaf. To compensate for varying leaf thickness, Chlorophyll Meters also measure absorption at the infrared band which is not significantly affected by chlorophyll. 
The chlorophyll content of leaves can be non-destructively measured using hand-held, battery-powered meters. The measurements made by these devices are simple, quick and relatively inexpensive. They now have large data storage capacity, averaging and graphical displays.
Measurement of the absorption of light is complicated by the solvent used to extract it from plant material, which affects the values obtained,
In Angiosperms, the last step in the synthesis of chlorophyll is light-dependent. Such plants are pale (etiolated) if grown in the darkness. Non-vascular plants and green algae have an additional light-independent enzyme and grow green in the darkness instead.
Chlorosis is a condition in which leaves produce insufficient chlorophyll, turning them yellow. Chlorosis can be caused by a nutrient deficiency of iron--called iron chlorosis—or by a shortage of magnesium or nitrogen. Soil pH sometimes plays a role in nutrient-caused chlorosis; many plants are adapted to grow in soils with specific pH levels and their ability to absorb nutrients from the soil can be dependent on this. Chlorosis can also be caused by pathogens including viruses, bacteria and fungal infections, or sap-sucking insects.

</doc>
<doc id="19830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19830" title="Oak">
Oak

The oak tree is a tree or shrub in the genus "Quercus". There are about 600 living species. The common name "oak" may also appear in the names of species in related genera, such as "Lithocarpus". 
The genus "Quercus" is native to the Northern Hemisphere. It includes deciduous and evergreen species from cool temperate to tropical latitudes in Asia and the Americas. North America has the largest number of oak species: about 90 occur in the United States. Mexico has 160 species, of which 109 are endemic. The second greatest center of oak diversity is China, which has about 100 species.
Oaks have spirally arranged leaves, with rounded edges in many species; some have leaves with jagged edges or entire leaves with smooth margins. Many deciduous species do not drop dead leaves until spring. In spring, a single oak tree produces both male flowers (as catkins) and small female flowers. The fruit is a nut called an acorn, carried in a cup-like structure. Each acorn has one seed (rarely two or three) and takes 6–18 months to mature, depending on species. The so-called "live oaks" are evergreen. They are not a taxonomic group, just a life style which occurs across the genus.
The oak is a kind of hardwood forest tree. They are well-known for being a climax vegetation in the temperate zone of the northern hemisphere. What that means is, left untouched by humans, it would be the dominant tree. Much of England was covered by oak forests before modern farming took over the land. The last extensive oak woodlands were cut down to build ships for the Royal Navy in the 18th century. 
Some kinds of oak wood are very hard. A lot of furniture was made from oak wood, but the wood is now scarce and expensive. Much cheaper are softwoods like pine.
Oak trees can live up to 1000 years.
A mature oak tree stands about 100 feet tall (~30 metres). It is a home for more animals than any other European tree. 30 species of birds, 45 different bugs and over 200 species of moth have been found on oaks. Beetles burrow under the bark, and some drill holes into the wood. The leaves are eaten by many caterpillars. Many leaves carry strange little bumps on the underside. These are insect galls, caused by many little animals. Midges, moths, worms and tiny wasps lay their eggs in leaves or leaf buds. The leaf reacts by forming a growth around the eggs. Inside the gall, larvae develop. The leaf falls, but the larvae may come out only the next spring. Small galls only have one larva, but larger galls may contain as many as 30 larvae. 
"Main article:Acorn"
Oak trees produce acorns once a year which ripen in autumn. Oak trees may start producing acorns when they are about 20 years old. A mature oak may produce 90,000 acorns a year; this is several millions in its lifetime.

</doc>
<doc id="19831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19831" title="Glucose">
Glucose

Glucose is a simple carbohydrate, or "sugar". It is one of several kinds of sugars. It is important because cells in an organism use it as a source of energy. Turning glucose into energy is called cellular respiration, which is done inside the cells of a living organism.
Glucose is made by plants in a process called photosynthesis. It can also be made by animals in their liver or kidneys.
Having the right amount of glucose available in a person's body is important. It can be measured with a simple blood test. People that do not have enough glucose have low blood sugar levels. This is a health condition called hypoglycemia. People with too much glucose have hyperglycemia. They might have a health condition called diabetes.
Its chemical formula is CHO. This means it has 6 carbon atoms, 12 hydrogen atoms, and 6 oxygen atoms bonded together.
How sugars work, and how glucose can be formed, was studied by a German chemist named Emil Fischer in the 1890s. His work earned him the 1902 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
There are two forms of glucose, the α- and β- forms. The only difference between them is the position of the hydroxyl group, above and below the plane of the ring of the molecule.
For α-glucose, the hydroxyl (-OH) group is located below the ring, while for β-glucose, the (-OH) group is located above.

</doc>
<doc id="19836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19836" title="Cellulose">
Cellulose

Cellulose is the main chemical that forms the main structure of plants. It is the most abundant macromolecule on Earth. It is also a fibre.
Cellulose is made from a form of glucose and makes up most of the cell wall of plant cells. This is what keeps a plant in shape. Cellulose is not digestible by humans.
It is a polysaccharide, which is repeating units of a monosaccharide joined together by a glycosidic bond by a condensation reaction, there is a by-product of water, found in plants. It is very tough because when you join beta glucose together, they are opposite ways up, the bonds are straight, forming straight chains. There is hydrogen bonds between the polymers.
These fibers are in bundles of about 40, called microfibrils. Microfibrils are embedded in a hydrated network of other polysaccharides. The cell wall is assembled in place. The parts are made inside the cell and then assembled by enzymes associated with the cell membrane. 

</doc>
<doc id="19840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19840" title="Wikiquote">
Wikiquote

Wikiquote is a "sister" (related) project of Wikipedia. It is one of many projects run by the Wikimedia Foundation.
Wikiquote was based on an idea by Daniel Alston and made by Brion Vibber. The goal of the project is to produce a large reference of quotations from famous people, books, and proverbs, and to give details about them.
The project was first created in English. However, in July 2004, more languages were added. Some of there are:
As of May 2016, 31 versions each have more than 1,000 articles. The largest Wikiquote is the English project with over 26,500 content pages, followed by the Italian and Polish versions, both with over 22,000 content pages. In total, 60 languages have over 100 content pages.
In February 2010, the Simple English Wikiquote was locked and closed.

</doc>
<doc id="19841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19841" title="Brasília">
Brasília

Brasília () is the capital city of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled "Brasilia" in English. The city and its District are in the Central-West region of the country. It is on a plateau known as "Planalto Central". Brasília has a population of about 2,557,000 (3,599,000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate. It is the fourth largest city in Brazil. But the Brasília metropolitan area is the sixth largest in the nation. It is listed as a World Heritage Site. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.
Viewed from above, the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly. The Monumental Axis goes east-west and holds government buildings and monuments. The other axis is curved in a north south direction. The city is commonly referred to as "Capital Federal", or simply "BSB". As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies place residential buildings around expansive urban areas. The plan includes large avenues. It divides the city into sectors with different purposes, including accommodation and tourism. The city is built around an artificial lake, Lake Paranoá.
Residents of Brasília are known as "brasilienses" or "candangos". (The "candangos" are people who moved to Brasília when the city was established). In local usage, the word "Brasília" usually refers only to the First Administrative Region within the Distrito Federal (Federal District), where the most important government buildings are. Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil. In the rest of Brazil, Brasília is almost always means the Brazilian Federal District. There are several "satellite cities," which are also part of the Federal District.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner and Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect. Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. They created the "Plano Piloto de Brasília". Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960. 
The Brasília subway system ("Metrô de Brasília") has 24 stations on two lines long. The subway currently covers the south half of the metropolitan area. In 2010, a light rail line was added. By 2014, the light rail line will go from the end of the north wing of the city to the airport in the south.
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many airports in other countries. It is the third most important airport of Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements.

</doc>
<doc id="19845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845" title="Musical genre">
Musical genre

A musical genre is how people describe different styles of music. Some of the most common music genres are: 
Plus there are several more common music genres. Religious music is also common, such as hymns, choir music and many more.

</doc>
<doc id="19861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19861" title="Dim sum">
Dim sum

Dim sum is a way of serving Chinese and/or Vietnamese food. A range of different foods are served to the people who are eating, including pork wontons, fried shrimp, and egg rolls.
They are served on small wooden platters, and are usually steamed.

</doc>
<doc id="19864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19864" title="Super Smash Bros. Melee">
Super Smash Bros. Melee

Super Smash Bros. Melee, known in Japan as is a video game where players can choose from many people from the previous Nintendo games and have them fight each other. Players can fight alone or team up with someone else against a friend. This game is a sequel to "Super Smash Bros." for the Nintendo 64. "Super Smash Bros. Melee" is for the Nintendo GameCube. The sequel is called "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" for the Wii.
"Super Smash Bros. Melee" takes twenty five characters from many of Nintendo's series. It takes all twelve characters from "Super Smash Bros.", and adds thirteen new characters, including Princess Peach and Bowser from the "Mario", Princess Zelda and Ganondorf from "The Legend of Zelda", and new characters like Ice Climbers from "Ice Climber" and Marth from "Fire Emblem". Some characters are like other characters who were in the first game, like Ganondorf who's like Captain Falcon.
Sakurai planned to include more characters, including Diddy Kong, Meta Knight, King Dedede, Balloon Fighter, Solid Snake and Lucas but did not have time to fit them in. All of them except for Balloon Fighter made it into "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".
Items from different games can fall from the sky, like Poké Balls from "Pokémon" or Mushrooms from "Mario". These items can be used in different ways. For example, Poké Balls can summon Pokémon, and Mushrooms can either grow the person whom touches it unless it is a Poison Mushroom which makes them shrink.
"Super Smash Bros. Melee" has many stages that players can battle on. Most of the stages are based on Nintendo series like "Mario", "Pokémon", and "The Legend of Zelda".
"Super Smash Bros. Melee" has become very popular in tournaments. These tournaments do not use items or most stages, believing that these make the game unfair. In tournaments, however, a lot of characters are not strong enough to win. Some of the best characters for tournaments are Fox McCloud, Falco Lombardi, and Jigglypuff.

</doc>
<doc id="19865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19865" title="Catalysis">
Catalysis

Catalysis is the change in speed (rate) of a chemical reaction due to the help of a catalyst. Unlike other chemicals which take part in the reaction, a catalyst is not consumed by the reaction itself. A catalyst may participate in many chemical reactions. Catalysts that speed the reaction are called positive catalysts. Catalysts that slow the reaction are called negative catalysts, or inhibitors. Substances that increase the activity of catalysts are called promoters, and substances that deactivate catalysts are called catalytic poisons.
A catalyst is something which changes the rate of a chemical reaction. An example is when manganese oxide (MnO) is added to hydrogen peroxide (HO), and the hydrogen peroxide starts to break up into water and oxygen. Catalysts are either of natural or synthetic origin. Catalysts are useful because they leave no in the solution they have speeded up. A catalyst can also be used in a reaction again and again as it is not used up. There are many catalysts in our body which play an important part in many biochemical reactions. These are called enzymes. Most catalysts work by lowering the 'activation energy' of a reaction. This allows less energy to be used, thus speeding up the reaction. The opposite of a catalyst is an "inhibitor". Inhibitors slow down reactions. Some of them are found in snake venom and are dangerous for our nervous system or heart. 

</doc>
<doc id="19866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19866" title="Hydrogen peroxide">
Hydrogen peroxide

Hydrogen peroxide is a chemical compound. Its molecular formula is HO. It is used as a cleaner, and as hair bleach. In a concentration of 3% (meaning that there are 3 grams of hydrogen peroxide for 100 grams of a water solution), it can be used to treat wounds. Over time it will slowly become oxygen gas and water through decomposition. 
Chemists often use hydrogen peroxide in chemical reactions. It is a very strong oxidising agent when used with acid and water. "Oxidising agents" take electrons from other compounds.
Here hydrogen peroxide takes an electron from the Fe2+ ions and becomes water.
It can also be a reducing agent when used with other compounds. When it acts as a reducing agent, oxygen gas is also produced. "Reducing agents" give electrons to other compounds. This method is often used to make oxygen in laboratories.
Hydrogen peroxide can be bought in shops when mixed with lots of water but is very dangerous when the concentration is higher. It is flammable and causes burns.

</doc>
<doc id="19867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19867" title="Mayotte">
Mayotte

Mayotte is an island in the Indian Ocean next to Madagascar. 
It is geographically part of the Comoros Islands, but politically, it is part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="19869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19869" title="Halldór Ásgrímsson">
Halldór Ásgrímsson

Halldór Ásgrímsson (8 September 1947 – 18 May 2015) was the Prime Minister of Iceland. The leader of the Progressive Party since 1994, he took over as Prime Minister on September 15, 2004, from the Independence Party leader, Davíð Oddsson. He resigned in 2009.
He died from a heart attack at a Reykjavik hospital, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="19870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19870" title="Somaliland">
Somaliland

Somaliland is an unrecognized state in middle-east Africa. It borders the Republic of Djibouti to the west, the Federal Republic of Ethiopia to the south and Somalia to the east.
Somaliland was a British colony until 26 June 1960, when it became the Somaliland Protectorate, an independent country. On 1 July, 1960, the Somaliland Protectorate joined a new country called Somalia, and they formed the Somali Republic. In May of 1991, after a war, five families in the Somali Republic declared independence. They formed Somaliland out of six political areas in northern Somalia. 
Currently, Somaliland is an unrecognized state. This means that no country or international organization thinks that Somaliland is a real country. Instead, they include Somaliland as a part of Somalia. 
Somaliland has a republican government, with free elections. The capital is Hargeisa.
Most people in Somaliland speak Somali and Arabic. Article 6 of the Constitution of 2001 says the official language of Somaliland is Somali, but Arabic is a mandatory subject in school. English is also spoken and taught in schools.
The main Somali dialect is Standard Somali. Standard Somali is spoken in most of Somalia and in countries that border it. Standard Somali is used by almost all of the media in the Somaliland region.
Almost all Somalilanders are Muslims. This is because Islam is the state religion, and practicing a religion other than Islam is against the law. Small amounts of non-Islamic traditions exist in Somaliland, but Islam is very important to the Somali sense of national identity.
People from Somaliland, are often criticised for declaring independence from Somalia, and working as an independent state.

</doc>
<doc id="19873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19873" title="NSDAP 25 points manifesto">
NSDAP 25 points manifesto

The 25 points manifesto is a 25 point plan written by Adolf Hitler and Anton Drexler for the NSDAP when it was founded in 1920.
The purpose of the 25 points was explained in the fifth chapter of the second volume of Mein Kampf:
The leaders of the Party promise to work—if need be to sacrifice their very lives—to put this programme into action.

</doc>
<doc id="19875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19875" title="Penny">
Penny

A penny (plural "pence" in the United Kingdom, plural "pennies" in Canada and the United States) is a coin used by several countries where people speak English. This includes United Kingdom, the United States, where a penny is worth one cent, and Canada, where "penny" is an informal term for one cent coins. Canada stopped minting the penny in 2012. 
In British and American culture, finding a penny is often thought to be lucky. A popular expression is "Find a penny, pick it up, and all the day you'll have good luck." If someone asks you "A penny for your thoughts" They're wanting to know what you think. The phrase was first written in John Heywood's 1547 Dialogue Conteinying the Nomber in Effect of All the Proverbes in the Englishe Tongue, written when the penny was still a sterling silver coin. The possibly related American expression "my two cents" (meaning "my humble opinion") uses the low value of the penny to make fun of one's own thoughts in a funny way. In British English, to "spend a penny" means to urinate. The phrase does actually imply spending an actual penny: coin-operated public toilets commonly charged a predecimal penny, starting with the Great Exhibition of 1851. Around Decimal Day, British Rail introduced the "Superloo", better public toilets that charged 2p (roughly the equivalent of 6d.).

</doc>
<doc id="19883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19883" title="Matt Groening">
Matt Groening

Matthew Abram "Matt" Groening (born February 15, 1954) is an American cartoonist, screenwriter, producer, animator, author, musician, comedian, and voice actor. He is the creator of the comic strip "Life in Hell", as well as two successful television series, "The Simpsons" and "Futurama".
Groening has won 12 Primetime Emmy Awards, ten for The Simpsons and two for Futurama as well as a British Comedy Award for "outstanding contribution to comedy" in 2004. In 2002, he won the National Cartoonist Society Reuben Award for his work on Life in Hell. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 14, 2012.
He was born on February 15, 1954 in Portland, Oregon, the middle of five children. His mother Margaret Ruth was once a teacher. His father Homer Philip Groening was a filmmaker, advertiser, writer and cartoonist. Groening has Norwegian and German ancestry.
Groening grew up in Portland, and attended Ainsworth Elementary School, Lincoln High School and also The Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington.
Groening identifies himself as agnostic and liberal. He has often made campaign contributions to Democratic Party candidates. His first cousin, Laurie Monnes Anderson, is a member of the Oregon State Senate representing eastern Multnomah County.
He has been married twice. Groening and Deborah Caplan married in 1986. They had 2 sons - Homer (who is called Will) and Abe. Couple split up in 1999. In 2011, Groening married Argentinian artist Agustina Picasso and became stepfather to her daughter Camille. In May 2013, Picasso gave birth to Nathaniel Philip Picasso Groening who was named after American writer Nathanael West.

</doc>
<doc id="19892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19892" title="Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky">
Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky

Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky (Никола́й Ива́нович Лобаче́вский, 1792–1856) was a Russian mathematician. He became known for his achievements in non-euclidean geometry.
Lobachevsky was born in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. His parents were Ivan Maksimovich Lobachevsky, a clerk in a landsurveying office, and Praskovia Alexandrovna Lobachevskaya. In 1800, his father died and his mother moved to Kazan. In Kazan, Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky attended Kazan Gymnasium. He graduated in 1807 and then went to Kazan University which was founded just three years earlier, in 1804. 
At Kazan University, Lobachevsky was influenced by professor Johann Christian Martin Bartels (1769–1833). Bartels was a former teacher and friend of German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss. Lobachevsky received a Master's degree in physics and mathematics in 1811. In 1814, he became a lecturer at Kazan University, and in 1822 he became a full professor. He served in many administrative positions and was the rector of Kazan University from 1827 to 1846. He retired (or was dismissed) in 1846. After this event his health rapidly deteriorated. In addition to teaching mathematics and physics at Kazan University Lobachevsky also was an astronomy teacher there. 
In 1832, he married Varvara Alexivna Moisieva. They had seven children.

</doc>
<doc id="19897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19897" title="Wildebeest">
Wildebeest

A wildebeest (also called Gnu) is an animal. It is a large hoofed mammal, that is part of the "Bovidae" family of animals. There are two species of wildebeest. Both live in Africa.
Wildebeest grow to 1.15 to 1.40 metres (at the shoulder) and they weigh between 150 and 250 kilograms when they are fully grown. They live in the plains and open woodlands in southern Africa. The biggest herds can be found in the Serengeti desert. (see below) Wildebeest can live for more than 20 years.
Like other members of the same family (antelopes, deer and goats, amongst others), they mainly eat grass (scientists call such animals "Herbivores", which means: "eating grass"). But since in the African grasslands, there is not always grass, wildebeest are forced to wander (Scientists speak about "migrations") to find food all year round. In May, about 1.5 million animals move from the grasslands to the woods. In November they move back; there is grass in the plains in summer.
The cows (the female Gnus) will calve (give birth to the young) in summer in the plains. After the females have given birth, the breeding season begins. The dominant males mark off (and defend) some territory. They do this with feces, and with scent.
Wildebeest are an important part of the ecosystem. With their dung, they fertilize the ground, and their trampling is good for new growth. They also provide food for predators, like lions and hyenas.

</doc>
<doc id="19898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19898" title="Gnu">
Gnu

Gnu or GNU may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19902" title="Serengeti">
Serengeti

The Serengeti (also Seremgeti) is a region of savannah (woodlands and grasslands) in East Africa. The south of it (80%) belongs to Tanzania. The north of it is in Kenya. It is about 30,000 square kilometers, and one of the greatest areas for wildlife. 
It has more than 1.6 million herbivores and thousands of predators. Wildebeests, gazelles, zebras and buffalos are the most common animals in the region.
This area is most famous for the migration that takes place every year.
Every year around October nearly 1.5 million herbivores travel towards the southern plains, crossing the Mara River, from the northern hills for the rains. And then back to the north through the west, once again crossing the Mara river, after the rains in around April. This phenomenon is sometimes also called the Circular Migration.
Also in this area is the archeologically significant Olduvai Gorge where some of the oldest hominid fossils are found.
The Serengeti region contains the Serengeti National Park, the Ngorongoro Conservation Area and Maswa Game Reserve in Tanzania and the Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya.
The park covers 14,763 km² (5,700 square miles) of grassland plains and savanna as well as riverine forest and woodlands. The park is in the north of the country, bordered to the north by the national Tanzania and Kenyan border, where it is continuous with the Masai Mara National Reserve. To the southeast of the park is Ngorongoro Conservation Area, to the southwest is Maswa Game Reserve, and to the western borders are Ikorongo and Grumeti Game Reserves, to the northeast is Loliondo Game Control Area.
Few people are allowed to live in the National Park. Exceptions the staff of the Park, researchers and staff of Frankfurt Zoological Society, and staff of the various lodges and hotels. The main settlement is at Seronera.
The park has three regions:
As well as the migration of ungulates, the park has a healthy stock of other resident wildlife, especially the "Big Five":
The park also supports many further species, including cheetah, Thomson's and Grant's gazelle, topi, eland, water buck, hyena, baboon, impala, African wild dog and giraffe. The park also boasts about 500 bird species, including ostrich, secretary bird, Kori bustard, crowned crane, marabou stork, martial eagle, lovebirds and many species of vultures.
Ngorongoro is the caldera of a huge extinct volcano, which is part of the Serengeti area. 
The Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) is a UNESCO World Heritage Site 180 km (112 miles) west of Arusha in the Crater Highlands area of Tanzania. 
The main feature of the NCA is the Ngorongoro Crater, a large volcanic caldera. The crater, which formed when a giant volcano exploded and collapsed on itself some two to three million years ago, is deep and its floor covers . 
Estimates of the height of the original volcano range from fifteen to nineteen thousand feet (4500 to 5800 metres) high.
Although thought of as "a natural enclosure" for a very wide variety of wildlife, up to 20% or more of the wildebeest ("Connochaetes taurinus") and half the zebra ("Equus burchelli") populations leave the Crater in the wet season. The Ngorongoro lions are significantly inbred, with many genetic problems passed from generation to generation. This is due to the very few new bloodlines that enter the local gene pool, because few migrating male lions enter the crater from the outside. Those who do enter the crater often cannot contribute to the gene pool. The crater's male lions, because of their large size (the result of an abundant food source), easily expel outside competitors. 
Animal populations in the crater include most of the species in East Africa, but there are no impalas ("Aepyceros melampus"), giraffes ("Giraffa camelopardalis"), or crocodiles ("Crocodylus niloticus").
The crater highlands on the side facing the easterly trade winds receives 800–1200 mm of rain a year and is covered largely in montane forest, while the less-steep west wall receives only 400–600 mm; this side is grassland and bushland dotted with Euphorbia bussei trees. The crater floor is mostly open grassland with two small wooded areas dominated by "Acacia xanthophloea".
The Munge Stream drains Olmoti Crater to the north, and is the main water source draining into the seasonal salt lake in the center of the crater. This lake is known by two names: "Makat" as the Maasai called it, meaning salt; and "Magadi". The Lerai Stream drains the humid forests to the south of the Crater, and it feeds the Lerai Forest on the crater floor - when there is enough rain, the Lerai drains into Lake Magadi as well. Extraction of water by lodges and NCA headquarters reduces the amount of water entering Lerai by around 25%.
The other major water source in the crater is the Ngoitokitok Spring, near the eastern crater wall. There is a picnic site here open to tourists and a huge swamp fed by the spring, and the area is inhabited by hippopotamus, elephants, lions, and many others. Many other small springs are around the crater's floor, and these are important water supplies for the animals and local Masaai, especially during times of drought.
Aside from herds of zebra, gazelle, and wildebeest, the crater is home to the "Big Five Game" of rhinoceros, lion, leopard, elephant, and buffalo. The crater plays host to almost every individual species of wildlife in East Africa, with an estimated 25 000 animals within the crater.
Following the recommendations of a committee of scientists after the 2000 drought, an ecological burning program was implemented in the crater, which entails annual or biannual controlled burns of up to 20% of the grasslands. Maasai are now permitted to graze their cattle within the crater, but must enter and exit daily.
The conservation area also protects Olduvai Gorge, in the plains area. It is considered the seat of humanity after the discovery of the earliest known specimens of the human genus, "Homo habilis " as well as early hominidae, such as "Paranthropus boisei".
The Olduvai Gorge or Oldupai Gorge is a steep-sided ravine in the Great Rift Valley, which stretches along eastern Africa. Olduvai is in the eastern Serengeti Plains in northern Tanzania and is about thirty miles long. It is in the rain shadow of the Ngorongoro highlands and is the driest part of the region. 
It is one of the most important prehistoric sites in the world. Research there has greatly developed our understanding of early human evolution. Excavation work there was pioneered by Mary and Louis Leakey in the 1950s. It is still continued today by their family. During the Pleistocene, the site was that of a large lake, the shores of which were covered with successive deposits of volcanic ash. Around 500,000 years ago seismic activity diverted a nearby stream which began to cut down into the sediments, revealing seven main layers in the walls of the gorge.

</doc>
<doc id="19903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19903" title="Spider">
Spider

Spiders (order Araneae) are air-breathing arthropods. They have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom. Most make silk. They are a large order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all groups of organisms. About 40,000 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists. Over twenty different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Almost all spiders are predators, and most eat insects. They catch their prey in several ways. Some build a spider web, and some use a thread of silk that they throw at the insect. Some kinds of spiders hide in holes in the ground, then run out and grab an insect that walks by. Others will make web 'nets' to throw at passing insects. Or they go out and simply attack their prey. Some can jump quite well and hunt by sneaking close to an insect and then jumping on it.
Spiders have a two-part body, the front part (cephalothorax) and the abdomen. Unlike insects, spiders do not have antennae. The more advanced spiders have a centralized nervous system, with their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax. Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs, and extend them by hydraulic pressure.
The smallest of full-grown spiders can be less than 4 mm. (0.1 inch). The largest of spiders can have a body length of 10 cm. (4 inches) or more. The largest can weigh 150 grams (5.3 oz). The largest of spiders are the tarantulas and the huntsman spiders. Some huntsman spiders in South East Asia can have a leg span of around 250–300 mm (9.8–11.8 in).
Most spiders have four pairs of eyes on the top-front area of the body, arranged in patterns that vary from one family to another. The main eyes at the front are capable of forming images. Jumping spiders' visual acuity exceeds by a factor of ten that of dragonflies, which have by far the best vision among insects. Human eye are only about five times sharper than a jumping spider's. They achieve this by a telephoto-like series of lenses, a four-layer retina and the ability to swivel their eyes and integrate images from different stages in the scan. The downside is that the scanning and integrating processes are relatively slow.
Spiders and other arthropods have modified their cuticles into elaborate arrays of sensors. Various sensors, mostly bristles, respond to touch, from strong contact to very weak air currents. Chemical sensors provide equivalents of taste and smell. Spiders also have in the joints of their limbs sensors that detect forces and vibrations. In web-building spiders all these mechanical and chemical sensors are more important than the eyes, while the eyes are most important to spiders that hunt actively. Like most arthropods, spiders lack balance sensors, and rely on their eyes to tell them which way is up.
Even a relatively large spider can have fangs with very sharp points. The fangs are hollow, like the needles used to give shots. Spiders use their fangs to inject toxins that kill the insects they will eat. Some kinds of spider venom attack the nervous systems of their prey, and other kinds of venom attack body tissues.
Almost all spiders are predators, and eat insects and other arthropods (including other spiders). Most use venom from their fangs to kill their prey. It is rare for spiders to capture prey that are much larger than they are. It is also difficult for most spiders to capture prey that are very much smaller than they are. Most species of spiders cannot live close together because they treat each other as their next meal, but there are some spiders that form colonies. Spiders eat not only spiders of other species, but spiders of their own species. Although the earliest spiders came before birds and mammals, some spiders of today will eat small fish, small birds, and even small mammals.
The black widow spider got its name because the females sometimes eat the males that mate with them. This may also happen in other species. Each species of spider has its own way of communicating with other spiders they meet. Because of the danger of being eaten, in some species the males have special hooks on their front legs with which they hold the female while they mate. Others bring the female something to eat. There are a few species in which the male spiders construct their own little webs that are connected to the webs of the females. In these species, the male is so much smaller than the female that it would be difficult for her to actually capture the male.
Most spiders have such poor vision that they will not even notice a dead insect. Jumping spiders are one exception to this rule. They have such good vision that they can find recently dead flies or other insects to eat.
Most spiders are predators, but the jumping spider "Bagheera kiplingi" gets over 90% of its food from fairly solid plant material produced by acacias as part of a beneficial relationship with a species of ant. 
Young spiders of several families feed on plant nectar. Studies have shown that they do this for long periods. They also clean themselves regularly while feeding. These spiders also prefer sugar solutions to plain water, which shows that they are looking for nutrients. Many spiders are nocturnal, they are most active during the night. The extent of nectar consumption by spiders may therefore have been under-estimated. Nectar contains amino acids, lipids, vitamins and minerals in addition to sugars. Studies have shown that other spider species live longer when nectar is available. Feeding on nectar also avoids the risks of struggles with prey, and the costs of producing venom and digestive enzymes.
Various species are known to feed on dead arthropods (scavenging), web silk, and their own shed exoskeletons. Pollen caught in webs may also be eaten, and studies have shown that young spiders have a better chance of survival if they have the opportunity to eat pollen. In captivity, several spider species are also known to feed on bananas, marmalade, milk, egg yolk and sausages.
The best-known method spiders use to capture prey is a sticky web. The placement of the web allows different spiders to trap different insects in the same area. Flat, horizontal webs allow them to trap insects that fly up from vegetation underneath, for example. Flat vertical nets allow them to trap insects in flight. The spiders that build webs usually do not see very well, but they are very sensitive to vibrations.
Females of the water spider "Argyroneta aquatica" build underwater "diving bell" webs which they fill with air and use eating their prey, molting, mating, and raising offspring. They live almost entirely within the bells, darting out to catch prey animals that touch the bell or the threads that anchor it. A few spiders use the surfaces of lakes and ponds as "webs", detecting trapped insects by the vibrations that these cause while struggling.
Net-casting spiders weave only small webs but then manipulate them to trap prey. They stretch their webs and then release them when prey strike them. Those of the family Deinopidae weave even smaller webs, hold them outstretched between their first two pairs of legs, and lunge and push the webs as much as twice their own body length to trap prey, and this move may increase the webs' area by a factor of up to ten. Experiments have shown that "Deinopis spinosus" has two different techniques for trapping prey: backwards strikes to catch flying insects, whose vibrations it detects; and forward strikes to catch ground-walking prey that it sees. These two techniques have also been observed in other deinopids. Walking insects form most of the prey of most deinopids, but one population of "Deinopis subrufus" appears to live mainly on tipulid flies that they catch with the backwards strike.
Mature female bolas spiders of the genus "Mastophora" build "webs" that consist of only a single "trapeze line", which they patrol. They also construct a bolas made of a single thread, tipped with a large ball of very wet sticky silk. They emit chemicals that resemble the pheromones of moths, and then swing the bolas at the moths. They catch about the same weight of insects per night as web-weaving spiders of similar size. The spiders eat the bolas if they have not made a kill in about 30 minutes, rest for a while, and then make new bolas. Juveniles and adult males are much smaller and do not make bolas. Instead they release different pheromones that attract moth flies, and catch them with their front pairs of legs.
The primitive Liphistiidae, the "trapdoor spiders" (family Ctenizidae) and many tarantulas are ambush predators that lurk in burrows, often closed by trapdoors and often surrounded by networks of silk threads that alert these spiders to the presence of prey. Other ambush predators do without such aids, including many crab spiders, and a few species that prey on bees, which see ultraviolet, can adjust their ultraviolet reflectance to match the flowers in which they are lurking. Wolf spiders, jumping spiders, fishing spiders and some crab spiders capture prey by chasing it, and rely mainly on vision to locate prey.
Not all spiders use silk to net their prey. Instead, these spiders may capture insects by grabbing them and then biting them. Among these kinds of spiders the two best known "genera" are the wolf spiders and the jumping spiders.
A Wolf spider will usually wait until an insect comes near to it, and then rush at the insect, grab it using its front legs, and then bite the insect so that its venom can do its work. 
Female Wolf spiders lay their eggs on a pad of silk and then draw the edges together to create a round ball that they carry along with them wherever they go. They hold their egg balls to their tail ends by using their silk. When the eggs hatch, the little spiders will crawl onto the mother's back, and she will carry them along with her for days or weeks. 
Wolf spiders are very good mothers and will strongly protect both their egg balls and their infants. When the time comes, the little spiders will leave the mother and each will go its own way.
Jumping spiders have very good eyes and can see well. They sneak as close to an insect as they can, and then they jump onto the insect and immediately bite it. Since they often hunt in trees, bushes, and on the sides of walls, if the jumping spider misses it may fall off. But they have a way to save themselves from harm. Before they jump they fasten their silk to the place where they have been standing, and as they jump they let out a silk safety line. So if they fall they will catch themselves when they reach the end of their silk safety line. Sometimes a jumping spider will catch an insect and then fall while still holding onto the insect. But the spider is still safe.
Jumping spiders make little silken "tents" for themselves to sleep in. When they lay eggs they keep them inside such a shelter. They do not take their eggs with them when they go out to hunt. 
For all male spiders it is dangerous to seek a mate. The female spider may not realize that the male is a spider of her kind, so she may try to eat it. The jumping spiders not only have visual patterns that identify them to each other, but the male jumping spider will do a special dance when it approaches a female of the same species. That way, the female can recognize that it is a male of her species. She will generally forget about eating for long enough to mate with the visiting male spider.
Jumping spiders have such good eyes that they will usually watch any human who tries to watch them. Some species are very shy and will run away if the human gets too close. But some species, such as Phidippus audax (the audacious or brave jumping spider) and Platycryptus undatus, can become calm if the human comes close to them slowly. Sometimes they will jump onto one of your fingers and then jump from finger to finger and from hand to hand. They seem to want to explore.
Some jumping spiders of the genus "Portia" hunt other spiders in ways that seem intelligent, outflanking their victims or luring them from their webs. Laboratory studies show that "Portia"'s instinctive tactics are only starting points for a trial-and-error approach from which these spiders learn very quickly how to overcome new prey species. However, they seem to be relatively slow thinkers, which is not surprising as their brains are vastly smaller than those of mammalian predators.
Ant-mimicking spiders face several challenges: they generally develop slimmer abdomens and false "waists" to mimic the three distinct regions (tagmata) of an ant's body; they wave the first pair of legs in form to their heads to mimic antennae, which spiders lack, and to conceal the fact that they have eight legs rather than six. They have large color patches round one pair of eyes to disguise the fact that they generally have eight simple eyes, while ants have two compound eyes; they cover their bodies with reflective hairs to resemble the shiny bodies of ants. In some spider species males and females mimic different ant species, as female spiders are usually much larger than males. 
Ant-mimicking spiders also modify their behavior to resemble that of the target species of ant, for example many adopt a zig-zag pattern of movement, ant-mimicking jumping spiders avoid jumping, and spiders of the genus "Synemosyna" walk on the outer edges of leaves in the same way as "Pseudomyrmex". Ant-mimicry in many spiders and other arthropods may be for protection from predators that hunt by sight, including birds, lizards and spiders. However several ant-mimicking spiders prey either on ants or on the ants "livestock" such as aphids. When at rest the ant-mimicking crab spider "Amyciaea" does not closely resemble "Oecophylla", but while hunting it imitates the behavior of a dying ant to attract worker ants. After a kill some ant-mimicking spiders hold their victims between themselves and large groups of ants to avoid being attacked.
Spiders reproduce sexually and fertilization is internal but indirect. In other words the sperm is not inserted into the female's body by the male's genitals but by an intermediate stage. Unlike many land-living arthropods, male spiders do not produce ready-made spermatophores (packages of sperm). Instead, they spin small sperm webs on to which they ejaculate and then transfer the sperm to structures on the tips of their pedipalps. When a male detects signs of a female nearby he checks whether she is of the same species and whether she is ready to mate; for example in species that produce webs or 'safety ropes', the male can identify the species and sex of these objects by smell.
Spiders generally use elaborate courtship rituals to prevent the large females from eating the small males before fertilization, except where the male is so much smaller that he is not worth eating. In some species males mate with newly molted females, which are too weak to be dangerous to the males.
In web-weaving species precise patterns of vibrations in the web are a major part of the rituals, while patterns of touches on the female's body are important in many spiders that hunt actively, and may 'hypnotize' the female. Gestures and dances by the male are important for jumping spiders, which have excellent eyesight. If courtship is successful, the male injects his sperm from the pedipalps into the female's genital opening on the underside of her abdomen. Female reproductive tracts vary. Some are simple tubes, but others have chambers where females store sperm, and release it when they are ready.
Males do get eaten in some species. Males of the genus "Tidarren" cut off one of their palps, and enter adult life with one palp only. The palps are 20% of male's body mass in this species, and detaching one of the two improves mobility. In the Yemeni species "Tidarren argo", the remaining palp is then torn off by the female. The separated palp remains attached to the female's opening for about four hours. In the meantime, the female feeds on the palpless male. In over 60% of cases the female of the Australian redback spider kills and eats the male after it inserts its second palp into the female's genital opening; in fact the males co-operate by trying to impale themselves on the females' fangs. Observation shows that most male redbacks never get an opportunity to mate, and the 'lucky' ones increase the likely number of offspring by ensuring that the females are well-fed. However males of most species survive a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans. Some even live for a while in their mates' webs.
Females lay up to 3,000 eggs in one or more silk egg sacs, which maintain a fairly constant humidity level. In some species the females die afterwards, but females of other species protect the sacs by attaching them to their webs, hiding them in nests, carrying them in the chelicerae or attaching them to the spinnerets and dragging them along.
Baby spiders pass all their larval stages inside the egg and hatch as spiderlings, very small and sexually immature but similar in shape to adults. Some spiders care for their young, for example a wolf spider's brood cling to rough bristles on the mother's back, and females of some species respond to the "begging" behaviour of their young by giving them their prey, provided it is no longer struggling, or even regurgitate food.
Like other arthropods, spiders have to moult to grow as their cuticle ("skin") cannot stretch. Most spiders live for only one to two years, although some tarantulas can live in captivity for over 20 years.
Of the 40,000 spiders, less than 12 are known to be dangerous to humans. Most of the time, being bitten by a spider is painful. Most spiders use venom to paralyse their prey; they kill it through eating, or through a bite. A few spiders have venoms that can be dangerous to weakened people and those allergic to it. Since 1927, 13 people have died, after a bite from a "Atrax robustus" spider from Australia.
The spider that kills the most people, the black widow and other spiders in the genus "Latrodextus" are around 1 cm. in body length. The "Atrax" and "Phoneutria" spiders, which are also capable of killing people, both average around 2.5 cm. or one inch, and even the Widow spiders are large enough to be easily noticed. 
Even relatively small spiders like "Phidippus audax" can give a painful bite if you hurt them, but spiders are very helpful to human beings because they control insects that eat our crops.
Being afraid of spiders is a very common phobia (fear). The widow spiders (black widows and other members of their genus) never willingly leave their webs, so usually people get bitten when they touch the spider by mistake.
Click on a picture to see it larger:

</doc>
<doc id="19904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19904" title="1760s">
1760s


</doc>
<doc id="19907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19907" title="Grass">
Grass

Grass is a type of plant. A common kind of grass is used to cover the ground, in a lawn.
Graminoids are a broader group which includes the grasses. They are monocotyledons, usually herbaceous plants with narrow leaves growing from the base. They include the "true grasses", of the family Poaceae (also called Gramineae), as well as the sedges (Cyperaceae) and the rushes (Juncaceae). These three families are not closely related but belong to different clades in the order Poales.
The true grasses include cereals, bamboo and the grasses of lawns (turf) and grassland. Uses for graminoids include food (as grain, sprouted grain, shoots or rhizomes), drink (beer, whisky), pasture for livestock, thatch, paper, fuel, clothing, insulation, construction, sports turf, basket weaving and many others.
Many grasses are short, but some grasses, like bamboo can grow very tall. Plants from the grass family can grow in many places, even if they are very cold or very dry. Several other plants that look similar but are not members of the grass family are also sometimes called grass; these include rushes, reeds, papyrus, and water chestnut. 
Grasses are an important food for many animals, like deer, buffalo, cattle, mice, grasshoppers, caterpillars, and many other grazers. Unlike other plants, grasses grow from the bottom, so when animals eat grass they usually don't destroy the part that grows. Without grass, dirt can wash away into rivers. This is called erosion.
Graminoids include some of the most versatile plant life-forms. They became widespread toward the end of the Cretaceous. Fossilized dinosaur dung (coprolites) have been found containing grass phytoliths (silica stones inside grass leaves). Grasses have adapted to conditions in lush rain forests, dry deserts, cold mountains and even intertidal habitats, and are now the most widespread plant type. Grass is a valuable source of food and energy for many animals.
Lawn grass is often planted on sports fields and in the area around a building. Sometimes chemicals and water is used to help lawns to grow.
People have used grasses for a long time. People eat parts of grasses. Corn, wheat, barley, oats, rice and millet are cereals, common grains whose seeds are used for food and to make alcohol such as beer.
Sugar comes from sugar cane, which is also a plant in the grass family. People have grown grasses as food for farm animals for about 10,000 years. Grasses have also been used to make paper for more than 4000 years. People use bamboo to build houses, fences, furniture and other things. Grass plants can also be used as fuel, to cover roofs, and to weave baskets.Though most people don't think so , grass shouldn't be cut, it shreds the grass and causes brown spots on a lawn.Once grass has grown 9 inches,it will cut its self ,by the top up from the tiller . 
In English, the word "grass" appears in several phrases. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="19913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19913" title="Cacao tree">
Cacao tree

The cacao tree is a small tree originally in tropical South America. It is small, and only grows to 4 to 8 meters in height. Its seeds are called cocoa and are used to produce cocoa butter, the chocolate drink, as well as chocolate. Nowadays the trees are grown in plantations in many tropical countries. 
Cacao is planted on over 70000 square kilometres worldwide with 40% of production coming from Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, and Indonesia. Each country produces about 15%, with smaller amounts coming from Brazil, Nigeria, and Cameroon.
A tree begins to bear fruit when it is 4 or 5 years old. In one year, when mature, it may have 6,000 flowers, but only about 20 pods. About 300-600 seeds (10 pods) are required to produce around 1 kg of cocoa paste.
There are three main cultivar groups of cacao beans used to make cocoa and chocolate. The most prized, rare, and expensive is the Criollo Group, the cocoa bean used by the Maya. Only 10% of chocolate is made from the Criollo, which is less bitter and more aromatic than any other bean. The cacao bean in 80% of chocolate is made using beans of the Forastero Group. Forastero trees are significantly hardier than Criollo trees, resulting in cheaper cacao beans. Trinitario, a hybrid of Criollo and Forastero, is used in about 10% of chocolate. For details of processing, see cocoa.
Cacao beans were commonly used as currency in Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. In some areas, such as Yucatán, they were still used in place of small coins as late as the 1840s.

</doc>
<doc id="19916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19916" title="Mahabad">
Mahabad

Mahabad (, ); (Old name: سابلاخ: Sablakh, which may be of Mongolian origin) is a city in Iran. It is in the north-west of the country. The city is south of Lake Urmia in a narrow valley 1,300 metres above sea level. It is in West Azarbaijan Province. It has about 162.434 people who live in the city. Mahabad is connected by road with Tabriz 300 km north, Urmia 150 km north and Irbil in Iraq. Mahabad has also a branch of Islamic Azad University.
The city is one center and symbol of the Kurdish nationalism. The reason is because 1945 it was the capital of the new founded people's Republic of Mahabad. The republic was conquered by Iranian forces in 16 December 1946. The president was Qazi Muhammad. The majority of the population is Kurdish. During the revolution in Iran, at 3 September 1979 the city was bombed and occupied by Iranian forces. After the death of Shivan Qaderi, a student and opposition activist in July 9 2005, the Kurdish population protested against the Iranian government.
The region of Mukrian consists of Piranshahr and Mahabad.

</doc>
<doc id="19924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19924" title="Shivan Qaderi">
Shivan Qaderi

Shivan Qaderi (or Sivan Ghaderi or Schuaneh Ghaderi; born 1979 or 1980; died 9 July 2005 in Mahabad) was a student and opposition activist in Iran. After his death in 2005, the Kurds protested and the Iranian government had to send more than 100,000 soldiers to this region. The Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran reported, that about 50,000 people had protested after his death on the Chuwarchira Square. Humans Rights First say that, after he was shot, Iranian soldiers tied Ghaderi's body "to a military vehicle and dragged it through the city, obviously trying to frighten the population so that they would not organize any more protests."

</doc>
<doc id="19928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19928" title="Sauce">
Sauce

In cooking, a sauce is a liquid mixture added to another food for flavour. Sauces are not normally eaten by themselves; they add flavour, moisture, and visual appeal to another dish. Sauces are an essential element in cuisines all over the world. 
The main sauces of French cuisine are built on a basis of roux, which is just flour and the liquid part of butter. Examples from Italian cuisine are the cream and ham sauce called "carbonara"; the ground meat sauce called "bolognese", and the herbs and garlic sauce called "pesto".
Bottled sauces can be poured over food when it is served. An example would be the tomato-based sauce that is usually poured over spaghetti. Gravy is a brown sauce served with meat.
"Sauce" is a French word taken from the Latin "salsus", meaning "salted". Possibly the oldest sauce recorded is "garum", the fish sauce used by the Romans.
Sauces need a liquid component, but some sauces (for example, pico de gallo salsa or chutney) may contain more solid elements than liquid. 
Sauces may be used for savoury dishes or for desserts. They can be prepared and served cold, like mayonnaise, prepared cold but served lukewarm like pesto, or can be cooked like bechamel and served warm or again cooked and served cold like apple sauce.
Some sauces are commercial products like Worcestershire sauce, HP sauce, soy sauce or ketchup. In French cuisine they are freshly prepared by the chef. Sauces for salads are called salad dressing. A cook who specializes in making sauces is a saucier.
Sauces in French cuisine date back to the Middle Ages. There were hundreds of sauces in the culinary repertoire, and were a major defining characteristic of French cooking of the 19th and 20th centuries, until nouvelle cuisine. 
In the 19th century, the chef Antonin Carême classified sauces into four families, each of which was based on a mother sauce (Also called "grandes sauces"). Carême's four mother sauces were:
In the early 20th century, the chef Auguste Escoffier updated this classification to five mother sauces. They are:
A sauce which is based on one of the mother sauces is sometimes called a small sauce, minor sauce, or secondary sauce. Most sauces commonly used in classical cuisine are small sauces, or derivatives of one of the above mentioned mother sauces. 
Mother sauces are not commonly served as they are; instead they are augmented with additional ingredients to make small (derivative) sauces. For example, Bechamel can be made into Mornay by the addition of Gruyère or any cheese one may like, and Espagnole becomes Bordelaise with the addition and reduction of red wine, shallots, and poached beef marrow.

</doc>
<doc id="19931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19931" title="Spaghetti">
Spaghetti

Spaghetti is a long, string-shaped kind of pasta.
The word "spaghetti" was first used in 1849 as "sparghetti" in Eliza Acton's "Modern Cookery". It comes from Italian "spaghetto", which means "string".
Spaghetti is made from wheat noodles, which are boiled in water for a short time. Spaghetti can either be served as a side dish, or as a main dish. As a main dish, a sauce is added. There are many different kinds of sauces. Simpler ones are made of butter, more complicated ones include tomatos, garlic, olive oil and various other herbs. Different varieties with mussels, fish or meat also exist. Ground Parmesan cheese is often added. 
In Italy the sauce is usually mixed with the spaghetti while they are being prepared. Usually, spaghetti are eaten only with a fork, or with a fork and a spoon. Sometimes, they are cut with a knife for small children. Many Italians see using a knife to eat spaghetti as bad manners, except to prepare them for small children.
There is a story about how spaghetti came to Italy. In the legend, Marco Polo found spaghetti in China during his visit in 1295, and he took some back to Italy. 
Today, spaghetti is eaten everywhere. In the United States, there is a kind of spaghetti called "Alvaro's spaghetti" which is served with alfredo sauce. In some countries,like United States or Canada, meatballs are often in the spaghetti sauce.
In China, spaghetti is often made by hand. In Italy, spaghetti is made with a machine so that large amounts can be made quickly. Italy is the biggest producer and consumer of spaghetti in the world. 
Spaghetti is called by other words when it has a different thickness: "spaghettini (n. 3)", "spaghetti (n. 5)", and "spaghettoni (n. 8)".

</doc>
<doc id="19933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19933" title="Emperor penguin">
Emperor penguin

The Emperor penguin ("Aptenodytes forsteri") is a penguin that lives in Antarctica. It is the tallest and heaviest penguin. They are the only birds that can lay their eggs on ice.
Emperor penguins are about tall, weigh up to , and have a wingspan of . Emperor Penguins are black and white like all penguins, and the sides of their neck are golden.
They eat mostly crustaceans, such as krill, but also eat fish and squid.
Emperors live in the coldest climate on earth. Temperatures can drop as low as -140 degrees Fahrenheit (-95.6 °C) on the Antarctic ice. They breed at the beginning of the Antarctic winter (March and April), on the ice all around the Antarctic continent. They live in large groups, called colonies, that can have up to 20,000 birds. They huddle close together to keep warm. Emperor penguins live for about 20 years, although some have been known to live for 40 years.
The shape of their body helps them to survive. They have short wings that help them swim and to dive up to to catch larger fish. The deepest dive recorded is . They can swim up to for a short time, which lets them escape their main enemy, the leopard seal. They can stay warm because they have a thick layer of blubber. The layer of downy feathers trap air that keeps the body heat in and cold air and water out. They also have large amounts of body oil that help in keeping them dry in the water. 
While they are very fast in the water, on land the birds can only walk very slowly. On ice they can lie on their stomachs and use their wings to slide along, like a toboggan.
Emperor penguins spend most of their time in the water, coming to the shore to breed. There is nothing on the ice to make a nest, so after the female lays her one egg in winter, the male puts the egg on his feet to keep it warm until spring. This can be from 65 to 75 days. He has a special fold of skin on his stomach which can fold over and cover the egg to keep it warm. This is a difficult action to swap the egg from the female to the male; if it sits for too long on the ice it will freeze. He does not eat during this time, and can lose up to half his weight. To keep warm, all the male penguins huddle together. Those on the outside of the group will slowly shuffle their way into the middle; the group is always moving and can move as much as in 24 hours. The female comes back in spring when the egg hatches, while the male will go back to sea to eat, but comes back to help look after the chick. The chick lives on its parents feet for about 50 days until it becomes strong enough to survive the cold.
The Australian movie "Happy Feet" was based on the story of an emperor penguin who is unable to sing and get a mate because he was left for too long on the ice when still an egg.

</doc>
<doc id="19934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19934" title="Snares penguin">
Snares penguin

The Snares penguin ("Eudyptes robustus"), is a crested penguin. It is probably a subspecies of the Fiordland penguin. It is a penguin from New Zealand. It has a size of 50-70 cm and a weight of 2.5-4 kg.
It breeds on The Snares, a small island group south of New Zealand's South Island. 

</doc>
<doc id="19942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19942" title="Chuar-chira Square">
Chuar-chira Square

Chuar-chira Square (, ) (meaning "Square of the four candles"), is a known square in center of city of Mahabad where after Iranian invasion in 1947, Qazi Muhammad the president of Republic of Mahabad was hanged in public as well as other leaders of the republic in Mahabad and Bukan. In 2005 the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran reported that about 50.000 persons had demonstrated against the Iranian gouverment. The reason was the death of Shivan Qaderi. 
It is now officially called Shardari Square. This square is one of the oldest places of Mahabad city.

</doc>
<doc id="19943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19943" title="Complex number">
Complex number

A complex number is a number, but is different from normal numbers in many ways. A complex number is made up using two numbers combined together. The first part is a real number. The second part of a complex number is an imaginary number. The most important imaginary number is called formula_1, defined as a number that will be -1 when squared ("squared" means "multiplied by itself"). All the other imaginary numbers are formula_1 multiplied by a real number, in the same way that all real numbers can be thought of as 1 multiplied by another number. Arithmetic functions such as, addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division can be used with complex numbers. They also follow commutative, associative and distributive properties, just like real numbers. 
Complex numbers were invented to answer special equations that have exponents in them. These began to pose real problems for mathematicians. As a comparison, using negative numbers, it is possible to find the "x" in the equation formula_3 for all real values of "a" and "b". 
With exponentiation, there is a problem. There is no real number that gives −1 when it is squared. In other words, −1 (or any other negative number) has no real square root. To solve this problem, mathematicians introduced an "imaginary number" called "i". That imaginary number will give −1 when it is squared. 
The first mathematicians to have thought of this were probably Gerolamo Cardano and Raffaele Bombelli. They lived in the 16th century. It was probably Leonhard Euler who introduced writing formula_4 for that number.
All complex numbers can be written as formula_5 (or formula_6 ), where "a" is called the "real" part of the number (formula_7 or formula_8), and "b" is called the "imaginary" part (formula_9 or formula_10). The complex number can also be written as a set . Both "a" and "b" are real numbers. Any real number can simply be written as formula_11 or as the set .
The set of all complex numbers is usually written as formula_12.
Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division as long as the divisor is not zero, and exponentiation (raising numbers to exponents) are all possible with complex numbers. Some other calculations are also possible with complex numbers.
The rule addition of complex numbers is pretty simple: let formula_13, then formula_14. Multiplication is a bit different: formula_15
Another notable operation for complex numbers is "conjugation". A complex conjugate formula_16 to formula_17 is formula_18.
It is pretty simple, but is important for calculations, because formula_19 belongs to the real numbers for "all" complex formula_20.
Complex numbers can be shown on a so-called complex plane. If you have a number formula_17, you can go to "a" point on the real axis and to "b" on the imaginary and draw a vector from formula_22 to formula_23. You can calculate the length of this vector using the Pythagorean theorem and angle between the real axis and this vector, counting counterclockwise. The length of a vector for a number formula_20 is called modulus (formula_25), and the angle is argument (formula_26).
This leads to the trigonometrical form of describing complex numbers: by the definitions of sine and cosine, for all formula_20 stands that
formula_28
This is closely connected to De Moivre's formula.
There exists even another form, called exponential.
With the addition of complex numbers to math, every root of a polynomial with complex coefficients is a complex number. The successful addition of the complex numbers to math also help to open a path to the creation of another sorts of numbers that could resolve and help to explain many different problems, for example the: , , , and many others. See . 

</doc>
<doc id="19946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19946" title="Frederick I of Prussia">
Frederick I of Prussia

Frederick I of Prussia (), (11 July 1657–25 February 1713) of the Hohenzollern dynasty was the first King in Prussia (1701–1713).

</doc>
<doc id="19948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19948" title="Siege of Jerusalem (1187)">
Siege of Jerusalem (1187)

The Siege of Jerusalem took place from September 20 to October 2, 1187. It was part of the war called the Third Crusade.
Balian of Ibelin defended Jerusalem against the armies of Saladin.
A fictionalized version of the siege (attack) is seen in the movie "Kingdom of Heaven", directed by Ridley Scott.

</doc>
<doc id="19949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19949" title="Beer Hall Putsch">
Beer Hall Putsch

The Beer Hall Putsch was a failed coup d'état in Munich, Germany between the evening of 8 November and the morning of 9 November 1923. The Nazi Party under Adolf Hitler tried to take over the government of Bavaria, a state in Germany. They began trying to do this by taking several hundred people hostage in a beer hall (a large building where people got together to drink beer and sometimes listen to political speeches). Several Nazis died when they got into a gun fight with police officers in another part of Munich, and Hitler then went to prison for eight months.
Hitler chose to do this for many reasons. The Weimar Republic of Germany was weak because of fighting between right and left-wing parties. Inflation had also left the Weimar Republic with very little support from the people, or money to keep working (paying bills, or even paying pensions and wages). This happened because when Germany lost World War I, other countries made Germany pay for the entire war, and Germany had to make taxes very high so it could pay for the war. This hurt the economy of Germany.
The Nazi Party was getting very strong. Hitler was a strong leader. In 1923, the year when the Weimar Republic was least popular, the Nazi Party grew from 6,000 members to 55,000 members.
Hitler also wanted to copy Mussolini, who had taken power in Italy by marching into Rome.
8 November 1923 - Hitler and his men charged into the Beer Hall and forced the people there to support him. Hitler's men, the SA took over the Army Headquarters, but forgot to take over the telegraph office. This meant that anybody could call in the police.
9 November 1923 - 16 Nazis and 4 Bavarian State Police officers were killed in a gunfight between the Nazis and the police in "Residenzstraße". Hitler was arrested two days later.
Hitler and several of his friends were taken to court for treason, because they took up arms against the government. In the end, Hitler was sent to prison for about eight months, and the Nazi Party broke up (however, it would later get back together).
More people learned about Hitler. Before this happened, he was unknown. But after this, he was a hero to many. Many Germans at that time wanted a strong leadership after the governments of the Weimar Republic.
Hitler also took the time he had to spend in prison to write a book, called Mein Kampf or "My Struggle". It sold millions and told people about his ideas. Mein Kampf also made Hitler popular. (Hitler did not actually write the words down himself. Instead, he told another Nazi, Rudolf Hess, what to write down, and Hess wrote the words down.)
Hitler also had to re-think his strategy. He realised he could not take power the same way that Mussolini had done. Instead, he had to get power through being elected.
The people who died during the Putsch are seen as the first to die for the Nazi Party and are mentioned in Mein Kampf as Martyrs.

</doc>
<doc id="19950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19950" title="Verona">
Verona

Verona is a city in the Veneto region in Italy with 260,000 inhabitants. It is famous for being the setting for the Shakespeare play "Romeo and Juliet" and because of the Roman Arena. This city is built on the river Adige. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="19951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19951" title="Kiev">
Kiev

Kiev () is the capital and largest city of Ukraine. Almost three million people live there.
The city hosted the UEFA Euro 2012 final.
Kiev has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="19952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19952" title="Harare">
Harare

Harare is the capital of Zimbabwe. It is home to over 1.6 million people. It was known as "Salisbury" from its foundation on September 12, 1890 until April 18, 1982.
Harare is Zimbabwe's leading financial, commercial, and communications centre, and a trade centre for tobacco, maize, cotton, and citrus fruits. Manufactured goods include textiles, steel and chemicals, and gold is mined in the area. The city's suburbs include Borrowdale, Mount Pleasant and Avondale. The richest neighbourhoods are to the north. The University of Zimbabwe, the country's oldest university (founded in 1952), is situated in Mount Pleasant, about 6 km (3.7 mi) north of the city centre. Harare is home to the country's main Test cricket ground, Harare Sports Club, and to Dynamos F.C., Zimbabwe's most successful association football team.

</doc>
<doc id="19955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19955" title="Seventh-day Adventist Church">
Seventh-day Adventist Church

The Seventh-day Adventist Church is a Protestant Christian group. It is different from other Protestant groups because the followers believe that Saturday is the day we should worship God. The Bible calls this day the "Sabbath". The Sabbath is the seventh day of the week (Gen 2:1-3) in Judaism and in the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Saturday is the sixth day of the week in the major Christian denominations. That is why they are called "Seventh-day Adventists". Although the abbreviation "SDA" is commonly used, "Adventist" is the church's preferred shortening of "Seventh-day Adventist".
The Seventh-day Adventist Church came from the Millerite movement in the United States. This included people from many denominations. The Millerites started in the middle part of the 19th century. The Millerites were people who followed the teachings of William_Miller_. Miller preached that Jesus is coming very soon, in the Second Coming or Second Advent. The church name "Adventist" came from the word "Advent." The Seventh-Day Adventist Church started in 1863.
Much of the theology of the Seventh-day Adventist church is the same as evangelical teachings such as the Trinity and Biblical inerrancy. Teachings that are different include the unconscious state of the dead (which means that when people die, they do not wake back up until Judgment Day) and the doctrine of an investigative judgment. The Bible says so in Ecclesiastes 12:7 .
The church is also known because it thinks a healthy diet is very important they believe that they should not eat unclean foods like pig, certain fish, and animals that the Bible names as unclean . They practice healthy eating, vegetarianism (not eating meat), and staying away from things they think are immoral such as smoking, drinking or doing anything to harm what they consider the Temple Of God or their bodies.It also promotes religious liberty. When it comes to culture, it is more conservative. All of this is written in the Adventist Health message .
Among the founders of the Church was Ellen G. White. She wrote many texts that are still thought to be very important in the church today. She was a dedicated Christian who believed she got visions from God about the end of the world and what heaven will be like.
The world church is governed by a General Conference. Smaller regions are administered by divisions, union conferences and local conferences. It is present in over 200 countries and territories and is ethnically and culturally diverse. The church runs many schools, hospitals and publishing houses worldwide, as well as a prominent humanitarian aid organization known as the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA). There are about 18.5 million people in the Seventh-day adventist church worldwide.
The Seventh-day Adventist Church is organized with a representative form of church government and the world-wide Church has 13 Divisions.
The Seventh-day Adventist World Church Statistics shows a growing church with 15,660,347 members as of December 31, 2007.
The Adventist News Network reported in June 2010 (during the 59th quinquennial General Conference Session of the Seventh-day Adventist Church held in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.) that Seventh-day Adventists reached a membership of 16,300,000, according to the church's Office of Archives and Statistics. The world church Secretary stated that when counting unbaptized children and family members who attend services, the church numbers between 25 and 30 million.
Seventh-day Adventists believe in Protestantism.
Seventh-day Adventist believe in the 28 Fundamental Beliefs. This statement of beliefs was adopted by the General Conference in 1980, with an extra belief (number 11) being added in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="19958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19958" title="Lye">
Lye

Lye is the name of different things:

</doc>
<doc id="19960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19960" title="Luck">
Luck


</doc>
<doc id="19961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19961" title="Antony and Cleopatra">
Antony and Cleopatra

Antony and Cleopatra is a play by Shakespeare. It is a tragedy. Shakespeare's source was Plutarch's "Lives". The play was first performed between 1606 and 1607. It was probably first printed in the First Folio of 1623. The play describes the romantic love and suicides of Antony and Cleopatra. 

</doc>
<doc id="19964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19964" title="Het Wilhelmus">
Het Wilhelmus

Wilhelmus is the title and first word of the Dutch national anthem. It became the anthem in 1932.
The melody is taken from a French soldier's song. It is the oldest melody of a national anthem of the world.
The song has 15 verses, and the first letters of each verse form the name "Willem van Nassov", the subject of the song.
Lyrics (translation):
Original version:

</doc>
<doc id="19968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19968" title="1803">
1803


</doc>
<doc id="19969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19969" title="1661">
1661

1661 was a common year starting on a Saturday in the Gregorian calendar, and a common year starting on a Tuesday in the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19970" title="1579">
1579


</doc>
<doc id="19971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19971" title="752">
752


</doc>
<doc id="19972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19972" title="1005">
1005

1005 (MV) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the fifth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19973" title="1233">
1233


</doc>
<doc id="19974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19974" title="1736">
1736


</doc>
<doc id="19975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975" title="1340">
1340


</doc>
<doc id="19976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19976" title="1128">
1128


</doc>
<doc id="19977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19977" title="984">
984


</doc>
<doc id="19978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19978" title="1639">
1639


</doc>
<doc id="19979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19979" title="1003">
1003

1003 (MIII) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the third year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19980" title="Fuzzy logic">
Fuzzy logic

Fuzzy logic is a sort of computer logic that is different from boolean algebra. It is different in the way that it allows values to be more accurate than on or off. While boolean logic only allows true or false, fuzzy logic allows all things in between. An example of this could be a computer game: A person is standing in a doorway while a thing explodes. The character is hit or not hit if boolean logic is used, but the doorway protects him from the explosion. Therefore, he might only be hit 20%, and takes less damage.
To put it in more precise mathematical terms, classical logic has two values. These values are usually called "false" (0) or "true" (1). With fuzzy logic, a (calculated) value of 0.8 or 0.971 is possible. It is important to know the difference between fuzzy logic and chance. A coin that is thrown has a chance of 0.5 for landing heads up. If it is thrown 1000 times, it is expected that it will land with heads side up 500 times. With fuzzy logic, a thing with a "truth value" of 0.5 will have a value of 0.5 no matter how many times it is done. It is not a 50% chance of true or untrue, it is 50% true and 50% untrue at the same time.
Fuzzy logic is used a lot in expert systems and neural networks.
Humans tend to use a combination of predicate logic and fuzzy logic. If you are an outfielder catching a baseball hit into the air; then your precise logic will calculate trajectory and start you running to the point of intercept (catching). However, once close to the ball the eyes and brain of the outfielder lacks the ability to accurately estimate distance and speed because the ball is coming straight at the outfielder. The human brain switches to fuzzy logic that says "get me closer", "get me closer", and so on. That is why you see outfielders in baseball run to a spot and then move around as the ball gets closer.
Predicate logic says calculate the point to be at to catch the ball. Fuzzy logic says because of wind or other things you might not be in the correct place so just keep getting closer until you catch the ball. 
In predicate logic it is the mathematics of calculating the path of the ball that determines your action. In fuzzy logic it is the error of your calculations that determines your action.
In effect, it's like your brain trying to control your finger to pick your nose while traveling down a bumpy road.

</doc>
<doc id="19981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19981" title="Douala">
Douala

Douala is the largest city in the African country of Cameroon. It is the capital city of Littoral Province.
The city is placed near the Wouri River. Its population is about 2,000,000 people. The first European people who came to Douala were from Portugal. They found Duala in about 1472. Before 1884 it was named Cameroons Town. In 1884 German people came to Duala and changed its name to Kamarunstadt ("Camaroon City") and made it the capital of German Kamerun. In 1907 its name was changed to Duala. It became the capital of French Cameroons in 1919. From 1940 to 1946, it was the capital of Cameroon.
Duala is an expensive city. It ranked 24th most expensive city of the world in 2007.
Douala is linked by rail to Yaoundé, Ngaoundéré, Kumba and Nkongsamba. The largest port and the most important airport in Cameron are both in Douala.

</doc>
<doc id="19982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19982" title="1843">
1843


</doc>
<doc id="19983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19983" title="1225">
1225


</doc>
<doc id="19987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19987" title="841">
841


</doc>
<doc id="19988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988" title="1164">
1164


</doc>
<doc id="19989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19989" title="578">
578


</doc>
<doc id="19992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19992" title="1707">
1707


</doc>
<doc id="19994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19994" title="1031">
1031


</doc>
<doc id="19995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19995" title="1083">
1083


</doc>
<doc id="19996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19996" title="1027">
1027

1027 (MXXVII) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-seventh year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19997" title="1316">
1316


</doc>
<doc id="19999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19999" title="1778">
1778


</doc>
<doc id="20000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20000" title="885">
885


</doc>
<doc id="20002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20002" title="1751">
1751


</doc>
<doc id="20003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20003" title="250">
250


</doc>
<doc id="20004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004" title="1802">
1802


</doc>
<doc id="20005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20005" title="37">
37

37 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Proculus and Pontius.

</doc>
<doc id="20006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20006" title="1584">
1584


</doc>
<doc id="20007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20007" title="193">
193


</doc>
<doc id="20008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20008" title="1243">
1243

1243 was a year in the 13th century

</doc>
<doc id="20010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20010" title="1541">
1541


</doc>
<doc id="20011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20011" title="1354">
1354


</doc>
<doc id="20012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20012" title="1286">
1286


</doc>
<doc id="20013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20013" title="1129">
1129


</doc>
<doc id="20014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20014" title="1082">
1082


</doc>
<doc id="20015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20015" title="1135">
1135


</doc>
<doc id="20016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20016" title="1052">
1052

The year "1052" was a leap year which started on Wednesday.

</doc>
<doc id="20017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20017" title="1761">
1761


</doc>
<doc id="20018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20018" title="1470s">
1470s


</doc>
<doc id="20019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20019" title="1476">
1476


</doc>
<doc id="20023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20023" title="Nursing">
Nursing

Nursing is a job focused on helping people's health.
In Greece, hundreds of years ago, sick people went to temples, where men and women helped them. They made medicines from flowers and other things. In the fifth century BC, about 2400 years ago, one of the Greeks, Hippocrates, was very interested about why people became ill. He wrote over 70 books, and was one of the first people in the world to study healthcare. This is why he is often called the "father of Western medicine".
Religion was also important in the history of nursing. Jesus Christ taught that sick people should be helped. In the Middle Ages, the Christian church opened more hospitals. The Muslims opened some in Baghdad and Damascus too. Muslim hospitals helped people from any country or religion.

</doc>
<doc id="20025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20025" title="Gleiwitz incident">
Gleiwitz incident

The Gleiwitz incident was a planned German attack against the radio station "Sender Gleiwitz" in the German town of Gliwice on the night of August 31, 1939. This attack along with other Nazi activities was used to make people think that Poland attacked Germany and that Poland, not Germany started World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="20028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028" title="Free">
Free

Free may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20029" title="Mackinac Island">
Mackinac Island

Mackinac Island is an island in Lake Huron. It is part of the U.S. state of Michigan and is 8 miles (13 kilometers) around.
Many people go to see Mackinac Island in the summer because the island passed a local law that says that no one can use a car on the island. Everybody has to ride a horse or a bicycle. In recent years, young people have been using roller skates or roller blades to get around the island. There is a narrow paved road that follows the 8 miles of shoreline. This road is for horses (and their buggies), bicycles, skaters and joggers or just people taking a long walk. 
In order to get to Mackinac Island, visitors have to buy a ticket on a ferry boat. The boat ride has views of Lake Huron and the Mackinac Bridge. After they get to Mackinac Island, many visitors buy locally made fudge. 

</doc>
<doc id="20031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20031" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars is a list of the top actors in Hollywood history. It was announced by the American Film Institute on June 16, 1999.
The list promised one hundred people on it, but in the end there were only fifty.
As of 2013, of the fifty stars listed, only three are still alive: two men (Sidney Poitier and Kirk Douglas), and one woman (Sophia Loren). At the time the list was unveiled Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, Shirley Temple, Lauren Bacall, Marlon Brando, and Gregory Peck were also still living.

</doc>
<doc id="20032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20032" title="Havana">
Havana

Havana is the capital city of Cuba. Its population was 2.1 million in 2012. It is at 23°8′N 82°23′W and is a little more than 100 miles south-southwest of Key West, Florida in the United States.
Havana is a very old city. It was created in 1515 by Spanish explorers.

</doc>
<doc id="20034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20034" title="Bismarck">
Bismarck

Bismarck is a German family name. Bismark is an incorrect spelling.
The name Bismarck is usually associated with the famous Otto von Bismarck, a German statesman of the 19th century.
The "Bismarck" was a battleship of the German navy during WWII

</doc>
<doc id="20039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20039" title="Crusinallo">
Crusinallo

Crusinallo, with 4000 people, is the most populated district of the town of Omegna (in the Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, in Piedmont, Italy). It was an independent town until 1928. The town of Crusinallo is located in the north part of the town of Omegna, at the border with the towns of Casale Corte Cerro, Gravellona Toce, and Germagno. The natural borders are: at north, the Saint Martino river; at east and south, the Strona river; at west, the forest of Alpe Colla.

</doc>
<doc id="20040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20040" title="1752">
1752


</doc>
<doc id="20042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20042" title="660s BC">
660s BC


</doc>
<doc id="20043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20043" title="1496">
1496


</doc>
<doc id="20044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20044" title="1543">
1543


</doc>
<doc id="20046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20046" title="1071">
1071


</doc>
<doc id="20047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20047" title="1278">
1278


</doc>
<doc id="20053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20053" title="People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals">
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA ) is the world's largest non-profit organisation about animal rights. The four main beliefs of PETA are that animals are not to be used for food, clothes, exploitation or testing. The headquarters of the organization is in Norfolk, Virginia in the United States. PETA was started by Ingrid Newkirk and Alex Pacheco in 1980.
PETA has protested fast food chain KFC for the way it kills chickens. In the past, it has protested many corporations including Iams, which makes pet food. 
PETA's main website is made for adults and vegans. They also have another website called PETA2 which is made for teenagers who are vegetarian, vegan or still deciding. PETA says it has over five million members.

</doc>
<doc id="20057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20057" title="Software licence">
Software licence

A software licence (or software license in United States English) is a kind of licence that is used to set rules about how a piece of software can or cannot be used. After getting the software by either downloading it or buying it, you need to agree with the licence in order to use it. The licence is chosen or created by the software developer/creator or software publisher. Many licences answer questions such as "can I use this software commercially/to make money?", or "can I give this software to other people?", or in general, "in what ways am I allowed/permitted to use this software?".
One kind of software licence, an end user licence agreement, or "EULA", is very specific/descriptive about the things that you can or cannot do with the software, and oftentimes establishes/defines the rights of the software developer over the user. Most EULAs are written by the specific software developer and are not shared like other software licences.
Another type of software licence is an open source distribution licence. These licences let software developers choose what people can and cannot do with the code of the software. There are many licences freely available which allow you to do this, such as the MIT Licence, which allows for the software to be used by any person for any reason/purpose. The GNU General Public Licence, often abbreviated/shortened as GPL is a licence which makes all copies of the software free and open source. Therefore, GPL cannot be included in any part of proprietary/closed software because it does not follow the rules of the licence. The Apache Licence is more definitive and specific, but is more common with larger companies, such as Google, but is still considered a free software licence. Creative Commons is a popular licence used by people who want to give something out for free without taking as much credit. Creative Commons is very open, and is even used by Wikipedia for its pages and other content.

</doc>
<doc id="20060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20060" title="BSD licence">
BSD licence

The BSD licence is named after the group that first used the licence, the University of California, Berkeley, where the BSD operating system was first made. Since they are in the United States, BSD uses the U.S. spelling "BSD license".
The words of the BSD licence are public domain and can be changed however people want. To be useful for people or groups, people need to change 'Regents of the University of California', 'University of California, Berkeley', and 'Regents' to their name. A basic BSD licence looks like this:
This means that people who use the licensed software can do anything with it, except say it is all their work or say that the people who made it first support the new software in any way. It also stops people from suing the first makers if something goes wrong with it.

</doc>
<doc id="20074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20074" title="1786">
1786


</doc>
<doc id="20075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20075" title="1688">
1688

Year 1688 was a leap year that started on a Thursday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20076" title="1728">
1728


</doc>
<doc id="20077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20077" title="1614">
1614


</doc>
<doc id="20078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20078" title="1588">
1588


</doc>
<doc id="20079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20079" title="1012">
1012


</doc>
<doc id="20080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20080" title="1746">
1746


</doc>
<doc id="20081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20081" title="1734">
1734


</doc>
<doc id="20082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20082" title="1682">
1682

Year 1682 was a common year that started on a Thursday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20084" title="222">
222


</doc>
<doc id="20085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20085" title="1759">
1759


</doc>
<doc id="20086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20086" title="1755">
1755


</doc>
<doc id="20087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20087" title="477">
477


</doc>
<doc id="20088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20088" title="509">
509


</doc>
<doc id="20089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089" title="571">
571


</doc>
<doc id="20090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20090" title="609">
609


</doc>
<doc id="20092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20092" title="Lake Baikal">
Lake Baikal

Lake Baikal is a huge lake in Siberia, Russia. It is the biggest fresh water reservoir in the world. The lake is near Irkutsk. 
Baikal is about long. It is wide. At its deepest point, it is deep. With this depth it is the deepest lake on Earth. The lake is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It holds about 20% of the world's unfrozen surface fresh water,
The lake has fish that exist only here and nowhere else. It is home to more than 1,700 species of plants and animals, two-thirds of which can be found nowhere else in the world.
Lake Baikal fills an ancient rift valley, just as Lake Tanganyika does in East Africa. 
At the Baikal Rift Zone, the Earth's crust pulls apart. It is the deepest lake in the world at . The bottom of the lake is below sea level, but below this lies some of sediment. This means the rift floor is below the surface: the deepest continental rift on Earth. 
In geological terms, the rift is young and active it widens about two cm per year. The fault zone is also seismically active; there are hot springs in the area and notable earthquakes every few years. 
Baikal's age is 25–30 million years: it is one of the oldest lakes. It is unique among large, high-latitude lakes, because its sediments have not been scoured by overriding continental ice sheets. U.S. and Russian studies of core sediment in the 1990s gave a detailed record of climatic variation over the past 250,000 years. Longer and deeper sediment cores are expected soon. Lake Baikal is the only confined freshwater lake in which evidence of gas hydrates exists.
The lake is completely surrounded by mountains. The Baikal Mountains on the north shore and the taiga are protected as a national park. It has 27 islands; the largest, Olkhon, is long and is the third-largest lake-bound island in the world. The lake is fed by as many as 330 inflowing rivers. It is drained through a single outlet, the Angara River.
Despite its great depth, the lake's waters are well-mixed and well-oxygenated throughout the water column, compared to the stratification that occurs in such bodies of water as Lake Tanganyika and the Black Sea.
Lake Baikal has over 1000 species of plants and 1550 species and varieties of animals. Over 60% of animals are endemic; that means of 52 species of fish 27 are endemic.
The omul fish ("Coregonus autumnalis migratorius") is local to Lake Baikal. It is fished, smoked, and sold on all markets around the lake. For many travellers on the Trans-Siberian railway, purchasing smoked omul is one of the highlights of the long journey.
Baikal also hosts a species of seals, Baikal seal or "nerpa".
Bears and deer can be watched and hunted by Baikal coasts.
In 1986, Baikalskyi and Barguzinskyi became Biosphere Reserves. The ecosystems are part of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme.

</doc>
<doc id="20094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20094" title="Omul">
Omul

The omul is a kind of fish. It belongs to the same family as the trout and the salmon. It only lives in Lake Baikal and the rivers around it (the Angara for example. It is very typical for that region of Siberia).

</doc>
<doc id="20095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20095" title="Salmon">
Salmon

Salmon is a kind of teleost fish. There are many different kinds of salmon. Salmon belong to the same family of fish as the trout. Most kinds of salmon live in salt water, or migrate between rivers and the sea. Many people like to eat salmon, so the fish is also grown in fish farms. Usual ways to make food out of salmon are smoking, cold smoking and graving. Salmon are killed by people, other fish and their environment.

</doc>
<doc id="20096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20096" title="Wild turkey">
Wild turkey

The wild turkey ("Meleagris gallopavo") is the name of the more common of the two species of turkey. This large bird is found across much of the United States and southern Canada.
Wild turkeys prefer hardwood and mixed conifer-hardwood forests with scattered openings such as pastures, fields, orchards and seasonal marshes. They can adapt to any dense plant community so long as there is cover and openings to fly out. Open, mature forests with a variety of tree species seem to be best. 
The "domesticated turkey" has been tamed and bred from wild turkeys, by people, to raise on farms.

</doc>
<doc id="20097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20097" title="Ocellated Turkey">
Ocellated Turkey

An Ocellated Turkey ("Meleagris ocellata") is a turkey (a large bird) that is named for the eye-like spots on the tail feathers ("ocellated" means having eye-like spots). It is similar to the Wild Turkey that is found more to the north in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="20104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20104" title="Natalia">
Natalia

Natalia may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20110" title="Drenthe">
Drenthe

Drenthe (pronounce: "DREN-te") is a province in the northeast of the Netherlands. The capital city is Assen. South of it is Overijssel, west of it is Friesland and north of it is Groningen. East of it is Lower Saxony, that is a part of Germany.
Thousands of years ago, there were already people in Drenthe. Around 3500 BC people made dolmens ("hunebedden"), piles of big stones. 53 of the 54 dolmens in the Netherlands are in Drenthe. Most of them are in the northeast of the province.
The oldest paper with the name Drenthe on it is from 820. It was called "Pago Treanth" (district Drenthe). Papers from 1024 and 1025 show that is was a county at that time. 
From 1046 until 1528, the bishops of Utrecht ruled over Drenthe. From 1581 until 1795 it was part of the Republic of the Seven United Provinces, but Drenthe itself was not a province. In 1796, under the Batavian Republic, Drenthe was a province for the first time.
In the Second World War, the nazis build a concentration camp near Westerbork. From there, they put Dutch Jews on the train to other camps in Germany and Poland. In the last train from Westerbork was also Anne Frank. She was a Jewish girl and she wrote a diary. She died in the concentration camp Bergen-Belsen in Germany. After the war her diary became world famous.
Since the 1990s there are twelve municipalities in Drenthe.
The most important cities are Assen (the capital), Emmen, Meppel and Hoogeveen. In Drenthe there is many heathland.
In Drenthe many people speak Low Saxon dialects. The dialects in Drenthe are called "Drents". These dialects are different in each town or village.

</doc>
<doc id="20111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20111" title="D-Day">
D-Day

D-Day is a term used in the military to mean the actual day a major operation or event is to begin. The days leading up to a D-Day are called D-1, D-2, D-3, and so on. The days after a D-Day are D+1, D+2, D+3, and so on. Several different days in military history were called D-Day. 
The most famous D-Day was June 6, 1944 when the biggest sea to land attack in military history took place in Normandy during World War II when the allied forces crossed over the sea from England and landed on the beach. This attack was named "Operation Overlord", led by American General Dwight Eisenhower. The Allies (Britain, Canada, and America) invaded France, which was occupied by Germany. The allied forces won the battle, which was important in the long term of ending World War II, though over 3,500 men were lost while attacking the beaches. Almost a year later, Germany surrendered.

</doc>
<doc id="20112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20112" title="655">
655


</doc>
<doc id="20114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20114" title="Ishpeming, Michigan">
Ishpeming, Michigan

Ishpeming is a city in Marquette County, Michigan, USA. As of the 2000 census, the city had a total of 6,686 people living in it. There used to be more people in the 1950s and 1960s, when the iron ore mines were in full operation. 
The city has a total area of 24.0 km² (9.2 mi²). 22.5 km² (8.7 mi²) of it is land and 1.5 km² (0.6 mi²) of it (6.16%) is water. Ishpeming is 1436 feet above sea level.
The movie "Anatomy of a Murder" was filmed in Ishpeming and areas around it in 1959.
Ishpeming was also the birthplace of aviation engineer Clarence "Kelly" Johnson in 1910 and Nobel prize winning chemist Glenn T. Seaborg in 1912.
Ishpeming is considered the birthplace of downhill ski jumping in the United States and is the home to the National Ski Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="20115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20115" title="Humphrey Bogart">
Humphrey Bogart

Humphrey Bogart (December 25, 1899 - January 14, 1957) was an American actor who starred in seventy-five movies. These include Black Legion, High Sierra, "The Maltese Falcon" (1941), "Casablanca" (1942) and "The African Queen" (1951). His last movie was "The Harder They Fall". 

</doc>
<doc id="20116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20116" title="Funk">
Funk

Funk is a type of music from the United States that was developed the 1960s by African American musicians and singers such as James Brown, Sly and the Family Stone, George Clinton, and The Meters. Funk music emphasizes the rhythm of the music. Funk music mixes Rhythm and Blues music with soul music. Funk music is dance music.
Funk uses many rhythm instruments, such as electric guitar, bass guitar, drums, and electric organ. Funk bands also have a horn section, which includes several saxophone players, a trumpet player, and in some bands, trombone players.
In funk music, the electric bass has a more important role than in other styles of popular music. Many funk songs are based on a strong bass line (melody) played by the electric bass player. Well-known funk bass players include Bootsy Collins, Louis Johnson and Larry Graham of Sly & the Family Stone. Larry Graham invented a new style of electric bass playing called "slap bass technique." With this technique, the bass player slaps and plucks the strings to create a strong rhythm.
The United States singer and musician James Brown was one of the first funk musicians. James Brown recorded a song in 1965 called "papa's got a brand new bag" which is considered the first funk song. Other musical groups copied the rhythms and musical style developed by James Brown and his band. A band called The Meters played funk music in New Orleans. The Meters had hit songs such as "Sophisticated Cissy" and "Cissy Strut" in 1969. Another funk group, The Isley Brothers, had a hit song in 1969 called "It's Your Thing".
In the 1980s, funk music changed. Funk musicians began using electronic instruments such as synthesizer keyboards and electronic drum machines instead of electric bass, electric organ, trumpets, saxophones, and drums. Rick James had hits in the 1980s with funk songs such as "Give It To Me Baby" and "Super Freak." The band Queen had funk songs such as "Another One Bites The Dust." The musician and singer Prince had hit songs.
Some major names of early 80s funk include: Cameo, Zapp, The Gap Band, The Bar-Kays, and The Dazz Band.
In the later 1980s, two new styles of funk developed called "funk rock" and funk metal. These styles of music mixed funk music with rock and metal music. Funk rock and funk metal bands include Red Hot Chili Peppers, Living Colour, Jane's Addiction, Prince, Primus, Fishbone, Faith No More and Rage Against the Machine.
Funk music influenced 1980s hip hop music. Many hip hop musicians use funk songs by James Brown or George Clinton to compose new hip hop songs.
In the 1990s and 2000s, funk rock bands included Outkast, and Van Hunt. As well, 1990s and 2000s hip hop musicians continue to use funk songs by James Brown or George Clinton to compose new hip hop songs.

</doc>
<doc id="20117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20117" title="1513">
1513

1513 was a year of the Gregorian calendar, that started on a Wednesday.

</doc>
<doc id="20118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20118" title="Great white shark">
Great white shark

The great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) is a species of shark. They are world's largest living predatory fish. Mature sharks may grow up to in length and in weight). There also have been a few reports of great white sharks measuring over . This shark reaches its sexual maturity around 15 years of age. The lifespan of great white shark may be as long as 70 years or more. Great white sharks can accelerate to speeds over .
Great white sharks have about 300 teeth, arranged in many rows. The first two rows of the teeth are used for grabbing and cutting the animals they eat, while the other teeth in the last rows replace the front teeth when they are broken, worn down, or when they fall out. The teeth have the shape of a triangle with jags on the edges. Great white sharks eat fish and other animals, for example seals and sea lions.
The great white shark has no natural predators other than the Orca. Some orcas have discovered they can paralyse the shark by flipping it upside-down. Then they hold the shark still with their mouth, and that suffocates it (sharks get oxygen by moving through the water). That aside, they are apex predators of marine mammals. 
The bestselling novel "Jaws" by Peter Benchley and the film by Steven Spielberg show the great white shark as a "ferocious human eater". In real life, humans are not the preferred food of the great white shark. However, of all shark species, the great white shark has the largest number of fatal unprovoked attacks on humans.
The great white shark is a shark. A shark is a type of cartilaginous fish. The back of the shark has a grey color and the underside is colored white. The sharks have three main fins: the dorsal (on back) and two pectoral fins (on the sides). There are five gill slits on great white sharks. Great white sharks have rows of teeth behind the main ones. When one of the main teeth break off, there are teeth always ready to replace it. The great white shark shakes its head side-to-side when it bites. This helps the teeth cut off large chunks of flesh. The great white becomes an adult about nine years after its birth. The growth of the great white shark is about 25-30 centimetres per year and they grow to an average size of 4.5 meters. The largest can be as much as 6.4 meters in length. Their liver can weigh up to about 24 percent of it's own body weight.
Adults on average are long and have a mass of . Females are generally larger than males. The great white shark can reach in length and in weight. Among living cartilaginous fish, only the whale shark ("Rhincodon typus"), the basking shark ("Cetorhinus maximus") and the giant manta ray ("Manta birostris"), are larger and heavier. These three species are generally quite gentle and filter feed on very small organisms.
Great white sharks live in the sea. They live near the coast, in all warm waters. They occasionally make dives into the deep water of open oceans. They can be in water as shallow as three feet deep, and as deep as 1,280 metres.
They may swim near:
Research has shown that the sharks of northern California are genetically different to other shark populations. DNA evidence shows the population separated from other great whites about 200,000 years ago (during the Pleistocene Era). By tagging the sharks they also learned that they are generally alone, but follow the same route through the ocean, and stay in the same places. From January to July they live near Hawaii, and then move to Californian waters between August and December.
Sometimes, sharks attack human beings. When sharks see a new object, for example, a surfboard, they bite it to know what kind of object it might be. Sometimes, sharks see the shadow of surfers and attack them because they think they are seals.
Some people think that humans are not good food for great white sharks, because the sharks' digestion might be too slow to cope with the human body's high ratio of bone to muscle and fat. It might be argued that because of this nearly all attacks by great whites do not continue after the first bite. 
Sharks are opportunistic predators. This means that they are not very picky on what they feed on. This behaviour has been observed when the animals completely consumed piecemeal bait. The explanation given is that the tactics generally involve biting prey once, so that the prey bleeds to death before the shark moves in to feed. Other large mammals, such as seals and dolphins also seem to have this tactic, as it minimizes the risk of the predator injuring itself. In most cases, humans tend to escape quickly after the first bite so that they are not consumed, simply bitten. Deaths in such cases are generally caused by loss of blood from the first wound. In cases where attacks have occurred and the victim has been unable to escape quickly, partial or whole consumption has occurred; lone divers are especially at risk of this. Most attacks also seem to occur in waters where it is hard to see or where the shark is confused, but this is unlikely given that the shark is in its natural hunting environment with highly developed senses.

</doc>
<doc id="20119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20119" title="1560">
1560


</doc>
<doc id="20122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122" title="Cary Grant">
Cary Grant

Cary Grant (January 18, 1904 - November 29, 1986), born as Archibald Alexander Leach in Bristol, United Kingdom, was an actor in the United States.. He starred in many movies, including 1959's "North by Northwest". 
Grant became an American citizen in 1942. At that time, he legally changed his name to "Cary Grant."
Grant died of a cerebral hemorrhage (a bleed in his brain) in Davenport, Iowa, United States. He was cremated and his ashes were scattered.

</doc>
<doc id="20124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20124" title="Emotion">
Emotion

Emotions are what people feel. In terms of evolution, they are very ancient, and can be seen in all mammals. 
Emotions are caused by a complex mixture of hormones and the unconscious mind. Only with great difficulty can we control our emotions by conscious effort. They cause mammals to change behaviour according to changes in their situation. In our case they sometimes run against our attempt to live our lives in a logical way.
A scientific definition is not simple;over 90 definitions have been offered by experts. A definition of emotion needs to includes three things:
Here is one definition:
In physical terms, emotions involve body systems which have operated for hundreds of millions of years. These are the hormone system, the autonomic nervous system and the 'lower' brain centres (hindbrain and midbrain).
The study of emotions became one of Darwin's books after "The Descent of Man". He published "The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals" in 1873. He had discovered, by sending letters and a list of questions worldwide, that in different societies emotions were expressed in almost the same way. 
If so, the mechanisms which made the expressions must be inherited. They must have been developed in the same way as all other features of man, evolution by natural selection. It was already known from anatomy that the muscles and nerves of the face were the same or similar in all humans. 
Darwin illustrated the expression of the emotions with a series of photographs and woodcut illustrations. Ekman did the same thing on a research visit to New Guinea, where he asked villagers to identify the emotions shown in the photographs. This was part of a long-term effort to test and extend Darwin's insights into emotions. Some of Ekman's conclusions are: 

</doc>
<doc id="20135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20135" title="Dyslexia">
Dyslexia

Dyslexia is a very common problem and has an effect on the way our brain understands words. The most common signs of dyslexia are reading and writing problems. Estimates are that in the United States between five and nine percent of schoolchildren have dyslexia, though estimates go as high as fifty percent. 
A person can have dyslexia even if he or she is very smart or educated. Recent studies show that there are many small business owners that have dyslexia; between 35 and 50 percent of U.S. and British entrepreneurs are affected. Researchers think that many dyslexic entrepreneurs are successful because they can delegate responsibilities (of writing letters) and still be good at speaking. 
At the end of the 20th century, scientists did a lot of research about dyslexia and found some of the reasons that people are dyslexic. A professor who did research in the 1980s and 1990s looked at the brains of dyslexic people who had died. He found that some parts of the brain were not connected very well, and that this happened during the fourth month of pregnancy. This problem has a big effect on the left half of the brain. The newest research shows that three genes are the reason for dyslexia. 
One thing that causes dyslexia is a problem with the central hearing nerve. This problem can not be found with a normal hearing test, so a special doctor has to do special tests to find it. It means that people with heavy dyslexia are sensitive to loud noise, may have problems speaking, and may not be able to concentrate. It may also cause problems with rhythm and melody of music.
Many people who have dyslexia also have other mental disorders, especially attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.
In order to tell if a child has dyslexia, he or she has to be seen by a doctor. A child can be called dyslexic if he or she cannot read or write well and there is no other reason for the problem. Doctors are trying to create early tests to help find out whether a child has dyslexia before they are old enough to go to school. If this happens, a child can start to be treated very early, and they may have fewer problems at school. Many well-known people have dyslexia, including: Jamie Oliver, Whoopi Goldberg, Ozzy Osbourne, Keira Knightley, Susan Hampshire, Orlando Bloom, Keanu Reeves, Richard Branson, Henry Winkler, Patrick Dempsey, Albert Einstein, and Tom Cruise. These people though continue to thrive with their work.
Children with dyslexia can be helped. One way teachers help dyslexic students is to break words into different sounds. The student must learn how to write the different sounds and create words. This helps with reading and writing. Some people believe that dyslexic children can read and write better if they put pieces of colored paper on top of what they are reading.

</doc>
<doc id="20144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20144" title="AK-47">
AK-47

The AK-47 is a Russian assault rifle designed in 1947 by Mikhail Kalashnikov and first used in 1949. It and an updated version called the AKM were used by the Soviet Union's Military (which was called the Soviet Army). It was later replaced by the AK-74. The AK-47 quickly became famous and spread all around the world because it was simple to fire, clean and maintain, and also because of its reliability, meaning that it can be used a long time without jamming. The AK-47 and its successors continue to be used by many of the world's armies. Many terrorist and insurgent groups also use the AK-47. It is a cheap, reliable, and easy-to-use weapon. The AK-47 was also available with a folding stock, the AKS-47, and a shortened version with the AKS74 folding stock, the AKMSU (used by armoured vehicle crews), although this was soon replaced by the AKS74U, which fires the 5.45 cartridge of the AK-74. There was also a light machine gun variant with a longer barrel and different shaped stock called the RPK. 
The AK-47 uses Gas-operated reloading. When the bullet is moved down the barrel, a little bit of the gas behind the bullet is made to go up a small tube that pushes away the bolt. This is special because the person who is shooting the gun does not have to reload with their hand every time that they want to shoot - the gun reloads by itself. When you pull the trigger, the chambered bullet fires. You then release and then pull the trigger again to fire another round. This is called .
The AK-47 used many simple ideas that were first invented for the German Sturmgewehr-44 WW2 assault rifle. The AK-47 is a common gun used by many groups because it is so cheap and available. One of the reasons it is so common is that the Soviets left many behind when they left Afghanistan in 1989 after invading it in 1979. The letters AK stand for Avtomat Kalashnikova, which is Russian for Kalashnikov's Automatic Rifle. It shoots the Soviet 7.62x39mm cartridge. It is only accurate up to 300 meters, and beyond that range the bullet starts to tumble and drop. However, this is what Mikhail Kalashnikov intended, since most firefights (fights fought using guns) in WWII happened within 300 m. He wanted a weapon that was useful within that kind of range, since bolt-action rifles, despite having longer effective ranges (range where the gun is accurate), were too slow-firing and too big to be a good weapon in close-quarters combat (fighting that happens in tight spaces).

</doc>
<doc id="20152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20152" title="1763">
1763


</doc>
<doc id="20154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20154" title="1637">
1637


</doc>
<doc id="20155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20155" title="1451">
1451


</doc>
<doc id="20156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20156" title="146">
146


</doc>
<doc id="20157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20157" title="Colima">
Colima

Colima is a state in west Mexico. About 760,000 people live there. Its capital is also called Colima.

</doc>
<doc id="20172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20172" title="Erzsébet Báthory">
Erzsébet Báthory

Erzsébet Báthory (Elizabeth Bathory in English; (7 August 1560 – 21 August 1614), was a countess in what is now Transylvania.
She is the most famous serial killer in Slovak and Hungarian history. She was accused of torturing and killing many girls and young women. It is unknown how many women she killed. Her diary supposedly says that there were 650 people that she killed, but there may have been more or less.
She was born in present-day Hungary on August 7, 1560 and died on August 21, 1614 in Čachtice (Hungarian: Csejte) in present-day Slovakia.
She spent her childhood at the Ecsed Castle. At the age of 11, she was forced to be engaged with the fighter Francis Nádasdy. In 1575, she married Nádasdy. In 1578, he became the chief commander of Hungarian troops in their war against the Turks. He was known as a very brave, but also very cruel person.
Nádasdy’s wedding gift to Elizabeth was his home, the Čachtice Castle (situated in the Carpathians in present-day western Slovakia near Trenčín, then part of the Kingdom of Hungary) along with the Čachtice country-house and seventeen nearby towns. The castle itself was surrounded by a peasant village and rolling hills. In 1602, Elizabeth’s husband bought the castle from the emperor Rudolf II, so that it became a property of the Nádasdys. Since battles with the Turks kept her husband away from the castle, Elizabeth became the lady of the castle. It is rare, but not unheard, for historians to claim her husband was ignorant of her crimes. 
Elizabeth had six children; however, two of them died at an early age:
Her husband died in 1602. Her guilt is disputed by some, such as Lazlo Nagy, who says she was victim of a government/church plot. The King of Hungary, it has been pointed out, owed her money. And Count Gyorgy Thurzo, the person who brought her to trial, also stood to gain from downfall, her estates would belong to him in that event. 
In 2008 a movie was made about her called "Bathory" starring Anna Friel. It differs from others in that it takes the stance that she was innocent of the charge of being a serial killer, although she is still portrayed as being cruel. 

</doc>
<doc id="20176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20176" title="Peter Jackson">
Peter Jackson

Sir Peter Jackson (born 31 October 1961, Wellington, New Zealand) is a movie director. He is most widely known for directing "The Lord of the Rings" film trilogy. He is also the director of "King Kong".
In 2003, Jackson won three Academy Awards for "": Academy Award for Directing, Academy Award for Best Picture and Academy Award for Writing Adapted Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="20182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20182" title="Valencia">
Valencia

Valencia is a city in Spain, on the Mediterranean coast. It is the capital of the Community of Valencia. It has 807,396 people, making it the third-largest city in Spain and the fifteenth in the European Union. 
Valencia's climate is on the boundary of hot semi-arid ("Bsh" in the Koeppen climate classification) and hot-summer Mediterranean ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="20184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184" title="Murcia">
Murcia

Murcia is the capital of the autonomous community of Murcia, in Spain, and its biggest city, with a population of 410,000 in the city and more than 740,000 in the metropolitan area. The municipality is the seventh largest in Spain. 
The city is in the Segura Valley, in an area called la "Huerta de Murcia", which is a very important agricultural center with oranges, lemons, tomatoes, onions, etc.; the varied fruits and vegetables typical of the Mediterranean lands. It has a hot semi-arid climate ("BSh" in the Koeppen climate classification). The city has a Baroque cathedral and a university.

</doc>
<doc id="20185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20185" title="Zaragoza">
Zaragoza

Zaragoza (sometimes called Saragossa in English) is the capital of Aragon, in the Ebro Valley, in the crossroad from Barcelona, Valencia, Madrid, and Bilbao. The population is 643,000. The most important monument is the Nuestra Señora del Pilar ("Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar").
Zaragoza has a semi-arid climate (BSh in the Köppen climate classification) with hot summers and cool winters.

</doc>
<doc id="20186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20186" title="Malaga">
Malaga

Málaga is a Spanish city in Andalusia, on the Mediterranean coast. The city has 560,000 people. There are more than 1,000,000 people in the surrounding area. It is the second biggest city in Andalusia after Sevilla, and the sixth biggest in Spain. The 20th century artist Pablo Picasso was born in Málaga.
Málaga is southernmost large city in Europe, it lies on the Costa del Sol (Coast of the Sun) of the Mediterranean, about 100 km (62.14 mi) east of the Strait of Gibraltar and about 130 km (80.78 mi) north of Africa.
Málaga enjoys a subtropical–mediterranean climate. It has one of the warmest winters in Europe, with average temperatures of 17 °C (62.6 °F) during the day and 7–8 °C (45–46 °F) at night in the period from December through February.

</doc>
<doc id="20187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20187" title="Las Palmas de Gran Canaria">
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria

Las Palmas de Gran Canaria is the biggest city of the Canary Islands, in the Atlantic Ocean. The city, with a population of 383,308 in 2010, is the eighth-largest in Spain. 
Together with Santa Cruz de Tenerife, it is the capital of the Comunidad Autónoma de
Canarias (Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands). It is also the capital of the island of Gran Canaria and of the province of Las Palmas. The islands of this province are Gran Canaria, Lanzarote and Fuerteventura.
The city was founded in 1478. The town has a beautiful old area. This area (Vegueta) has a lot of houses from the 16th to the 19th Centuries. There is still a house where Christopher Columbus stayed in 1492. He stayed there before he discovered the Americas. The interesting cathedral was begun in the year 1500.
Its port is one of the busiest in Spain and the biggest between Europe and Cape Town, in South Africa.
Las Palmas (for short) is famous for its very nice and dry weather all year round. It is also famous for its Las Canteras Beach. This beach is more than 3 kilometers long. The beach brings a lot of tourists to the city. 
Main industries: trade, tourism, canned food, fishing, shipbuilding.
Places to visit: "Vegueta" (old area);" Triana" (traditional commercial area); "Playa de Las Canteras" (Las Canteras Beach); cathedral; "Casa de Colón" (Columbus House); "Museo Canario" (archaeology museum); "CAAM - Centro Atlántico de Arte Moderno" (Modern Art Centre); "Museo Élder de la Ciencia" (science museum); "Museo Néstor" (museum with paintings); "Teatro Pérez Galdós" (theatre); "Auditorio Alfredo Kraus" (concert hall); "Jardín Canario" (Canary Garden, mostly with plants from the Canary Islands); Doramas Park.

</doc>
<doc id="20189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20189" title="Palma de Mallorca">
Palma de Mallorca

Palma de Mallorca is the capital of the Balearic Islands and the Mallorca island, in the Mediterranean Sea, in front of the Iberian Peninsula. The city, with a population of 410,000, is the ninth-largest of Spain. It is a very important tourist center in the world, and is very popular for its sausages and llamas.

</doc>
<doc id="20190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20190" title="Córdoba, Andalusia">
Córdoba, Andalusia

Córdoba is a city in Andalusia, Spain. It is the capital of Córdoba province. It has a population of 321,000.
Córdoba was the capital of the Caliphate of Cordoba, an Islamic empire in the Middle Ages, when the city was the biggest in Europe, with 250,000 people.
Córdoba is 138 kilometers (86 miles) northeast of the city of Seville and is on the Guadalquivir river. Córdoba has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Köppen climate classification) with the hottest summers of all European cities.
The Romans occupied Córdoba in 206 B.C. The city was very important in the 900s CE as a famous center of Moorish art and culture. The cathedral in Córdoba is the city's chief landmark. It was built as a mosque (Muslim house of worship) in the 700s and was made into a Roman Catholic cathedral in 1238. More than 1,000 pillars of stone including granite, onyx, marble and jasper support its arches.
A soft, fine-grained leather called "cordovan" is made in Córdoba. Córdoba is the center of an agricultural region. Farms produce grain, grapes, olives, and vegetables.

</doc>
<doc id="20192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20192" title="Alicante">
Alicante

Alacant or Alicante (, Valencian: ) is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province of Alicante. It is in the southern part of the Valencian Community. It is also a historic Mediterranean port. The population of the city of Alicante proper is about 332,067, as of 2014, ranking as the second-largest Valencian city. Including nearby municipalities, Alicante was populated by 458,843 residents. Population of the metropolitan area (including Elche and satellite towns) was 795,034 as of 2009. Based on population it is the eighth-largest metropolitan area of Spain.
The city is a sea port and a tourist centre. It has a hot semi-arid climate ("BSh" in the Koeppen climate classification).
The avenue Maisonnave is the principal commercial street in the city of Alicante. In fact, Maisonnave is the sixth most expensive avenue in the whole of Spain, which gives an idea of the importance that this street has. The Corte inglés has in this central street both branches that it possesses in Alicant, one at each end of the avenue.
Santa Barbara's Castle is 166 metres up the Benacantil mountain. It's very strong with great strategic value. It's called Santa Barbara's Castle because the 4th of December is Santa Barbara's day and the 4th of December in 1248 is when it was taken from the Arabs by Alfonso of Castilla.

</doc>
<doc id="20193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20193" title="Phonology">
Phonology

Phonology is the science that studies the sound patterns of language. Phonology is part of linguistics, which is the scientific study of language.

</doc>
<doc id="20194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194" title="Linguistics">
Linguistics

Linguistics is the study of language. People who study language are called linguists.
There are five main parts of linguistics: phonology (the study of sounds, or phonemes), morphology (the study of parts of words, like "un-" and "-ing"), syntax (the study of word order and how sentences are made), semantics (the study of the meaning of words), and pragmatics (the study of the unspoken meaning of speech that is separate from the literal meaning of what is said; for example if you were to say "I'm cold" when what you actually want is for someone to turn off the fan). 
There are many ways to use linguistics every day. Some linguists are theoretical linguists, meaning they study the theory and ideas behind language, such as historical linguistics (the study of the history of language, and how it has changed), or sociolinguistics (the study of how different groups of people may use language differently). Some linguists are applied linguists, meaning they use linguistics to do things, such as forensic linguistics (which is used in crime investigations), or computational linguistics (which is used to help make computers understand languages, such as the iPhone's Siri application). 
Linguistics in its broader context includes evolutionary linguistics, which considers the origins of language; historical linguistics, which explores language change; sociolinguistics, which looks at the relation between linguistic variation and social structures; psycholinguistics, which explores the representation and function of language in the mind; neurolinguistics, which looks at language processing in the brain; language acquisition, how children or adults acquire language; and discourse analysis, which involves the structure of texts and conversations.
Although linguistics is the scientific study of language, a number of other intellectual disciplines are relevant to language and intersect with it. Semiotics, for example, is the general study of signs and symbols both within language and without. Literary theorists study the use of language in literature. Linguistics additionally draws on and informs work from such diverse fields as acoustics, anthropology, biology, computer science, human anatomy, informatics, neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, sociology, and speech-language pathology. Discourse analysis is the study of entire conversations or texts. 
Linguistics studies one language next to another to find similar properties. Doing that makes it possible to find things shared by all the languages of the world, and also find out which languages are related to each other. Linguists who study how languages are structured and how they work are said to study theoretical linguistics.
Another part of linguistics is involved in understanding how languages are used in society or in the world. Sociolinguistics studies how language is used in society, and historical linguistics studies how languages change over time and how languages were in the past. One part of historical linguistics is known as etymology, where people study the history of words. 
The part of linguistics which aims to find out how languages works in the mind is known as psycholinguistics. 
The study of language began in India with Pāṇini, the 5th century BC grammarian who wrote about the 3,959 rules of Sanskrit morphology, which described the different kinds of vowels and consonants Sanskrit had, as well as verb and noun classes. In the Middle East, Sibawayh (سیبویه) wrote a book about Arabic in 760 AD called "Al-kitab fi al-nahw" (الكتاب في النحو, "The Book on Grammar"); he was the first known author to talk about the difference between sounds and phonemes.
Linguistics started in the western world as early as it did in the East, but western linguistics at that time was more like philosophy, and less the study of language. Plato was the first western philosopher to write about semantics in his "Cratylus" dialogue, where he argues that words represent concepts that are eternal and exist in the world of ideas, and the word "etymology" is first used to talk about the history behind a word's meaning.

</doc>
<doc id="20196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20196" title="Region of Murcia">
Region of Murcia

The Region of Murcia is an autonomous community in the south-east of Spain. The region has 1,350,000 people. The capital is Murcia, with 410,000 people. Other important cities are Cartagena, Lorca, Molina de Segura, and Cieza.

</doc>
<doc id="20199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20199" title="1636">
1636


</doc>
<doc id="20200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20200" title="711">
711

711 was a year in the 8th century.

</doc>
<doc id="20202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20202" title="Segura">
Segura

Segura is a Spanish river that is 325 kilometers (200 miles) long. It flows through the provinces of Jaen, Albacete, Murcia, and Alicante, and the cities of Cieza, Molina de Segura, Murcia, Orihuela, Rojales, and Guardamar. It then flows into the Mediterranean Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="20203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20203" title="Orihuela">
Orihuela

Orihuela is a city on the coast in Spain in the Alicante province, on the Segura river in a district called "Vega Baja". Oranges and lemons are grown. The city has a population of 75,000 with very important historical monuments like the Cathedral and the church of Santiago, the church of Santa Justa and Rufina and the Seminarium.

</doc>
<doc id="20204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20204" title="Alicante Province">
Alicante Province

Alacant () province is the fifth largest Spanish province by population with 1,750,000, and the second largest in the Valencian Community. It is on the south-east Mediterranean coast and the capital is the city of Alicante, a sea- port with a University. It is a commercial city with monuments like Sainte Barbra Castle. Other important cities are Elche, 215,000 with palms trees and its important shoe industry; Torrevieja, 100,000, tourist centre with the world-famous Habaneras contest; Orihuela, 75,000, agricultural important center; Benidorm, 67,000, the Mediterranean Manhattan; Alcoi, 60,000; textile center, and Elda, 55,000, shoes industry.
The most important river is the Segura, in the south, which provides the water to Alicante, Elche, Torrevieja, Orihuela and other cities. There are others like Vinalopo, Serpis, Amadorio, Ravine of the Sheeps and Monnegre.
The biggest mountain is Aitana, and other mountains are Mariola, Puig Bell, Maigmo and Gold Head, near Alicante. In the coast there are islands, the most important is Tabarca, and other is the Benidorm island. An important coast success is the Penon of Ifach, in Calpe.
The activities in Alicante province are tourism, industry (shoes, carpets, plays, dolls, textiles) and modern agriculture of regadium (oranges, lemons, tomatoes, almonds, wine). There are two universities: University of Alicante and University of Michael Hernandez.

</doc>
<doc id="20205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20205" title="Turkmenistan">
Turkmenistan

Turkmenistan or Turkmenia is a country in the South-central Asia. It has borders with Afghanistan, Iran (Persia), Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan. It has no ocean coastline, but is on the Caspian Sea. The capital of Turkmenistan is Ashghabad.
Turkmenistan is divided into five provinces and one capital city district. The provinces are divided into districts which may be either counties or cities. 
Turkmenistan is one of the driest desert areas in the world. Some places have an average annual precipitation of only . The highest temperature recorded in Ashgabat is . Kerki, an extreme inland city located on the banks of the Amu Darya river, recorded in July 1983, but this value is unofficial. 50.1C is the highest temperature recorded at Repetek Reserve, recognized as the highest temperature ever recorded in the whole former Soviet Union.
Turkmenistan is the world's 52nd-largest country. It is slightly smaller than Spain and somewhat larger than the US state of California. Over 80% of the country is covered by the Karakum Desert.
The Turkmen shore along the Caspian Sea is long. The Caspian Sea is entirely landlocked, with no access to the ocean.
The major cities include Aşgabat, Türkmenbaşy (formerly Krasnovodsk) and Daşoguz.
<noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="20206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20206" title="Caesium">
Caesium

Caesium (or cesium) is the chemical element with the atomic number 55 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Cs.
Caesium is an alkali metal. Its melting point is low (28 °C). It is extremely reactive. Because of its high reactivity, it is a dangerous chemical. It may set itself on fire (ignite) in air. It explodes on contact with water. It reacts more violently than the other alkali metals with water. Because of this, caesium is stored in mineral oil.
Caesium is a rare element. Since there is little caesium on the Earth, it is rather expensive. The human body does not need caesium. In large amounts, it is mildly poisonous because it is close to potassium, which the body does need.
Caesium was first described in 1861, by Gustav Robert Kirchhoff and Robert Wilhelm Bunsen. They were testing mineral water, from Bad Dürkheim. After they separated calcium, strontium, magnesium and lithium, they saw two lines in the "blue" range of the spectrum. Because of these lines, they concluded that in addition to the elements already found, there must be another unknown substance in the mineral water. They named this substance caesium, after the color blue.
Caesium has at least 39 known isotopes ranging in atomic mass from 112 to 151. Only one of these, Cs, is stable. Therefore, the naturally-occurring isotope of caesium is Cs, which is not radioactive. Cs is used in atomic clocks, its vibration frequency used to define the length of the second. Another isotope, Cs is not made naturally but is made after nuclear fission has been done. It is very radioactive and used as an industrial gamma ray source. 
Caesium forms compounds with many other chemical elements. Caesium formate is used in oil drilling because of its high density.

</doc>
<doc id="20207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20207" title="Rubidium">
Rubidium

Rubidium is chemical element 37 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Rb. Its atomic mass is 85.47. It has 37 protons and 37 electrons. It is a soft silver colored metal. It was first discovered in 1861 by Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchoff in Heidelberg, Germany.
Rubidium melts at a very low temperature, for example it could melt in a person's hand. Rubidium is an alkali metal. It can make an amalgam with mercury.
Rubidium is very reactive. It will ignite in air because it reacts with many other elements in the air like oxygen and nitrogen. Rubidium reacts very violently with water to make hydrogen and rubidium hydroxide, a strong corrosive base. The reaction is normally very hot so the hydrogen ignites.
Rubidium forms chemical compounds in only one oxidation state: +1. Some rubidium compounds have a mixed oxidation state, though. Rubidium chloride is the most common rubidium compound. Rubidium hydroxide and rubidium carbonate are also used commonly. Rubidium compounds makes a red-violet color in a flame. Most rubidium compounds are colorless. Rubidium compounds are not as common as other alkali metal compounds, such get sodium compounds. Otherwise, they are similar.
Rubidium is about as common as zinc. It is the 23rd most common element in the Earth's crust. Most minerals only have a small amount of rubidium in them. It normally comes in small quantities in other minerals. It is made by reduction of rubidium ores with calcium. It is expensive because calcium is difficult to make and the rubidium needs to be kept in argon and away from water or air.
There are not many common uses for rubidium. Rubidium compounds are sometimes used in purple fireworks. It and its compounds are used mainly in science research though. It is also used to make superoxide ions. It is used in some special types of glass.
Rubidium compounds are not very dangerous in the human body; however, if a person gets too much from eating, they could get sick because it acts like other alkali metal ions such as sodium ions in sodium chloride. Rats can live with up to half of their potassium replaced with rubidium, though it is not likely for that to happen.
Rubidium is very dangerous. It reacts with air and water and makes corrosive substances.

</doc>
<doc id="20208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20208" title="Barium">
Barium

Barium is chemical element 56 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ba. It contains 56 protons and 56 electrons. Its mass number is about 137.3. It is a metal.
Barium is part of a group of elements known as the alkaline earth metals. It is a silvery metal that easily turns black. It is soft and ductile. It can form alloys with some metals that are partially alloys and partially chemical compounds.
Barium is reactive, and if you put pure barium metal in the air, it will react with oxygen. At first it will turn black, then white as barium oxide is formed. Barium reacts with water to make barium hydroxide and hydrogen gas. Barium also reacts very fast with acids to make a barium salt and hydrogen. Barium can form barium peroxide if it is burned in air. 
Barium reacts with many other metal oxides and sulfides to make barium oxide or sulfide and the metal. It also reacts with carbon and nitrogen at a high temperature to make barium cyanide.
Barium is too reactive as a metal, so it is not found in the earth as a metal. It is found in chemical compounds. Barium only occurs in one oxidation state: +2. Most barium compounds are colorless. The ones that dissolve in water or stomach acid are very toxic. Barium sulfate is well known because it does not dissolve in water or acids. Barium compounds are quite heavy. Barium compounds put out a greenish flame when heated red-hot. 
Barium is found as barium sulfate (barite) and barium carbonate (witherite) in the ground. Both of these minerals do not dissolve in water. Barium sulfate hardly dissolves in anything. Barium is found mainly in China, Germany, India, Morocco, and the US. 
It is very hard to get barium from barium sulfate. So barium sulfate is reduced by carbon to make barium sulfide and carbon dioxide. The barium sulfide is dissolved in hydrochloric acid. This makes hydrogen sulfide and barium chloride. The barium chloride is melted and electrolyzed to get liquid barium metal. The barium metal is solidified and stored in oil.
Barium carbonate, the other ore of barium, is dissolved in hydrochloric acid to make barium chloride and carbon dioxide. The barium chloride is melted and electrolyzed, making barium metal.
Barium is used to remove oxygen from cathode ray tubes and vacuum tubes. It is placed inside and reacts with all of the oxygen, using it up. Barium is also used in spark plug wire. 
Certain compounds of barium, such as barium sulfate, are not toxic and can be put in the body. We can see where the barium travels in the body by X-rays and this can tell us whether there are problems, such as blockages. The barium sulfate builds up inside the body accumulating in organ systems. Barium sulfate absorbs the X-Rays as they pass through the body and an image is formed from the points where the rays have not passed through. It is useful because it provides a reasonably detailed image from very limited radiation exposure, compared with a CT scan for instance. Barium sulfate can be used as a pigment, too.
Other barium compounds have several other uses.
Barium is a very toxic element, though, and is dangerous. There is a really small amount of barium in our food, and this does not cause problems. If we get barium from other places, though, it can cause many problems. Even 1 gram of barium can kill you. It is dangerous because it acts like other really important elements, such as calcium and magnesium. If barium replaces these elements, it messes up the body.

</doc>
<doc id="20209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20209" title="Scandium">
Scandium

Scandium is chemical element number 21 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Sc.
Scandium is a metal in a group known as the transition metals. It is also a rare earth metal. What this means is that there is not very much scandium found in the earth. Because of this, the pure metal can be expensive. The pure metal is very reactive, and will react with other elements like oxygen. The metal turns from shiny to gray.
Scandium is not very dangerous because there is not much of it on Earth, so there is not enough of it to harm us. It does not have many uses. Its main use is perhaps as a component in Mercury-vapor lamps. Such lamps are used to light Stadiums.

</doc>
<doc id="20210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20210" title="Vanadium">
Vanadium

Vanadium is chemical element 23 on the periodic table. Its symbol is V.
Vanadium is a metal and is part of the group known as the transition metals. It is mostly used in steel where it helps strengthen the steel metal.
The human body may require a little bit of vanadium, even though scientists are not really sure. There is a little bit of vanadium in vitamins just to make sure that we do not get sick (in case our body does need vanadium).
Vanadium can react with a variety of other elements, and the chemical compounds it forms often have beautiful colors.

</doc>
<doc id="20211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20211" title="844">
844


</doc>
<doc id="20212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20212" title="Arsenic">
Arsenic

Arsenic is chemical element 33 on the periodic table. Its symbol is As. Its atomic number is 33 and its atomic mass is 74.02. It is in the pnictogen group on the periodic table.
Arsenic is found in three allotropes. Gray arsenic is the most common. It is a brittle, somewhat soft metalloid that is a little shiny. It has a density of 5.73g/cm. It is a semiconductor. Yellow arsenic is unstable and rare. It is the most toxic allotrope. It is a soft and waxy nonmetal, similar to white phosphorus. It turns into gray arsenic in light. Its density is 1.97g/cm, much lighter than gray arsenic. It is created when arsenic vapor (made by heating arsenic very hot) is cooled very fast by something like liquid nitrogen. Black arsenic is similar to red phosphorus. It is a brittle, black, and shiny nonmetal. It does not conduct electricity. Since gray arsenic is the most common, it is usually referred to as arsenic. 
Arsenic is found as one stable (nonradioactive) isotope, As. There are about 33 radioactive isotopes found. The longest lasting one is As, which has a half life of about 80 days.
Arsenic is a moderately unreactive element, similar to copper in reactivity. It burns in air to make garlic-smelling arsenic trioxide. Arsenic, as well as some of its compounds, do not have a liquid state; they sublime. Arsenic reacts with fluorine to make arsenic pentafluoride. It reacts with the rest of the halogens to make the arsenic trihalides. Arsenic does not dissolve in hydrochloric acid. It dissolves in concentrated nitric acid to make arsenic acid and in dilute nitric acid to make arsenious acid. It reacts with concentrated sulfuric acid to make arsenic trioxide. Arsenic burns with a pale lavender flame.
Arsenic forms chemical compounds in three oxidation states: -3, +3, and +5. -3 compounds are reducing agents. They are the main form of arsenic in the ground (as arsenides). Arsine is a colorless, highly toxic gas with a garlic odor. The +3 state is the most common. They are weak oxidizing agents. Arsenic trioxide is a white solid. It dissolves in water to make a solution of arsenious acid. The arsenic trichlorides are low melting covalent solids. The +5 state is common, too. They are strong oxidizing agents. Arsenic pentafluoride, a colorless and highly reactive gas, is the only stable arsenic pentahalide. Arsenic pentoxide dissolves in water to make arsenic acid, which can make arsenate salts.
-3 compounds are reducing agents. They are found as arsenides and arsine. The metal arsenides have properties between an alloy and a salt.
+3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents. Many are colorless, although some are orange.
Arsenites are salts of arsenious acid.
+5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents.
Arsenates are salts of arsenic acid.
Arsenic is found sometimes as an element in the ground, but is normally found in minerals. Some arsenic minerals have a metal and sulfur along with arsenic. Arsenopyrite is iron arsenic sulfide. It is the same as pyrite with arsenic added. Other arsenic minerals have a metal and arsenic. Erythrite, a cobalt arsenide mineral, is an example. Other arsenic minerals are simple. Realgar and orpiment (arsenic sulfides), simple arsenic minerals, are ores of arsenic.
Arsenic is found as a less toxic variety in fish and mushrooms. Some people think that humans need very small amounts of arsenic to be healthy. Some bacteria can use arsenic instead of phosphorus for some things; they are called arsenic bacteria.
Most arsenic is made from the waste products after other metals are processed. Only China actually mines arsenic.
Arsenic is made from arsenopyrite by heating it. This makes arsenic trioxide which sublimes (along with sulfur dioxide), while the iron oxide stays behind. The arsenic trioxide is condensed, while the sulfur dioxide does not condense. The arsenic trioxide can be reduced with carbon. Another way is to heat the arsenopyrite without air. Then gray arsenic is made. Realgar can be heated to make arsenic trioxide as well.
Arsenic was known since antiquity. It was alloyed with bronze to make the bronze harder. Some people used arsenic as make-up, although it was toxic. Arsenic was well known as a poison. Since people used it to kill royalty and it was hard to detect, it was called the "Poison of Kings" and the "King of Poisons". An arsenic compound could have been the first organometallic compound (a metal bonded to an organic compound).
Arsenic compounds were used as a preservative for wood. Once people saw how toxic arsenic was, they stopped using it to preserve wood. Some feed for animals had arsenic in it to prevent disease. Lead arsenate was used as an insecticide in orchards but damaged the brains of those who put the insecticide on the trees.
Arsenic was used in medicines in the 1700s, 1800s, and 1900s. Arsenic trioxide was used to treat cancer. Very tiny doses of arsenic compounds can act as stimulants. Some arsenic compounds are used as poison gases. 
Arsenic as an element is used in alloys. The lead in lead acid batteries has some arsenic in it to make it stronger. Some semiconductors have arsenic in them.
Copper arsenate was used as a coloring for sweets. Paris green, a green pigment having arsenic in it, made many people sick. Some bullets have arsenic in them. Arsenic is sometimes added to brass to prevent the zinc from coming out. Arsenic was used in optical glass but was taken out because it was toxic.
Arsenic and its compounds are highly toxic. They are carcinogens. Water near arsenic mines is normally contaminated with arsenic. Wood that was preserved with arsenic compounds can leach arsenic into the soil. Emissions from coke ovens have arsenic in them.

</doc>
<doc id="20213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20213" title="Manganese">
Manganese

Manganese is chemical element 25 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Mn. (Some people get it confused with magnesium, the symbol is Mg). It has 25 protons. Its mass number is 54.94.
Manganese is a silvery-gray metal and is part of the group known as the transition metals. It is similar to iron. It is hard to melt, but easy to oxidize. Manganese forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: +2, +4, and +7 are the most common. Manganese compounds can be black, brown, pink, red, green, blue, and purple. Manganese(II) compounds are pink or light brown. They are unreactive. Manganese(II) chloride is a common example. Manganese(III) compounds are weak oxidizing agents. Manganese(IV) compounds are stronger oxidizing agents, but they are rarer. They are normally black in colour. Manganese(IV) oxide is an example.
Manganese(V) compounds are not stable and disproportionate easily. They are bright blue. They are very rare. Hypomanganates are the most common manganese(V) compounds. Manganese(VI) compounds are made in the process used to make permanganates. They disproportionate too. Manganates are weak reducing agents and moderate oxidizing agents. They are bright green.
Manganese(VII) compounds are purple-black and are powerful oxidizing agents. Permanganates contain the MnO ion. They are normally purple-black and strong oxidizing agents. Potassium permanganate is an example.
Manganese is sometimes found alloyed with iron naturally. These rocks, called meteorites, came from space. Pyrolusite is one of the main sources of manganese. It also occurs as manganese carbonate. Some silicates have manganese in them.
Manganese is normally made in an alloy with steel. This is made by mixing manganese ore and iron ore in a furnace and reducing it with carbon. This forms an alloy called ferromanganese. Pure manganese is made by reacting the manganese ore with sulfuric acid and electrolyzing it.
Manganese is used a lot in steel to make it stronger. This is the main use for manganese metal. Manganese compounds, particularly manganese(IV) oxide, are used in alkaline cells and Leclanche cells. Manganese metal is also alloyed with aluminium. 
Our bodies and plants need manganese to work right. If we do not get enough manganese, we can get sick. We get manganese from our food and vitamins also have some manganese to make sure that we get enough.
Manganese dust can irritate lungs. Some manganese compounds cause toxicity when ingested. Manganese is less toxic than nickel or copper. Permanganates are the most toxic manganese compounds. When someone is exposed to manganese for a long time it can cause a problem with the nervous system.

</doc>
<doc id="20214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20214" title="Gallium">
Gallium

Gallium (chemical symbol: Ga) is chemical element 31 on the periodic table.
Gallium is a metal, but is has some unusual properties. If it is held in a person's hand, it will melt. Gallium does not conduct electricity well, and is known as a semiconductor. That means gallium can be used in computers to make them work. It is very shiny, so it is used to paint mirrors when melted.

</doc>
<doc id="20215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20215" title="Nikita Khrushchev">
Nikita Khrushchev

Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev (15 April 1894 – 11 September 1971) was the leader of the Soviet Union after the death of Joseph Stalin. He ruled from 1953–1964.
Nikita was born in the town of Kalinovka in Russia. He later moved to Ukraine. He worked in mines, and became part of the Bolshevik movement. He moved his way up in the Communist Party, eventually becoming trusted by Joseph Stalin. In the years after Stalin died, Khrushchev became the leader of the Soviet Union.
He died of heart disease on 11 September 1971.
When Nikita became the leader of the Soviet Union, he began something he called "De-Stalinization". He made a secret speech, in which he denounced Stalin as a man who committed many murders of innocent people. In early 1956, he took down all posters and statues of Joseph Stalin. Also, he moved Stalin's grave to a place where people could not see it.
He also had better contacts with the western countries like the USA, Britain, and France. This means the USSR and the western world were friendlier. He visited America in 1959. During this visit, Khrushchev spoke at the United Nations and visited where he wanted, including destinations such as New York and Hollywood. However, his visit to Disneyland was cancelled for security reaons.
But the USSR and the US still did not trust each other. In 1962 America and the USSR had a Cuban Missile Crisis which could have led to nuclear war but didn't. Khrushchev had bargained with the Americans to get rid of the missiles they had placed in Turkey, for the missiles in Cuba were the only way for withdrawal.
Also, during this time, the Soviet Union became a lot less friendly with China. Because the Chinese leader Mao Zedong liked Stalin, he did not like it when Khrushchev became friendlier with the west, and when Nikita Khrushchev began a "destalinization" campaign.

</doc>
<doc id="20218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218" title="Rambla de las Ovejas">
Rambla de las Ovejas

The Rambla de las Ovejas (which translates to Ravine of the Sheeps) is a water course of the province of Alicante, in Spain. It originates at the foot of the Maigmo, to 1,100 meters of height and gathers the waters of the sides of the Maigmo, Cid and others of minor height across numerous tributary ravines. It ends in the city of Alicante, between the neighborhoods of Babylon and Saint Gabriel.
The tributary ravines are those of Rambuchar, Pepior, Alabaster and Bramble, between the most important. The normally dry riverbed experiences forts grown as consequence of torrents, like the rains in 1982 it came to 400 m³/seg. in Alicante causing serious destruction and human losses. It has since been canalized providing to the riverbed of a potential capacity of 735 m³/seg. In the floods of 1997 it came to 100 m³/seg.

</doc>
<doc id="20221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20221" title="Guadalquivir">
Guadalquivir

Guadalquivir is a river in southern Spain. It crosses the autonomous community of Andalusia. The name derives from the Arab "Wadi al-Kabir" ("big river"), whereas the Romans were called it "Betis".
Guadalquivir starts in the Glen of the Sources in the mountains near Cazorla (Jaen province) and ends in Sanlucar de Barrameda (Cadiz province). It goes through the provinces of Jaen, Cordoba, Seville and Cadiz. The river is long. The main tributaries are the rivers Genil (which flows through Granada), The Minor Guadiana, Guadalbullon, and Guadajoz on the left side, and Guadalmena, Jandula, and Guadiato on the right.
It is the only river in Spain with shipping traffic. At present, it only is navigable up to Seville. In the Roman epoch it was navigable up to Cordoba.

</doc>
<doc id="20222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20222" title="Ebro">
Ebro

Ebro is a Spanish river. It flows through Reinosa, Miranda de Ebro, Logrono, Tudela, Zaragoza, and Tortosa. It empties into the Mediterranean Sea in the province of Tarragona.

</doc>
<doc id="20223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20223" title="Toledo Province">
Toledo Province

Province of Toledo () is one of the provinces of Castile-La Mancha, in the center of Spain, near Madrid. The capital is Toledo and the biggest city is Talavera of the Queen. The population of the province is near 600,000.

</doc>
<doc id="20224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20224" title="Talavera de la Reina">
Talavera de la Reina

Talavera of the Queen ("Talavera de la Reina" in Spanish) is a city of the interior of Spain. It is the capital of a wide region belonging to the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha. It is located in the northwest of the province of Toledo. Talavera of the Queen is the second biggest city of Castile-La Mancha, and the first one of the province, with a population of 85.172 inhabitants.
Its mistress is "Our Lady of the Meadow".
As curiosity of this locality emphasizes that Gwyneth Paltrow is an adopted child of this locality.

</doc>
<doc id="20225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20225" title="Castile-La Mancha">
Castile-La Mancha

Castile-La Mancha is an autonomous community in Spain with a population over 2,000,000. The capital is Toledo and the biggest cities are Albacete, Talavera of the Queen, Guadalajara, Ciudad Real, Puertollano, and Cuenca.
Provinces of Castile-La Mancha:

</doc>
<doc id="20228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20228" title="Ciudad Real">
Ciudad Real

Ciudad Real (this translates to "Royal City") is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province with the same name, in the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha.
The city has 69,063 people who live there. It is an average of 628 meters above sea level. The municipal area is 285 km². It is approximately 200 km to the south of Madrid.

</doc>
<doc id="20230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20230" title="Ciudad Real Province">
Ciudad Real Province

Ciudad Real (Royal City in English) is a province of Spain. It is in the community of Castile-La Mancha. It has 497,691 people living in it.

</doc>
<doc id="20231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20231" title="Puertollano">
Puertollano

Puertollano (which translates to Flatport, in English) is a city in Spain. It is the second biggest in Ciudad Real province, in the region of Castile-La Mancha. It is an important industrial center, with a population of 50,000.

</doc>
<doc id="20233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20233" title="NOFX">
NOFX

NOFX is a popular punk rock band from California. The band was formed in 1983 by Fat Mike. As of April 2009, NOFX has released eleven full-length albums. Their latest one, "Coaster", came out on April 28, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="20234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20234" title="Toledo">
Toledo

Toledo is the name of several things. The best known cities are:

</doc>
<doc id="20235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20235" title="Methane">
Methane

Methane is a hydrocarbon that is a gas at room temperature (20°C). Its molecular formula is CH, so it has one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms in a molecule. It is often found as the main part of natural gas. Methane is a greenhouse gas 22 times more effective than carbon dioxide. It is also less stable and slowly oxidates by oxygen to carbon dioxide and water. 
Methane is used in gas taps in places such as chemistry classrooms, laboratories, etc. as it burns very easily because of its simple molecular structure.
Methane's molecular structure is very simple. It is a single carbon atom surrounded by four hydrogen atoms.
Methane can be produced by many chemical methods, but usually is found in natural gas and is obtained by fractional distillation, after it is become liquid.

</doc>
<doc id="20247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20247" title="North Country">
North Country

North Country is a movie about a woman being harassed in a mining facility.

</doc>
<doc id="20248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20248" title="Dance Dance Revolution">
Dance Dance Revolution

Dance Dance Revolution is a series of video games made by Konami in which players step on arrows on a large pad or mat to match the arrows on screen. The arrows are in time with the music. Because players are moving themselves along to the music, they look like they are dancing. There is a large variety of music.
There is a bar at the top of the screen. If players make mistakes, the bar gets smaller. If players do not make mistakes, the bar grows. The game ends if the player makes too many mistakes. 
Players can choose between three levels. They are called light, standard, and heavy. Light is easy and heavy is hard. On some of the newer games, there is a beginner mode, which is very easy, and a challenge mode, which is very hard.
Players are graded by their performance in letters (A, B, C, D, E) based on how well they played the song. The better a player does on a song, the higher their grade is.
From "DDR SuperNOVA" to later versions, the levels are called beginner, basic, difficult, expert, and challenge.
If the player gets an "AA" on the last stage in "Expert", "Heavy", or "Challenge", they can play an extra stage. This one is sudden death, meaning that one wrong step fails the game.
Some educators even believe DDR should be in schools as exercise.

</doc>
<doc id="20249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20249" title="Street Fighter II">
Street Fighter II

Street Fighter II is a fighting game by Capcom made in 1991.
The player controls a martial arts fighter and has to knock out the opponent. There are many playable characters, the most popular of which are Ryu, Ken Masters, Guile, and Chun Li. Each character has special moves that require special commands to perform. The game has 4 bosses - Balrog (M. Bison in Japan), Vega (Balrog in Japan), Sagat, and M. Bison (Vega in Japan). (Balrog and Sagat were also featured in the first Street Fighter game). There have been many follow-up games to "Street Fighter II". The Street Fighter series of games is still very popular. Though it is twenty years old, many game players still prefer "Street Fighter II" to newer fighting games. 
The game was released for arcades and different consoles.

</doc>
<doc id="20250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20250" title="Mighty Morphin Power Rangers">
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a television series which ran for 3 seasons (one season of television is made in a year), which is longer than the "Power Rangers" shows after this series have lasted. This series has 155 episodes in total. This series aired on Fox from 1993 to 1996. This series re-aired on ABC Kids in January 2010. The next show after the third season is called "Power Rangers: Zeo". There are many different versions of Power Rangers, and most of them were made with better technology, yet many still prefer this one more than any other. Like all Power Rangers shows, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is based on Super Sentai shows & from Japan. Each season of "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers" is based on a different Super Sentai show (Zyuranger, Dairanger & Kakuranger) from Japan.
Five teenagers battle against the witch Rita Repulsa and the wizard Lord Zedd to defend the earth. They have large robots called Zords and battle suits for their fights. They are armed with special weapons like swords, axes, bows, daggers and lances to help them fight monsters. Rita and Lord Zedd have an army of fighters known as Putties, which get destroyed and broken into many pieces when they are hit by their weak spot - a Z plate on their chest.
Rita is in a prison on the Moon. When she gets out of it, she wants to destroy Earth, because that's what she wanted to do before she was put in prison. She brings along her helpers, who were also in prison. One of them is called Goldar. He is a blue gorilla in gold armor who can fight better than anyone. To stop her, five teenagers are chosen by a wizard called Zordon. Zordon has an robot called Alpha 5 who helps him. The teenagers are given special magic coins that turn them into Power Rangers.
Rita has her own magic coin, and uses it to make her own evil Power Ranger, the Green Ranger. The Green Ranger fights the good Power Rangers, because Rita is controlling his mind. They free him from Rita's evil magic, but his magic coin stops working the right way, and begins to hurt him when he uses it. The Green Ranger gives up his magic coin to the Red Ranger who will not get hurt by it.
When Lord Zedd comes into the show, he destroys the Power Rangers' Zords. Zordon takes the Green Ranger's magic coin and uses it to make new Zords for the Power Rangers. These new Zords are mostly fairy tale animals, like the unicorn and the dragon. The old Zords were Dinosaurs, like Triceratops and T-Rex. Lord Zedd also puts Rita back in her prison and throws her away into space, because she was not doing a good enough job of being evil.
But one day, a new Power Ranger appears. His costume is white, and his Zord is a white tiger. No one knows who he is, but he turns out to be the old Green Ranger. Later, three of the Power Rangers have to leave the team and go to Switzerland. They choose three teenagers from another school to take their powers.
Rita comes back, too, and gives Lord Zedd a love potion. He falls in love with her, and they get married. Goldar gives Lord Zedd another potion to stop the love potion, but Lord Zedd's love for Rita turns out to be true and they stay married.
Rita's brother, Rito Revolto, comes to visit his sister. He looks like a skeleton. Rito does what Rita and Lord Zedd could not do, and destroys the Power Ranger's magic coins. The Power Rangers go and find Ninjor, a powerful ninja (a ninja is a type of fighter from Japan), who made the magic coins. He agrees to help them and makes new coins and new Zords for them. They become Ninja Power Rangers, and their new Zords are animals like the wolf and the frog.
At the end of this season, Rita and Rito's father comes to Earth. He is very powerful, even more powerful than his son and daughter together. He uses magic to turn back time, making the Power Rangers into children. They lose their new ninja powers, and go off to find new powers. The next show, Power Rangers Zeo, starts after this happens.

</doc>
<doc id="20252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20252" title="Office Space">
Office Space

Office Space is a 1999 American comedy movie starring Ron Livingston and Jennifer Aniston. The movie was directed by Mike Judge. The movie is a satire of white collar office work in the United States.
Office Space received mostly positive reviews from reviewers, which means that most of them thought that it was a good movie. However, it did not make very much money at movie theaters, only earning $10,827,810 from movie tickets. The movie went on to become a cult classic, becoming more popular over time.

</doc>
<doc id="20256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20256" title="Syriana">
Syriana

Syriana is an 2005 American drama thriller movie, which has won Academy Award and Golden Globe Awards. It is directed by Stephen Gaghan and produced by Jennifer Fox, Michael Nozik, Georgia Kacandes, Steven Soderbergh, George Clooney. The movie stars Clooney, Matt Damon, Jeffrey Wright, Chris Cooper, and William Hurt.
The movie is about a lot of people doing complicated things. One of the people is a CIA agent (Clooney) who is angered when his boss tries to invade his privacy. Another person, Damon, whose child dies, gets a better job working for a king. Then another person, a lawyer, Jeffrey Wright finds out that the oil company is actually not good and should be removed from power immediately. The last part of the movie is about two Muslims who become suicide bombers because they feel offended.

</doc>
<doc id="20259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20259" title="Shareware">
Shareware

Shareware is a way to sell software.
The user will get a preview or demo of the software for free. This way, the user can decide if he or she likes the program or not before buying the complete program.
Users can get games for free this way but most of the time these games do not have all the levels. Sometimes Internet Relay Chat clients let users have a demo of their client for 30 days, but after that, in order to keep using it, the user will have to pay money.

</doc>
<doc id="20260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260" title="Brokeback Mountain">
Brokeback Mountain

Brokeback Mountain is a 2005 American romantic drama movie by Ang Lee. The film is set in Wyoming during the years from 1963 to 1981. The story is about two bisexual cowboys, Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal, who are in love with each other. During that time it was difficult to have homosexual relationships. The movie is based on a short story of the same name by Annie Proulx.
"Brokeback Mountain" was a big success. It won many important prizes: the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival, Best Picture and Best Director at the BAFTA and the Golden Globe awards. It also received 8 nominations at the 78th Academy Awards, where it won 3 Oscars: Best Director, Best Original Score and Best Adapted Screenplay. It is in the 12th place for romantic movies that made the most money.
In 1963, Ennis Del Mar (Heath Ledger) and Jack Twist (Jake Gyllenhaal) are hired by Joe Aguirre (Randy Quaid). They need to look after his sheep up in Brokeback Mountain for the summer. One night, Jack makes a move on Ennis and the two men end up having sex. Soon an emotional relationship develops. Before leaving at the end of the summer they have a fight.
When they return home, Ennis marries Alma Beers (Michelle Williams) and has two daughters with her. Jack goes back the next summer but does not get hired because Joe had seen him with Ennis the year before. He moves to Texas, where he marries a rodeo rider, Lureen Newsome (Anne Hathaway). After four years, Jack goes back to meet Ennis. They kiss and Alma sees them. Jack would like to go and live with him but Ennis does not want to. They decide to continue meeting from time to time for fishing trips.
The marriages of both Jack and Ennis get worse. Alma and Dennis divorce in 1975. Later Alma tells Dennis he knows about Jack. They have a fight and do not see each other again. Lureen becomes a businesswoman and her father wants Jack to stop being a cowboy. Jack asks Ennis again to live together, but Ennis does not want to leave his children. At the end of one fishing trip, Ennis and Jack have another argument.
Later, Ennis sends a postcard to Jack. It is given back to him with a "DECEASED" stamp. Lureen tells Ennis that Jack had an accident. Ennis instead thinks that he was killed by a gang because he was gay. Ennis goes to Jack's parents to get his ashes. Jack wanted them to be thrown on Brokeback Mountain but his father does not give them to Ennis. However, his mother lets him have a look around Jack's room. Ennis finds the shirts that they were wearing all those years ago when they first had a fight.
Some time later, Ennis is living alone in a trailer. His daughter, Alma Jr., comes to tell him that she wants to marry a guy. Ennis tells her he will be there at the wedding. When she leaves, he opens his wardrobe where he keeps the shirts and a photo of Brokeback Mountain. He whispers "Jack, I swear..." before walking away.

</doc>
<doc id="20261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261" title="A Christmas Carol">
A Christmas Carol

A Christmas Carol is a novella by the British writer Charles Dickens. It was first published on 19 December 1843 by Chapman & Hall in London. The illustrations were drawn by John Leech. The first edition was a beautiful and expensive book. It was sold out by Christmas Eve, but Dickens never made the money he expected on the tale due to the book's high production costs. 
The novella was written at a time when the British were longing for the traditional merry Olde English Christmas. Christmas customs of the past were being revived. New Christmas customs such as the Christmas tree and the greeting card were making their first appearances. Old carols were being sung. The novella has been credited with restoring the festive spirit of Christmas after a period of Puritan sobriety and solemnity.
The story is about a Christmas-hating miser named Ebenezer Scrooge. On Christmas Eve, he is visited by four ghosts who transform him into a kind and generous man. The story has a strong moral messages about greed and poverty. It is usually read at Christmas time and has been adapted to theatre, movies, radio, and television many times. 
Ebenezeer Scrooge is a Christmas-hating old miser and businessman. One Christmas Eve, Scrooge declines an invitation to his nephew's house for Christmas dinner, telling his nephew that Christmas is "Humbug". He then refuses to give a donation to two men who are collecting for charity.
Later that evening, he is visited by the ghost of his dead business partner Jacob Marley, a man whose greed and selfishness have doomed him to eternal hellfire. He tells Scrooge that he must change his ways or that hellfire will be his fate. Marley warns him that during the night he will be visited by three more ghosts. These will show him where he went wrong in his life, and how to be a better person in the future.
The first ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Past. This ghost shows him his unhappy childhood and how he did not get married. The second ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Present. This ghost shows him things which are happening now, such as how his clerk, Bob Cratchit, is having a nice Christmas despite not having much money. He also shows him Bob's youngest son, Tiny Tim, who is crippled.
Later, the ghost shows him how his nephew is having a good Christmas, and how Scrooge is missing out. The third ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come. This ghost shows Scrooge what Christmas will be like in the future if he does not change. First, people are shown celebrating a man's death and robbing from his house. The ghost also shows him that Tiny Tim has died. Scrooge is then shown his own grave, and realizes that the celebrations were for his death. 
On Christmas morning, Scrooge wakes up and realizes that he has to change. He decides to celebrate Christmas, and help Tiny Tim get better. He sends his clerk and his family a prize turkey. Through the ghosts' help he becomes a better man.
The book made popular the phrase "Merry Christmas" as well as the name "Scrooge" and the ejaculation "Bah! Humbug". The book spurred charitable giving in the years following its first publication. Its lasting legacy is returning to Christmas the merriment and festivity the day lost after a period of Puritan sobriety. 
Online editions

</doc>
<doc id="20262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20262" title="Aruba">
Aruba

Aruba is an island in the Caribbean Sea, just a short distance north of the Venezuelan Paraguaná Peninsula, and it forms a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Unlike much of the Caribbean region, it has a dry climate and an arid, cactus-strewn landscape. This climate has helped tourism, because visitors to the island can reliably expect warm, sunny weather.
The island broke off from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986, hoping to gain its independence by 1996. In 1990, that effort stopped at the request of the island people.
The island came into the news after U.S. high school senior Natalee Holloway disappeared on a graduation trip on May 30, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="20263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20263" title="Kingdom of the Netherlands">
Kingdom of the Netherlands

The Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1954 and is now made up of four countries:

</doc>
<doc id="20264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20264" title="Kill Bill">
Kill Bill

Kill Bill is an American crime movie directed by Quentin Tarantino. It was released in two parts; "Volume 1" and "Volume 2". In most countries it is rated for adult viewing only because of extreme violence and profanity.

</doc>
<doc id="20266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20266" title="Drive-by shooting">
Drive-by shooting

A drive-by shooting is when a gun is fired from a moving vehicle, at a target outside the vehicle.
Tupac Shakur and Biggie Smalls were killed because of a drive-by shooting.

</doc>
<doc id="20278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20278" title="Andalusia">
Andalusia

Andalusia () is the first in population among the 17 Autonomous communities in Spain and the second, after Castile and León, in area. The territory is divided into eight provinces: Almería, Cádiz, Córdoba, Granada, Huelva, Jaén, Málaga and Seville. Its capital is the city of Seville (Spanish: "Sevilla"). 
Andalusia is in the south of the Iberian peninsula, just to the south of the autonomous communities of Extremadura and Castile-La Mancha; west of the autonomous community of Murcia and the Mediterranean Sea; east of Portugal and the Atlantic Ocean; and north of the Mediterranean Sea and the Strait of Gibraltar. The small British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar shares a land border with the Andalusian province of Cádiz at the eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar.
The name Andalusia is the modern version of the Arabic language "Al-Andalus" (الأندلس), name used by the Muslims for all of the territory of the Iberian Peninsula under their control. During that period, northern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Christian kings and the southern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Muslims.
In 711 CE, the Muslims invaded the Iberian Peninsula, then controlled by Christians of Visigothic origin. By 719 the Muslims conquered all of the peninsula except for a small area in the northern Pyrenees Mountains. The Muslims used the name Al-Andalus for all of the territory of the Iberian Peninsula under their control.
Christians in the north waged war for more than seven centuries against the Muslims, gradually taking over more and more of the southern areas. This process of war is called the "Reconquista" (a Spanish and Portuguese word meaning "to conquest again"). In the year 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain retook the last stronghold in the southern area at Granada. In that same year, the Muslims and Jews were forced to leave Spain.
The Andalusian coat of arms shows the figure of Hercules and two lions between the two pillars of Hercules that tradition puts on both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar. The words below read "Andalucía por sí, para España y la Humanidad" ("Andalusia by herself, for Spain and Humanity"). Over the two columns is an arch in the colors of the flag of Andalusia, with the Latin words "Dominator Hercules Fundator".
The official flag of Andalusia has three equal horizontal stripes, colored green, white, and green respectively; the Andalusian coat of arms is on the central stripe. It was approved in a meeting in 1918 of Andalusian nationalists at Ronda, a city in the province of Málaga.
The anthem of Andalusia was composed by José del Castillo Díaz with lyrics by Blas Infante. The music was inspired by "Santo Dios", a religious folk song sung at harvest time by peasants.
The national holiday, the "Día de Andalucía", is celebrated on 28 February.
Andalusia is one of the 17 Spanish autonomous communities and is in the southwestern region of the European Union. It has a surface area of , 17.3 percent of the territory of Spain. By area, it is the second Spanish autonomous community.
The natural limits of Andalusia are: to the south, the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea; to the north, the Sierra Morena, mountain range that separates Andalusia from the autonomous communities of Extremadura and Castilla-La Mancha; to the west is Portugal; and to the east is Murcia.
Andalusia has the Iberian peninsula's highest mountains and nearly 15 percent of its terrain over . The picture is similar for areas under (with the Baetic Depression), and for the variety of slopes.
The Atlantic coast is mostly beach and gradually sloping coasts; the Mediterranean coast has many cliffs. These differences divide the region naturally into Upper Andalusia (two mountainous areas) and Lower Andalusia (the broad basin of the Guadalquivir).
The three main geographical regions of Andalusia are:
In general, Andalusia has a Mediterranean climate, except in the Valley of Granada (), with occasional heavy rains and extremely hot temperatures.
Rainfall decreases from west to east. The place in Andalusia with the highest rainfall is in the Sierra de Grazalema ( per year) and the driest place is Cabo de Gata, the place with the least amount of rainfall in Europe with only of rain per year.
The average temperature in Andalusia throughout the year is over . Averages in the cities range from in Baeza to in Málaga. Much of the Guadalquivir valley and the Mediterranean coast has an average of about . The coldest month is January when Granada at the foot of the Sierra Nevada experiences an average temperature of . The hottest are July and August, with an average temperature of for Andalusia as a whole. Córdoba is the hottest provincial capital, followed by Seville.
The mountain ranges are cooler than the plains and have a higher rainfall with some snow in winter. The Sierra Nevada, above , is snow covered for most of the year.
Andalusia has rivers that flow into both the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. Flowing to the Atlantic are the Guadiana, Odiel-Tinto, Guadalquivir, Guadalete, and Barbate. Flowing to the Mediterranean are the Guadiaro, Guadalhorce, Guadalmedina, Guadalfeo, Andarax (also known as the Almería) and Almanzora. Of these, the Guadalquivir is the longest in Andalusia and fifth longest on the Iberian peninsula, at .
Andalusia consists of eight provinces. Each of the Andalusian provinces bears the same name as its capital:
The Andalusians are the inhabitants of Andalusia of the southern region in Iberian Peninsula. They are generally considered an ethnically distinct peoples because of the two of the most important markers of distinctiveness: their own language and an awareness of a presumed common origin. Andalusian is said to be a distinct dialect of Spanish, although it is debatable, according to the nationalists. The Andalusians have a rich culture which includes the famous flamenco style of music and dance, even though it was adopted by the Spanish gypsies who have changed it and monopolized into their own culture.

</doc>
<doc id="20279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20279" title="Granada">
Granada

Granada is a Spanish city, capital of the province of Granada, in Andalusia. With 233,000 inhabitants, it is an important artistic and cultural center. The city has several famous monuments, such as the Alhambra, the Cathedral, the "Alcaiceria", and the "Corral del Carbon". It is near Sierra Nevada, the highest mountain range in Spain, in the valley where the Genil and Darro rivers meet. The Darro runs through the "Albaicin" and the" Sacromonte", two charming historical areas of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="20280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20280" title="Cadiz">
Cadiz

Cadiz is a Spanish city, capital of the Province of Cadiz, in Andalusia. It is the southernmost capital in the Iberian Peninsula. The population is 130,000, but it is the centre of a metropolitan area, the Bay of Cadiz, with more than 500,000 inhabitants. Cadiz is known for its attractive beaches where many nautical sports can be practiced. This is possible thanks to the excellent climate all year round. It is one of the oldest cities in Western Europe and it used to be one of the most imporant Spanish ports during the Spanish Golden Age and the Age of Discovery.

</doc>
<doc id="20281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20281" title="Merida">
Merida

Mérida is the capital of Extremadura, an autonomous community in Spain. It has 55,000 inhabitants and is an important Roman center, with the theatre and the bridge over the Guadiana river.

</doc>
<doc id="20282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20282" title="Cuenca">
Cuenca

Cuenca is a Spanish city, capital of the Cuenca province, in Castile-La Mancha. It is a small city with 50,000 inhabitants. It is very famous for its monuments: The hanging houses, the Cathedral and other churches. It is situated over the Jucar river, near the Serrania of Cuenca.

</doc>
<doc id="20283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20283" title="Balearic Islands">
Balearic Islands

The Balearic Islands (officially and in Catalan Illes Balears) are an autonomous community of Spain, formed by the "Balearic Islands province". The main Balearic islands are Mallorca (also called in English "Majorca"), Minorca, Eivissa or Ibiza, and Formentera. The capital is Palma de Mallorca, and other cities are Mahon, Ibiza, Inca, Ciutadella, and Calvia.

</doc>
<doc id="20284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20284" title="Henry Fonda">
Henry Fonda

Henry Jaynes Fonda (May 16, 1905 – August 12, 1982) was an American movie, stage, television, radio, and voice actor. He was the head of a family of actors: son Peter, daughter Jane, granddaughter Bridget and grandson Troy Garity. He has won an Academy Award.
Fonda starred in movies including "The Grapes of Wrath" (1940), "12 Angry Men" (1957), "Once Upon a Time in the West" (1968) and "Yours, Mine and Ours" (1968). His last performance was in 1981's "On Golden Pond".
Fonda was born on May 16, 1905 in Grand Island, Nebraska. He studied at the University of Minnesota. 
He was married to Margaret Sullavan from 1931 until they divorced in 1932. Then he was married to Frances Ford Seymour from 1936 until her death in 1950. Then he was married to Susan Blanchard from 1950 until they divorced in 1956. Then he was married to Afdera Franchetti from 1957 until they divorced in 1961. Then he was last married to Shirlee Mae Adams from 1965 until his death in 1982. 
Fonda died on August 12, 1982 from heart disease in Los Angeles, California. He was 77.

</doc>
<doc id="20285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20285" title="Provinces of Spain">
Provinces of Spain

There are fifty parts of Spain called provinces. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="20287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20287" title="Cartagena">
Cartagena

Cartagena is a city in the Region of Murcia, in Spain. In the south of the region, at the Mediterranean Sea. The population of the city is 205,000 and it is an industrial centre. Cartagena was founded by the Carthaginese as "Qart Hadasht" and the name means "New City". 

</doc>
<doc id="20288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20288" title="Palermo">
Palermo

Palermo is a Italian city. It is the capital and largest city of Sicily. It has 720,000 people, with more than 1,000,000 in the metropolitan area. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate. The city started as a colony of Phoenicia. It was later Islamic and Norman and part of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.

</doc>
<doc id="20289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20289" title="Bosnia and Herzegovina">
Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bosnia~Herzegovina or Bosnia-Herzegovina (locally: "Bosna i Hercegovina/Босна и Херцеговина", most commonly abbreviated as "BiH/БиХ") is a country in Southeastern Europe, with an area of 51,197 km and 4,600,000 people. Countries around Bosnia and Herzegovina are Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro. The capital is Sarajevo, and other important cities are Banja Luka, Mostar, Zenica and Tuzla.
The first state in Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the Middle Ages. During the Ottoman Empire, it was a very important province in the Balkans and the capital, Sarajevo, had 100,000 people. In 1878, it became a province of Austria-Hungary when the Empire took over Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908. In 1914 the Archduke Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie, were assassinated in Sarajevo, leading to World War I. From 1918 until 1992, the country was a part of the former Yugoslavia. After a 3-year long war, Bosnia and Herzegovina proclaimed independence as a country consiting mostly of Serbs, Croats and Bosnian Muslims.
This is a list of the ten largest towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only Sarajevo and Banja Luka have more than 200,000 people.
Bosnia and Herzegovina has produced many athletes. Many of them were famous in the Yugoslav national teams before Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence.
The most important international sporting event in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the hosting of the 14th Winter Olympics, held in Sarajevo.
The Borac handball club has won seven Yugoslav Handball Championships, as well as the European Championship Cup in 1976 and the International Handball Federation Cup in 1991.
The Bosna basketball club from Sarajevo were European Champions in 1979. The Yugoslav national basketball team medaled in every world championship from 1963 through 1990. The team included Bosnian players such as Dražen Dalipagić and Mirza Delibašić. Bosnia and Herzegovina regularly qualifies for the European Championship in Basketball. Jedinstvo Aida women's basketball club, based in Tuzla, has won the 1989 European Championships in Florence.
Bosnia has many world-class basketball players, notably Mirza Teletović, the first Bosnian in the NBA. Among others are, Elmedin Kikanović, Nihad Đedović, Ognjen Kuzmić, Jusuf Nurkić, Nedžad Sinanović, and Nemanja Mitrović.
The Tuzla-Sinalco karate club from Tuzla has won the most Yugoslav championships, as well as four European Championships and one World Championship.
The Bosnian chess team has been Champion of Yugoslavia seven times. In addition the club ŠK Bosna Sarajevo won four Chess Club Cup : 1994 in Lyon, 1999 in Bugojno, 2000 in Neum, and 2001 in Kallithea Elassonos. Chess grandmaster Borki Predojević has also won European Championships: Under-12 years Litochoro (Greece) in 1999, and Under-14 years Kallithea Elassonos (Greece) in 2001, and in 2003 won World Championship Under-16 years Halkidiki (Greece).
Middle-weight boxer Marijan Beneš has won several Championships of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslav Championships and the European Championship. In 1978 he won the World Title against Elisha Obed from the Bahamas. Another middle-weight boxer, Anton Josipović won the Olympic Gold in Los Angeles, 1984. He also won Yugoslav Championship in 1982, the Championship of the Balkans in 1983, and the Belgrade Trophy in 1985.
Association football is the most popular sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It dates from 1903, but its popularity grew significantly after World War I. At the local level, FK Sarajevo (1967 and 1984), Željezničar (1972) have both won the Yugoslav Championship. The former Yugoslav national football team has included a number of Bosnian players, such as Josip Katalinski, Blaž Slišković, Dušan Bajević, Enver Marić, Mehmed Baždarević, Ivica Osim, Safet Sušić, Vahidin Musemić and Mirsad Fazlagić.
Today, the team of Bosnia and Herzegovina has modern footballers like Edin Džeko, Zvjezdan Misimović, Vedad Ibišević, Emir Spahić, Asmir Begović, Miralem Pjanić, Sejad Salihović, Senad Lulić and others. The independent Bosnia and Herzegovina national football team has not qualified for a European or World Championship but has played twice in the play-off stages.
Bosnian national teams have struggled to draft the best national players. Many players born in Bosnia and Herzegovina choose to play for other countries because of their ethnic identification. For example, Nikica Jelavić and Vedran Ćorluka were both born in Bosnia and Herzegovina but play for Croatia. Other internationally famous players from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have made similar choices, are: Dejan Lovren, Mladen Petrić, Mario Stanić, Neven Subotić, Zlatan Ibrahimović, Marko Marin, Boris Živković, Zlatko Junuzović, Savo Milošević, and Zdravko Kuzmanović.
Bosnia and Herzegovina was the world champion of volleyball at the 2004 Summer Paralympics and 2012 Summer Paralympics. Many among those on the team lost their legs in the Bosnian War.
Bosnian cuisine uses many spices, in moderate quantities. Most dishes are light, as they are cooked in lots of water. The sauces are fully natural, with little more than the natural juices of the vegetables in the dish. Typical ingredients include tomatoes, potatoes, onions, garlic, peppers, cucumbers, carrots, cabbage, mushrooms, spinach, zucchini, dried beans, fresh beans, plums, milk, paprika and cream called Pavlaka. Bosnian cuisine is balanced between Western and Eastern influences. As a result of the Ottoman administration for almost 500 years, Bosnian food is closely related to Turkish, Greek, and other former Ottoman and Mediterranean cuisines. However, because of years of Austrian rule, there are many influences from Central Europe. Typical meat dishes include mostly beef and lamb. Some local specialties are ćevapi, burek, dolma, sarma, pilaf, goulash, ajvar and a whole range of Eastern sweets. Local wines come from Herzegovina where the climate is suitable for growing grapes. Herzegovinian loza (similar to Italian Grappa but less sweet) is very popular. Plum or apple alcohol beverages are made in the north. In the south, distilleries used to produce vast quantities of brandy. Brandy is the base of most alcoholic drinks.
Coffeehouses, where Bosnian coffee is served in džezva with rahat lokum and sugar cubes, are in many places in Sarajevo and every city in the country. Coffee drinking is a favorite Bosnian pastime and part of the culture. Bosnians are believed to be some of the heaviest coffee drinkers in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="20296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20296" title="Black bass">
Black bass

A black bass is a type of fresh water fish. The black basses are found throughout a large area east of the Rocky Mountains in North America, from the Hudson Bay basin in Canada to northeastern Mexico. Several species, notably the Largemouth and Smallmouth have been very widely introduced throughout the world. Black bass of all species are highly sought-after game fish, and bass fishing is an extremely popular sport. These fish are well known as strong fighters, and taste good. 
Black bass are found in running and still waters, with or without aquatic vegetation (plants that live in water). they need food and some form of cover. Generally, they can tolerate a wide range of water clarities and bottom types. Most prefer water temperatures from 20 to 30°C, and are often found at depths less than 20 feet. Smallmouth prefer clear water and usually like deeper water than Largemouth.
The feeding habits of bass change with its size. Young fish mainly feed on microscopic animals (plankton). Fingerling bass eat insects and small fishes. Adult bass will eat whatever is available, including fish, crabs, frogs, salamanders, snakes, mice, turtles, and even birds. 
Age and growth - Growth rates are highly variable with differences attributed mainly to their food supply and length of growing season. Female bass live longer than males and are much more likely to reach trophy size. By age two or three, females grow much faster than male bass. At five years of age females may be twice the weight of males. The oldest bass from Florida whose age has been determined by fisheries' biologists was 16 years of age.
The largemouth bass is a very popular fresh water game fish. Much of its popularity is due to its aggressive attitude and willingness to strike a lure or bait with explosive force. They can be caught with almost every bait. The value of the largemouth as a sport fish has prompted a movement toward Catch-and-release fishing. 
A bass of 22 pounds, 4 ounces was caught in Montgomery Lake, Georgia (U.S. state) in 1932. 
Sport fishing for Black bass, particularly largemouth and smallmouth, has seen extraordinary growth in popularity. In Texas alone, fishermen spent $28 billion on equipment, licenses and fishing trips in 1996. That same year Texas sport fishing was responsible for creating 80,000 jobs and brought in over $180 million to the state in taxes. Many talented fishermen have turned the sport of bass fishing into a business by becoming a professional and competing in tournaments. Kevin VanDam is the top-rated money winner in professional bass fishing, having earned more than $5.6 million.

</doc>
<doc id="20297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20297" title="Reinheitsgebot">
Reinheitsgebot

The Reinheitsgebot is a regulation about the purity of beer. The regulation started in Ingolstadt, in Bavaria, in Germany, in 1516.
The regulation says several things:
Some people talk about the "Bavarian" Reinheitsgebot, or the "German" Reinheitsgebot. They all mean the same thing. There are similar acts in the other states which later became known as Germany.
The Reinheitsgebot is no longer part of German law. It has been replaced by the Provisional German Beer Law
, which allows things prohibited in the "Reinheitsgebot", such as wheat malt and cane sugar, but which no longer allows unmalted barley.
Yeast was not a part of beer until Louis Pasteur discovered what it did during fermentation. This was around the year 1800. Brewers (the people brewing beer) usually re-used some of the sediments of the fermentation. They took some sediments of an older brew and added those sediments to the next brew.
Hops were added as a method of preservation (to stop the beer going bad quickly). Hops were allowed to stop other things (like adding certain mushrooms to the beer, which was done in the Middle Ages) being done to preserve beer. Other herbs, like stinging nettles had been used. The stinging nettle is part of the same plant family as hops.
A brewer who broke the "Reinheitsgebot" was punished: The beer barrels were taken by the state and destroyed and he/she did not receive any money for the loss.
Even today, many brewers are proud of the "Reinheitsgebot"; most German breweries say they follow it. Some only use it as a marketing tool. The "Reinheitsgebot' says that beer is made of barley, so all wheat beers were not allowed by the original Reinheitsgebot).
Belgian beers are different. The brewers often add sugar (to boost fermentation). Nevertheless, Belgian beers have a brewing tradition at least as long as those of Germany. They taste totally different from the German ones.

</doc>
<doc id="20298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20298" title="Maß">
Maß

A Maß or Mass is an old unit of measurement of liquid. Literally translated, it means "mass". It is equal to 1.069 litre. Today, it is only used for measuring quantities of beer (one litre). Beer is usually served as 0.2 or 0.3 l ("small beer") or as 0.5 l ("big beer"), but at some occasions (like the Oktoberfest) and some places it is also served as a "Maß".
Usually this Maß is served in special mugs. These used to be made of ceramics, especially clay. During the 19th and 20th centuries most were replaced by ones made of glass.

</doc>
<doc id="20299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20299" title="Wolverine">
Wolverine

The wolverine or glutton ("Gulo gulo") is the largest member of the Mustelidae family (the weasels). It is a stocky and muscular carnivore, more like a small bear than other mustelids. The wolverine, a solitary animal, has a reputation for ferocity, and can kill prey many times larger than itself. It is a powerful and versatile predator and scavenger.
There is a clear difference between two subspecies: the Old World form "Gulo gulo gulo" and the New World form "G. g. luscus". 
The male is about tall, the female . Their length ranges from (female) to (male) and they reach a weight of around . Their tail measures about . Their brown fur protects them from the extremely cold temperatures and their big feet enable them to walk on top of snow.
 Wolverines live primarily in isolated arctic and alpine regions of northern Canada, Alaska, Siberia, and Scandinavia. they are also native to European Russia, the Baltic countries, northeast China and Mongolia. In 2008 and 2009, wolverines were sighted as far south as the Sierra Nevada, near Lake Tahoe, for the first time since 1922. They are also found in low numbers in the Rocky Mountains and northern Cascades of the United States, and have been sighted as far south and east as Michigan. However, most New World wolverines live in Canada.
Wolverines feed on almost every type of food that they can find: mice, rats, birds, bird eggs, reindeer and other large prey. Wolverines prefer to hunt larger prey in winter, when the snow slows down the prey and gives the wolverine an advantage.
Wolverines are highly territorial. Wolverines reproduce every two or three years. The female gives birth to one to three young (called kits) in a tunnel called a den deep underneath snowdrifts.
Humans are the wolverine’s main enemy. The wolverine’s thick, warm fur is used to manufacture the trim of a parka's hood or other winter clothes, as the dense guard hairs do not collect frost.
February 2013, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service proposed giving Endangered Species Act protections to the wolverine largely because climate change (global warming) is whittling away its wintry habitat in the northern Rockies.

</doc>
<doc id="20300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20300" title="Bismarck (ship)">
Bismarck (ship)

The German battleship Bismarck was one of the most famous warships of World War II. It only sailed for one mission, Operation "Rheinübung", before sinking in the Atlantic Ocean. Nearly 3500 seamen lost their lives in the battle which lasted around 8 days.
The whole ship with all the oil reserves weighed 53165 tonnes. It was about long and wide. 
The ship had eight big guns: cannons, called the heavy artillery. There were 12 smaller cannons, and several anti-aircraft "FLAK" cannons too. 
It had very thick armour, even for warships today. The thickest plating was around the heavy artillery, where the metal was thick.
First the "Bismarck" had to reach the open sea. This because it was a huge battleship few other ships would be able to get close enough to attack without being destroyed, so it could control a large area of sea.
The first problem the "Bismarck" had was how to pass the British Isles. It took the way near the Fjords of Norway. There it met the other German ship "Prinz Eugen". Both ships reached the open sea in the Denmark straits. The Royal Navy's battleships HMS Hood and HMS Prince of Wales were sent to sink the "Bismarck". The "Hood" lost this battle. The "Hood" was more than a ship for the British military leaders. It was kind of a myth. So the British Navy sent a large number of ships to hunt the "Bismarck". There were some cruisers, many battleships and some aircraft-carriers. There was a very dramatic hunt, because the Bismarck was damaged but escaped from the nearest British ships. 
Finally the "Bismarck" was found by a some aircraft from one of the ships, and its rudder and propeller were broken by the torpedoes they carried. then the British battleships, HMS King George V and HMS Rodney moved down to their shortest range (3km) and fired straight into the ships towers, one 16 inch shell hit the bridge and killed the captain and the German admiral. Now the Bismarck could not move, send radio or fight back due to its fire control taking a direct hit, and it was already taking on water due to its duel with HMS Hood, and the abandon ship order had been given so all the of the British ships, except two cruisers to pick the German sailors, left the Bismarck. But they had to leave lots behind because a U-boat (U49) had been sent to find and take the Bismarcks log book back to Germany. With the risk of the Bismarck being captured, her sailors seriously damaged her, and she sank at 10:39. Over 2000 men went down with her.

</doc>
<doc id="20305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20305" title="Republic of Mahabad">
Republic of Mahabad

The Republic of Mahabad (also Republic of Kurdistan), established in Iranian Kurdistan, was the second independent Kurdish state of the 20th century after the Republic of Ararat in Turkey. Its capital was the Kurdish city of Mahabad in northwestern Iran. The Republic was part of the Iran crisis a conflict between the United States and USSR.
The republic was led by President Qazi Muhammad and Minister of Defense Mustafa Barzani. Prime Minister was Hadschi Baba Scheich. The Republic of Mahabad declared independence on January 22, 1946, but the movement was defeated a year later by the army of the central government of Iran. . After the collapse of the republic in 1947, Qazi Muhammad was hanged in public in Chuwarchira Square in the center of Mahabad.
Massoud Barzani, the current President of Iraqi Kurdistan, was born in Mahabad when his father, the late General Mustafa Barzani, was chief of the military of Mahabad declared in Iranian Kurdistan .
Archibald Roosevelt son of the former US-President Theodore Roosevelt, wrote in ""The Kurdish Republic of Mahabad"", that a main problem of the peoples Republic of Mahabad, was the kurds needed the power of the USSR. Only with the Red army they had a chance. But these close relationship to Stalin and the USSR let many kurdish tribes to be in opposition with this kurdish state. 

</doc>
<doc id="20307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20307" title="Coat of Arms of Iran">
Coat of Arms of Iran

The Emblem of Iran was made after the Islamic Revolution in that country, in 1979. After the revolution, Iran decided to use a new flag. The old flag had a picture of a golden lion and a sabre, that was a symbol for the Shah (king) of Iran. This emblem is a symbol for the whole country and the Islamic character of the new government. It is drawn to look like a version of the word الله which means "God" in Persian (the language of Iran) and also in the Arabic language. It looks like a tulip, which is an old symbol for Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="20314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20314" title="Tennis">
Tennis

Tennis is a sport played with a felt-covered rubber ball, a racket, and a court.
First, early in the 11th century, players in France played this sport with their hands. It was called “Jeu de Paume”. In the 15th century the sport came to Poland and the players played with rackets. Now it is called “tennis”. It became popular in England and France. King Henry III was a big fan of the game.
There are many different kinds of courts, like grass, clay, or a sand. The goal of tennis is to hit the ball over the net into the other player’s court. When the other player cannot return the ball, a point is won. The game is played with two or four people. When it is played with two people, it is called “singles”, and when it is played with four people, it is called “doubles”. The court has "alleys" on each side, which are "fair" territory when playing doubles. 
A tennis game has a number of sets. Each set has a number of games, and each game has points. The points are counted love (0, after the French l'oeuf), fifteen (15), thirty (30), and forty (40). If both players get to forty, the score is "deuce" from which 2 more points are needed to win the game. When one player reaches six games, it is one set. If it is a three-set match, the player who wins two sets first is the winner. If the game count reaches 5–5, the set must be won with two more games than the other player, like 7–5 or 8–6. If the game count gets to 6–6, a "tiebreaker" is played. In a tiebreak, players have to get at least seven points while getting two more points than the other player to win the set. In tiebreak points are called “one,” “two,” etc.
The game started in Germany during the 1700s. Tennis is now a sport that is played at the Olympics. They also have big tournaments like the U.S. Open, Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon. These four are known as Grand Slam events. Tennis’s official name is "lawn tennis". Since 1998, every September 23 has been called "Tennis Day". 
There is also soft tennis. Soft tennis is different from regulation tennis. For example, the racket, ball and rules are much different. Soft tennis is popular in Japan. Thousands of people play soft tennis. Tennis is quite a popular sport which lots of people enjoy watching. 
There are many different "shots" and "strokes", ways to hit the ball, in tennis. A stroke is the way the body is moved to hit the ball. A shot is how the ball is hit. These include:
Winning all four Grand Slams in the same year is called a Calendar Slam.
They are the most important tennis tournaments of each season (year). This is because of the world ranking points, tradition, prize-money, and public attention.

</doc>
<doc id="20316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20316" title="Teacher">
Teacher

A teacher is a person who helps people to learn. A teacher often works in a classroom. There are many different kinds of teachers. Some teachers teach young children in kindergarten or primary schools. Others teach older children in middle, junior high and high schools. Some teachers teach adults in more advanced schools (for example, colleges and universities). Some are called professors.
There are different ways of teaching. Most teachers use a variety of methods to teach. Teachers often explain new knowledge, write on a blackboard or whiteboard, sit behind their desks on chairs, help students with their work, or mark students' work. They may use a computer to write tests, assignments or report cards for the class.

</doc>
<doc id="20323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20323" title="Getafe">
Getafe

Getafe is a city 15 km south of Madrid, in the Community of Madrid, Spain. 158,363 people live there. It has great commercial and industrial activity and many mass media. In Getafe there is a university, a military air base, and has a football team in the first division of the Spanish's League.

</doc>
<doc id="20327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20327" title="Manhattan Project">
Manhattan Project

The Manhattan Project was the program based in the United States which tried to make the first nuclear weapons. The project went on during World War II, and was run by the U.S. Army. The head of the project was General Leslie R. Groves, who had led the building of the Pentagon. The top scientist on the project was Robert Oppenheimer, a famous physicist. The project cost $2 billion, and created many secret cities and bomb-making factories, such as a laboratory in Los Alamos, New Mexico, a nuclear reactor in Hanford, Washington, and a uranium processing plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. 
The Manhattan Project had to find solutions to two difficulties. The first difficulty is how to make the special isotopes of uranium or plutonium. This process is called separation and is very slow. The United States built very big buildings with machines for separation. They made enough fissionable special isotopes for a few nuclear weapons. The second difficulty was how to make a bomb that will produce a big nuclear explosion every time. A weapon with a broken design will often make a much smaller nuclear explosion. This is called a "fizzle". In July 1945, the Manhattan Project solved the two difficulties and made the first nuclear explosion. This test of a nuclear weapon was called "Trinity" and was a success.
The Manhattan Project created two nuclear bombs which they used against Japan in 1945.
The Manhattan Project operated under a blanket of tight security. This was to prevent the Axis countries, especially Nazi Germany, from accelerating their own nuclear projects or undertaking covert operations against the project. The possibility of sabotage was always present. At times, people suspected sabotage when equipment failed. While there were some problems believed to be the result of careless or disgruntled employees, there were no confirmed instances of Axis-instigated sabotage. However, on 10 March 1945, a Japanese fire balloon struck a power line, and the resulting power surge caused the three reactors at Hanford to be temporarily shut down.
Maintaining security was difficult because so many people worked on the project. A special Counter Intelligence Corps detachment handled the project's security issues. By 1943, it was clear that the Soviet Union was trying to penetrate the project. Lieutenant Colonel Boris T. Pash, the head of the Counter Intelligence Branch of the Western Defense Command, investigated suspected Soviet espionage at the Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley. Oppenheimer informed Pash that he had been approached by a fellow professor at Berkeley, Haakon Chevalier, about passing information to the Soviet Union.
The most successful Soviet spy was Klaus Fuchs. Fuchs was a member of the British Mission who played an important part at Los Alamos. The 1950 revelation of Fuchs' espionage activities damaged the United States' nuclear cooperation with Britain and Canada. Subsequently, other instances of espionage were uncovered, leading to the arrest of Harry Gold, David Greenglass and Ethel and Julius Rosenberg. Other spies like George Koval remained unknown for decades. People will never know the value of the espionage. One reason was that the Soviet atomic bomb project was held back by a shortage of uranium ore. The consensus is that espionage saved the Soviets one or two years of effort.

</doc>
<doc id="20330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20330" title="Hadschi Baba Scheich">
Hadschi Baba Scheich

Hadschi Baba Scheich (Haji Baba Sheikh) ("Hacî Baba Şêx" in Kurdish) was the prime minister of the Republic of Mahabad. After the republic was conquered by the Iranian army in 1947 he was the only one who was not hanged together with president Qazi Muhammad at the Chuwarchira Square in Mahabad in 1947. He was immune because of his religious standing. The journalist and lyric Hemin Mukriyani was his secretary during the republic.

</doc>
<doc id="20331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20331" title="Ajam">
Ajam

Ajam (عجم) in Arabic means non-Arabic-speaker. Ajam is an Arabic word that came from Jam the name of a king or prophet according to old story he was the king of world. 
The early use of the term included all of the peoples with whom the Arabs had contact including Persians, Pakistanis, Greeks, Ethiopians, and the somewhat related Nabataeans.
During the early age of the Caliphates, Ajam was often meant the same thing as barbarian. In some cases it was a word that was used as a way of making people seem like they were not as good as them. In the Middle East, it was usually used to the Persians. In Turkish, the usage of the term is not used to any group of people from a country, but instead seems to have changed from the original Arabic usage for outsiders and turned into a different meaning as the term "ajemi" (in modern Turkish "acemi") which means "clumsy", "inept" or "novice".

</doc>
<doc id="20333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20333" title="Boston Terrier">
Boston Terrier

Boston Terriers are a breed of dog. They are considered to be one of the few American breeds as they can trace their origins to Boston, Massachusetts. It's hard to believe that these comical, family friendly dogs were originally bred to be ferocious pit-fighting dogs tracing their ancestors to an English Bulldog and the now extinct English White Terrier. 
They are usually very small, but can also be bred as medium sized dogs. They are considered to be cute dogs and are getting ever more popular. They are in many commercials and many celebrities have them.
Boston Terriers are a smart breed of dogs. They can be extremely hyperactive, but overall are well behaved with training. Their excitement and enthusiasm is a perk of their personality. They are compactly built with short, round heads, short tails, but strong limbs. They have a smooth coat, with colors of brindle, seal brown or black and evenly marked with white.
Boston Terriers are inside dogs that love affection. This breed is balanced with being independent (sometimes stubborn) and affectionate and wanting attention from humans. They require very little work when a part of a family and they are good dogs for children. 
Caring for a Boston Terrier requires little work. With a short coat, Bostons might need a bath every one to two weeks. Brushing is not necessary although it helps remove loose hair and reduces shedding. Bostons love rawhides (a chewy animal skin) and other chew toys that help with keeping their teeth healthy. Brushing your dog's teeth is recommended by vets for any breed. Boston Terriers do have sensitive stomachs and will eat grass when their stomach is upset but for the most part, this breed does not have restrictions on what they can eat. 

</doc>
<doc id="20334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20334" title="1750s">
1750s


</doc>
<doc id="20337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20337" title="1798">
1798


</doc>
<doc id="20338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20338" title="1160">
1160


</doc>
<doc id="20339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20339" title="1169">
1169


</doc>
<doc id="20340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20340" title="1196">
1196


</doc>
<doc id="20341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20341" title="1793">
1793


</doc>
<doc id="20342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20342" title="1800">
1800


</doc>
<doc id="20343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20343" title="Vigdís Finnbogadóttir">
Vigdís Finnbogadóttir


</doc>
<doc id="20344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20344" title="Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson">
Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson

Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson (born May 14, 1943) is an Icelanic politician. He served as the fifth President of Iceland, from 1996 to 2016, re-elected without opposition in 2000, and was re-elected in 2004, 2008, and 2012. 
He was born in Ísafjörður, Iceland.
From 1962 to 1970, he studied economics and political science at the University of Manchester. He was a professor at the University of Iceland for political science, served as a Member of the Althing, and was the Minister of Finance (1988–1991).
He married Guðrún Katrín Þorbergsdóttir in 1974, who gave birth to twin daughters the following year. Guðrún Katrín was very popular in Iceland, and her charm is without a doubt one of the main reasons her husband was elected; she charmed the nation from the start of his campaign. Her death from cancer in 1998 was a shock to the nation and her family. 
Ólafur's second marriage was to Dorrit Moussaieff to whom he had been engaged since May 2000. This took place on his 60th birthday May 14, 2003.
He announced in his new year's message on 1 January 2016, that he would be stepping down from the presidency at the end of his fifth term, namely on 1 August 2016. He left office on 1 August 2016. He was succeeded by Guðni Th. Jóhannesson.

</doc>
<doc id="20346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20346" title="1811">
1811


</doc>
<doc id="20347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347" title="Coral Springs, Florida">
Coral Springs, Florida

Coral Springs is a planned city in Florida, United States. It was founded on July 10, 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="20348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20348" title="1560s">
1560s


</doc>
<doc id="20349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20349" title="Affenpinscher">
Affenpinscher

Affenpinscher is a small breed (type) of dog in the toy group. These dogs originally came from Germany and are known to have existed since the 1600s. Their name comes from the German word "Affe," which means "monkey," because their faces remind people of monkeys. Originally, the dog was bred to be a "ratter," a type of dog that kills rats and mice in homes, farms, and stables. Now that mice are not so commonly found in the home, Affenpinschers are usually just kept as pets. 
The Affenpinscher is a very small kind of dog, weighing between 3kg and 6kg (6lbs to 13lbs) and standing between 23cm and 30cm (9 and 12 inches) at the shoulder. Their face is flat and "monkey-like." The most common and preferred colour of fur for this breed is black, but they can also come in grey, beige, and other colours. In the American Kennel Club, a good example of these dogs could be any colour; in the French and British Kennel Clubs they must only be black.
Affenpinschers are not terriers, but they do look and act a lot like terriers. Even though they were bred to hunt mice, they do not like to chase other animals, so they can happily live with other pets. They are playful but very stubborn. These dogs can be difficult to train, because they do not like to listen to instructions and often become bored. Affenpinschers are somewhat territorial (protective) when it comes to their toys and food, so they are not recommended for homes with very small children.
This dog is mostly quiet, and does not bark much. It can become very excited if attacked, and shows no fear toward any aggressor.
A small study showed that these dogs live an average of 11.4 years, which is not very long for a small dog; small dogs usually live 14-15 years. One of their most common health problems is bladder disease, which happens most often when the dogs are older (8 years and up.) Their short faces can make it difficult for them to breathe and exercise in hot weather. Like many kinds of dogs, Affenpinschers often get a disease called hip dysplasia which makes it difficult for them to run or walk. 

</doc>
<doc id="20350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20350" title="Yorkshire Terrier">
Yorkshire Terrier

The Yorkshire Terrier or Yorkie is a small breed of terrier dog. It originated in the United Kingdom in the town of Yorkshire, from where it gets its name.
They were first bred to catch mice and rats, so they are often fast and energetic. Yorkies usually weigh about 7 pounds (3.18 kg) and have a dark gray or black coat with a brown face. According to the American Kennel Club (AKC), Yorkies are the second most popular dog breed in America, behind only the Labrador Retriever. They are really playfull, they will always want to play.

</doc>
<doc id="20351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20351" title="The Chiffons">
The Chiffons

The Chiffons was an all-woman singing group. They started in New York City in 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="20352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20352" title="Mott the Hoople">
Mott the Hoople

Mott the Hoople was a English hard rock/glam rock band. They formed in 1969 and broke up in 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="20353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20353" title="Turner &amp; Hooch">
Turner &amp; Hooch

Turner & Hooch is an American movie that was released in 1989. It starred Tom Hanks as Detective Turner and Beasley the Dog as Hooch. It was a very successful movie.

</doc>
<doc id="20354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20354" title="The Temptations">
The Temptations

The Temptations are a successful R&B singing group. They formed in Detroit, USA in 1960. The Temptations have four Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles and 14 Billboard R&B number-one singles. They have three Grammy Awards. The Temptations were the first Motown act to earn a Grammy Award.

</doc>
<doc id="20355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20355" title="Brenda Lee">
Brenda Lee

Brenda Mae Tarpley or Brenda Lee (born December 11, 1944 in Atlanta, Georgia) is an American pop singer. She was popular in the 1960s. She stood tall and was called “Little Miss Dynamite” because of her strong voice. She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2002.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="20356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20356" title="Buddy Clark">
Buddy Clark

Buddy Clark (July 26, 1912 - October 1, 1949) was a pop singer popular in the 1930s and 1940s.

</doc>
<doc id="20357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357" title="Air Supply">
Air Supply

Air Supply is a pop music singing group. They formed in Melbourne, Australia in 1976.
The current members are Russell Hitchcock (born June 15, 1949 in Melbourne) and Graham Russell (born June 1, 1950 in Nottingham, England). In 1981 they got with their song "The One That You Love" a number one hit in the United States. They had their most popular times during the early 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="20358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20358" title="Sex Pistols">
Sex Pistols

The Sex Pistols were the first popular punk group in Britain. They were only together for two years, in the late 1970s, and they were known for their rowdy behaviour more than their music. The music they made gave many new artists a big influence on their music, mostly in the alternative music and punk scenes.
The members in the band were Johnny Rotten (vocals), Paul Cook (drums), Steve Jones (guitar) and Glen Matlock (bass). Sid Vicious later replaced Matlock on bass. They recorded only one studio album, called "Never Mind the Bollocks - Here's the Sex Pistols". One of their most famous songs is "Anarchy In The UK".

</doc>
<doc id="20360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20360" title="Walter Murphy">
Walter Murphy

Walter Murphy (b. December 19, 1952) is a classically trained American pianist. He was born in New York City. He had a hit song in the late 1970s, "A Fifth of Beethoven".

</doc>
<doc id="20362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20362" title="1570s">
1570s


</doc>
<doc id="20364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20364" title="Bette Davis">
Bette Davis

Bette Davis (April 5, 1908 - October 5, 1989) was an American actress of the stage, cinema and television. She was born in Lowell, Massachusetts. She was nicknamed "The Queen of Hollywood", the "First Lady of the American Screen" and "The Fifth Warner Brother" during her career.
Davis had the most Academy Award nominations for any actress (with ten) until Katharine Hepburn took her place with twelve. 
In 1981 Kim Carnes sang the hit song "Bette Davis Eyes". Davis liked the song. Carnes gave Davis a gold record. Davis hung the gold record on a wall.
The Kennedy Center honored Davis in 1987. She died of breast cancer in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France.

</doc>
<doc id="20365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20365" title="Gunpowder Plot">
Gunpowder Plot

The Gunpowder Conspiracy of 1605 was a plan to kill King James I of England and VI of Scotland. Other names for the plot are The Powder Treason or The Gunpowder Plot. A group of Catholics wanted to blow up the Houses of Parliament during the State Opening on 5 November 1605. This would have killed the king, and most of the Protestant aristocracy.
The conspirators also planned to kidnap the royal children, and lead a popular revolt in the Midlands.
Robert Catesby led the planning of the conspiracy, which started in May 1604. The people who helped him were either rich Catholics, or gentry families who had a lot of influence. Catesby may have come up with the plot when he saw that there was little hope that Great Britain would become more tolerant to Roman Catholics, under King James I. Many Catholics were disappointed about the situation. It is more likely though that Catesby simply wanted to give the Catholics in England a chance: The plot was to be the first step of a rebellion. Afterwards, James' nine-year-old daughter (Princess Elizabeth) could be put in as a Catholic head of state. 
Other plotters were Thomas Winter (also spelled Wintour), Robert Winter, John Wright, Christopher Wright, Robert Keyes, Thomas Percy (also spelled Percye), John Grant, Ambrose Rokewood, Sir Everard Digby, Francis Tresham and Thomas Bates (Catesby's servant). The explosives were prepared by Guy "Guido" Fawkes, a man with 10 years military experience. Fawkes had fought with the Spanish against the Dutch in the Spanish Netherlands.
The main Jesuit in England, Father Henry Garnet was said to know the details of the plot. Oswald Tesimond, a fellow Jesuit had told him. Robert Catesby confessed them to Tesimond, and gave him the permission to tell Garnet. Although he was convicted, there has since been some debate over how much Garnet really knew. As the details of the plot were known through confession, Garnet was not allowed to reveal them to the authorities. He did not think it was a good idea. Nevertheless, the plot went ahead. Garnet's opposition to it did not save him from being hanged, drawn and quartered for treason in 1606, though.
In the 17th century, the Palace of Westminster was made of many buildings, spread over a large area. They were grouped around the medieval chambers, chapels, and halls of the old royal palace. This palace housed both Parliament and the various law courts. The palace was also easier to access than it is today. Merchants, lawyers, and other people lived and worked on the palace grounds.
As a member of the King's Bodyguard, Percy was able to lease rooms next to the House of Lords, in May 1604. The plotters' original idea was to dig their way under the foundations of the Lords chamber to put the gunpowder there. The main idea was to kill James, but many other important targets would be present, including most of the Protestant nobility and senior bishops of the Church of England. Guy Fawkes, as "John Johnson", was put in charge of this building, where he posed as Percy's servant. Catesby's house in Lambeth was used to store the gunpowder with the tools for digging. 
However, when the Black Plague came back to London in the summer of 1604 and it proved to be particularly severe. For this reason, the opening of Parliament was changed to 1605. By Christmas Eve, the miners had still not reached the buildings of Parliament, and just as they restarted work early in 1605, they learned that the opening of Parliament had been further postponed to 3 October. The plotters then took the opportunity to row the gunpowder up the Thames from Catesby's house in Lambeth, to hide it in their new rented house: they had learned (by chance) that a coal merchant named Ellen Bright had vacated a ground-floor undercroft directly beneath the House of Lords chamber. Presented with this golden opportunity, Percy immediately took pains to secure the lease. He created the story that his wife would join him in London and that he would need the extra storage space. 
Fawkes assisted in filling the room with gunpowder, which was hidden beneath a wood store under the House of Lords building, in a cellar leased from John Whynniard. By March 1605, they had filled the undercroft underneath the House of Lords with 36 barrels of gunpowder, hidden under a store of winter fuel. Had all 36 barrels been successfully ignited, the explosion could easily have reduced many of the buildings in the Old Palace of Westminster complex to rubble, and would have blown out windows in the surrounding area of about a one kilometre radius. 
The conspirators left London in May, and went to their homes or to different areas of the country, because being seen together would arouse suspicion. They arranged to meet again in September; however, the opening of Parliament was again postponed. 
The weakest parts of the plot were the arrangements for the subsequent rebellion which would have swept the country and installed a Catholic monarch. Due to the requirements for money and arms, Sir Francis Tresham was eventually admitted to the plot, and it was probably he who betrayed the plot in writing to his brother-in-law Lord Monteagle. An anonymous letter revealed some of the details of the plot; it read: "I advise you to devise some excuse not to attend this parliament, for they shall receive a terrible blow, and yet shall not see who hurts them".
According to the confession made by Fawkes on Tuesday 5 November 1605, he had left Dover around Easter 1605, bound for Calais. He then travelled to Saint-Omer and on to Brussels, where he met with Hugh Owen and Sir William Stanley before making a pilgrimage to Brabant. He returned to England at the end of August or early September, again by way of Calais.
Guy Fawkes was left in charge of executing the plot, while the other conspirators fled to Dunchurch in Warwickshire to await news. Once Parliament had been destroyed, the other conspirators planned to start a revolt in the Midlands.
During the preparation, several of the conspirators had been concerned about the safety of fellow Catholics who would be present in Parliament on the day of the planned explosion. On the evening of Friday, 26 October Lord Monteagle received an anonymous letter while at his house in Hoxton.
Monteagle had the note read out loud, possibly to warn the plotters that the secret was out, and promptly handed it over to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury, the Secretary of State. The conspirators learned of the letter the following day, but decided to go ahead with their plan, especially after Fawkes inspected the undercroft and found that nothing had been touched. 
Having been shown the letter, the King ordered Sir Thomas Knyvet to conduct a search of the cellars underneath Parliament, which he did in the early hours of 5 November. Shortly after midnight, Fawkes was found leaving the cellar the conspirators had rented and was arrested, giving his name as John Johnson. Inside, the barrels of gunpowder were discovered hidden under piles of firewood and coal. Far from denying his intentions during the arrest, Fawkes stated that it had been his purpose to destroy the King and the Parliament. Nevertheless, Fawkes maintained his false identity and continued to insist that he was acting alone. Later in the morning, before noon, he was again interrogated. He was questioned on the nature of his accomplices, the involvement of Thomas Percy, what letters he had received from overseas and whether or not he had spoken with Hugh Owen.
A letter written by Gentleman of the Bedchamber, Sir Edward Hoby gave details of all those that would have been caught in the explosion:
On the 5th of November we began a Parliament, to which the King should have cometh in person, but refrained through a practice but that morning discovered. The plot was to have blown up the King at such time as he should have been sat in his royal throne, Nobility and Commons and with all Bishops, Judges and Doctors at one instant, and the blast to have ruined the whole estate and kingdom of England.
Fawkes was taken to the Tower of London and interrogated there under torture. Torture was forbidden, except by the express instruction of the monarch or a body such as the Privy Council or the Star Chamber. In a letter of 6 November, King James I stated:
The discovery of the Gunpowder Plot aroused a wave of national relief at the delivery of the king and his sons, and inspired in the ensuing parliament a mood of loyalty and goodwill, which Salisbury astutely exploited to extract higher subsidies for the king than any (bar one) granted in Elizabeth's reign. In his speech to both Houses on 9 November, James expounded on two emerging preoccupations of his monarchy: the Divine Right of Kings and the Catholic question. He insisted that the plot had been the work of only a few Catholics, not of the English Catholics as a whole, and he reminded the assembly to rejoice at his survival, since kings were divinely appointed and he owed his escape to a miracle.
On hearing of the failure of the plot, the conspirators fled towards Huddington Court near Worcester, a family home of Thomas and Robert Wintour. Heavy rain, however, slowed their travels. Many of them were caught by Richard Walsh, the Sheriff of Worcestershire, when they arrived in Stourbridge.
The remaining men attempted a revolt in the Midlands. This failed, coming to a dramatic end at Holbeche House in Staffordshire, where there was a shoot-out resulting in the deaths of Catesby and Percy and capture of several other principal conspirators. Jesuits and others were then rounded up in other locations in Britain, with some being killed by torture during interrogation. Robert Wintour managed to remain on the run for two months before he was captured at Hagley Park.
The conspirators were tried on 27 January 1606 in Westminster Hall. All of the plotters pleaded "Not Guilty" except for Sir Everard Digby, who attempted to defend himself on the grounds that the King had reneged on his promises of greater tolerance of Catholicism. Sir Edward Coke, the attorney general, prosecuted, and the Earl of Northampton made a speech refuting the charges laid by Sir Everard Digby. The trial lasted one day (English criminal trials generally did not exceed a single day's duration) and the verdict was never in doubt.
The trial ranked highly as a public spectacle, and there are records of up to 10 shillings being paid for entry. Four of the plotters were executed in St. Paul's Churchyard on 30 January. On 31 January, Fawkes, Winter and a number of others implicated in the conspiracy were taken to Old Palace Yard in Westminster, in front of the scene of the intended crime, where they were to be hanged, drawn and quartered.
Fawkes, although weakened by torture, cheated the executioners: when he was to be hanged until almost dead, he jumped from the gallows, breaking his neck and killing himself, thus avoiding the gruesome latter part of his execution.
Henry Garnet was executed on 3 May 1606 at St Paul's. His crime was of being the confessor of several members of the Gunpowder Plot, and as noted, he had opposed the plot. Many spectators thought that his punishment was too severe. Antonia Fraser writes:
Due to the Gunpowder Plot, many Catholics found themselves persecuted or imprisoned in the Tower of London, including the following:
Greater freedom for Catholics to worship as they chose seemed unlikely in 1604, but after the plot in 1605, changing the law to afford Catholics leniency became unthinkable; Catholic Emancipation took another 200 years. Nevertheless, many important and loyal Catholics retained high office in the kingdom during King James' reign.
Interest in the demonic was heightened by the Gunpowder Plot. The king himself had become engaged in the great debate about other-worldly powers in writing his "Daemonology" in 1597, before he became King of England as well as Scotland. The apparent devilish nature of the gunpowder plot also partly inspired William Shakespeare's "Macbeth". Demonic inversions (such as the line "fair is foul and foul is fair") are frequently seen in the play. Another possible reference made in Macbeth was to equivocation, as Henry Garnett’s "A Treatise of Equivocation" was found on one of the plotters, and a resultant fear was that Jesuits could evade the truth through equivocation:
Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
Swear in both the scales against either scale;
Who committed treason enough for God's sake,
Yet could not equivocate to heaven
- Macbeth, Act 2 Scene 3
The Gunpowder Plot was commemorated for years after the plot by special sermons and other public acts, such as the ringing of church bells. It added to an increasingly full calendar of Protestant celebrations which contributed to the national and religious life of seventeenth-century England. Through various permutations, this has evolved into the Bonfire Night of today.
Professor Ronald Hutton has considered the possible events which could have followed the successful implementation of the Gunpowder Plot, with the resultant destruction of Parliament and death of the king. He concluded that the violence of the act would have instead resulted in a more severe backlash against suspected Catholics. Without the involvement of some form of foreign aid, success would have been unlikely, as most Englishmen were loyal to the institution of the monarchy, despite differing religious convictions. England could very well have become a more "Puritan absolute monarchy", as "existed in Sweden, Denmark, Saxony, and Prussia in the seventeenth century", rather than follow the path of parliamentary and civil reform that it did.
When Parliament met in January 1606 for the first time after the plot they passed an Act of Parliament called the "Thanksgiving Act". This made services and sermons commemorating the Plot an annual feature on 5 November. The act remained in force until 1859. On 5 November 1605, it is said that the people of London celebrated the defeat of the plot with fires and street festivities. The tradition of marking the day with the ringing of church bells and bonfires started soon after the Plot and fireworks were also included in some of the earliest celebrations. In Britain the fifth of November is also called Bonfire Night, Fireworks Night or Guy Fawkes Night.
It remains the custom in Britain, on or around 5 November, to let off fireworks. Traditionally, in the weeks running up to the 5th, children made "guys"—effigies supposedly of Fawkes—usually made from old clothes stuffed with newspaper, and with a grotesque mask, to be burnt on the 5 November bonfire. These effigies would be shown in the street, to collect money for fireworks, although this practice is becoming less common. The word "guy" came thus in the 19th century to mean an oddly dressed person, and in the 20th and 21st centuries to mean any male person.
Institutions and towns may hold firework displays and bonfire parties, and the same is done on a smaller scale in back gardens throughout the country. In some areas, particularly in Sussex, there are extensive processions, large bonfires and firework displays organised by local bonfire societies; the most extensive of which takes place in Lewes.
The Houses of Parliament are still searched by the Yeomen of the Guard before the State Opening of Parliament, however, this is done as a traditional custom rather than a serious anti-terrorist precaution. 
A commemorative British two pound coin was issued in 2005 to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the plot.
The cellar in which Fawkes watched over his gunpowder was demolished in 1822. The area was further damaged in the 1834 fire and destroyed in the subsequent rebuilding of the Palace of Westminster. The lantern which Guy Fawkes carried in 1605 is in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. A key supposedly taken from him is in Speaker's House, Palace of Westminster. These two items were shown in a major exhibition held in Westminster Hall from July to November 2005.
According to Esther Forbes (a biographer), the Guy Fawkes Day celebration in the pre-revolutionary American Colonies was a very popular holiday. In Boston, the celebration took on anti-authoritarian overtones, and often became so dangerous that many would not venture out of their homes.
In November 1930, taking advantage of the bonfires used on the holiday, Alfred Arthur Rouse murdered an unknown man and planted his body as a substitute for Rouse's in his Morris Minor (1928) automobile (which was then set alight). The scheme did not work out, and Rouse was arrested, tried and executed for the crime.
Many at the time felt that Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury had been involved in the plot to gain favour with the king and enact more stridently anti-Catholic legislation. Such theories alleged that Cecil had either actually invented the plot or allowed it to continue when his agents had already infiltrated it, for the purposes of propaganda. These rumours were the start of a long-lasting conspiracy theory about the plot. Yet while there was no "golden time" of "toleration" of Catholics which Father Garnet had hoped for at the start of James' reign, the legislative backlash had nothing to do with the plot: it had already happened by 1605, as recusancy fines were re-imposed and some priests expelled. There was no purge of Catholics from power and influence in the kingdom after the Gunpowder Plot, despite Puritan complaints. The reign of James I was, in fact, a time of relative leniency for Catholics, few being subject to prosecution.
This did not dissuade some from continuing to claim Cecil's involvement in the plot. In 1897 Father John Gerard of Stonyhurst College, namesake of a Jesuit priest who had performed Mass to some of the plotters, wrote an account called "What was the Gunpowder Plot?", alleging Cecil's culpability. This prompted a refutation later that year by Samuel Gardiner, who argued that Gerard had gone too far in trying to "wipe away the reproach" which the plot had exacted on generations of English Catholics. Gardiner portrayed Cecil as guilty of nothing more than opportunism. Subsequent attempts to prove Cecil's responsibility, such as Francis Edwards's 1969 work "Guy Fawkes: the real story of the gunpowder plot?", have similarly foundered on the lack of positive proof of any government involvement in setting up the plot. There has been little support by historians for the conspiracy theory since this time, other than to acknowledge that Cecil may have known about the plot some days before it was uncovered.
According to the historian Lady Antonia Fraser, the gunpowder was taken to the Tower of London magazine. It would have been reissued or sold for recycling if in good condition. Ordnance records for the Tower state that 18 hundredweight (equivalent to about 816 kg) of it was "decayed", which could imply that it was rendered harmless due to having separated into its component chemical parts, as happens with gunpowder when left to sit for too long—if Fawkes had ignited the gunpowder during the opening, it would only have resulted in a weak splutter. Alternatively, "decayed" may refer to the powder being damp and sticking together, making it unfit for use in firearms — in which case the explosive capabilities of the barrels would not have been significantly affected.
"", an ITV programme presented by Richard Hammond and broadcast on 1 November 2005, re-enacted the plot by blowing up an exact replica of the 17th-century House of Lords filled with test dummies, using the exact amount of gunpowder in the underground of the building. The dramatic experiment, conducted on the Advantica Spadeadam test site, proved unambiguously that the explosion would have killed all those attending the State Opening of Parliament in the Lords chamber.
The power of the explosion, which surprised even gunpowder experts, was such that seven-foot deep solid concrete walls (made deliberately to replicate how archives suggest the walls in the old House of Lords were constructed) were reduced to rubble. Measuring devices placed in the chamber to calculate the force of the blast were themselves destroyed by the blast, while the skull of the dummy representing King James, which had been placed on a throne inside the chamber surrounded by courtiers, peers and bishops, was found a large distance away from the site. According to the findings of the programme, no-one within 100 metres of the blast could have survived, while all the stained glass windows in Westminster Abbey would have been shattered, as would all windows within a large distance of the Palace. The power of the explosion would have been seen from miles away, and heard from further still. Even if only half the gunpowder had gone off, everyone in the House of Lords and its environs would have been killed instantly.
The programme also disproved claims that some deterioration in the quality of the gunpowder would have prevented the explosion. A portion of deliberately deteriorated gunpowder, at such a low quality as to make it unusable in firearms, when placed in a heap and ignited, still managed to create a large explosion. The impact of even deteriorated gunpowder would have been magnified by the impact of its compression in wooden barrels, with the compression overcoming any deterioration in the quality of the contents. The compression would have created a cannon effect, with the powder first blowing up from the top of the barrel before, a millisecond later, blowing out. In addition, mathematical calculations showed that Fawkes, who was skilled in the use of gunpowder, had used double the amount of gunpowder needed.
A sample of the gunpowder may have survived: in March 2002, workers investigating archives of John Evelyn at the British Library found a box containing various samples of gunpowder and several notes suggesting a relation to the Gunpowder Plot:

</doc>
<doc id="20366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20366" title="John Knox">
John Knox

John Knox (c. 1510 – 24 November 1572) was the man who brought the Protestant Reformation to Scotland. He was one of the founders of the Presbyterian Church. Knox joined the movement to change the Roman Catholic church in Scotland. He married twice and had five children, and continued preaching until he died.
A long-time fight between Catholic France and Protestant England for Scotland began again because of the Reformation. As the argument grew more heated, sometimes France had power, sometimes England. Knox spent many months as a galley slave; he also spent time in exile because of his Protestant beliefs. During a return visit to his native land, Knox's preaching helped the Protestant movement. Several Protestant noblemen came together and made a group called the Lords of the Congregation. When the group had more power, they invited Knox back to Scotland to stay.
During 1500 and 1561, the Scottish Parliament accepted the Reformed confession of faith made by Knox and other people. Knox argued many times with Mary, Queen of Scots. In his book "History of the Reformation in Scotland" he writes about his five "conversations" with the Roman Catholic queen. In one of these conversations, Mary asked Knox what right he had to the queen so directly and openly. Knox replied, "...I am a worm of this earth, and yet a subject...but I am a watchman, both over the realm (land) and the Kirk [Church] of God...For that reason I am bound in conscience (it is my duty) to blow the trumpet publicly (openly)". Mary's violent life finally made even her Catholic helpers lose their support. She gave up the throne. So, Knox was able to make the Protestant church in Scotland. Because of him, the Presbyterian church was made.

</doc>
<doc id="20367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20367" title="Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine">
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine

The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is one of the Nobel Prizes which were created by Alfred Nobel. This award is decided by the Karolinska Institutet, a major medical center in Sweden. The Prize is given every year to a person or persons who have done excellent work in the area of medicine (treating or stopping disease) or physiology (the way the body works).

</doc>
<doc id="20368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20368" title="Nobel Prize in Literature">
Nobel Prize in Literature

The Nobel Prize in Literature is one of many Nobel Prizes given in honor of Alfred Nobel. Every year, a writer is chosen by the Swedish Academy to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature. They choose someone who they think has written something that has great value. 
Writing of any language could possibly win the Nobel Prize. 
List of Nobel Prize laureates (winners) in Literature from 1901 to the present date.

</doc>
<doc id="20374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20374" title="Zuni">
Zuni

The Zuni, also called Zuñi or Ashiwi are a Native American tribe. They live near the Zuni River. This river flows into the Little Colorado River, in western New Mexico, United States.
They are famous for their language, which is not like other Pueblo or Native American languages. It is a language isolate.

</doc>
<doc id="20377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20377" title="Fallacy">
Fallacy

A fallacy is an incorrect argument in logic and rhetoric. It gives a result which is not valid or lacks soundness. Fallacies are either formal fallacies or informal fallacies.
A formal fallacy is an error in logic. This shows in the argument's form. All formal fallacies are types of non sequiturs (the conclusion does not follow from the premises.
Informal fallacies – arguments that are fallacious for reasons other than structural flaws. They usually need examination of the argument's content. This is a list of examples:
Faulty generalizations – reach a conclusion from weak premises. Unlike fallacies of relevance, in fallacies of defective induction, the premises are related to the conclusions yet only weakly buttress the conclusions. A faulty generalization is thus produced.
A red herring fallacy is an error in logic where a proposition is, or is intended to be, misleading in order to make irrelevant or false inferences. In the general case any logical inference based on fake arguments, intended to replace the lack of real arguments or to replace implicitly the subject of the discussion.
Red herring – argument given in response to another argument, which is irrelevant and draws attention away from the subject of argument. "See also irrelevant conclusion."

</doc>
<doc id="20380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20380" title="Myanmar">
Myanmar

Myanmar is a country in South East Asia. Its full name is the Republic of the Union of Myanmar. It is also sometimes called Burma. Myanmar is the largest country in South East Asia that is not an island. It is also part of South Asia.
It is bordered by China on the north, Laos on the east, Thailand on the southeast, Bangladesh on the west, and the India on the northwest, with the Andaman Sea to the south, and the Bay of Bengal to the southwest. There are over of coast line. The country was ruled by a military junta led by General Ne Win from 1962 to 1988, and its political system today stays under the tight control of its military government. Since 1992, Myanmar has been ruled by Senior General Than Shwe. U Razak
In 1989, the military junta officially changed the English version of its name from "Burma" to "Myanmar". It also made a new name in English for places in the country, such as its former capital city, from "Rangoon" to Yangon. The official name of the country in the Burmese language, "Myanma" did not change, however. The renaming was controversial, seen by some as linguistically bad. Accepting the name change in the English-speaking world has been slow, with many people still using the name "Burma" to refer to the country. Major news organizations like the BBC still call it Burma. Some question the military junta's authority to "officially" change the name in English in the first place. Aung San Suu Kyi, however, calls the country Myanmar now.
Myanmar had a strong kingdom in ancient times, but the nation was taken over by the British in the 1800s. It was occupied by the Empire of Japan in the 1940s. Myanmar became independent in 1948 as the Union of Burma, and had a democratic government at first. However, in 1962, a coup d'état brought the military into power, where it has been ever since. The founder of modern Myanmar, Aung San was assassinated months before independence. His daughter Aung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest many times for leading the democracy movement.
In 1991, the military junta agreed to democratic elections, which were won by the National League for Democracy, and should have made Aung San Suu Kyi the Prime Minister. However, the dictatorship ignored the results of the elections and continued ruling. In November 2005, the military government stated that the national capital would be moved from Yangon to a location near Pyinmana, which was renamed Naypyidaw in March 2006.
Since independence in 1948 and the assassination of Aung San Burma has had civil wars between its governments and minority ethnic groups like the Kachin, Karen, Shan and others. These conflicts are known as the Internal conflict in Burma.
Today, there are 14 sections. 7 are called states and the other 7 are called divisions.
The divisions are split into townships. The townships are divided into villages and wards.

</doc>
<doc id="20382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20382" title="1460s">
1460s


</doc>
<doc id="20383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20383" title="1460">
1460


</doc>
<doc id="20384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20384" title="1517">
1517


</doc>
<doc id="20385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20385" title="1554">
1554


</doc>
<doc id="20386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20386" title="1532">
1532


</doc>
<doc id="20387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20387" title="1206">
1206

1206 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="20391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20391" title="Ben Nevis">
Ben Nevis

Ben Nevis is the highest mountain in Great Britain at high. It is in Scotland, near Fort William and it is part of the Three Peaks Challenge and attracts an estimated 100,000 climbers per year,
The name comes from the Gaelic, Beinn Nibheis, meaning poisonous or terrible.
The summit of Ben Nevis is a large stony plateau of about . The highest point is marked with a large stone mound which sits an Ordnance Survey trig point.
The ruined walls of an observatory are also on the summit. An emergency shelter has been built on top of the observatory tower for people caught out by bad weather, and, although the base of the tower is slightly lower than the true summit of the mountain, the roof of the shelter is higher than the trig point by several feet, making it the highest man-made structure in the UK. A war memorial to the dead of World War II is located next to the observatory.
On 17 May 2006, a piano that had been buried under one of the cairns on the peak was uncovered by the John Muir Trust, which owns much of the mountain. The piano is believed to have been carried up for charity by removal men from Dundee over 20 years earlier.
The view from the UK's highest point can reach to over , and mountains such as the Torridon Hills, Morven in Caithness, Lochnagar, Ben Lomond, Barra Head and Knocklayd in County Antrim, Northern Ireland can be seen.

</doc>
<doc id="20392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20392" title="Snowdon">
Snowdon

Snowdon is the highest mountain in Wales. Its top is known as "Yr Wyddfa" (Old Welsh meaning "the grave"). The English name Snowdon comes from Saxon "Snow Dun", meaning "snow hill".
It is in Snowdonia National Park. As the highest mountain in Wales, Snowdon is one of three mountains climbed as part of the Three Peaks Challenge.

</doc>
<doc id="20398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20398" title="Manaus">
Manaus

Manaus is the principal city of the North Region of Brazil. It is the capital of Amazonas. Manaus had a great age when latex was discovered in the Amazon region. Manaus developed economically and culturally. After that great age, latex started to be produced in other countries, particularly Malaysia and Indonesia, where due the similar climate the plants start to grow even faster than in Brasil.
Manaus is considerated as the entrance door to the biggest ecological reservation in the planet: The Amazon rainforest. Its name come from a tribe called Manaós that lived in this area and means "Mother of God". The colonization started on 1669, with a small fort, and around it grew a settlement. In 1833 it became a village, with the name of Manaus. On October 24th of 1848 it receive the name of city and became the Capital of the state.
Manaus is the site of the "encontro of the waters" where two big rivers Rio Negro (black river) and Solimoes River come together and for more than 10 km "walk together but not mixed" because of their differing density, and then become the Amazon.
The American Charles Goodyear developed a procedure to process the juice of the rubber tree into rubber. The city revelled in money, and the India rubber barons afforded the biggest luxury from Europe, a copy the Grand Opera de Paris - the TEATRO AMAZONAS . Other monuments from this epoch how the MERCADO MUNICIPAL, a copy of the famous market halls Les Halles in Paris, the arts centre RIO PALACIO NEGRO between fascinating Portuguese facades, reflect this time still again.
Today Manaus is a foreign trade zone. Foreign enterprises pay here no import duties what guarantees a certain income for the city and the region. Electronics, wood industry and oil refineries have settled in the outskirts in industrial areas. The harbour is the most important trading centre for the care of the city with regional, national and international products.
About 1.5 million people live in Manaus.
It was nominated as one of the places for the Soccer World Cup 2014. the city is growing rapidly and start to prepare for the event that will bring a lot of people.
The Opera house is the major cultural heritage of the Amazonas. It was inaugurated in 1896 during the rubber boom. In spite of the predominance of neoclassic elements, other styles were used, so the architecture is eclectic, with materials brought from Europe as well as artists like Domenico de Angelis, Giovanni Capranesi and Crispim do Amaral. Preserved as a national heritage since 1965, today, with more than 100 years, it has room for 681 people including balconies and three floors of boxes. After the restauration made by the state government in 1990, the theater rescued its splendor, with performances of famous operas, national and international musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="20400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20400" title="Amazonas">
Amazonas

Amazonas is the name of four places in South American nations:

</doc>
<doc id="20403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20403" title="1740s">
1740s


</doc>
<doc id="20404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20404" title="Tocantins (state)">
Tocantins (state)

Tocantins is a state in central Brazil. The state was made in 1988 out of the northern part of Goiás, and construction began on the capital, Palmas, in 1989. Palmas is much newer than most cities in the area.
The state is the border between the Amazon Rainforest and Brazil's grassy flatlands. The state is very important for raising and selling cows and other farm animals. 

</doc>
<doc id="20406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20406" title="Amazon rainforest">
Amazon rainforest

The Amazon rainforest is the largest forest that grows in the tropical basin of the Amazon River.
The forest lies in a basin drained largely by the Amazon River, with 1100 tributaries. It is a moist broadleaf forest that covers seven million square kilometers (1.7 billion acres), of which five and a half million square kilometers (1.4 billion acres) are covered by the rainforest.
This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, and Colombia with 10%. Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana have just a small amount of rainforest.
The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and it is the largest and most species-rich tract of tropical rainforest in the world. The forest was formed at least 55 million years ago, in the Eocene period.
Wet tropical forests are the most species-rich biome, and tropical forests in the Americas have more species than African and Asian wet forests.
More than one-third of all species in the world live in the Amazon rainforest. It is the richest tropical forest in the world in terms of biodiversity.
The region is home to ~2.5 million insect species, tens of thousands of species of plants, and some 2000 species of birds and mammals and a similar number of fish. The diversity of plant species is the highest on earth with some experts estimating that one square kilometre may contain over 75,000 types of trees and 150,000 species of higher plants. One square kilometre of Amazon rainforest can have about 90,000 tons of living plants. This is the largest collection of living plants and animal species in the world. One in five of all the birds in the world live Here. To date, an estimated 438,000 species of plants of economic and social interest have been registered in the region with many more remaining to be discovered or cataloged. Brazil has tight laws against telling about these species, but enforcing these laws is a problem.
More than one fifth of the Amazon rainforest has already been destroyed. The forest which remains is threatened. People who care for the environment warn about the loss of biodiversity. They also point out that releasing the carbon which is stored in the trees will increase global warming.
Environmentalists are concerned about loss of biodiversity due to the destruction of the forest, and about the release of the carbon in the vegetation, which would accelerate global warming. Amazonian evergreen forests account for about 10% of the world's productivity on land and 10% of the carbon stores in ecosystems—of the order of 1.1 × 10 metric tonnes of carbon. Amazonian forests are estimated to have accumulated 0.62 ± 0.37 tons of carbon per hectare per year between 1975 and 1996.
Some people have calculated that it may even pay to save the forest. They said that one hectare of Amazonian forest in Peru is worth about US $6280, if it is used to harvest fruits, latex and timber (wood). If all the wood is cut down for timber, it has a value of about US $1000. Obviously, this can only be done once; it is not sustainable. When the forest has been cleared, the hectar of land can be used as a pasture, and is worth about US $148.
Not all people agree on the study; some have questioned the assumptions behind it.
The Brazilian Air Force has been using surveillance aircraft to monitor the forest. At a conference in 2004, scientists warned that the rainforest will no longer be able to absorb the millions of tons of greenhouse gases annually, as it usually does, because of the increased speed of rainforest destruction.
9,169 square miles of rain forest were cut down in 2003 alone. In Brazil alone, European colonists have destroyed more than 90 indigenous tribes since the 1900s. With them have gone centuries of knowledge of the medicinal value of rainforest species. As their homelands continue to be destroyed by deforestation, rainforest peoples are also disappearing.
Once the process of vulcanization was invented, companies began to make many kinds of new rubber products, such as boots and seals for machines. American and European companies began buying large amounts of latex from Brazil. This boom in Brazilian rubber began around 1870, but the need for automobile tires brought the greatest wealth to the new rubber producers.
Other rain forest had rubber trees, but Amazonia had by far the best. However, the trees could not be farmed on plantations because if they were next to each other, the insects would eat them. Therefore, people had to find the trees in the rain forest, cut slits in them, leave cups to collect the latex, and come back later to get it.
Thousands of people moved to the rain forest to work collecting rubber. Most of these people were hired by rich rubber merchants. The rubber merchants loaned them money to come down the river and buy tools. Each merchant’s collectors had to sell the rubber only to their rubber merchant at low prices and buy supplies only from them at high prices. That meant the collectors were always in debt to their merchant and could not leave to do something else. The rubber merchants quickly became very rich.
The center of the rubber trade was Manaus on the Rio Negro. It became first a boom town and then a beautiful, wealthy city. It had electricity before most of the cities in the United States did. The newly rich merchants built huge expensive homes and brought in automobiles to travel on the city’s few roads. They built a magnificent opera house with crystal chandeliers and decorated tiles brought all the way from Europe.
However, the rubber boom only lasted about forty years, ending by 1913. Some men had taken the seeds of the Amazon rubber trees and began growing them in the Asian rain forests. The trees grew well there, and they could be grown on plantations. The insects that could destroy them were in South America. So the price of rubber began to fall, and the rubber boom stopped.

</doc>
<doc id="20407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20407" title="Gosport">
Gosport

Gosport is a town in Hampshire, England. The population of Gosport is around 78,000 

</doc>
<doc id="20408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20408" title="Indonesian language">
Indonesian language

Indonesian language (Indonesian/Malay: "Bahasa Indonesia") is the official and national language of Indonesia. Indonesian is a standardized form of the Malay language, and it's spoken in Indonesia. And has considerable differences between the standard Malay spoken in Malaysia and the Malays living in Thailand and Singapore. 
It is spoken as a second language or first by most natives living in the country, because they use a regional one (such as Javanese). However, Indonesia's education, media and communication all use Bahasa Indonesia.
The language's official name is "Bahasa Indonesia" (language of Indonesia), which is also used in English. It also referred to as "Indonesian".

</doc>
<doc id="20410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20410" title="All in the Family">
All in the Family

All in the Family was a popular television show in the 1970s. It was about a family who lived in Queens, New York City. It dealt with many controversial issues during its run (like abortion and racism). It was based on the British sitcom Till Death Us Do Part.

</doc>
<doc id="20411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20411" title="Saint (disambiguation)">
Saint (disambiguation)

Saint can mean different things:
Different religions & groups use the term "saint" differently. The word comes form Latin "Sanctus", which means holy. In general, saints are believed to be good examples of how people should live, or what people should do. Saints are synonymous, or are associated, with holiness. In the Roman Catholic Church, to become a saint, you have to go through a process called canonization, which is performed by the Pope.

</doc>
<doc id="20412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20412" title="Saint Lucia">
Saint Lucia

Saint Lucia is a tropical island country in the eastern Caribbean Sea. It is a part of the Lesser Antilles, and it is north of the islands of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and south of Martinique. As of 2010 there are about 174,000 people.
The official language is English. Saint Lucian Creole French (Kwéyòl), which is a French-based Creole is spoken by 95% of the people. About 70% of the people are Roman Catholic. 
Two Nobel laureates, Arthur Lewis, an economist, and Derek Walcott, a poet and playwright, have come from the island.
Saint Lucia is a full and participating member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) and La Francophonie.
Saint Lucia has 11 quarters, or parishes of the island.
The cities in Saint Lucia are:
The volcanic island of Saint Lucia is more mountainous than many other Caribbean islands. The highest point is Mount Gimie, at above sea level. Two other mountains, the Pitons, form the island's most famous landmark. They are between Soufrière and Choiseul on the western side of the island. Saint Lucia is also one of the few islands in the world that has a drive-in volcano. It is also famous for clear seas and sandy beaches.
The capital city of Saint Lucia is Castries. Over one third of all the people live in the capital. Major towns include Gros Islet, Soufrière and Vieux Fort. 
The local climate is tropical. They have northeast trade winds. There is a dry season from December 1 to May 31, and a wet season from June 1 to November 30.
The Windward Islands cricket team includes players from Saint Lucia. They play in the West Indies regional tournament. Darren Sammy is the first Saint Lucian to represent the West Indies. He is the current captain.
Tourism is important to Saint Lucia's economy. There are more tourists during the dry season (January to April). Saint Lucia tends to be popular due to its tropical weather and scenery and its many beaches and resorts.
Other tourist attractions include a drive-in volcano, Sulphur Springs, the Botanical Gardens, the Majestic twin Peaks "The Pitons", a world heritage site, the rain forests, and Pigeon Island National Park.
Most tourists visit Saint Lucia as part of a cruise. Most of their time tends to be spent in Castries, although Soufriere, Marigot Bay and Gros Islet are popular locations to visit.

</doc>
<doc id="20413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20413" title="Yuri Gagarin">
Yuri Gagarin

Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin (; March 9, 1934 – March 27, 1968) was a Russian cosmonaut (astronaut). He became the first human in space on April 12, 1961, in a rocket launched by the Soviet Union.
Yuri Gagarin was born in the village of Klushino near Gzhatsk (now in Smolensk Oblast, Russia), on 9 March 1934. The town next to Gzhatsk was renamed Gagarin in 1968 in his honour. His parents, Alexey Ivanovich Gagarin and Anna Timofeyevna Gagarina, worked on a collective farm. While manual workers are thought as "peasants," this may be too-simple if applied to his parents — his mother was said to love reading, and his father was a skilled carpenter. Yuri was the third of four children, and his elder sister helped raise him while his parents worked. Like millions of people in the Soviet Union, the Gagarin family suffered during the Nazi invasion in World War II. His two elder siblings were sent out to Nazi Germany for slave work in 1943, and did not return until after the war. While a youth, Yuri became interested in space and planets, and began to dream about his space tour which would one day become a reality. Yuri was thought by his teachers, as smart and hard-working, sometimes . His mathematics and science teacher had flown in the Soviet Air Forces during the war, which was said to make some impression on young Gagarin.
After starting an apprenticeship in a metalworks as a foundryman, Gagarin was selected for further training at a technical high school in Saratov. While there, he joined the flight club, and learned to fly a light aircraft. In 1955, after finishing his technical schooling, he entered military flight training at the Orenburg Pilot's School. While there he met Valentina Goryacheva. Yuri married her in 1957, after gaining his pilot's wings in a MiG-15. Post-graduation, he was told to go to Luostari airbase in Murmansk Oblast, close to the Norwegian border, where bad weather made flying risky. As a full-grown man, Gagarin was tall, which was an advantage in the small Vostok cockpit. He became a lieutenant of the Soviet Air Force on November 5, 1957 and on November 6, 1959 he got the rank of senior lieutenant.
Gagarin kept physically fit throughout his life, and was a good sportsman. As the space explorer Valery Bykovsky wrote:
As well as being a good ice hockey player, Gagarin was also a basketball fan, and coached the Saratov Industrial Technical School team, as well as being an umpire/referee.
In 1960, after the search and selection process, Yuri Gagarin was selected with 19 other space explorers for the "Soviet space program". Along with the other soon to be space explorers, he was tested by experiments made to test his physical and psychological score; he also underwent training for the upcoming flight. Out of the twenty originally selected, the final choice for the first launch was between Gagarin and Gherman Titov because of their performance in training, as well as their physical fitness.
On 12 April 1961, Gagarin became the first man to travel into space, launching to orbit aboard the "Vostok 3KA-3" (Vostok 1). His call sign in this flight was Kedr (Cedar; ). During his flight, Gagarin famously whistled the song ""The Motherland Hears, The Motherland Knows"" (). The first two lines of the song are: ""The Motherland hears, the Motherland knows/Where her son flies in the sky"". This song was written by Dmitri Shostakovich in 1951 (opus 86), with words by Yevgeniy Dolmatovsky.
Around the same time, some Western people claimed that Gagarin, during his space flight, had made the comment, ""I don't see any God up here"." However, no such words appear in the direct record of Gagarin's talk with the Earth during the spaceflight. In a 2006 interview a close friend of Gagarin, Colonel Valentin Petrov, said that Gagarin never said such words, and that the phrase came from Nikita Khrushchev's speech at the fullness of the Central Committee of the CPSU, where the anti-religious propaganda was talked about. In a certain context Khrushchev said, ""Gagarin flew into space, but didn't see any God there"."
After the flight, Gagarin became a world famous celebrity. He toured in many places like in Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, and Japan. He did this to promote the Soviet Union achievements.
In 1962, he began serving as a deputy to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. He later came back to Star City. While there, he worked on designs for a spacecraft. Gagarin worked on these designs in Star City for seven years. He became Lieutenant Colonel (or Podpolkovnik) of the Soviet Air Force on 12 June 1962. Then on 6 November 1963 he got the rank of Colonel (Polkovnik) of the Soviet Air Force. Soviet people tried to keep him away from any flights, being worried of losing their hero in an accident. Gagarin was backup pilot for Vladimir Komarov in the Soyuz 1 flight. As Komarov's flight ended in a deadly crash, Gagarin was banned from training for and helping out in further spaceflight/s.
Gagarin then became deputy training director of the Star City cosmonaut training base. At the same time, he began to re-join as a fighter pilot. On 27 March 1968, while on a training flight from Chkalovsky Air Base, he and flight instructor Vladimir Seryogin died in a MiG-15UTI crash near the town of Kirzhach. Gagarin and Seryogin were buried in the walls of the Kremlin on Red Square.
People are not sure what caused the crash, but a 1986 inquest thinks that the turbulence from a Su-11 'Fishpot-C' using its afterburners may have caused Gagarin's plane to go out of control.
Russian documents opened to the public in March 2003 showed that the KGB had changed their own investigation of the accident. In addition to this, one government and two military investigations. The KGB's report removed many conspiracy thoughts, instead of showing the actions of air base personnel added to the crash. The report says that an air traffic controller made Gagarin have old weather information. But by that time of his flight, conditions had become very bad. Ground crew also left fuel tanks on the aircraft. Gagarin's planned flight needed good weather and no outboard tanks. The investigation ended, saying that Gagarin's aircraft entered a spin, either because of a bird strike or because of a sudden move to avoid another aircraft. Because of the old weather report, the crew thought their altitude to be higher than it actually was, and could not properly react to bring the MiG-15 out of its spin.
In his 2004 book "Two Sides of the Moon", Alexey Leonov tells that he was flying a helicopter in the same area that day when he heard "two loud booms in the distance." His thought was that the Sukhoi jet was flying below its minimum allowed altitude, and ""without realizing it because of the terrible weather conditions, he passed within 10 or 20 meters of Yuri and Seregin's plane while breaking the sound barrier."" The resulting turbulence would have sent the MiG into an uncontrolled spin. Leonov thinks the first boom he heard was that of the jet breaking the sound barrier, and the second was Gagarin's plane crashing.

</doc>
<doc id="20414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20414" title="Yangtze River">
Yangtze River

The Yangtze River, or Yangzi (Simple Chinese: 扬子江 / Traditional Chinese: 揚子江), or Chang Jiang (Simple Chinese: 长江 / Traditional Chinese: 長江), is the longest River in China and Asia, as well as the world's third longest river (after the Amazon and the Nile). It is honored as one of the two main cradles of Chinese civilization. (another is Yellow River)
The river is about 6,300 kilometers (almost 4,000 miles) long and goes from the western part of China (Qinghai Province) into the East China Sea, which is part of the Pacific Ocean. It has been thought of as a dividing point between northern and southern China. It helped start the Chinese civilization.
On the river is a big dam called the Three Gorges Dam, which is one of the biggest in the world. It forms a man-made lake that stretches almost upstream. 
Top tourist attractions for the Yangtze river cruise are Chongqing Dazu Carvings, Three Gorges, lesser Three Gorges, Bai Di City, Fengdu Ghost City and so on. 
The Yangtze River is also known as the Yangzi or Chang Jiange. 

</doc>
<doc id="20415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20415" title="Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia">
Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia

"Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia" is the national anthem of Saint Lucia. The song has been used since the country became independent in 1979. 
<poem>
Sons and daughters of Saint Lucia, 
love the land that gave us birth,
land of beaches, hills and valleys, 
fairest isle of all the earth. 
Wheresoever you may roam, 
love, oh, love your island home. 
Gone the times when nations battled 
for this 'Helen of the West, 
gone the days when strife and discord. 
Dimmed her children's toil and rest. 
Dawns at last a brighter day, 
stretches out a glad new way. 
May the good Lord bless our island, 
guard her sons from woe and harm! 
May our people live united, 
strong in soul and strong in arm! 
Justice, Truth and Charity, 
our ideal for ever be!
</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="20418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20418" title="1590s">
1590s

1590

</doc>
<doc id="20419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20419" title="794">
794


</doc>
<doc id="20420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20420" title="537">
537


</doc>
<doc id="20425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20425" title="Tampico">
Tampico

Tampico is the main city in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico.
It was the site of an incident called the Tampico Affair during the Mexican Revolution in the early 20th century that led to armed conflict between Mexico and the United States. About 80 years earlier Tampico was part of a less serious conflict between the two countries, called the Tampico Expedition.

</doc>
<doc id="20427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20427" title="Goalkeeper">
Goalkeeper

A goalkeeper is someone who protects a team's goal. There are goalkeepers in sports like football (soccer) and ice hockey, for example. The goalkeeper's mission is to prevent the opposing team from scoring a goal. Goalkeepers normally wear more protective gear than other players on the team but this is not always true.
A goalkeeper's kit (or "uniform") consists of shin guards and gloves to protect his hands from the impact of the ball when he catches it.
Historically, however, until the 1960s goalkeepers would wear no hand protection. 
Until the early 20th century, the goalkeeper would often wear the same coloured strip as his teammates, with the only different item of clothing being his cap. However, in 1909, the Scottish Football Association took steps to ensure the goalkeeper would wear a different colour from the outfield players. This was to show his different role, as the only player allowed to handle the ball.
The goalkeeper in ice hockey (a "Goalie") uses thicker padding than the other players on the team. This is to prevent damage caused by being hit by the puck. The hockey stick of the goalie is much wider than the stick of other players. The bottom edge is also longer and flatter. The goalie has a very large leather glove on one hand. This glove has a large area to help catch the puck. Goalies normally wear masks that give protection to the entire face and head as well as the neck.
In field hockey, the goalkeeper stands in the goal net, and stops the other team scoring. Goalkeepers need a lot of kit to protect them from the hockey balls that are hit at them. here is a list:
Goalkeepers are the only position in hockey allowed to kick the ball. If another player kicked the ball it would be a foul.

</doc>
<doc id="20434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20434" title="1580s">
1580s


</doc>
<doc id="20435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20435" title="1583">
1583

1583 (MDLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Tuesday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20436" title="1810">
1810


</doc>
<doc id="20437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20437" title="1730s">
1730s


</doc>
<doc id="20438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20438" title="1730">
1730


</doc>
<doc id="20439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20439" title="1754">
1754


</doc>
<doc id="20440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20440" title="1600s">
1600s


</doc>
<doc id="20441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20441" title="1609">
1609


</doc>
<doc id="20442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20442" title="1601">
1601


</doc>
<doc id="20443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20443" title="705">
705


</doc>
<doc id="20444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20444" title="314">
314


</doc>
<doc id="20445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20445" title="1500">
1500


</doc>
<doc id="20446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20446" title="1780">
1780


</doc>
<doc id="20447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20447" title="1245">
1245


</doc>
<doc id="20448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20448" title="Mel Brooks">
Mel Brooks

Mel Brooks (born June 28, 1926) is a Jewish American actor, comedian, writer, movie director, and producer. When he was born in Brooklyn, his name was Melvin Kaminsky.
He has directed, produced and written several movies. Most of these are comedies that make references to other movies. 
Brooks is one of the few artists who have received an Oscar, Emmy, Tony, and Grammy. He was awarded his first Grammy for Best Spoken Comedy Album in 1999 for his recording of "The 2000 Year Old Man in the Year 2000" with Carl Reiner. His two other Grammys came in 2002 for Best Musical Show Album for the soundtrack of "The Producers" and for Best Long Form Music Video for the DVD "Recording the Producers - A Musical Romp with Mel Brooks". He won his first of four Emmy awards in 1967 for Outstanding Writing Achievement in Variety for a Sid Caesar special. He went on to win three Emmys in 1997, 1998, and 1999 for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series for his role of Uncle Phil on "Mad About You". He won his three Tony awards in 2001 for his work on the musical, "The Producers" for Best Musical, Best Original Musical Score, and Best Book of a Musical. He also won a Hugo Award and a Nebula Award for "Young Frankenstein". Three of Brooks's movies are on the American movie Institute's list of funniest American films: "Blazing Saddles" (#6), "The Producers" (#11), and "Young Frankenstein" (#13).
Brooks worked with some people many times. Performers who worked on three or more of Brooks' movies are: Gene Wilder, Dom DeLuise, Madeline Kahn, Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman, Ron Carey, Dick Van Patten and Andréas Voutsinas. 
On December 5, 2009 Brooks was one of five recipients of the 2009 Kennedy Center Honors at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C.
On April 23, 2010 Brooks was awarded the 2,406th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Brooks was married to Florence Baum from 1953 to 1962. Their marriage ended in divorce. Mel and Florence had three children, Stephanie, Nicky, and Eddie.
Brooks was married to the actress Anne Bancroft from 1964 until her death from uterine cancer on June 6, 2005. They met at a rehearsal for the Perry Como Variety Show in 1961 and married three years later. Their son, Max Brooks, was born in 1972. In 2010, Brooks said Bancroft was the main force behind his involvement in making "The Producers" and "Young Frankenstein" for the musical theater.

</doc>
<doc id="20452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20452" title="Hawaii Volcanoes National Park">
Hawaii Volcanoes National Park

Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is a national park in the U.S. state and island of Hawaii. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The park was created in 1916. In it are Mauna Loa, the Earth's biggest volcano, and Kilauea, the Earth's most active volcano.
The park shows the results of millions of years of volcanism, and evolution. These processes thrust a bare land from the sea, and clothed it with complex and unique ecosystems, and a distinct Ancient Hawaiian culture. Kīlauea, one of the world's most active volcanoes, and Mauna Loa, the most massive, offer scientists insights on the birth of the Hawaiian Islands, and give visitors views of dramatic volcanic landscapes.
In recognition of its outstanding natural values, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park has been designated as an International Biosphere Reserve in 1980 and a World Heritage Site in 1987.
On March 19, 2008, there was a small explosion in Halemaumau crater, the first explosive event since 1924 and the first eruption in the Kīlauea caldera since September 1982. 
Debris from the explosion was scattered over an area of . A small amount of ash was also reported at a nearby community. The explosion covered part of Crater Rim Drive and damaged Halemaumau overlook. The explosion did not release any lava, which suggests to scientists that it was driven by hydrothermal or gas sources.
This explosion event followed the opening of a major sulfur dioxide gas vent, greatly increasing levels emitted from the Halemaumau crater.

</doc>
<doc id="20459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20459" title="Pertussis">
Pertussis

Pertussis, also known as whooping cough, is a disease that affects about 300,000 people in the US every year, out of 30–50 million cases per year. There is a vaccine that can prevent it, so most cases of it are in places where people cannot afford, or cannot get, the vaccine. However, this vaccine does not work forever. The disease lasts about 6 weeks, and symptoms include vomiting, violent coughing, and other flu-like symptoms. It is called whooping cough for the sound an infected person makes when they cough.
The disease usually infects younger people, as they are more prone to diseases.

</doc>
<doc id="20464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20464" title="Deity">
Deity

A deity is thought to be a powerful spirit that controls events and the nature of things. Deities are also called gods. A female god is often called a goddess. The adjective of deity is "divine". This word comes from the Latin "deus" (female: "dea").
Different religions believe in different deities. Since there are many religions in the world there are many different ideas about how many deities there are, what they are, and what they can do. Followers of many ancient religions and some modern religions believe in many deities, which is called polytheism. The two largest religions on earth, Christianity and Islam, believe in only one God, which is called monotheism. Deism is the belief that a deity exists, but that the deity does not very often change or never changes things in the universe. Pantheism is the belief that the universe is the deity, while atheism is the belief that there are no deities.
In most religions, believers think deities are immortal (cannot die), and have powers far beyond human powers.
Some of the deities of different religions are:

</doc>
<doc id="20468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20468" title="Odin">
Odin

In Norse mythology, Odin was the king of the Æsir. He is a god of war and death, as well as a sky god and the god of wisdom and poetry. Along with being a god, he is the All-Father of all the Nordic Gods. He is also heavily associated with magic. Odin rides on an eight-legged horse called Sleipnir, and his famous spear is called Gungnir. He also has a precious arm ring called Draupnir, and two ravens called Hugin and Munin who tell him all the things happening around the world. Odin only has one eye, because he sacrificed one to drink from the fountain of wisdom.
Half of the souls of heroes slain in battles will be guided by the Valkyries, battle maidens, to Odin's hall, Valhalla. The other half belongs to the goddess Freyja.
His wives are Frigg and Jord, the Earth. His eldest son is Thor, god of thunder.
Odin would be swallowed by Loki's son, the wolf Fenrir at Ragnarok.
In German, Odin is named Wotan. In older English, Odin is named Woden. It is from that name the weekday Wednesday in English comes from "Wodens day".
In old Norse he is named Oden and the weekday Wednesday is today, in Scandinavia, "Onsdag", from "Odens day".
Odin sacrificed his eye for wisdom. He threw his eye into a well of wisdom. He also impaled himself to a tree for many days, driving a spear through himself, and discovered runes. He got his wish, wisdom.
Odin was one of the foremost practitioners, along with Freya, of magic known as seidr. In traditional Germanic society a man engaging in seidr was an extremely emasculating act. But such was Odin's thirst for knowledge he was prepared to sacrifice his honor and was subject to ridicule thereafter.

</doc>
<doc id="20470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20470" title="Qazi Muhammad">
Qazi Muhammad

Qazi Muhammad (1893-1947) was the Nationalist and Religious Kurdish leader and the Head of Republic of Mahabad (Republic of Kurdistan), the second modern Kurdish state in the Middle East (after Republic of Ararat). He acted as the president of the Russian backed Republic of Mahabad, in Kurdistan of Iran (Eastern Kurdistan) in 1946. He was also the founder of the Kurdish Democratic Party of Iran. A year later, the Kurdish national movement (Komeley Jiyanewey Kurd) that he helped organize was crushed by Iran's central government. The Iranian military court sentenced him to death, and he was hanged in Chuwarchira Square in the center of city of Mahabad at March 30 1947. Mustafa Barzani, the father of nationalist Kurdish movement in Iraqi Kurdistan (Southern Kurdistan), was the defence minister in his cabinet. One of his sons Ali Qazi is today an active member in the kurdish movement.

</doc>
<doc id="20474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20474" title="Brine">
Brine

Brine is water that has more than 5% salt in it. It is used for preserving food. For this it is much like vinegar or sugar. Brine is also used to transport heat. Adding salt to water lowers the freezing point of the water. At 15.5 ° Celsius, a saturated solution of brine can hold 26.4 % salt by weight. At 0°, it can hold 23.3% salt.
Brines also have some pharmaceutical properties, which can be used to treat people, especially those with diseases of the skin, allergies and common colds.

</doc>
<doc id="20476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20476" title="1450s">
1450s


</doc>
<doc id="20477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20477" title="1855">
1855


</doc>
<doc id="20480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20480" title="Aladdin">
Aladdin

Aladdin is a fictional person from the story "Aladdin and the Enchanted Lamp", which is part of the "Book of One Thousand and One Nights". 
The young man Aladdin is told by a sorcerer (magician), who is pretending to be his uncle, to get him an oil lamp from a cave. Aladdin gets the lamp, but the sorcerer tries to trick him. So, Aladdin keeps the lamp for himself. Aladdin learns that inside the lamp there is a djinn. The djinn can fulfill every wish of the lamp's owner. With the djinn's help, Aladdin becomes rich and powerful and marries a princess. 
The sorcerer returns and tricks Aladdin's wife into giving him the magic lamp. Aladdin finds out that in a ring he has, there is another djinn. This djinn helps Aladdin defeat the sorcerer, get back the magic lamp, and save his wife.
There have been different versions of the story:

</doc>
<doc id="20482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20482" title="Nirvana">
Nirvana

In Buddhism, Nirvana is the state of perfect peace reached by not wanting more than you have. It means happiness and peace. It is every Buddhist's goal to achieve Nirvana. The Buddha described it as:
“the far shore, the subtle, the very difficult to see, the unaging, the stable, the undisintegrating, the unmanifest, the unproliferated, the peaceful, the deathless, the sublime, the auspicious, the secure, the destruction of craving, the wonderful, the amazing, the unailing, the unailing state, the unafflicted, dispassion, purity, freedom, the unadhesive, the island, the shelter, the asylum, the refuge...” (SN 43:14)

</doc>
<doc id="20483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20483" title="Lahti">
Lahti

Lahti is a city in Päijänne Tavastia, Finland. Literally it means "bay". It is part of the province of Southern Finland. As of April 2014, there were about 103,450 people living in Lahti. Lahti was the eighth biggest city in Finland as of 31 August 2012.
The concert house Sibelius Hall () in Lahti is named after Jean Sibelius. Many stars, including Antti Tuisku, have performed there.
Lahti's transport was big already at 14th century. Lahti was first a village that belonged to Hollola. It was been burned in 1877. Lahti has been a city since 1905. The population then was 2,779.

</doc>
<doc id="20484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20484" title="British Virgin Islands">
British Virgin Islands

The British Virgin Islands are part of the Virgin Islands, which are chain of islands in the Caribbean. The British Virgin Islands are the Eastern half of the island chain, and they are a British Overseas Territory. The British Virgin Islands has sixteen inhabited and more than twenty uninhabited islands. Over 22,000 people live there, which is many fewer than the neighbouring United States Virgin Islands.
The capital city, Road Town, is on Tortola, one of the islands in the group. Most of the people live on Tortola, but the other main inhabited islands are Anegada, Virgin Gorda and Jost Van Dyke.
The islands were originally inhabited by Caribbean Indians called Arawaks. But by the time the first European explorers discovered the British Virgin Islands all of the Arawaks had left. The first Europeans to try and settle in the British Virgin Islands were the Dutch, but the English came soon after and the English and the Dutch settlers used to fight. The Spanish also claimed the islands, but no Spanish people ever tried to settle there. But the Spanish did attack the British and Dutch settlers.
In 1672 the British took control of the islands during a war against the Dutch and they have held on to them ever since.
During the early years after European settlement the British Virgin Islands was a plantation economy which relied heavily upon slave labour. After slavery was abolished in the British Virgin Islands there was a long period of decline and many people left. Those who remained were mostly descended from African slaves, although many of them also left to try and find better lives elsewhere.
In the 1950s the British Virgin Islands got its own government, and the economy of the islands began to get better with the introduction of tourism and financial services.
The British Virgin Islands are mostly indepependent, but some parts of the Government is run by the United Kingdom.
A new constitution was introduced in 2007. It grants more control over everyday life to the Islanders, and lists the protection a person can expect from the government. The head of Government in the British Virgin Islands is called the Premier, and he is in charge of a group of ministers of Government which is called the Cabinet. Laws are passed by a group of elected politicians in the House of Assembly. Most of the international relations are still dealt with by the British Government in London on behalf of the people of the British Virgin Islands.
Most people in the British Virgin Islands work in the tourist trade or in financial services. There are also a small number of farmers and fishermen.

</doc>
<doc id="20487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20487" title="Lamp">
Lamp

A lamp is a device that makes light and heat. Lamps usually work with electricity, using a lightbulb. In the United States, a lamp is usually considered a desk lamp or floor lamp. Other sources of light are called 'lights', such as streetlights, flashlights, and headlights, which in some countries are called streetlamps, torches and headlamps.
Before electric lamps were invented, gas lamps, oil lamps or candles were used.

</doc>
<doc id="20489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20489" title="Pinocchio">
Pinocchio

Pinocchio is a fictional character from the 1883 book "The Adventures of Pinocchio" by Carlo Collodi.
Pinocchio is a puppet, made by wood carver, Gepetto. When he tells lies, his nose gets longer. Pinocchio learns about being a real life boy and wants to be a real human being instead of a puppet made of wood and strings.
The most well-known version of the story is the 1940 animated Disney movie "Pinocchio".

</doc>
<doc id="20491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20491" title="Diplomacy">
Diplomacy

Diplomacy is the use of tact to gain strategic advantage or to find mutually acceptable solutions to a common challenge. It may include the phrasing of statements in a non-confrontational, or polite manner. Diplomacy often involves countries making an agreement with each other, such as a treaty. Diplomacy is the talk between the representatives of states, such as their heads of state. Sometimes, these talks are about trade or business, and sometimes they are about war and peace. Diplomacy happens a lot when two or more countries fight. 
Diplomats are people that are sent from their home country, to meet with and talk to diplomats from foreign countries. An important type of diplomat is called an ambassador. An ambassador lives in a foreign country, so that they are available for meetings with the government of that country.

</doc>
<doc id="20492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20492" title="Acellular">
Acellular

Acellular or non-cellular life is life that exists without a cellular structure. Some scientists say that a virus is a type of life form.

</doc>
<doc id="20495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20495" title="Mexico (state)">
Mexico (state)

The state of México is one of the administrative divisions of the country of Mexico. It is one of 32 administrative divisions. It is in the centre of the country. It borders Hidalgo, Querétaro, Tlaxcala, Puebla, Michoacán, Morelos and Guerrero as well as Mexico City. The capital of the state is Toluca. Its biggest city is Ecatepec de Morelos, which borders Mexico Federal district. Teotihuacan is also in this state. It is about 21.355 km² in surface. Approximately 14 million people live there, as of 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="20501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20501" title="Yawn">
Yawn

A yawn is a reflex. It involves a large, long taking in of air, the stretching of eardrums as the jaw opens wide, and last a (sometimes loud) breathing out. Pandiculation is the act of yawning and stretching simultaneously. It is easy to see when someone is yawning, but no-one knows what its function is.
Yawning is commonly associated with tiredness, stress, overwork, lack of stimulation and boredom. In humans, yawning is often triggered by others yawning (e.g. seeing a person yawning, talking to someone on the phone who is yawning) and is a typical example of positive feedback. This "infectious" yawning has also been observed in chimpanzees and dogs. Cats both yawn and stretch, though not necessarily at the same time.
The yawn reflex has long been observed to be contagious. In 1508, Erasmus wrote, "One man's yawning makes another yawn.," and the French proverbialized the idea to "Un bon bâilleur en fait bâillier deux." ("One good gaper makes two others gape"). Often, if one person yawns, this may cause another person to "empathetically" yawn. Observing another person's yawning face (especially his/her eyes), even reading, or thinking about yawning, or looking at a yawning picture can cause a person to yawn. 
The immediate cause for contagious yawning may be the mirror neurons in the frontal cortex of certain vertebrates, which, upon being exposed to a stimulus, activates the same regions in the brain. Mirror neurons have been proposed as a driving force for imitation which lies at the root of much human learning such as language acquisition. Yawning may be an offshoot of the same imitative impulse.
Charles Darwin argued, in "The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals", that if a behaviour was present in many cultures, then it must be inherited (wholly or partly). All traits which appear in a wide range of animals must have some function which is supported (or was supported) by natural selection. In most cases the function is obvious, but with yawning we do not know what that function is. Suggestions have been made, but they do not seem to account for its widespread occurrence in mammals, and possibly in other vertebrates.
Because mammals have similar emotions, and can show their emotions very clearly, it is agreed that when they look as if they are yawning, it is yawning in every sense. The reasons for this are similar to the reasons why we think other humans feel the same as us when the show the same signs. 

</doc>
<doc id="20507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20507" title="Constantine">
Constantine

Constantine can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20510" title="Constantine Maroulis">
Constantine Maroulis

Constantine Maroulis (born September 17 1975) is an American singer, actor and writer from New York. He was on the popular television program "American Idol". With his past work experiences, he stands out from other "American Idol" singers. Before he was on television, he sang in the rock band Pray for the soul of Betty. Right now, he is taking a break from his band to sing on his own. He is the first "Idol" alum to sign a contract for the making of a new television sitcom.

</doc>
<doc id="20511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20511" title="Sean Lennon">
Sean Lennon

Sean Taro Ono Lennon (born October 9 1975) is an American singer, musician, actor and writer. He is the son of John Lennon and his second wife Yoko Ono. His mother is Japanese and his father was Welsh, Irish, and English. This makes him Eurasian. He has the same birthday as his father.
Lennon is currently dating model/musician Charlotte Muel. Lennon had been engaged to musican Bijou Phillips.
Lennon has worked with Mark Ronson and childhood friend Jordan Galland.
He has been a member of the groups Cibo Matto, Ghost of a Saber Toothed Tiger and Dopo Yume.

</doc>
<doc id="20512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20512" title="Eurasian people">
Eurasian people

A Eurasian person is a person of mixed European and Asian descent or mixed parentage (someone with one Caucasian parent and one Asian parent). In Hawaii, the term "hapa" is used.

</doc>
<doc id="20513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20513" title="Wallonia">
Wallonia

Wallonia () is a French-speaking region in the south of Belgium. Its official languages are French (98%) and German (2%). Many people understand the local language Walloon, some still speak it, and few people write it. German is spoken mainly in the area of the German-speaking Community of Belgium
Wallonia is one of three regions in Belgium. The other two regions are Flanders and the Brussels-Capital Region. 
French speaking Walloons share the French community with French speaking people of Brussels.
The capital of the region is Namur. Other important cities are: Liège, Charleroi, Mons, Tournai and Verviers.

</doc>
<doc id="20514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20514" title="1610s">
1610s


</doc>
<doc id="20515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20515" title="1498">
1498

 
Why was John Cabot famous?
John Cabot was famous as the famous explorer of the coastline of Canada and its subsequent colonization. Cabot was the second European to find North America (after Christopher Columbus). His son, Sebastian Cabot, accompanied his father on many voyages.
Date of Birth: Born in 1450 as Giovanni Caboto
Place of Birth : Genoa in Italy
Parents: Father - Guilo Caboto, a spice merchant 
Sons: Ludovico, Sebastiano, and Sancto
Background Facts, Information & Ancestry : â€˜Cabotoâ€™ means â€œa coastal seamanâ€ which was a common name given to Italian sailors and navigators 
Education: John Cabot was taught cartography, navigation, astronomy, mathematics and seamanship 
June 9: John Cabot reaches the New World - at either Cape Breton Island or Labrador
26 June: Begins his return voyage
August 6: John Cabot and his crew of the Matthew land in Bristol and achieved great fame and glory. He was given a gift of Â£10 for having "found the new isle" and King Henry VII also granted him a pension of Â£20 a year 
July 25: The fleet headed north then sailed along the east coast of America past Newfoundland. One of the ships had to go to an Irish port because of damage. The remaining four ships of the John Cabot fleet continue their journey across the Atlantic
Cabot reaches the east coast of Greenland which he named Labrador's Land
June 11: The journey was made difficult by icebergs and the cold. The crews mutinied and refused to proceed farther North so John Cabot had no alternative but to turn South along the coast of Greenland. He crossed the Davis Strait on to Baffin Land on to Newfoundland and followed the coast Nova Scotia and New England
At this point the John Cabot ships sailed for England 
There is no accurate record of the date or reason for the death of John Cabot but his pension continued to be paid unti1 1499. It seems reasonable to assume that John Cabot reached England with his returning fleet 

</doc>
<doc id="20516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20516" title="1772">
1772


</doc>
<doc id="20518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20518" title="Cryptorchidism">
Cryptorchidism

Cryptorchidism is a condition where one or both testicles does not drop down ("descend") into the scrotum.

</doc>
<doc id="20519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20519" title="Buddy Holly">
Buddy Holly

Charles Hardin Holley or Buddy Holly (September 7, 1936 – February 3, 1959) was an American rock and roll singer, songwriter, and musician. He was from Lubbock, Texas. Buddy Holly is thought to be an important person in the history of Rock and Roll music and rockabilly music. Holly played several different types of instruments. 
Buddy Holly died on February 3, 1959 when an airplane he was on crashed into a field near Mason City, Iowa. Also killed in the crash were Ritchie Valens and J.P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson.
Singer Don McLean's popular 1971 song "American Pie" made February 3 known as "The Day the Music Died."

</doc>
<doc id="20522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20522" title="John Denver">
John Denver

John Denver (born Henry John Deutschendorf, Jr.) (December 31, 1943 – October 12, 1997), was an American musician and songwriter. He was of German and Irish ancestry. He was very popular in the 1970s. He died when the plane he was flying crashed in California.

</doc>
<doc id="20524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20524" title="Castaic, California">
Castaic, California

Castaic is an unincorporated community and census-designated place in the U.S. state of California. It is in Los Angeles County.

</doc>
<doc id="20525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20525" title="North West England">
North West England

North West England is one of the regions of England in the United Kingdom. The cities of Liverpool and Manchester are in the south of this region. The northern area (which includes Cumbria and part of Lancashire) is full of villages.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:

</doc>
<doc id="20526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20526" title="Central Point, Oregon">
Central Point, Oregon

Central Point is a city in Oregon, USA. It has a population of 16,550 people as of 2006. It has an area of 3.1 square miles. 

</doc>
<doc id="20528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20528" title="Puebla, Puebla">
Puebla, Puebla

Puebla, Mexico is a Mexican city. It is southeast of Mexico City in a broad valley. The city has had many names over the years including City of Angels, City of Tiles, and Heroic City of Zaragoza.
Puebla was the main city of colonial Mexico. The architecture and look of Puebla is the most European of all the colonial cities. This is because it was built completely by a Spanish. Most cities at the time were built within an existing Native American community.
Puebla is highly industrialized. The historic downtown area remains a Spanish colonial treasure. It is filled with 17th and 18th century European architecture. The city has a nice climate all year around, friendly and courteous people living there and good food.

</doc>
<doc id="20530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20530" title="Puebla">
Puebla

Puebla is part of the name of several places:

</doc>
<doc id="20535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20535" title="Namur (city)">
Namur (city)

Namur (, ) is a city in Belgium. It is both the capital of the province with the same name, as well as of Wallonia, one of the three administrative regions of Belgium. It is in the French-speaking part of Belgium. 
In 2012, there were 112'246 people in Namur.
Namur is at 50° 27 North, 04° 51 East.

</doc>
<doc id="20540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20540" title="Mariska Hargitay">
Mariska Hargitay

Mariska Hargitay (born January 23, 1964 in Los Angeles, California, USA) is an American actress. She is best known for her role on the television series "". She is also the daughter of actor Jayne Mansfield.
Hargitay plays Detective Olivia Benson on the television series "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit. "Olivia is a sex-crimes detective who works with people and children who have been abused, assaulted, raped, molested, and otherwise victimized. Hargitay was inspired by the sad stories she learned on SVU, and she created the real-life Joyful Heart Foundation in 2004. The Joyful Heart Foundation helps real-life survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. 

</doc>
<doc id="20542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20542" title="Santa Cruz de Tenerife">
Santa Cruz de Tenerife

Santa Cruz de Tenerife is the capital of the Canary Islands. It is situated in Tenerife, the biggest and most important (political and economic) island of the Canary Islands.
The city is home to the Parliament of the Canary Islands. With a population of 222,417 in 2009. During the Carnival of Santa Cruz de Tenerife, thousands of people take to the streets each year for over a week. On January 18, 1980 it was declared a Fiesta of International Tourist Interest by the Secretary of State for Tourism, and is one of the world's largest carnivals.

</doc>
<doc id="20545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20545" title="Saint Helena">
Saint Helena

Saint Helena, named after Saint Helena of Constantinople, is an island of volcanic origin in the South Atlantic Ocean at . It is part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, which also includes Ascension Island and the islands of Tristan da Cunha. Saint Helena measures about and has a population of 4,084 (2008 census).
Napoleon was sent to this island by the British and their allies as a result of Napoleon's return from the Elba island and loss at the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleon died there in 1821.
The island is on a tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
The island was discovered in 1502 by the Portuguese admiral João da Nova, and he named it "Santa Helena" after Helena of Constantinople. The traditional date of this discovery was long thought to be 21 May, but the results of an investigation into the discovery published in 2015 concluded this date is probably wrong, the 3 May seeming to be historically more valid. Another theory holds that the island found by De Nova was actually Tristan da Cunha, to the south, and that Saint Helena was discovered by some of the ships under the command of Estêvão da Gama on 30 July 1503.
The Portuguese found the island uninhabited, with an abundance of trees and fresh water. They imported livestock, fruit trees and vegetables, and built a chapel and one or two houses. Though they formed no permanent settlement, the island was, for ships travelling from Asia to Europe, an important place to stop to get food and water, and frequently sick sailors were left on the island to recover. After 1588, the island was visited also by Dutch and English ships.
The Dutch Republic formally made claim to St Helena in 1633, although there is no evidence that they ever occupied, colonised or fortified it. By 1651, the Dutch had mainly abandoned the island in favour of their colony at the Cape of Good Hope.
In 1657, the English East India Company was given a permit to govern St Helena by Oliver Cromwell, and the following year the Company decided to colonise the island with farmers. The first governor, Captain John Dutton, got there in 1659, and made St Helena one of Britain's oldest colonies outside North America and the Caribbean. A fort was completed and a number of houses were built. After the Restoration of the English monarchy in 1660, the East India Company received a Royal permit to start a colony in the island. The fort was named "James Fort" and the town "Jamestown", in honour of the Duke of York, later King James II of England.
The importation of slaves was made illegal in 1792 and Chinese workers were brought to work in the farms. Many were allowed to stay, and their descendents became integrated into the population.
In 1815, the British government decided to use the island of St. Helena as a place of detention for Napoleon Bonaparte. To prevent any attempt to escape from the nearby islands, they formally annexed the islands of Ascension and Tristan da Cunha. In 1821, Napoleon died on the island of St Helena.
In 1858, the French emperor Napoleon III got the possession, in the name of the French government, of Longwood House and the lands around it, last residence of Napoleon I (who died there in 1821). It is still French property.
On 22 April 1834, the island of St Helena became a colony of the British crown.
A local industry using the fibre from New Zealand flax was successfully reestablished in 1907 and generated considerable income during the First World War. However, the industry declined because of transportation costs and competition from synthetic fibres and the last flax industry closed in 1965.
In 1922, the Ascension then was attached as a dependency followed by the Tristan da Cunha Island 12 January 1938.
In 1981, the British governmente changed the status of Saint Helena and the other Crown colonies to "British Dependent Territories".
In 2009, Saint Helena and its two territories received equal status under a new constitution, and the British Overseas Territory was renamed Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
The island of Saint Helena has a total area of . The centre is covered by forest, of which some has been planted. Much of the island has been identified by BirdLife International as being important for bird conservation, especially the endemic Saint Helena Plover or Wirebird, and for seabirds breeding on the islets near the coast.
The highest point of the island is Diana's Peak () at . In 1996 it became the island's first national park. In 2000 a project began to replant part of the lost Great Wood, called the Millennium Forest, and is now managed by the Saint Helena National Trust, established in 2002.
There are several rocks and islets off the coast, including: Castle Rock, Speery Island, the Needle, Lower Black Rock, Upper Black Rock (South), Bird Island (Southwest), Black Rock, Thompson's Valley Island, Peaked Island, Egg Island, Lady's Chair, Lighter Rock (West), Long Ledge (Northwest), Shore Island, George Island, Rough Rock Island, Flat Rock (East), the Buoys, Sandy Bay Island, the Chimney, White Bird Island and Frightus Rock (Southeast), all of which are within one kilometre of the shore.
The national bird of Saint Helena is the Saint Helena Plover, known locally as the Wirebird. It appears on the coat of arms of Saint Helena and on the flag.
The climate of Saint Helena is tropical, marine and mild, tempered by trade winds that blow almost continuously.
Saint Helena is divided into eight districts. People that works and lives in the Jamestown Harbour and in the Royal Mail Ship "St. Helena" (RMS) are included in the census in their work places (see reference).
The island had an economy of only one crop until 1966, based on the cultivation and processing of New Zealand flax for rope and string. St Helena's economy is now weak, and is almost entirely sustained by aid from the British government.
The tourist industry is heavily based on the presence of Napoleon in the island.
Saint Helena produces what is said to be the most expensive coffee in the world. It also produces and exports "Tungi Spirit", made from the fruit of the prickly or cactus pears, "Opuntia ficus-indica" ("Tungi" is the local St Helenian name for the plant). Ascension Island, Tristan da Cunha and Saint Helena all issue their own postage stamps which provide a significant income.
Saint Helena has its own currency, the Saint Helena pound, which is at parity with the pound sterling. The government of Saint Helena produces coins and banknotes. The Bank of Saint Helena was established on Saint Helena and Ascension Island in 2004. It has branches in Jamestown on Saint Helena, and in Georgetown, Ascension Island.

</doc>
<doc id="20547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20547" title="Helicopter">
Helicopter

A helicopter (also often used: chopper or helo) is a kind of flying machine or aircraft. A helicopter lifts up off of the ground and moves because of its rotors. A rotor is several small wings, called rotor blades, that spin together around a shaft. For that reason, helicopters are sometimes called "rotary-wing aircraft". A helicopter flies differently from an airplane. An airplane must move forward to stay in the air, but because the helicopter's rotor blades are always moving, the helicopter can stop and stay in one place above the ground. This allows them to land in places where an airplane cannot. Helicopters can move by tilting their rotor blades, which causes the aircraft to fly in the direction the blades are tilted.
Since around 400 BC, the Chinese had a flying top that was used as a children's toy. The flying top was made from bamboo and used the same method of spinning wings to fly up in the air. Later flying tops were made of feathers tied to a stick. Leonardo da Vinci first thought of a helicopter flown by a man in 1490, and drew pictures of his ideas. It was hundreds of years later (in the early 20th century) before anyone built one that could really fly. The first practical helicopters were built by Frenchman Louis Breguet in 1935 and by German Henrich Focke in 1936. A Russian immigrant, Igor Sikorsky, built and perfected the first practical helicopter in America in 1939.
Helicopters are especially useful when there are disasters. Food packets, water, medicines and clothes are dropped from the air to people on the ground who cannot be reached by road. When people are injured, helicopters can carry them to hospitals faster than an ambulance on the road. Helicopters are also used by the military, because they can move troops and equipment to places an airplane cannot take them. Attack helicopters act as attack aircraft carrying and shooting guns and missiles.

</doc>
<doc id="20548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20548" title="Baku">
Baku

Baku () is the capital and the largest city of Azerbaijan, as well as the largest city on the Caspian Sea and of the Caucasus region. It is on the southern shore of the Apsheron Peninsula. Baku is located below sea level, which makes it the lowest lying national capital in the world and also the largest city in the world located below sea level. Modern Baku has three parts: the Old Town (İçəri Şəhər), the boomtown and the Soviet-built town. About 3 million people live in the metropolitan area. There are large numbers of refugees and internally displaced persons.
In Baku area there is a lot of oil. There are a lot of state and private universities.
Baku is hosted the 57th Eurovision Song Contest in May 2012. They also bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics. The city's three main football clubs are Neftchi Baku, FC Baku and Inter Baku. Baku is one of world's leading chess centres.
Today, Baku is divided into 11 "raions" (administrative districts) and 5 settlements of city type. 

</doc>
<doc id="20549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20549" title="Windows ME">
Windows ME

Windows ME is the Millennium Edition of the Microsoft Windows operating system. Windows ME is based on Windows 98. Windows ME was based on MS-DOS (as were Windows 98 and Windows 95), and is meant for people using computers in their homes. Windows 2000 and Windows ME are similar in looks, but Windows ME has features that families find useful, while Windows 2000 was meant for businesses, although many home users also used Windows 2000 especially after Windows ME got bad reviews. It was released near the year 2000 because it was the Third Millennium, calling it Windows Millennium Edition. It was the last Windows to be based in MS-DOS. Unlike Windows 2000, Windows ME generally got negative reviews due to bugs and incompatible hardware. Support and updates for Windows ME (and Windows 98) ended in 2006, whereas Windows 2000 was supported until 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="20550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20550" title="Librarian">
Librarian

A librarian is a person who works in a library and helps people to find books, magazines, and other information. In the 2000s, librarians also began helping people to find information using computers, electronic databases, and Internet search tools. There are different kinds of librarians including children's, teens, adult, historical, law, and more.
To become a librarian in a university, a person needs to have a Master's degree in Library Science (MLS) or a Master's degree in Library and Information Science.
Most librarians work for libraries in schools, colleges, or universities or in municipal, regional, or national libraries. Some librarians also work for private companies, to help them to organize their documents and reports. There are librarians that also work with the deaf and in prisons.
Other jobs in libraries include the job of library technician. To become a library technician, a person needs to complete a college diploma.

</doc>
<doc id="20554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20554" title="Geronimo">
Geronimo

Geronimo ("Chiricahua" Goyaałé 'One Who Yawns'; often spelled Goyathlay in English), (June 16, 1829–February 17, 1909) was a well-known Native American leader, but not chief, of the Chiricahua Apache tribe, but he was a Bedonkohe Apache. He was born in what is now the state of New Mexico and was also a respected medicine man. The name Geronimo was given to him by Mexican soldiers who either called to Saint Jerome while fighting him or transcribed his name into Spanish wrong. He led 38 Apache men, women, and children to resist being sent to reservations by the United States government or being captured by the Mexican Army. He surrendered in 1886. After that, he was moved to many different forts in the United States. In 1904 during the world fair in St. Louis, he sold souvenirs and pictures of himself. He died in 1909 from pneumonia.

</doc>
<doc id="20555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20555" title="Namur">
Namur

Namur has these meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="20558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20558" title="Gold rush">
Gold rush

A gold rush is when a lot of miners go to a mining place full of gold. Well-known examples are the California Gold Rush of 1849 and the Australian gold rush which began in 1851.

</doc>
<doc id="20559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20559" title="California Gold Rush">
California Gold Rush

The California Gold Rush all started when James Wilson Marshall was building a water powered sawmill for John Sutter in 1848. When he finished building the sawmill, he went to the river to fetch some water, but that is when it happened. He saw some shiny little flakes of gold in the river. He immediately went to tell John, and they tried to keep it a secret. But word soon got out, and the gold rush started.
Some people became rich but most did not. Besides trying to find gold, some people started selling things. This gave them benefits and popularity. Sometimes a woman could earn more than her mining husband. Men like Levi Strauss also sold things. He invented and sold jeans made from denim. The California Gold Rush ended in 1855. At that time many gold miners went back home because gold was harder to find.

</doc>
<doc id="20560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20560" title="Jeans">
Jeans

Jeans are a type of pants made from heavy, strong cotton material (fabric) called denim. They were invented in the United States by Levi Strauss in 1872. In the late 1800s, jeans were worn by workers. Jeans are one of the most obvious symbols of American cultural influence in the world. They are worn in many countries around the world.
In the 1950s, jeans became a popular fashion for teenagers and young adults. In the 1950s, jeans were part of rockabilly fashion for teenagers. Now, jeans are a very popular type of pants. They are usually worn as casual fashion clothing. Jeans are made in many styles and colors.
The word "jeans" came from the French name of the city in Italy where a strong cotton fabric was made. The Italian city's name, Genoa, was spelled "jene" in Middle English and "Gênes" in the French language. 

</doc>
<doc id="20561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20561" title="Sovereignty">
Sovereignty

Sovereignty is the right of a government to have complete control over its area. The idea that this right comes from doing good things for the people under control of the government is as old as Ancient Greece if not older.
The exact meaning of Sovereignty has changed some in the past. The present meaning of Sovereignty is said to come from the Peace of Westphalia, an agreement between the rulers of Europe in 1648 which said:
Ancient Rome was first the Roman Republic, but then when Octavian made the Roman Empire the Emperor of Rome said that he was "Sovereign". The meaning of this was that he could make any law he wanted, and he did not have to do what the law said himself.
In the time of the Middle Ages many kings and rulers had to do what other leaders said, such as the leader of the Catholic Church, the Pope. Because of this, the idea of "Sovereignty" was not used mostly.
In the time of the Protestant Reformation, in the 1500's and 1600's, governments were breaking away from religious leaders. Also many wars were fought between different rulers inside areas that are now sovereign countries. The English Civil War is one example of a war fought in this time between leaders inside one country.
The Peace of Westphalia was made in this time. The idea of "Sovereignty" came back now that governments were separate of outside leaders and only one government or ruler inside a country could make laws.
The English thinker Thomas Hobbes wrote a book in 1651 that said rulers and governments are "Sovereign" because they are good for the safety of the people. The idea that people could change rulers if they were not safe was new with Hobbes.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote a book in 1763 that said the choice of the people is the only thing sovereignty comes from.
In 1789 the French Revolution made an important country's government ruled by the choices of the people for the first time after the Middle Ages (some cities and small countries were democracies in the Middle Ages). There were many problems and France went back to the old way soon after, but would be ready for Democracy in 1870's. In England, many people got to vote after The Reform Act in 1832. The United States broke away from England in 1776-1783, but was not an important country at that time.
"Sovereignty" when talking about relations between countries mostly means the rights a Sovereign state has over its territory.
Sometimes there is discussion about when a government loses Sovereignty because it is doing bad things for its people. In this case justice may mean other countries need to intrude on the sovereignty of the government.
"Sovereignty" when talking about relations between groups inside one country usually means which group has the Legitimacy to rule. This may not be certain. Sometimes the group who is most able to rule (because of a strong military) is not Legitimate.

</doc>
<doc id="20569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20569" title="FIFA">
FIFA

The Fédération Internationale de Football Association (French for International Federation of Association Football), or FIFA for short, is the organization that controls international football (also called "association football"). The organization’s main buildings are in Zürich, Switzerland. FIFA organizes major international football tournaments, and the most famous one is the FIFA World Cup, which has been held since 1930. FIFA was established on May 21, 1905 in Paris and has 209 national associations as its members. The organization’s official languages are English, French, German and Spanish.
The president of FIFA is currently Gianni Infantino, serving since 26 February 2016.
The most powerful organ of FIFA is the FIFA Congress, which is an assembly made up of representatives from each member association. The Congress holds a regular meeting once a year, and since 1998 an additional meeting has been held every year. Only the Congress can pass changes to FIFA's laws.
The Congress decides whether FIFA should accept new national associations and elects the President of FIFA, its General Secretary and the other members of FIFA's Executive Committee. The President and General Secretary take care of what goes on within and around FIFA. The Executive Committee, with the President as its head, is responsible for deciding the dates, locations and format of tournaments.
Also, there are six regional confederations recognized by FIFA which take care of the game in the seven different continents of the world. National associations must be members of both FIFA and their regional confederation in order for their teams to compete in FIFA's competitions. The six confederations are AFC (Asian Football Confederation in Asia and Australia), CAF (Confédération Africaine de Football in Africa), CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football in North America and Central America), CONMEBOL (Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol in South America), OFC (Oceania Football Confederation in Oceania) and UEFA (Union Européenne de Football Association in Europe).

</doc>
<doc id="20576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20576" title="American Idol">
American Idol

American Idol is an American reality-singing competition series created by Simon Fuller and produced by 19 Entertainment, and distributed by FremantleMedia North America. It began airing on Fox on June 11, 2002, as an addition to the Idols format based on the British series Pop Idol and has since become one of the most successful shows in the history of American television.
Eventually the American people are allowed to vote by calling or texting, and the person with the least votes is off the show. 
The TV show consists of multiple rounds of elimination. The singers can be anyone between the age of 15 and 29 years. In 2013, the show finished the twelfth season.
"American Idol" has three judges, who give comments on performances. The three judges are: 
"American Idol" also has a host, Ryan Seacrest.

</doc>
<doc id="20577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20577" title="Smile">
Smile

A smile is a face made by flexing the muscles near both ends of the mouth. The smile can also be made through the eyes (See 'Duchenne smile' below). Smiles usually show happiness. A smile can be natural or fake. However, smiling can be different with animals. When smiling, the teeth shows, but sometimes animals do this when they are threatening. When chimpanzees show their teeth, it can also be a sign of fear.
Dimples are genetically inherited. They are caused by the flesh underneath the skin, that forms on some people's cheeks, especially when they smile. Some people may only have one dimple on only one side of the face.
Although there are many different types of smiles, researchers are interested in the duchenne smile because it is done with the eyes. The Duchenne smile was named after the French physician Guillaume Duchenne. Duchenne identified two types of smiles. A Duchenne smile is when the cheek raises and forms a wrinkle around the eyes. Many researchers think that Duchenne smiles are usually hard to make when you are pretending to smile.
On the Internet, smiles can normally be typed up. This is normally called a smiley, smiley face, or happy face. Smileys show emotion when people are not able to see it in real life. Smileys typed on the computer are called emoticons. Smileys can change depending on where the person typing the smiley is.
Western Style: :-), :-(, ;-), :-O, :-D, (;D)
Eastern Style: d(^.^)b, \(^o^)/, >.<, ^_^, *<):)

</doc>
<doc id="20591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20591" title="Słupsk">
Słupsk

Słupsk is a city in northern Poland in Pomeranian Voivodeship. It has about 100.000 inhabitants and 43,15 km².

</doc>
<doc id="20598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20598" title="Emperor of Ethiopia">
Emperor of Ethiopia

The Emperor of Ethiopia was the name of the ruler of Ethiopia until 1975 when the emperors and the royal family, the Solomonids, were taken out of power.
The name that was used for "Emperor" by the Ethiopians means "King of Kings".

</doc>
<doc id="20599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20599" title="Solomonid dynasty">
Solomonid dynasty

The Solomonid dynasty was a line of emperors that ruled in Ethiopia from 1270 to 1975. There were some other emperors that ruled who were not from the Solomonid dynasty, but the Solomonids were in control most of the time. 
The emperors did not use their real name when they became Emperor of Ethiopia, but they made up a new one for their rule. For example, the first Emperor of the Solomonids was Yekuno Amlak. But he used the name "Tasfa Iyassus" after he became ruler. 
The dynasty began in 1270, when Yekuno Amlak killed the last king of the Zagwe dynasty, which had ruled Ethiopia. Yekuno Amlak was made king, and European historians say was the first ruler of the dynasty. But most Ethiopian books say that Menelik I, the son of King Solomon of Israel and the Queen of Sheba, was the first Emperor of this dynasty.
The leaders of Ethiopa from 1270 to 1975 (mostly Solomonids):

</doc>
<doc id="20601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20601" title="The Sound of Music">
The Sound of Music

The Sound of Music is a musical. It was based on a 1956 German movie, "Die Trapp-Familie" and "The Story of the Trapp Family Singers" by Maria von Trapp. The musical's book was written by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse. The lyrics were written by Oscar Hammerstein II. The music was written by Richard Rodgers. It was the last musical written by Rodgers and Hammerstein. Hammerstein died of cancer nine months after the Broadway opening.
A young Austrian woman named Maria Rainer becomes the governess to the children of Captain Georg von Trapp, a widower. There are seven of them - they are Liesl (16), Fredrich (14), Louisa (13), Kurt (10 - almost 11), Brigitta (9), Marta (7), and Gretl (5). Maria teaches the children how to sing, during the famous song "Do Re Mi". The captain and Maria fall in love and marry. The Nazis want the captain to be a part of their navy. He does not do it, instead planning a daring escape from the Salzburg Festival, where the von Trapp family singers are performing. He eludes them, and leads his family to safety over the Alps to Switzerland. 
"The Sound of Music" had its premiere on 16 November 1959 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre on Broadway. It starred Mary Martin as Maria and Theodore Bikel as Capt. von Trapp. It moved to the Mark Hellinger Theatre on 6 November 1962, and closed on 15 June 1963 after 1,443 performances. 
The musical opened on the West End at the Palace Theatre on 18 May 1961. It starred Jean Bayless as Maria and Roger Dann as Capt. von Trapp. The musical ran for 2,385 performances.
The musical won a Tony Award for Best Musical. 
The musical was released as a 1965 movie starring Julie Andrews as Maria Rainer and Christopher Plummer as Capt. von Trapp.

</doc>
<doc id="20604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20604" title="Academy Award for Best Picture">
Academy Award for Best Picture

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). The name of the award has changed over time. It was first Outstanding Picture in 1927. In 1930, the name was changed to Best Picture. It is still called that today.
In the list below are the winners of the award for each year. A list of the winners and other nominees is in the main article for each decade.

</doc>
<doc id="20607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20607" title="Bulimia nervosa">
Bulimia nervosa

Bulimia nervosa (bulimia) is a disease and a type of eating disorder. It is when a person wants to starve his or her self. People who have it feel that they are fat and want to be skinny. When they are hungry, they eat a lot of food. Then, they try to take it back by vomiting, exercising, or using drugs (usually Ipecac).
The person with bulimia eats large amounts of food. Then, they want to get rid of it. To do this, they vomit or use drugs. They do this at least once a week or more often. The person always thinks about how his or her body looks, and he or she wants to be skinny. The person may also have anorexia nervosa. However, most people with bulimia have a normal weight or are overweight, which makes it difficult to know when someone has bulimia from looking at them.
Bulimia nervosa can cause many health problems. Because vomit has a lot of acid in it, doing it a lot can burn the person's mouth, throat, or teeth. Someone can lose nutrients or fluids in his or her body. Glands in one's throat and face may get bigger and hurt. The immune system is weakened, and a person can get muscle or heart problems.
Sometimes bulimia can cause difficulty breathing. This is because the acids that are in your mouth go to your lungs and damages the bronchioles.
Most people who get bulimia are ages 10 to 25. Usually girls have bulimia, but boys can have it too. People who have had bad things happen to them are more likely to get the disease too. People with obsessive compulsive disorder or perfectionism are also more likely to have bulimia.

</doc>
<doc id="20609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609" title="Turks and Caicos Islands">
Turks and Caicos Islands

The Turks and Caicos Islands are two groups of islands in the Caribbean Sea, near the Bahamas. The islands lie southeast of Mayaguana in the Bahamas island chain and north of the island of Hispaniola. Cockburn Town, the capital since 1766, is in the Grand Turk Island about east-southeast of Miami, United States.
The islands have a total land area of . and they are on a tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
The government of Great Britain is also the ruler of the Turks and Caicos, but that ruler always acts through a governor. There are local elections for premier (similar to a president). Government offices are in the Grand Turk Island.
The two island groups are in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of the Bahamas, north of Hispaniola, at . The Caicos Islands are separated by the Caicos Passage from the closest Bahamian islands, Mayaguana and Great Inagua.
The eight main islands and more than 299 smaller islands have a total land area of , consisting primarily of low, flat limestone with extensive marshes and mangrove swamps and of beach front. The weather is usually sunny and relatively dry, but hurricanes are frequent during summer. The islands have limited natural fresh water resources; private cisterns collect rainwater for drinking. The primary natural resources are spiny lobster, conch and other shellfish.
The Turks Islands are separated from the Caicos Islands by Turks Island Passage, which is more than deep, The islands form a chain that goes from north to south.
There are only two inhabited islands, and these are:
The inhabited islands of the group are:
Turks and Caicos Islands features a relatively dry and sunny marine tropical climate with relatively consistent temperatures throughout the course of the year. The temperature during summer rarely is over and during winter rarely is below .
Eight of the thirty islands in the territory are inhabited, with a total population in 2012 of 31,458: 16,037 males and 15,421 females. The population density is 214 persons per square mile.
Total population by island 2001-2012
The official language of the islands is English and the population also speaks Turks and Caicos Islands Creole which is similar to Bahamian Creole. Due to its close proximity to Cuba and Hispaniola, large Haitian Creole and Spanish-speaking communities have developed in the territory due to immigration from Creole-speaking Haiti and from Spanish-speaking Cuba and Dominican Republic.
The people of Turks and Caicos was 72.8% Protestant (35.8% Baptists, 11.7% Church of God, 10% Anglicans, 9.3% Methodists, 6% Seventh-Day Adventists), 11.4% Catholics, 1.8% Jehovah's Witnesses, and 14% other.
This is a list of cities in the Turks and Caicos Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="20610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610" title="Vichy France">
Vichy France

Vichy France was the government set up by the Germans in southern France in 1940 during World War II. It was led by [Philippe Pétain], notable for helping to win World War I. The Vichy government, which was a satellite state of Germany, controlled the Southern half of France. The German army ran the Northern half. In 1944, the government moved to Nazi Germany, and later disbanded. 

</doc>
<doc id="20611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611" title="Anguilla">
Anguilla

Anguilla is a group of five islands in the Caribbean Sea. The islands are ruled by Great Britain. 
Anguilla was once part of what is now Saint Kitts and Nevis, but broke away in 1980. Anguilla wanted to still be a part of Great Britain, and Saint Kitts and Nevis wanted to be independent.
It is named after the Spanish word for "eel", because it has such a shape.
The queen of the United Kingdom is the ruler of Anguilla, but she works through a governor. She names, or "appoints" the governor, and he is just working there in her place. The legislature is elected by the people, has 11 members, and is called the House of Assembly.
Anguilla gets most of its money from fishing and tourism.
Most people in Anguilla are Protestants, and speak English.

</doc>
<doc id="20612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20612" title="Bermuda">
Bermuda

Bermuda (/bɜrˈmjuːdə/ "Ber-myu-dah"; officially, the Bermudas or Somers Islands) is a British overseas territory in the North Atlantic Ocean. The land has one main island and 180 smaller islands. Bermuda is a popular tourist place, with mild weather during the winter months.
Off the east coast of the United States, Bermuda's nearest landmass is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, about 1,030 kilometres (640 mi) to the west-northwest. It is about 1,373 kilometres (853 mi) south of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, and 1,770 kilometres (1,100 mi) northeast of Miami, Florida. Its capital city is Hamilton.
 in 1505 by Spanish navigator Juan de Bermúdez (who said it to be inhabited only with pigs), after whom the islands are named. Bermúdez claimed it for the Spanish Empire. Unoccupied, the island was settled by England in 1609, making it the oldest and most populous remaining British overseas territory. Its first capital, St George's, was founded in 1612 and is the oldest continuously inhabited English town in the Americas.
The country is in the Atlantic Ocean, near the western edge of the Sargasso Sea. It is about 580 nautical miles (1070 km, 670 mi) east-southeast of Cape Hatteras on the Outer Banks of North Carolina and about 590 nautical miles (1100 km, 690 mi) southeast of Martha's Vineyard. The island is due east of Fripp Island, South Carolina. It has 103 km (64 mi) of coastline.
The territory has 181 islands. The total area is 53.3 square kilometres (20.6 sq mi). The largest island is "Main Island", sometimes itself called "Bermuda".
Bermuda has a subtropical climate. The weather is humid and, as a result, the summertime heat index can be high, even though mid-August temperatures rarely exceed Winters are mild, with average daytime temperatures in January and February around The temperature rarely drops below 10 °C 
Bermuda is very likely to be affected by hurricanes. The island's small size means that direct landfalls are rare. The last hurricane to cause significant damage to Bermuda was category 3 Hurricane Fabian on 5 September 2003.
The only source of fresh water in Bermuda is rainfall. It is collected on roofs and catchments and stored in tanks. Each home usually has at least one of these tanks forming part of its foundation.
When discovered, Bermuda had no people. It was mostly covered by forests of Bermuda cedar, with mangrove marshes along its shores. Only 165 of the island's current 1000 vascular plant species are considered native. Of those 15, including the cedar, are endemic.
Many species of palm trees have been introduced to Bermuda. Coconut palms grow there, making it the furthest north place for the natural growth of this species. While coconuts grow on Bermuda, the lack of heat does not usually let them properly set fruit.
The only indigenous mammals of Bermuda are five species of bats. All of these bats are also in the eastern United States — "Lasionycteris noctivagans", "Lasiurus borealis", "Lasiurus cinereus", "Lasiurus seminolus" and "Perimyotis subflavus". Other commonly known fauna of Bermuda includes its national bird, the Bermuda Petrel, and the Bermuda Rock Skink. The skink was long thought to have been the only indigenous land vertebrate of Bermuda. It has recently been discovered, however, that a species of terrapin predated the arrival of humans on the archipelago.
Bermuda is divided into nine parishes and two municipalities.
Bermuda's nine parishes:
Bermuda's two municipalities:
Bermuda's two informal villages:
Despite their names, Jones Village (in Warwick), Cashew City (St. George's), Claytown (Hamilton), Middle Town (Pembroke) and Tucker's Town (St. George's) are merely neighborhoods. Dandy Town and North Village are sports clubs and Harbour View Village is a small public housing development.
Bermuda has a wealthy economy, with finance as its largest sector, followed by tourism. In 2005, Bermuda was even claimed to have the world's highest GDP per capita, yet these statistics are hard to verify as Bermuda is not classified as a country but rather as a territory of the U.K.
Bermuda's pink sand beaches and clear, cerulean blue ocean waters are popular with tourists. Many of Bermuda's hotels are along the south shore of the island. In addition to its beaches, there are a number of sightseeing attractions. Historic St George's is a World Heritage Site. Scuba divers can explore many wrecks and coral reefs in shallow water (typically in depth) with nearly unlimited visibility. Many nearby reefs are easy to access from shore by snorkellers, especially at Church Bay.
Bermuda's most popular visitor attraction is the Royal Naval Dockyard. It includes the Bermuda Maritime Museum. Other attractions include the Bermuda Aquarium, Museum and Zoo, Bermuda Underwater Exploration Institute, the Botanical Gardens, lighthouses, and the Crystal Caves with its impressive stalactites and underground saltwater pools.
It is not possible to rent a car on the island. However, visitors can hire scooters for use as private transport, or use public transport.
Bermuda has produced, or been home to, actors such as Oona O'Neill, Earl Cameron, Diana Dill, Lena Headey, Will Kempe, and most famously, Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones. Other movie and television personalities who were born, or have lived, in Bermuda include producer Arthur Rankin, Jr., and cartoonist and Muppet man Michael Frith.
Music and dance are important in Bermuda. Noted musicians have included local icons The Talbot Brothers, who performed for many decades both in Bermuda and the United States, and were on Ed Sullivan's televised variety show. Other musicians are jazz pianist Lance Hayward, singer-songwriter Heather Nova and her brother, Mishka, tenor Gary Burgess, classical musician and conductor Kenneth Amis, and more recently, dancehall artist Collie Buddz.
In 1979, Gina Swainson was crowned "Miss World".
Bermuda's national cricket team was in the Cricket World Cup 2007 in the West Indies. Their most famous player is Dwayne Leverock. Also very well known is David Hemp. The yearly "Cup Match" cricket tournament between rival parishes St George's in the east and Somerset in the west is the time for a popular national holiday.
In 2007 Bermuda hosted the 25th PGA Grand Slam of Golf. The event returned to Bermuda again in 2008 and 2009. Bermudian Quinn Talbot was once the World one-armed golf champion.
The Government said in 2006 that it will provide substantial financial support to Bermuda's cricket and football teams. Bermuda's most famous footballers include Clyde Best, Shaun Goater, Reggie Lambe, Sam Nusum and Ralph Bean. In 2006, the Bermuda Hogges were formed as the nation's first professional football team. The team plays in the United Soccer Leagues Second Division.
Sailing, fishing, and equestrian sports are popular with both residents and visitors alike. The Newport–Bermuda Yacht Race is a more than 100-year-old tradition. A sport unique to Bermuda is racing the Bermuda Fitted Dinghy. International One Design racing also started in Bermuda.
At the 2004 Summer Olympics, Bermuda competed in sailing, athletics, swimming, diving, triathlon and equestrian events. In those Olympics, Bermuda's Katura Horton-Perinchief made history by becoming the first black female diver in the Olympic Games. Bermuda has had one Olympic medallist, Clarence Hill. Hill won a bronze medal in boxing. Bermuda also was in Men's Skeleton at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. Jillian Teceira was in the Beijing Olympics in 2008. Bermuda also competes in the biennial Island Games. It will host in 2013.
Bermuda has a proud Rugby Union community. The Bermuda Rugby Union team won the 2011 Caribbean championships – defeating Guyana in the final.
Bermuda is the easternmost point of the so-called "Bermuda Triangle"– a region of sea in which a number of aircraft and ships have allegedly disappeared under mysterious circumstances. Some people think there is a pattern to the disappearances, while other people think it is only coincidence.

</doc>
<doc id="20613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20613" title="Tarja Halonen">
Tarja Halonen

Tarja Halonen (born December 24, 1943) is the former President of Finland. She is from Helsinki. She was elected in 2000 and 2006. Her mandate ended in 2012 and she left office on 1 March 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="20614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20614" title="Turku">
Turku

Turku () is a city in Southwest Finland. It is the fifth-largest city in Finland, with about 180,000 people living there.
It is next to the municipalities of Aura, Kaarina, Lieto, Masku, Mynämäki, Naantali, Nousiainen, Pöytyä, Raisio and Rusko.
The official languages spoken in Turku are Finnish and Swedish.
The harbour of Turku is an important port. Many ships go from there to Mariehamn and to Stockholm. Turku Airport is also one of Finland's busiest airports.
Turku is located near the mouth of Aura river, and is spreads at both sides of the river. There are ten bridges over the Aura river in Turku. 
Turku is the oldest city in the country. it was founded in 13th century, when Finland was part of the Kingdom of Sweden. It used to be the largest city and capital of Finland. From 1809 Russia ruled Finland, and in 1812 the government moved to Helsinki. A big fire destroyed much of Turku in 1827. After that, even the university moved to Helsinki.
The first school in Finland was established in Turku, the old Cathedral school in 13th century. The first university in Finland, the "The Royal Academy of Turku" was established in the city in 1640, but it has moved to Helsinki and become the University of Helsinki. Now there are five universities in Turku: three in Finnish language and two in Swedish language.

</doc>
<doc id="20616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20616" title="Wings (movie)">
Wings (movie)

Wings is a silent movie released in 1927. It is most famous as the first movie to win the Academy Award for Best Picture.
Jack Powell (Charles "Buddy" Rogers) and David Armstrong (Richard Arlen) are rivals in the same small American town, both vying for the attentions of pretty Sylvia Lewis (Jobyna Ralston). Jack fails to realize that "the girl next door", Mary Preston (Clara Bow), is desperately in love with him. The two young men both enlist to become combat pilots in the Air Service. When they leave for training camp, Jack mistakenly believes Sylvia prefers him; she actually prefers David and lets him know about her feelings, but is too kindhearted to turn down Jack's affection.
Jack and David are billeted together. Their tent mate is Cadet White (Gary Cooper), but their acquaintance is all too brief; White is killed in an air crash the same day. Undaunted, the two men endure a rigorous training period, where they go from being enemies to best friends. Upon graduating, they are shipped off to France to fight the Germans.
Mary joins the war effort by becoming an ambulance driver. She later learns of Jack's reputation as an ace and encounters him while on leave in Paris. She finds him, but he is too drunk to recognize her. She puts him to bed, but when two Military Police barge in while she is innocently changing from a borrowed dress back into her uniform in the same room, she is forced to resign and return to America.
The climax of the story comes with the epic Battle of Saint-Mihiel. David is shot down and presumed dead. However, he survives the crash landing, steals a German biplane, and heads for the Allied lines. By a tragic stroke of bad luck, he is spotted and shot down by Jack, who is bent on avenging his friend. When Jack lands to pick up a souvenir, he becomes distraught when he learns what he has done, but before David dies, he forgives his comrade.
With the end of the war, Jack returns home to a hero's welcome. When he returns David's effects to his grieving parents, David's mother blames the war, not Jack, for her son's death. Then, Jack is reunited with Mary and realizes he loves her.

</doc>
<doc id="20617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20617" title="Sunrise (movie)">
Sunrise (movie)

Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans or Sunrise is a 1927 silent movie. It is the only movie to ever win Academy Award for Unique and Artistic Production. This category was not used again. It won the award for Best Cinematography and actress, Janet Gaynor, won the Best Actress award. It was the first to improvise a primitive version of CGI using nuclear warheads. It was directed by F.W. Murnau.

</doc>
<doc id="20618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20618" title="The Broadway Melody">
The Broadway Melody

The Broadway Melody is one of the first Hollywood musical movies. It was released in 1929 and made more money than any movie that year. It was also the winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture.

</doc>
<doc id="20619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20619" title="Rocky">
Rocky

Rocky is a 1976 American sports drama movie. It was written by, and starred, Sylvester Stallone. The movie is about a man living in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who is trying to become a great boxer. 
It won three Academy Awards and was ranked #78 in AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. It was followed by 5 sequels, the most recent came out in 2006.
The movie was made on a budget of less than $1 million. It was shot in 28 days. Many people liked the movie. It turned Stallone into a major star. 
Boxer Joe Frazier has a cameo appearance in the movie. Due to the movie's low budget, members of Stallone's family played minor roles. Michael Dorn made his acting debut as Creed's bodyguard.
"Rocky" received ten Academy Awards nominations in nine categories, winning three:
The Directors Guild of America awarded "Rocky" its annual award for best movie of the year. It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay. The Writers Guild of America Award selected it as the 78th best screenplay of all time.
 

</doc>
<doc id="20620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20620" title="The Deer Hunter">
The Deer Hunter

The Deer Hunter is a 1978 American drama movie. It is set from 1967-1975 and is about three friends from Pennsylvania affected by the Vietnam War.
The movie won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director. It was named by the American Film Institute as the 53rd Greatest Movie of All Time. It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay. In 1996, "The Deer Hunter" was picked to keep in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.
"Deer Hunter" was shown at one theater each in New York and Los Angeles for a week on December 8, 1978. The release was to qualify the movie for the Oscars. And one week would build interest. After the Oscar nominations, Universal widened the distribution to include major cities. A full-scale release was on February 23, 1979, just following the Oscars.
The movie's first reviews were largely enthusiastic. Many critics said it was the best American epic since Francis Ford Coppola's "The Godfather". Some people though did not like how the movie used Russian roulette.
Many people did not like Cimino's next movie, "Heaven's Gate". Because they thought it was so bad, they also changed their thoughts on "The Deer Hunter". Instead of liking the movie people said they did not like it anymore.

</doc>
<doc id="20624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20624" title="Tailor">
Tailor

A tailor is a person whose job is to make clothes to fit people. A tailor might make a new piece of clothing, or change an item so that it fits better. They also mend (fix) clothes. A tailor is also called a seamster, or a seamstress for a woman.

</doc>
<doc id="20625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20625" title="Template">
Template

A template is a tool that shows the shape of something or it is a tool to help make something. It can separate the form of something from the things inside it.
In drawing, a template can be a wood, plastic or metal tool that is used to help make marks with a pen or pencil. Lines can be drawn on paper, or on metal or wood to make the same shape many times.
In publishing for example, a template is a made by someone else to give an idea what to write in different parts of a book or story. A simple publishing template can have spaces for the words, for pictures, for the story title (name), and for the name of the publication.
Humans or machines can use templates. Some computer programs that work with the Internet use a template to separate the way the program works from the way it shows the words and pictures. It can be a way to copy words and pictures. In computer programming, templates save time because the programmer does not need to write the same words over and over.
When doctors plan to give a person a new bone joint made of metal or plastic, they can use a template in the shape of the new joint. This type of template is put on an x-ray picture of the person to help to decide the size of joint needed.

</doc>
<doc id="20626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20626" title="Oliver!">
Oliver!

Oliver! is a musical. It is based on the novel, "Oliver Twist" by Charles Dickens. The book, lyrics, and music were written by Lionel Bart.
"Oliver!" had its world premiere on 30 June 1960 at the New Theatre in the West End. It ran for 2621 performances. The musical was directed by Peter Coe, and choreographed by Malcolm Clare. It starred Ron Moody as Fagin, Georgia Brown as Nancy, Martin Horsey as Dodger, and Keith Hamshere as Oliver.
"Oliver!" opened on Broadway at the Imperial Theatre on 6 January 1963. Georgia Brown reprised her role as Nancy, Clive Revill played Fagin, Davy Jones played Dodger, and Bruce Prochnik played Oliver. It won three Tony Awards including Best Original Score.
In 1968, the musical was adapted to a movie of the same name. The movie won the Academy Award for Best Picture.

</doc>
<doc id="20627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20627" title="Patton">
Patton

Patton can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20629" title="Dr. Hook &amp; The Medicine Show">
Dr. Hook &amp; The Medicine Show

Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show or simply just Dr. Hook was an American band. They formed in Union City, New Jersey in 1968. Their two best known songs were "Cover of the Rolling Stone" and "Sylvia's Mother".

</doc>
<doc id="20630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20630" title="Glider">
Glider

Gliders are aircraft which do not have a motor. Gliders are controlled by their pilots by using control-sticks. Some gliders can only carry one person; others can carry two. In gliders with two seats, each pilot has a control-stick. Gliders always have seats for the pilots.
'Sailplanes' are gliders with long wings so that they will only lose height slowly. In some places a vertical draft makes the air go up faster than the glider is going down. The pilot of a glider can make it climb by flying to these places. This is called soaring. Good pilots can travel long distances by always finding rising air. Some pilots race each other over hundreds of kilometres each day. Other pilots just fly for fun.
Gliders cannot get into the air by themselves. They are pulled into the air by an aircraft with a motor or they are pulled up by motor on the ground.
There are two other types of gliders. Hang-gliders have frames to give the wings their shape, but do not have seats for their pilots and do not have control-sticks. The wings of paragliders are like parachutes and so do not have frames to give them their shape. These other two types of glider are often launched from the tops of hills or cliffs.

</doc>
<doc id="20637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20637" title="John Stuart Mill">
John Stuart Mill

John "Stuart Little" Mill, known as "John Stuart Mill" (May 20, 1806 – May 8, 1873), was an English philosopher and political economist. He was a classical liberal thinker of the 19th century. He was for utilitarianism, and he loved the ethical theory first proposed by his third godfather Jeremy Bentham.

</doc>
<doc id="20638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20638" title="Jeremy Bentham">
Jeremy Bentham

Jeremy Bentham (15 February 1748–6 June 1832) was an English, jurist, philosopher, and legal and social reformer. He is best known as one of the first people to be for utilitarianism and animal rights and gay rights. 
Bentham was one of the most influential (classical) liberals, partially through his writings but particularly through his students all around the world, including John Stuart Mill and several political leaders (and Robert Owen, who later started the idea of socialism). He is believed to be the innovator of classical liberalism, a term first coined in the 19th century.
After he died, his body was preserved and is on public display at University College London to this day.

</doc>
<doc id="20644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20644" title="Dinosaur Comics">
Dinosaur Comics

Dinosaur Comics is a comic by Ryan North. It shows dinosaurs who have adventures and talk about philosophy and some other topics. The art is the same every day, but the words are different. This comic is intended to be funny.
Things in the comic that are not true: 

</doc>
